12.04.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is proud to nominate 41 Collin County students to the U.S. Service Academies for the Class of 2023. Each service academy will make formal offers of appointment in spring 2019. This is the final nomination class by Rep. Johnson, who is retiring at the end of this Congress. As the U.S. Representative for the Third District of Texas, Johnson has nominated hundreds of students to U.S. Service Academies who have served with distinction at their academies and in the military. “Second to God, serving our Great Nation is the worthiest calling of my life, which is why nominating students to America’s service academies is both a high honor and a great responsibility,” said Johnson. “I am thankful for the opportunity to nominate these fine young men and women before I retire at the end of this Congress. They have each undergone a competitive and rigorous selection process based on academic performance; extracurricular, civic, and service activities; and athletic aptitude. They are fine young Americans, and it’s my privilege to nominate this next generation of leaders as they answer the call of duty. I congratulate them and know they will represent our community well as the Academies make appointment decisions.” Students interested in learning more about service academy applications should contact their U.S. Representative or U.S. Senators, who are able to make nominations. Class of 2023 Academy Nominations by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson U.S. Air Force Academy Hometown High School Rebecca Barber Farmersville Farmersville High School Benjamin Dague Wylie Wylie High School Alvern “Allie” Dyer* Plano Plano East Senior High School Nick Farrell McKinney McKinney Boyd High School Aidan Gardiner* Murphy Wylie High School Marcus Hill** Dallas Jesuit College Preparatory School Collin Kenny * Allen Jesuit College Preparatory School Madison Martin McKinney Texas Connections Academy Gabrielle Smith Allen Allen High School Conley Walters McKinney McKinney High School U.S. Military Academy Hometown High School Hayden Archer* Frisco Liberty High School Jonah Barton** Allen Lovejoy High School Michael Callahan Plano Trinity Christian Academy Caleb Doyle Allen McKinney Christian Academy Nathan Govindarajan Plano Plano West Senior High School Makenna Kelty McKinney McKinney Boyd High School Evan McMullin Plano Prince of Peace Christian School Jalen Morgan Frisco Plano West Senior High School Parker Stevens* Allen Allen High School Austin Widner Plano Liberty High School U.S. Naval Academy Hometown High School Hayden Archer* Frisco Liberty High School John Bartley Richardson Garland Christian Academy William Boughton* Prosper Prosper High School Ashley Cook Plano Frisco Liberty High School Alvern “Allie” Dyer* Plano Plano East Senior High School Aidan Gardiner* Murphy Wylie High School Daniel Kaphingst* McKinney Prosper High School Collin Kenny* Allen Jesuit College Preparatory School Graham Kraft McKinney McKinney Christian Academy Morgan Krepp** Plano Ursuline Academy of Dallas Jonathan Lis Frisco Liberty High School Joseph Lofgren Plano St. Marks School of Texas Karlie Mullendore McKinney McKinney North High School Sasha Pelletier Plano Dallas International School Parker Stevens* Allen Allen High School Avery Thomas Prosper Legacy Christian Academy Aidan Waits** McKinney Homeschool Cameron Wells Murphy Wylie High School Rachel Zareva Allen Allen High School Rebecca Zareva Allen Allen High School U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Hometown High School Hayden Archer* Frisco Liberty High School Mitchell Boone Allen McKinney Christian Academy John Boughton Prosper Prosper High School William Boughton* Prosper Prosper High School Jonathan Greer McKinney Allen High School Paul Han McKinney Independence High School Daniel Kaphingst* McKinney Prosper High School Gabriel Shurtleff Murphy Homeschool Courtney Wilson Allen Allen High School *Denotes multiple nominations ** Denotes current attendance at military preparatory school
10.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – In an effort to prepare seniors for the 2019 Medicare program, on October 23rd and 24th the Office of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host its annual information sessions covering Medicare Open Enrollment. These informative presentations are free and open to the public. Please note that these sessions are held in different locations in order to provide constituents convenient options. “Medicare serves millions of older Americans in our country, but most folks are unaware of how Medicare actually operates because they never received a basic overview of the program,” said Johnson. “As a result, selecting the best Medicare plan in anticipation of your health care needs can be very confusing. That is why, in order to help seniors navigate their options, I want to invite folks to attend one of these two helpful informational meetings.” The sessions, hosted in conjunction with the North Central Texas Area Agency on Aging (NCTAAA), will provide a complete overview of the program and will coincide with the annual Medicare and Medicare Prescription Drug Program open enrollment period, which runs between October 15th and December 7th. After the program presentation, the NCTAAA will be on hand to take questions regarding the enrollment process. Please be aware that, due to time constraints, attendees interested in one-on-one counseling can set up an appointment at a later date after the sessions. AARP and the Alzheimer’s Association will also be on hand to offer resources and information. FREE INFORMATION SESSIONS ON MEDICARE Session I Tuesday, October 23, 2018 10:00am – 12:00pm Senior Center at Frisco Square 6670 Moore Street, Frisco Session II Wednesday, October 24, 2018 10:00 am– 12:00 pm Allen Senior Recreation Center 451 Saint Mary Drive, Allen NCTAA Benefits Counselors will be on hand after the 2019 Medicare Overview Presentation. For questions regarding counseling services provided by the NCTAAA, please call Mary Jane Douglas at 1-800-272-3921, ext. 7166. For more information on these events, please contact Congressman Johnson’s Plano office at 469-304-0382. ###
09.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today the House passed U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson’s (TX-03) Servicemember Retirement Improvement Act (H.R. 1317) as part of the Family Savings Act of 2018 (H.R. 6757). Johnson’s Servicemember Retirement Improvement Act would stop the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) from limiting the ability of Guard and Reserve servicemembers to save for their retirement. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) introduced the companion legislation in the Senate. “Our troops and veterans put their lives on the line in order to defend Freedom and protect our American way of life, so it’s only right that we ensure they receive fair treatment when they return home,” said Johnson. “Unfortunately, the IRS is able to limit the ability of Guard and Reserve servicemembers to save for their retirement if they also hold a civilian job. In effect, these service members and their families are being penalized when it comes to saving for their retirement because they happen to serve our country. This is wrong, and our men and women in uniform deserve better. I am pleased the House passed this fair and commonsense bill, and I look forward to getting it swiftly signed into law.” The Servicemember Retirement Improvement Act is supported by a wide range of groups: The Military Coalition (TMC) Military Officers Association of America (MOAA) Reserve Officers Association Association of the United States Army Air Force Association Association of the United States Navy Air Force Sergeants Association Air Force Women Officers Associated Army Aviation Association of America AMSUS - the Society of Federal Health Professionals Commissioned Officers Association of the US Public Health Service USCG Chief Warrant and Warrant Officers Association (CWOA) Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the US Fleet Reserve Association Gold Star Wives of America Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America Jewish War Veterans of the USA Marine Corps Reserve Association Military Order of the Purple Heart National Guard Association of the US National Military Family Association Naval Enlisted Reserve Association Non Commissioned Officers Association of the United States of America Service Women’s Action Network The Military Chaplains Association of the USA The Retired Enlisted Association Tragedy Assistance Program for Survivors USCG Chief Petty Officers Association Vietnam Veterans of America Society for Human Resource Management Transamerica ###
09.17.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03), Chairman of the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee, introduced the Homecare for Seniors Act (HSA) (H.R. 6813) last week. This bill would allow senior citizens and their families to use Health Savings Accounts (HSA’s) to pay for home care services. “Folks want to age with dignity, and for many seniors that means staying at their home as long as possible,” said Johnson. “While some families and loved ones are able to provide unpaid home care for their aging relatives, this is not an option for everyone – and it may not be an option indefinitely.” “There are many benefits to paid home care services, including proper nutrition, medication reminders, and transportation to doctor visits. It also allows respite care for family caregivers who tend to their loved ones, and it offers an assessment by outside experts to determine how much home care is needed. In addition, home care services reduce the number of hospital visits as well as delay premature entry into assisted living facilities.” “The case for home care is clear, which I why I want to make it a more accessible option for American families. My bill would make it easier for those with HSAs to do so. Americans want, need, and deserve to age with dignity and respect.” H.R. 6813 is supported by the following groups: Caregiver Action Network Home Instead National Association of Home Care and Hospice Alzheimer’s Foundation of America The Jewish Federations of North America Jewish Family and Career Services National Alliance of Caregiving Elizabeth Dole Foundation National Adult Day Services Association Center for Elder Care and Advanced Illness Caregiver Voices United Alliance for Senior Health Care Financing Family Caregiver Alliance PHI The Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson’s Research Christopher and Dana Reeve Foundation ###
09.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On the 17th Anniversary of the September 11, 2001 attacks, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) released the following statement: September 11th is a day Americans have said they will never forget. That is true. 17 years later, we still remember the 2,977 victims at the Twin Towers, the Pentagon, and on Flight 93. And we remember the heroic deeds of our first responders. But I also remember the patriotism that rose out of the devastation. And it saddens me to see that our country seems to have forgotten the sense of unity we all felt. I encourage folks to really think about that day – where you were, who you were with, and what brought you comfort. Many folks don’t know that I was at the Pentagon on September 11th. By the grace of God, I wasn’t on the side of impact – though I should have been. The terrorists missed where we were meeting and deviated from their target. Two things brought me comfort that terrible day. One was my faith in God. The second was the sight of our flag being lifted from the rubble. It was a symbol of America’s strength and resolve to uphold Freedom – no matter the cost. So today, let us honor the memory of all victims of terrorism through unified actions. …Let us be proud to live in a country that celebrates and protects individual freedom. Freedom is not enjoyed by everyone in the world, and we should not take ours for granted. …Let us do everything we can to prevent future attacks on our homeland and our fellow citizens by remaining vigilant. …And let us support our servicemen and women who continue to fight against the ever-present threat of terrorism. We lost thousands of lives in the attacks 17 years ago. But we are in charge of whether or not we lose our country’s unity, too. Patriotism transcends politics. To all the families and friends who lost loved ones on 9/11 – our hearts remain with you. God bless you, and God bless America. I salute you.
08.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In the wake of U.S. Senator John McCain’s (R-AZ) passing, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) released the following statement: We have lost a genuine American hero today. John and I were fellow POWs at the “Hanoi Hilton,” and I can testify to the fact that he did everything he could to defend freedom and honor our Great Nation – not just in that hell on earth, but beyond those bleak years. This is most evident in his continued service on behalf of others while in the U.S. House and Senate. We are a grateful Nation for his service and sacrifice both in and out of uniform. John’s strength of spirit, commitment to democracy, and love of God and country all shape the inspiring legacy of service he leaves behind. God bless you, partner, and I salute you. You will not be forgotten.
07.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX) introduced the Social Security Administration Modernization Act of 2018 (H.R. 6559), which combines new and existing proposals to make commonsense improvements to the Social Security Administration (SSA). “Social Security is an important program for both the millions of seniors and individuals with disabilities who rely on it as well as the millions of workers paying taxes on their hard earned wages for the promise of future benefits,” said Johnson. “They rightfully expect excellent customer service, modern rules, and that benefits go only to those who deserve them. Unfortunately, that’s not always the case today. This bill brings together new and existing proposals to bring Social Security into the 21st century. Americans want, need, and deserve nothing less.” Highlights of the Social Security Administration Modernization Act of 2018: Improves the SSA’s operations and customer service by: Clarifying how long an Acting Commissioner can serve; Strengthening penalties for SSA employees who take advantage of their job to commit fraud; Streamlining the process for identity theft victims to resolve SSN misuse issues with the SSA; Increasing access to information about employment support services to help denied Disability Insurance applicants reenter the workforce; and Providing access to online tools that Disability Insurance beneficiaries can use to estimate the potential impact that returning to work will have on their monthly benefits. Strengthens the Disability Insurance program by: Requiring the SSA to update the medical-vocational guidelines used to determine disability that have not been updated since 1979; Limiting claimant representative travel reimbursement and requiring claimants to pay those costs; and Allowing immediate suspension of claimant representatives convicted of certain crimes or who were disbarred. Protects Social Security’s Trust Funds by: Improving the integrity of the annual Trustees Report by increasing the number of Public Trustees, by making the Public Trustees Congressionally-appointed, and by increasing Congressional oversight of the Report; Restoring the original intent of Congress by preventing individuals with outstanding felony arrest warrants from receiving Social Security benefits; Ensuring proceeds from the sale of buildings purchased with Trust Fund money returns to the Trust Funds; and Requiring children 15 and older to attend school full time in order to receive Social Security benefits. ###
05.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – As Americans across the country remember the members of the U.S. Armed Forces who paid the ultimate sacrifice in defense of freedom, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03), released the following statement: Americans are truly blessed to enjoy freedom in its many forms – freedoms we often take for granted. But as we may often hear, Freedom is not free. While all servicemen and women make personal sacrifices, some pay the ultimate sacrifice with their lives. Today, we honor their memories – and we support their families. Memorial Day is particularly important to me because it is a time when I remember my fallen comrades with whom I served during my 29 years as an Air Force veteran and POW for nearly seven years, including my fellow “Alcatraz Gang” buddy Ronald Storz. While this is a somber day, I think one of the best ways we can honor our fallen servicemen and women is to actively work on behalf of our veterans and military. That is why one of the priorities in Congress is ensuring our troops and veterans get the support they need – both during their time in the military and when they finish their service. After all, our troops and veterans deserve our gratitude and utmost respect for the sacrifices that they and their families have made – and from which we all benefit. To all our veterans, troops, and their families – I wish you a Happy Memorial Day. Thank you for your service and your sacrifices that allow us the blessing of Freedom. May God bless you and your families in return. I salute you. Recent Johnson votes on behalf of America’s veterans and service members H.R. 5674, John S. McCain III, Daniel K. Akaka, and Samuel R. Johnson VA MISSION Act H.R. 1972, VA Billing Accountability Act H.R. 3642, Military SAVE Act H.R. 3832, Veterans Opioid Abuse Prevention Act H.R. 4245, Veterans’ Electronic Health Record Modernization Oversight Act H.R. 4451, Homeless Veterans’ Reintegration Programs Reauthorization Act H.R. 4830, SIT-REP Act H.R. 4958,Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act H.R. 5044, Service-Disabled Veterans Small Business Continuation Act H.R. 5215, Veterans Affairs Purchase Card Misuse Mitigation Act H.R. 5418, Veterans Affairs Medical-Surgical Purchasing Stabilization Act H.R. 4334, Improving Oversight of Women Veterans’ Care Act H.R. 5515, National Defense Authorization Act
05.25.2018	PLANO, TX – Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) joined the North Texas Municipal Water District (NTMWD) and other local, state, and federal leaders at the groundbreaking ceremony for a new reservoir that will meet critical water needs for North Texas families. The reservoir, named the North Texas Municipal Lake, received its permit earlier this spring after years of work to bring the reservoir online. The permit was expedited due to a bipartisan effort led by Johnson in 2016. This move was necessary due to population growth that is forecasted to eclipse available water resources unless another reservoir is built. At the groundbreaking, Congressman Johnson delivered the following remarks: After many years of hard work, it’s great to know that there will soon be a lake at this very spot – a lake that will provide vital water to North Texas families. And I’m also proud to say that I led the bipartisan effort in 2016 to expedite the permitting process for this critical project. The members of Texas Delegation who joined me in this hard-won battle on behalf of North Texans include Senators Cornyn and Cruz; and Representatives Pete Sessions, John Ratcliffe, Jeb Hensarling, and Eddie Bernice Johnson. Clean, reliable water is something all Americans want and need. And because drought is no stranger to our area, one of my longstanding priorities in the United States Congress has been water. For example, a few years ago I had the honor of working with my former colleague, Congressman Ralph Hall, when we faced a problem with zebra mussels. The water district had to actually stop pumping water until we got a bill signed into law to allow the water district to resume pumping and treat the water at the Wylie Water Treatment Plant. Today, with this new reservoir, we are building the solution to address a different water problem. You see, North Texas is one of the fastest growing areas in the nation. It’s a blessing, to be sure! It’s a great place to live! But a growing population also means we need more water. This goes beyond just watering our yards. It’s about being able to turn on the faucet and get good, clean water – to make sure our area’s economy has the water it needs to continue to grow. What’s more, the timing for the reservoir permit was crucial if we want to have water ready to meet future demand. The approval permit we received this spring came in the nick of time thanks to the tireless and bipartisan congressional effort. I want to congratulate everyone involved in this project. This is how to get things done together!
05.21.2018	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) hosted his final annual Academy Appointee Send-Off Ceremony to congratulate the 26 Collin County students who received appointments to U.S. Service Academies or one of the preparatory schools this fall. “It is my honor to congratulate these young men and women who have been chosen by the prestigious United States Service Academies,” said Johnson. “It is no easy task to receive an Academy appointment – students must excel academically and athletically over the years, and they must also contribute their time, talent, and effort to the community. The nomination process to even be considered is competitive, and these students’ appointments prove they are the gold standard. Seeing their commitment and love of freedom, liberty, and democracy gives me great hope that America’s best days are ahead. I thank them for their willingness to serve our Great Nation, and I wish them the best on the endeavor they are about to undertake.” Congressman Johnson will nominate a final class of students for 2019 Academy appointments in late fall of 2018. Students interested in learning more about U.S. Service Academies, military life, and how to apply, are encouraged to: 1) Contact Gabriella Pate in Congressman Johnson’s Plano office at (469) 304-0382; and 2) Attend Congressman Johnson’s free Academy Information Session on Saturday, September 29th, 2018, in Frisco. The annual fall session provides students with an opportunity to learn more about each Academy and speak with each Academy’s respective liaisons. Academy Appointees, Class of 2022 U.S. Air Force Academy Name Hometown School Isabella Colandrea McKinney Imagine International Academy of North Texas James D’Emidio McKinney McKinney Boyd High School Ritesh Gautam Plano Plano West Senior High School Rebecca Gu Plano Plano West Senior High School Noah Hoisington McKinney McKinney Boyd High School Andrew LaGassa Plano Trinity Christian Academy Marcos Puga* McKinney McKinney High School Yun Jae “Edward” Ro Plano St. Marks School of Texas Jace Waters* Allen Allen High School U.S. Naval Academy Jonah Barton* Allen Lovejoy High School Melic Belong* Frisco Frisco High School Logan Brown* Allen Allen High School Austin Chambers Plano Plano Senior High School Joshua Davis Frisco Centennial High School Ian Morris Allen Allen High School Jack Topping Allen Allen High School U.S. Military Academy Brendan Corcoran McKinney McKinney North High School Luke Harrell McKinney McKinney Christian Academy William Harrell McKinney McKinney Christian Academy Grayson Hassell Plano Jesuit College Preparatory School of Dallas Avery Haydu Allen Allen High School Morgan Krepp* Plano Ursuline Academy of Dallas Aidan Waits* McKinney Homeschool Jaylen Walker* Allen Allen High School U.S. MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY Devon Mayes Plano Plano West Senior High School: Plano, Texas Mark Thompson McKinney McKinney High School: McKinney, Texas *Denotes acceptance to one of the academy preparatory schools.
05.16.2018	Plano, TX – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is pleased to announce the winners of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery.” Winners were announced at the Congressman’s free annual art exhibit and awards ceremony held at the McKinney Performing Arts Center on May 14th. “This year’s Congressional Art Competition was outstanding, and I thank all our student artists who shared their original artwork with the community,” said Johnson. “I also want to thank all the folks who attended the art exhibit and awards ceremony in support of the students. And finally, I want to thank the parents and teachers of our students for providing them an environment to think creatively and further develop their artistic skills. I’m inspired not only by the artwork displayed, but by the support this community provides. It’s what makes Collin County such a great place to live. Again, I thank all our students for their hard work, and it is my pleasure to congratulate this year’s winners on their accomplishments!” The First Place winner of the 2018 Art Competition is Amanda He from Plano West Senior High School for her artwork, “City of Bikes.” He’s artwork will soon travel to Washington, D.C. where it will be displayed in the United States Capitol building for one year along with other First Place winners’ artwork from across the nation. Courtesy of Southwest Airlines, He will also receive two complimentary tickets for roundtrip airfare to Washington, D.C. where she will attend the national 2018 Congressional Art Competition unveiling ceremony in June. The Second Place winner is Avery Francis from McKinney Boyd High School for her artwork, “lillehammer.” As the second place winner, Francis’s work will be proudly displayed in Congressman Sam Johnson’s district office in Plano. The winner of the People’s Choice Award is Clayton Vaughan from Melissa High School for his artwork, “North Texas range.” His artwork was selected for this award by a public, online poll. To view all of the winning artwork from this year’s competition, please CLICK HERE. Full List of 2018 Art Competition Winners: Place Student Title of Piece School Hometown Teacher/Parent 1st Place Amanda He City of Bikes Plano West Senior High School Plano Adriane Anderson 2nd Place Avery Francis lillehammer McKinney Boyd High School McKinney Samuel Thomas 3rd Place Katherine Strand Buddies Independence High School Frisco Leonard Buscemi People's Choice Clayton Vaughan North Texas range Melissa High School Melissa Julie Cruce Honorable Mention Emma Zhang Admirer Independence High School Frisco Leonard Buscemi Honorable Mention Marissa Xiong A Perfect Afternoon in Downtown Allen Allen High School Allen Laura Helms Honorable Mention Caleb Doyle Monkey Business McKinney Christian Academy Allen Deidre Sickles Honorable Mention Anusha Dabak Serenity Jasper High School Plano Adriane Anderson Honorable Mention Manasa Kotmaraju Sunset By the Ocean Heritage High School Frisco Sarah Watkins Honorable Mention Yayi Ding Docked Jasper High School Plano Adriane Anderson Honorable Mention Luke Holthaus Lifetime of Service McKinney Boyd High School McKinney Miriam Christman Honorable Mention Reagan Yablon Eyes of Wonder McKinney Boyd High School McKinney Brian Magnuson Honorable Mention Noelle Barnes Night Sky Allen High School Allen Stephanie Richards Honorable Mention Chrissa Loth Within The Eye McKinney Boyd High School McKinney Samuel Thomas
04.30.2018	PLANO, TX – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson’s (TX-03) Congressional Art Competition continues as voting begins for the 2018 People’s Choice Award. From now through May 7th at 5pm CST, Collin County constituents are invited to view all 107 high school students’ entries on Congressman Johnson’s website and vote for their favorite. “Thank you to all the students who submitted artwork for the 36th Annual Congressional Art Competition, and for sharing your talent with our community,” said Johnson. “To showcase our talented student artists’ work, on May 14th I will be holding our annual Art Exhibit and Award Ceremony where our First, Second, and Third place winners as well as Honorable Mentions will be announced. But we still need your help in selecting this year’s People’s Choice Award! Therefore, I encourage folks to visit my website where you can check out the creativity of Collin County’s high school students – and then vote for your favorite piece! The artist whose work receives the most online votes will receive this year’s ‘People’s Choice Award.’ This means a lot to our student artists, and I know they would all appreciate your support. I wish all our students good luck and I thank them for participating!” CLICK HERE to vote. Art Exhibit and Award Ceremony Details: McKinney Performing Arts Center 111 North Tennessee St. McKinney, TX 75069 6:00 pm – 7:00 pm If you plan to attend the Art Competition Award Ceremony, please RSVP to Jessica Corder (469-304-0382) no later than 5:00pm on May 10th. Venue space is limited and spots will be given first to students, family, and art teachers. About the Art Competition The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students, whether they attend public, private, or home schools. On May 14th, Congressman Johnson will also host an art exhibit and award ceremony to display entries and announce the First, Second, and Third Place winners, as well as the People’s Choice Award and Honorable Mentions. The event is free and open to the public. The First Place winner will have the rare and unique opportunity to have their artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol Building for one year as part of an exhibition comprised of artwork from across the country. The First Place winner will also win a free trip to Washington, D.C. (courtesy of Southwest Airlines) where the student will meet with Congressman Johnson and attend an award reception and exclusive unveiling ceremony for all the art competition winners nationwide. The Second Place winner’s art will be displayed in the Plano District Office for the remainder of Congressman Johnson’s term.
04.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In response to the news that North and South Korea intend to work toward a formal end to the Korean War and dismantle the North Korean nuclear program, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) – the last Korean War veteran in Congress – released the following statement: As a veteran who fought in Korea and Vietnam, I have seen the horrors of war firsthand. And as a POW for nearly seven years, I have experienced living without individual liberty. I absolutely want peace and freedom for ALL Koreans, and I hope and pray that North Korea holds true to its promises, including denuclearization. At the same time, we must be mindful about the North Korean regime’s two-faced track record and proceed with great caution. We owe this to the brave service members who paid the ultimate sacrifice on the Korean peninsula and all those who have helped defend South Korea in the decades since the Armistice. Above all, any deal should not make it harder to address future North Korean aggression if the regime fails to keep its word. We still have a long and uncertain road ahead to peace. If Kim Jong-un wants our trust, he will need to earn it. I will be watching North Korea closely over the coming weeks and months to see if his actions match his words.
04.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, U.S. Congressmen Sam Johnson (TX-03) and John Larson (CT-01) introduced the Medical Debt Tax Relief Act (H.R. 5493), which would ensure that the IRS cannot tax medical debt that has been forgiven. “Medical debt can be financially crippling, and folks who have been fortunate to receive debt forgiveness should NOT be taxed by the IRS on that debt – it just adds insult to injury,” said Johnson. “The Medical Debt Tax Relief Act seeks to protect these vulnerable individuals, and I thank Congressman Larson for joining me in this important effort. I look forward to getting this bipartisan and commonsense bill passed into law.” “I applaud Chairman Johnson for introducing the Medical Debt Tax Relief Act and standing up for people who are struggling with high medical bills. For those individuals who have had their medical debt forgiven, it is unconscionable to think that they would then be sent a tax bill. I urge Congress to take up this commonsense legislation,” said Larson. Background: Currently, the tax code does not explicitly exempt the cancellation of medical debt from taxation. Therefore, it is possible for a taxpayer to have their medical debt cancelled, but then be required to pay taxes on that debt as if it were income. The Medical Debt Tax Relief Act would right this wrong by ensuring that the cancellation of medical debt is not a taxable event. CLICK HERE to read the bill.
04.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, President Trump signed into law the Strengthening Protections for Social Security Beneficiaries Act of 2018 (H.R. 4547). Introduced by Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX) and Ranking Member John Larson (D-CT), this bipartisan legislation will modernize the representative payee program so that it will better protect Social Security beneficiaries who are unable to manage their own benefits. Chairman Johnson said: “This new law is great news for the millions of Social Security beneficiaries who rely on a representative payee to help them manage their benefits. Not only will it provide much-needed accountability for the representative payee program, but it also puts measures into place that ensure newly selected representative payees are qualified and trustworthy. I thank Congressman Larson for working with me on this important legislation that will ensure Americans––from children, seniors, to individuals with disabilities––will have more peace of mind when it comes to having a representative payee they can trust.” Ranking Member Larson said: “The enactment of this bill would not have happened if not for the efforts of my colleague and friend, Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX), Chairman of the Social Security Subcommittee and lead sponsor of the bill. It was his leadership that brought this bill across the finish line to the President’s desk, and the Strengthening Protections for Social Security Beneficiaries Act will be another addition to his enduring legacy. This new law will ensure that the Representative Payee program lives up to its charge to protect the most vulnerable Social Security recipients and will help those who are unable to manage their own benefits because they are children or suffer from a disease like Alzheimer’s. This bipartisan bill, now law, strengthens the selection and monitoring of Representative Payees and reduces some of the administrative burdens that families face when caring for loved ones.” Specifically, the Strengthening Protections for Social Security Beneficiaries Act of 2018 will: Strengthen oversight of representative payees by increasing the number of performance reviews of payees, requiring additional types of reviews, and improving the effectiveness of reviews; Reduce the burden on families by eliminating the requirement to file the annual accounting form for representative payees who are parents living with their children or who are spouses; Protect the most vulnerable beneficiaries through improved information-sharing by requiring the Social Security Administration (SSA) to identify whether a beneficiary is in foster care and reassess whether the payee is appropriate, and by directing the SSA to study how better to coordinate with Adult Protective Services and with state guardianship courts; Enhance personal control by allowing beneficiaries to make a designation of their preferred payee in advance, and improve payee selection by requiring the SSA to assess the appropriateness of the order-of-preference list it uses to select payees; Limit overpayment liability for children in the child welfare system; and Ensure that no beneficiary has a barred payee by codifying the policy that bans individuals with certain criminal convictions from serving as payees (including individuals currently serving as payees) and prohibiting individuals who have payees from serving as a payee for others. Background: In 1939, Congress first authorized the SSA to make benefit payments to another person or organization – known as a representative payee – when a beneficiary is not capable of managing his or her own Social Security benefits. Today, this program helps millions of Social Security beneficiaries, including children, seniors, and individuals with disabilities. However, it has been 14 years since the last overhaul of the representative payee program, and many organizations have raised significant concerns about the SSA’s management of this program. CLICK HERE for the legislative text of the Strengthening Protections for Social Security Beneficiaries Act of 2018. CLICK HERE to access the full list of letters of support for H.R. 4547 from over 45 advocacy groups, including AARP, the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, and Equip for Equality.
03.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In response to President Trump’s decision to impose new tariffs on steel and aluminum imports yesterday, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) released the following statement: “While I think the President is wrong to proceed with the tariffs on steel and aluminum, I do appreciate that he has heeded —though not completely — the concerns over his original tariff plan. “Even so, the underlying problem with tariffs remains the same. Tariffs are taxes. I remain deeply concerned about the impact of the President’s decision on our economy and our relationships with our allies and partners. “As a free market conservative, I believe we should encourage free trade with our allies, and I will continue to do what I can in Congress to see that this principle is upheld.”
03.02.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, President Trump announced his intention to impose tariffs on imported steel and aluminum. U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03), a 29-year Air Force veteran, free market conservative, and senior member of the trade-writing Ways and Means Committee, opposes this decision. In response, Johnson issued the following statement: “I strongly oppose President Trump’s announcement to impose tariffs on imported steel and aluminum. As a combat veteran who fought in two wars and who cares greatly about our national security, I am deeply troubled that the President is abusing a trade law intended to protect our national security in order to advance his protectionist agenda. There is simply nothing to suggest that these imports pose a risk to our national security. The President’s plan will only hurt our economy, potentially trigger a trade war, and damage our relations with key allies. “I’ve long been a strong supporter of free trade, which plays a major role in Texas’s economic success story. In fact, Texas is number one for the 16th year in a row when it comes to exports, which by the way support more than a million jobs. Make no mistake about it, tariffs are taxes. And the President’s tariffs would undercut the recently enacted pro-growth tax reform that is already producing dividends for American workers and our economy. “The President must reverse course. And now. Nothing less than our economy and national security are at stake.” Background: The Department of Defense (DoD) issued a memorandum to the Secretary of Commerce regarding its Section 232 investigation. In the memorandum, the DoD states that it “does not believe that the findings in the reports impact the ability of DoD programs to acquire the steel or aluminum necessary to meet national defense requirements.” Additionally, regarding the tariffs, DoD is “concerned about the negative impact on our key allies.” To read the memorandum issued by the Department of Defense, CLICK HERE.
02.15.2018	PLANO, TX – To help Collin County constituents save their hard-earned dollars during tax season, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will be joining Free File Alliance for a briefing and “Free File” tax workshop. The event is free and open to the public. The event will start by highlighting the IRS “Free File” program, which provides free online tax-prep and e-filing services to taxpayers who earned an annual income of $66,000 or less in 2017. Following the briefing, there will be a one hour interactive demonstration to see how easy it is to use “Free File” and learn about other free tax services in the community. “With tax season underway, I want to make sure folks know about the IRS ‘Free File’ program that helps middle and lower income Americans do their taxes and for free,” said Johnson. “I’ve always been troubled at the idea that hardworking Americans have to pay for help to do their taxes due to the complexity of the tax code. The good news is that the recently passed tax reform should make next year’s tax filing easier – as easy as using a postcard-like form! I look forward to a productive tax workshop, and I also encourage folks who need any other assistance with the IRS to please call my Plano office at (469) 304-0382. My staff and I are always happy to help!” WHAT: Learn how to file your taxes for free with Free File Alliance WHEN: March 2, 2018, 10:00 a.m. WHERE: Collin College, Spring Creek Campus 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway, Room I 123 Plano, Texas 75074 If you would like to attend, please RSVP to Lori Baux: MLBaux@gmail.com, 202-265-8148. For more information, please visit www.irs.gov/freefile. To learn more about Congressman Johnson’s efforts regarding fiscal responsibility, CLICK HERE.
02.15.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bipartisan resolution (H.Res. 129) introduced by 29-year Air Force veteran Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03), which calls for an intensified effort to fully account for and return all American service members who are still listed as “Missing In Action (MIA),” or otherwise unaccounted for. The House passed the resolution unanimously, 411-0. The vote occurred during the week of the 45th Anniversary of “Operation Homecoming,” when 591 American Prisoners of War (POWs) were returned from North Vietnam in 1973. Johnson, a POW for nearly seven years in the infamous “Hanoi Hilton,” was initially listed by the U.S. Air Force as MIA for almost two years after his shoot down in 1966 because the North Vietnamese did not notify the U.S. of POW captures as required by the Geneva Convention. According to the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency (DPAA), there are still more than 82,000 American service members who remain unaccounted for: World War II – 72,961 Korean War – 7,710 Vietnam War – 1,601 Cold War – 126 Iraq & Other Conflicts – 6 During debate on the resolution, Johnson took to the Floor to urge his colleagues to support the measure as well as continue to carry the mantle to push for a full accounting of all America’s missing service members. To watch his full remarks, CLICK HERE. Excerpts from Johnson’s remarks are below. During my time as an “MIA,” my family was unsure where I was. Whether I was even alive or dead. But my devoted bride, Shirley, and countless other families with the “National League of POW/MIA Families” continuously advocated for the return of all our “POWs” and “MIAs” from the Vietnam War. And it’s because of their tireless work – and by the grace of God – that my fellow “POWs” and I were reunited with our families 45 years ago this week. But Mr. Speaker, we must never forget our troops who still remain “Missing in Action.” And we must never forget their families who anxiously await a final accounting of their loved ones. In many cases, so much time has gone by that it has fallen to the next generation to repatriate their missing family members. They deserve our dedicated help and support. After my return from Vietnam, I vowed to continue to fight for our missing troops and their families. During my time serving on the “U.S.-Russia Joint Commission on POW/MIAs,” I travelled the world to places like Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, and even to the Russian military archives in Moscow to try and find our missing troops. And I will never stop fighting. For the families of our troops who remain “Missing in Action,” this resolution is for you…We must remain united in our efforts to recover all of our missing troops and to never forget their sacrifice. I would also urge my colleagues to remember that while I was in the Hanoi Hilton, the North Vietnamese told my fellow POWs and me that our country had forgotten us. As the days turned into years, we had to fight that fear. The feeling of being alone and forgotten is horrible. And the families of POWs and MIAs feel a similar pain. That’s why I will continue to make every effort to repatriate my missing brothers and sisters in arms and hold true to the promise – “no man left behind.” But I also call on all current and future Members of Congress to carry the mantle. We cannot and must not forget the faithful servicemen and women who deserve to be brought home to the country they gave their all to protect. It is my sincere hope that we will one day bring home all of America’s missing patriots. These heroes deserve to return to American soil with all of our honor and respect. And their families deserve the closure of their loved ones that they have awaited for so long. Specifically, H.Res. 129 calls on the United States government and the Department of Defense to diligently continue efforts to investigate, recover, and identify all missing U.S. personnel around the world. It also calls on foreign governments that have information on our missing personnel to cooperate fully with our government. To read the resolution, CLICK HERE. A companion resolution (S.Res. 61) was introduced by Senator John McCain (R-AZ) on February 15, 2017. Both McCain and Johnson were POWs in the Hanoi Hilton and returned to American 45 years ago during “Operation Homecoming.”
02.02.2018	PLANO, TX – This week the North Texas Municipal Water District (NTMWD) received and accepted the long-awaited federal permit needed to construct the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir. The permit, issued by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, comes just in time – tremendous population growth in North Texas, coupled with a deficit of rain over the last decade, has put the region at a serious risk of a water shortage without this new reservoir in place by 2022. The federal permit process was expedited thanks to Congressman Sam Johnson’s (TX-03) bipartisan amendment included in the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN) Act (S. 612), which was signed into law on December 16, 2016. The amendment was co-sponsored by North Texas Representatives Pete Sessions, John Ratcliffe, and Eddie Bernice Johnson. “This permit is GREAT news for North Texans,” said Johnson. “Drought is no stranger to Texas, which is why making sure we have the water we need has been a longstanding priority of mine. Many folks may not be aware that our existing local reservoirs will soon be unable to meet the water demands of our area. You see, at Collin County’s current rate of projected population growth, by 2022 there is a high risk of a water shortage unless this new reservoir is built. And the impact of not having this new reservoir would impact daily lives as well as our local economy. This goes beyond just watering the yard. It’s about water from the faucet. But with four years needed to build and fill the reservoir, we’ve been cutting it close. I am proud to have successfully led the bipartisan effort with my neighboring colleagues to expedite the issuance of the permit. North Texans want, need, and deserve access to clean, reliable water – and it’s great to see the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir finally becoming a reality.” "We appreciate the tremendous support from Sam Johnson as well as other Congressional leaders and legislators who fought to help us get construction started as soon as possible," said Tom Kula, NTMWD Executive Director. "They recognize that securing this critical water source is vital for the future of north Texas and supporting residents and economic prosperity in our fast-growing region." “After years of hard work and engagement with several federal agencies, I am pleased to see leadership at the EPA, Region 6 and the Army Corps of Engineers, Tulsa District have agreed to proceed with a positive permit decision for North Texas Municipal Water District’s Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir Project,” Congressman Pete Sessions (TX-32) said. “This project is essential to meet the needs of our rapidly expanding region and will ensure North Texas communities have access to the resources they need to continue to grow and prosper. I thank all the parties involved for their diligent work on this issue.” “I’m very pleased that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has finally issued the long-awaited federal permit for the construction of the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir,” stated Congressman John Ratcliffe (TX-04). “After a decades-long, hard-fought battle on this important issue, I’m hopeful that construction will begin quickly, so the people of Northeast Texas can benefit from the positive impact it will have on the region.” “This is extremely good news for North Texas and the future of water delivery in the region,” said Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30). “I am proud to have joined my colleagues in the Texas Delegation in seeing this through. The population in North Texas is expected to grow precipitously and completion of the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir project will ensure that we can meet our water needs into the foreseeable future. I would like to congratulate and thank everyone involved for this bipartisan effort.” Legislative Background: On September 28, 2016, the House of Representatives passed Congressman Johnson’s amendment to expedite the federal approval of the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir as part of the Water Resources Development Act (H.R. 5303). It was then modified in conference committee and included in S. 612, the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN) Act. Former-President Obama signed S. 612 into law on December 16, 2016. Specifically, Johnson’s 2016 amendment required the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to expedite the federal permitting process for the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir, and also required a report to Congress on its progress. Johnson authored the amendment because federal regulators had already spent nearly a decade reviewing the project, and the permitting process appeared far from over. As required by the amendment, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers submitted a report to Congress in July of 2017 with an updated timeline that anticipated a final Record of Decision to be finalized by January 2018.
01.31.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s first State of the Union address: “President Trump’s words are a call to patriotism, and his commitment to our Great Nation, its citizens, and our American way of life is a breath of fresh air. This past year has seen the beginning of a much-needed turnaround from eight years of economic stagnation and a naïve, irresponsible foreign policy. As a 29-year Air Force veteran, I appreciate the President’s commitment to rebuilding our military and doing right by our veterans. On the economic front, we are already starting to see the positive results of pro-family, pro-growth tax reform. Workers are benefiting from lower taxes, bonuses, pay raises, and higher benefits. Meanwhile, companies are looking to invest billions of dollars and hire thousands of workers. This is what a conservative stimulus looks like. “Over the next year, I look forward to working with Congress and our President to support and provide for the brave servicemen and women who defend us, to protect our homeland by finally securing the border, and to build upon tax reform with other pro-growth reforms to help ensure Americans from all walks of life can achieve the American dream.” ###
01.30.2018	Washington, D.C. – To coincide with the National Salute to Veteran Patients (the week of Valentine’s Day), U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is holding his annual “Valentines for Vets” outreach program. Teachers and students in Collin County are encouraged to create Valentines that will be hand-delivered to veterans at the Dallas VA Medical Center. “Many of our hometown veterans are hospitalized for long periods of time, and the hours away from family and friends can get lonely – particularly on holidays,” said Johnson. “That is why every year I ask elementary school students and teachers in Collin County for their help in creating valentines for our veterans. I do this for two main reasons. First, it is an excellent opportunity to teach young students about freedom, the importance of protecting our American way of life, and what it means to serve in our Great Nation’s military. Second, this program provides us the chance to say ‘thank you’ to those who we can never thank enough for their service and sacrifice. I encourage all our area schools to participate – together, let’s make this a special day for our hometown heroes!” Johnson’s office will be accepting valentines through Thursday, February 8th, 2018. To see if your school is participating and to schedule a drop-off time at Johnson’s Plano office, please reach out to Valentines for Vets program coordinator, Casey Quinn, at 469-304-0382. If your school has over 150 valentines and drop-off is difficult, you may also inquire about scheduling a pick-up time with a staffer. Details about valentine card specifications can be found HERE. Plano Office 1255 W 15th Street, Suite 170 Plano, Texas 75075 (469) 304-0382 ###
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1), the House and Senate’s tax reform bill. After the vote, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) released the following statement: American families need tax relief that rewards their hard work and boosts the economy through much-needed pro-growth business reforms. Since the very beginning of the tax reform process, I have listened to constituents all across the district about their priorities and worked to do everything I can to make tax reform the best it can be. In particular, I am pleased that the final bill includes my commonsense idea to help better protect Americans’ retirement savings. The tax reform bill is a significant improvement from our current broken tax code. For example, it doubles the standard deduction for individuals and families, doubles the child tax credit to $2,000, cuts income tax rates on middle income Americans, provides critical tax relief for Main Street small businesses, encourages companies to invest and grow jobs in the U.S., and repeals Obamacare’s individual mandate tax. As a free market conservative, I’ve been fighting my entire career in Congress for tax relief and reform, and I am proud to vote for the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in my final term. The following legislation introduced by Congressman Johnson is included in the tax reform bill: · Savings Enhancement by Alleviating Leakage in 401(k) Savings Act (SEAL Act - H.R. 2030). The SEAL Act would provide an extended repayment period for individuals who take out loans from their 401(k)s and later leave their jobs. Individuals would have until the tax filing deadline instead of only 60 days. ###
12.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (TX-03) again urged President Trump to nominate a Social Security Commissioner. This marks the fourth time Congressman Johnson has called on the new President to nominate the position that has been vacant for nearly five years. Johnson delivered the following remarks on the House Floor: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to strongly urge President Trump to nominate a Social Security Commissioner without further delay. The Social Security Administration has been without a Senate-confirmed Commissioner for over 1,700 DAYS – that’s almost five years. This is totally unacceptable. The American people need a Commissioner – and they need one now. Without a Commissioner, Social Security is just spinning its wheels. Important decisions are being put off, and service has deteriorated. I ask the President to act now to nominate a Commissioner so that Social Security can provide the service Americans want, need and deserve. I yield back. On February 21, 2017, Johnson and other members of Congress called on President Trump to nominate a qualified candidate to fill the vacant Social Security Commissioner position without delay. On September 6, 2017, Johnson chaired a Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee hearing on the Social Security Administrations disability backlog. During the hearing, Johnson again called on the President to nominate a Social Security Commissioner. On December 1, 2017, Johnson once again urged the President to name a nominee, citing a local Dallas-Fort Worth paper that highlights the Social Security Administration’s hearing backlog as a critical issue facing the agency. Background Per Section 702 of the Social Security Act, the Commissioner of Social Security has a fixed six-year term. The current term ends on January 19, 2019. Since February 13, 2013, when then-Commissioner Astrue left the SSA, the agency has been led by an Acting Commissioner. ###
12.01.2017	PLANO, TX – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is pleased to announce that the winners of the 3rd Annual Congressional App Challenge are Rithwik Pattikonda and David Brooks for their app, “Juke – The SMS Powered Jukebox.” Pattikonda and Brooks attend Plano West Senior High School. Their winning app will be featured on the U.S. House of Representatives website and in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. (Description of their app and video demonstration are below.) “Collin County is blessed to have schools, teachers, and parents who foster a rich learning environment,” said Johnson. “This is clearly evident by the submissions in the Congressional App Challenge – particularly with the winning app, ‘Juke.’ I thank all our participants for their hard work and congratulate Rithwick and David on their user-friendly, timely app. I look forward to seeing your app in the U.S. Capitol!” About the winning app, “Juke”: “The aim of the app is to eliminate the aux cord and serve as a replacement for the DJ in parties. On long car rides, instead of passing the aux cord around the car, one simply has to text in a song request to hear their songs on the car stereo. In parties, to request a song, one simply needs to send in the song through text messaging. No DJ needed.” To watch the video demonstration, CLICK HERE. About the Congressional App Challenge: Officially launched in 2015, the Congressional App Challenge is a nationwide event focused on fostering students’ creativity and encouraging their participation in STEM fields. This competition allows students (K-12) to compete with peers in their own district by creating and exhibiting their software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. The annual competition is open to all students who meet the eligibility requirements, regardless of coding experience. In fact, students of all skill levels are encouraged to participate and learn how to create their own apps. Students may work alone or in teams up to five people. The apps are evaluated by a panel of local judges who work within the academic, software, and entrepreneurial fields. ###
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed its tax reform bill, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1). After the vote, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) released the following statement: American families need tax relief that rewards their hard work and boosts the economy through pro-growth business reforms. I’m encouraged that today’s bill works toward that goal by making the tax code simpler and fairer. I’m also glad to see some of my commonsense bills included in the legislation. As Congress takes the next steps toward tax reform, I will continue to do everything I can to make tax reform the best it can be – reform that works for the middle class. Reforming America’s complicated and broken tax code is too important to not get right. The following legislation introduced by Congressman Johnson is included in the tax reform bill: Refundable Child Tax Credit Eligibility Verification Reform Act (H.R. 2149). This bill would prevent illegal immigrants from getting the refundable portion of the Child Tax Credit by requiring individuals to provide work-eligible Social Security numbers when claiming the credit. EITC Eligibility Verification Act (H.R. 3483). This bill would stop individuals who are not authorized to work in the U.S. from claiming the earned income tax credit (EITC). Specifically, it would require individuals claiming the EITC to provide a work-eligible Social Security number. Savings Enhancement by Alleviating Leakage in 401(k) Savings Act (H.R. 2030). The SEAL Act would provide an extended repayment period for individuals who take out loans from their 401(k)s and later leave their jobs. Individuals would have until the tax filing deadline instead of only 60 days. Moreover, this bill would allow workers who happen to take hardship withdrawals to continue saving for retirement. ###
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In response to the tax reform bill released today by House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (TX-08), U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03), a senior Committee Member, made the following statement: America’s complicated and broken tax code is hurting our economy and, in turn, American families. That’s why I’ve long said we need a simpler tax code that rewards hard work. I’m encouraged to see that the bill introduced today would provide tax relief for working families and the middle class as well as much-needed pro-growth business reforms. I’m also encouraged to see some of my commonsense bills included in the legislation. I look forward to taking the next step toward tax reform, and I will continue to do everything I can to make this bill the best it can be. Reforming America’s complicated and broken tax code is too important to not get right. The following legislation introduced by Congressman Johnson is included in the tax reform bill: Refundable Child Tax Credit Eligibility Verification Reform Act (H.R. 2149). This bill would prevent illegal immigrants from getting the refundable portion of the Child Tax Credit by requiring individuals to provide work-eligible Social Security numbers when claiming the credit. EITC Eligibility Verification Act (H.R. 3483). This bill would stop individuals who are not authorized to work in the U.S. from claiming the earned income tax credit (EITC). Specifically, it would require individuals claiming the EITC to provide a work-eligible Social Security number. Savings Enhancement by Alleviating Leakage in 401(k) Savings Act (H.R. 2030). The SEAL Act would provide an extended repayment period for individuals who take out loans from their 401(k)s and later leave their jobs. Individuals would have until the tax filing deadline instead of only 60 days. Moreover, this bill would allow workers who happen to take hardship withdrawals to continue saving for retirement. ** To read the bill in its entirety, CLICK HERE. ** For a section by section summary of the bill, CLICK HERE. ###
10.24.2017	WASHINTGON, D.C. – In an effort to prepare seniors for the 2018 Medicare program, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host his annual information sessions covering Medicare Open Enrollment. These informative presentations are free and open to the public. Please note that these sessions are held in different locations on November 1st and 2nd in order to provide constituents convenient options. “Medicare serves millions of older Americans in our country, but most folks are unaware of how Medicare actually operates because they never received a basic overview of the program,” said Johnson. “As a result, selecting the best Medicare plan in anticipation of your health care needs can be very confusing. That is why, in order to help seniors navigate their options, I want to invite folks to attend one of these two helpful information meetings.” The sessions, hosted in conjunction with the North Central Texas Area Agency on Aging (NCTAAA), will provide a complete overview of the program and will coincide with the annual Medicare and Medicare Prescription Drug Program open enrollment period, which runs between October 15th and December 7th. After the program presentation, the NCTAAA will be on hand to take questions regarding the enrollment process. Please be aware that, due to time constraints, attendees interested in one-on-one counseling can set up an appointment at a later date after the sessions. FREE INFORMATION SESSIONS ON MEDICARE Session I Wednesday, November 1, 2017 10:00am – 12:00pm Senior Center at Frisco Square 6670 Moore Street, Frisco Session II Thursday, November 2, 2017 10:00 am– 12:00 pm Allen Senior Recreation Center 451 Saint Mary Drive, Allen For questions regarding counseling services provided by the NCTAAA, please call Mary Jane Douglas at 1-800-272-3921, ext. 7166. For more information on these events, please contact Congressman Johnson’s Plano office at 469-304-0382. ###
10.23.2017	Washington, D.C. – With the final Congressional Veterans Commendation (CVC) ceremony this upcoming weekend, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is pleased to announce this year’s keynote speaker will be Navy SEAL Ryan “Birdman” Parrott. Parrott enlisted in the U.S. Navy after watching the Twin Towers fall on 9/11, and he served eight years as a U.S. Navy SEAL attached to Team SEVEN, completing three combat tours to Iraq before being assigned to Advanced Training Command as an Instructor. He is an author, public speaker, and founder of two non-profits benefiting veterans and first responders. “North Texas is a deeply patriotic community that is home to many exceptional veterans,” said Johnson. “As a 29-year Air Force veteran and POW, I understand firsthand how important it is for a community to support its men and women in uniform – past and present. That’s why I’m proud to host the CVC – it’s an opportunity for us to take time out of our busy schedules and thank our local veterans for their service and sacrifice to our Great Nation. I look forward to paying tribute to our community-nominated veteran honorees this Saturday, and I’m honored Ryan ‘Birdman’ Parrott will be joining us as our keynote speaker for the final CVC.” Congressional Veteran Commendation Ceremony & Reception Information: WHERE: Collin College Spring Creek Campus John Anthony Theater 2800 E. Spring Creek Pkwy. Plano, Texas 75074 WHEN: Saturday, October 28th 10:00 am Full Bio for Ryan “Birdman” Parrott: Ryan “Birdman” Parrott – author, public speaker, and founder of two non-profits benefiting veterans and first responders – is originally from Detroit, Michigan. Ryan enlisted in the Navy after watching the Twin Towers fall on 9/11, and Parrott served eight years as a U.S. Navy SEAL attached to Team SEVEN. He completed three combat tours to Iraq before being assigned to Advanced Training Command as an instructor. In 2005, while serving in Iraq, Ryan was riding atop a Humvee manning the gun turret in enemy territory when his vehicle was hit by an improvised explosive device (IED), which caused a flash fire that threw him from the Humvee. Ryan regained composure with his face and arms burned, and witnessed his fellow team members suffer devastating burn and blast injuries. While Ryan’s burns were only first and second degree, his teammates suffered lifelong injuries. After completing his service, Ryan moved to Dallas, and in April of 2011, Ryan had the privilege of meeting a retired Army Ranger officer who suffered significant burn injuries. Ryan was inspired and humbled by his display of strength and courage despite his debilitating scarring. Ryan was discouraged that this Ranger, and others like him, were not benefiting from progressive treatment of burns in the same way that amputees benefit from incredible advancements in prosthetics. Searching for better answers, Ryan sought out physicians, medical professionals, and civilian burn survivors as well as firefighters and paramedics, seeking to understand how burn treatment could be improved. In 2012, Ryan established Sons of the Flag to help burn survivors and their families find the help and medical attention that they deserve. He is also the founder of the Bird’s Eye View Project, addressing the extreme needs of veterans and first responders through extreme sports. Ryan is the author of Songs of the Flag: Real Accounts from the last 100 years of American Service. ###
10.12.2017	PLANO, TX – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is pleased to announce the twenty Collin County veterans to be honored at his annual Congressional Veterans Commendation (CVC) Ceremony on October 28th at Collin College. The honorees were nominated by local Collin County constituents for their outstanding wartime sacrifices and peacetime community involvement. “It is my high honor to congratulate this year’s twenty veteran honorees,” said Johnson. “Collin County folks nominated a competitive group of veterans this year, and the independent CVC selection board had their work cut out for them. The twenty CVC Honorees being recognized at this final ceremony are a remarkable and inspiring group of local heroes. They represent several military branches and a wide array of ranks. But most importantly, they represent several generations of faithful service to the protection of our Great Nation and the betterment of North Texas. I look forward to paying tribute to them later this month, and I hope to see a large community turnout join me as we pass down our honorees’ examples of patriotism, bravery, and love of country to future generations.” The keynote speaker for the final CVC will be announced as the event approaches. Congressional Veteran Commendation Ceremony Information: WHERE: Collin College Spring Creek Campus John Anthony Theater 2800 E. Spring Creek Pkwy. Plano, Texas 75074 WHEN: Saturday, October 28th 10:00 am 2017 CVC Honorees Name City Branch Years Rank John Antal Allen Army 1977-2003 Colonel Tracy Baker Allen Army 1955-1978 Major Clifton Bradford Plano Army 1969-2005 Master Sergeant David Bristol Prosper Air Force 1987-2007 Major Eugene Fox Plano Army 1956-1989 Major General Tyler Gately Richardson Army 2004-2009 Specialist Howard Gilcrease Plano Navy 1936-1957 CW01 Richard (Rick) Grady Plano Army 1969-1975 Sergeant John Keating Frisco Army 1982-1995 Sergeant Colin Kimball McKinney Air Force 1976 Sergeant Carol MacGibbon Plano Army 1980-1985 Captain Jerry Madden Richardson Army 1965-1971 Captain William Mills Fairview Army 1932-1982 Lieutenant Colonel Jason Morgan McKinney Air Force 1996-1999 Staff Sergeant Paul Putnam Dallas Air Force 1989-1998 Captain Phillip Raign Plano Air Force 1958-1979 Lieutenant Colonel Paul Reed McKinney Army 1966-1969 Sergeant David Schafer Richardson Air Force 1968-1988 Lieutenant Colonel Robert (Bob) Staib Plano Air Force 1962-1967 Captain John Wroten Fairview Marines 1965-1969 Captain
10.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In response to the recently revealed Equifax data breach, Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (TX-03) and Ranking Member John Larson (CT-01) held a bipartisan Member roundtable with senior Social Security Administration (SSA) officials. The roundtable focused on the agency’s cybersecurity response to the Equifax breach, anticipated risks as a result of the breach, and what the SSA is doing to mitigate those risks for both the agency and the public. After the conclusion of the roundtable, Johnson and Larson released the following statement: “Millions of Americans’ identities were put at risk due to Equifax’s neglect. The fact that several government agencies – including the Social Security Administration – contract with Equifax for identity verification services compounds the seriousness of this breach. Americans expect government agencies to safeguard their personal information. We are encouraged by the SSA’s actions to protect the public and its own systems, and we will continue to keep a close eye on this issue as more information becomes available.” Background on Equifax Breach On September 7, 2017, Equifax, one of the three primary credit reporting agencies in the U.S., revealed that it learned about a data breach on July 29, which resulted in the theft of sensitive information of at least 145 million American consumers. The breach exposed the names, dates of birth, addresses, Social Security numbers (SSNs), and in some instances, driver’s license numbers of those affected. In addition, credit card numbers of approximately 209,000 American consumers, and credit record dispute documents containing personally identifiable information for approximately 182,000 American consumers, were accessed. ###
10.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This weekend, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson’s (TX-03) final Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) kicked off its first meeting of the school year with a session centered on law enforcement and the team effort between local, state, and federal partners. Guest speakers included District Attorney Greg Willis and Collin County Sheriff Jim Skinner, who discussed their roles in keeping North Texas safe. Students concluded the day with a tour of the Collin County Jail. “The students in this final CYAC class are a great group of young leaders, and they started off the school year strong with a session on the importance of teamwork,” said Johnson. “Whether it’s a class project, local law enforcement, or keeping our nation secure, it’s important to understand and appreciate the roles different people play in the success of their mission. I thank our guest speakers, DA Willis and Sheriff Skinner, for discussing their roles in keeping our community safe. Collin County is lucky to have them. And I look forward to the year ahead with this CYAC class – we’ve got some exciting things lined up and I know these students will do an outstanding job!” Congressional Youth Advisory Council Class, 2017-2018: Name High School Grade Hometown Tealia Abrahamson Independence High School 12 Frisco Hunter Akridge Plano East Senior High School 11 Plano Connor Bascom Plano East Senior High School 12 Plano Angelina Braese McKinney High School 10 McKinney Mia Branch McKinney North High School 9 McKinney Colin Bridges Plano West Senior High School 12 Plano Logan Brown Allen High School 12 Allen Zachary Byron Plano West Senior High School 12 Plano Kinsey Carlson Plano East Senior High School 11 Murphy Dhruv Chawla Plano West Senior High School 11 Plano Ryan Conti Plano West Senior High School 11 Plano Jason D'Souza Plano East Senior High School 11 Plano Caleb Doyle McKinney Christian Academy 11 Allen Allie Dyer Plano East Senior High School 11 Plano Alexandra Fowler McKinney Boyd High School 11 McKinney Keyth Fox-Kirkland Plano East Senior High School 12 Plano Elijah Gerhard Prince of Peace Christian School 9 Plano Rebecca Gu Plano West Senior High School 12 Plano William Harrell McKinney Christian Academy 12 McKinney Luke Holthaus McKinney Boyd High School 9 McKinney Parker Jones McKinney Boyd High School 11 McKinney Robert Jones Plano East Senior High School 11 Murphy Olivia Kopang McKinney Boyd High School 9 McKinney Graham Kraft McKinney Christian Academy 11 McKinney Rani Kumar Plano West Senior High School 11 Plano Annie Lu Plano Senior High School 11 Plano Cayli Lucia Ursuline Academy of Dallas 11 Richardson Jaibin Matthew Jesuit College Preparatory 11 Plano Charles McCullough Allen High School 11 Allen Jasmine Mellor Independence High School 12 Frisco Jacqueline Mojazza Plano West Senior High School 12 Plano Matthew Moncrief John Paul II High School 11 Plano Jalen Morgan Plano West Senior High School 11 Frisco Marlaina Morgan Blue Ridge High School 12 Blue Ridge Namya Mysore Shepton High School 10 Plano Nafisa Nazeer Plano West Senior High School 11 Plano Jeffrey Nebeker Liberty High School 12 Plano Laura Nicolescu Centennial High School 12 Frisco Sarah O'Brien McKinney Boyd High School 11 McKinney Dora Pang Allen High School 11 Allen Samantha Paxson McKinney Boyd High School 10 McKinney Abhilash Potluri Plano Senior High School 12 Plano Julianna Rangel McKinney Boyd High School 10 McKinney Drew Reynolds McKinney Boyd High School 10 McKinney Ishan Shah Plano West Senior High School 11 Plano Avery Smith McKinney High School 11 McKinney Meghan Spencer Lovejoy High School 9 Fairview Aidan Stevens Prosper High School 10 Prosper Sam Thomason McKinney Boyd High School 12 McKinney Brian Urquidez Centennial High School 10 Frisco Shriya Veluri Independence High School 10 Frisco Connor Vice Plano West Senior High School 11 Plano
09.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) invites all K-12 students in the 3rd District of Texas to participate in the third Congressional App Challenge (CAC). “Collin County schools do a great job teaching our students the importance of science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) in an increasingly tech-centric world,” said Johnson. “To help foster students creativity and interest in the STEM field, I’m excited to again host the Congressional App Challenge. I look forward to seeing what apps our students come up with and welcoming this year’s winner(s) to the Nation’s Capitol!” Officially launched in 2015, the Congressional App Challenge is a nationwide event focused on fostering students’ creativity and encouraging their participation in STEM fields. This competition allows students to compete with peers in their own district by creating and exhibiting their software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. Submissions for the challenge are currently being accepted through November 1, 2017. The competition is open to all students who meet the eligibility requirements, regardless of coding experience. In fact, students of all skill levels are encouraged to participate and learn how to create their own apps. Students may work alone or in teams up to five people. The apps will be evaluated by a panel of local judges who work within the academic, software, and entrepreneurial fields. The winning app will be eligible to be featured on a display on the U.S. House of Representatives website (www.house.gov) and in the U.S. Capitol in Washington D.C. For more information and to register, please visit Congressman Johnson’s website. If you have any questions, please contact Jessica Corder at (469)-304-0382 or Jessica.Corder@mail.house.gov. ###
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In response to the Tax Reform Blueprint released today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03), a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, made the following statement: America’s current tax code is complicated and broken, and right now we have an opportunity to fundamentally reform it for the 21st Century. Not only does Washington have a much-needed chance to make the code simpler – which I strongly believe is necessary, but it’s an opportunity to enable businesses so they are better able to compete in the global economy. Even more important, tax reform should reward hardworking American families. This blueprint is a first step. We must get tax reform right, and I look forward to working with my fellow Ways and Means colleagues on behalf of America’s taxpayers. To learn more, visit fairandsimple.gov. To read the Blueprint, CLICK HERE.
09.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – On Wednesday September 27th, 2017 the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host their monthly “Mobile Office Hours.” Folks living in the Third District who need assistance in dealing with a federal agency are encouraged to attend. September’s Mobile Offices will be located in Murphy, Princeton, Allen, and Richardson (times and specific locations listed below). Appointments are not necessary. “Navigating how to get help with federal agencies can be frustrating, which is why my staff and I offer assistance for Third District constituents every day,” said Johnson. “Even so, sometimes it’s easier for folks to meet staff at Monthly Mobile Office Hours. Folks can come out to one of these locations and ask my staff questions or get help with various issues in person – from veterans’ assistance, to passports, to Medicare. We are also happy to make requests on your behalf to federal agencies. I encourage people to visit the nearest Mobile Office location on September 27th, but if you are unable to make it, you are always welcome to contact my Plano office at 469-304-0382.” Johnson’s staff can help with federal agency issues, such as: Identity theft; Medicare; U.S. Postal Service; Veterans Affairs (VA); Military record requests; U.S. service medal and replacement medal requests; Social Security; and Internal Revenue Service. In addition, Johnson’s staff can also: Provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C.; Offer application guidance to a U.S. Service Academy; Assist with Congressional App Challenge applications; and Process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Please be aware that Congressman Johnson is elected to serve in the legislative branch of our nation's federal government. He does not have jurisdiction to assist with the following: Agency decisions made in line with federal law or regulation; Problems with a state or local government agency – you must contact your state or local officials for help regarding these issues; Judicial matters; and Private disputes. (Examples of these issues are Child Custody, Divorce, and Criminal Trials or Imprisonment.) Please also be aware that, in order for Congressman Johnson’s staff to make inquiries on constituents’ behalf, the Privacy Act of 1974 requires a privacy release be signed before the agency is contacted. If you are represented by counsel, their permission to assist with the case is also required. Make sure to bring all relevant documents so staff is able to help you as expediently as possible. Mobile Office Times and Locations 9:00am – 10:30am: Murphy Murphy City Hall 206 North Murphy Road Murphy, Texas 75094 Princeton Princeton City Hall 123 West Princeton Drive Princeton, Texas 75407 2:00 – 3:30pm: Allen Allen City Hall 305 Century Parkway Allen, Texas 75013 Richardson Richardson Civic Center 411 West Arapaho Road, Suite 102 Richardson, Texas 75083
09.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – Representatives Sam Johnson (TX-03) and Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) released the following statement on concerns about constituent services at the Frisco Post Office. “One of the most basic constitutionally-mandated responsibilities of the federal government is to deliver the mail, in rain or shine. The United States Postal Service has a rich legacy of customer service, and any exception is simply unacceptable. We have heard concerns from a number of Frisco residents about incidents at the Frisco Post Office that failed to meet expectations. Our constituents rightfully expect prompt and satisfactory mail delivery. To that end, we will continue to work with the USPS and our federal partners to ensure this problem is resolved.”
08.17.2017	PLANO, TX – On Saturday, September 9th, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) invites Collin County students of all ages and their families to attend his annual U.S. Service Academy Information Forum. Nomination and evaluation procedures will be explained and representatives from the Military, Naval, Air Force, and Merchant Marine Academies will be present. Afterwards, there will be a break out session for students and parents to meet Liaison Officers and learn more about Academy life. This is a FREE information session open to all, and no appointment or reservation is required. Students interested in seeking a nomination to the U.S. Air Force Academy (Colorado Springs, CO), the U.S. Military Academy (West Point, NY), the U.S. Naval Academy (Annapolis, MD), and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (Kings Point, NY) are strongly encouraged to attend. “Serving our Great Nation in the military was one of the highest callings of my life, and it’s inspiring to see America’s next generation of leaders seeking to do their part to serve the greatest country in the world that we are blessed to call home,” said Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran and POW. “It is my honor and my privilege to assist these young men and women in answering their own call to duty, and I hope this information session will help them and their families prepare for their service.” If selected to attend, academy cadets receive free tuition, room, and board, as well as a monthly stipend. Upon graduation, they are commissioned as officers in their branch of service where they must complete a multi-year obligation. Students submitting an application must do so by Monday, November 13th. For more information on the forum or to request an academy application packet, please visit Congressman Johnson’s website or contact Gabriella Pate at (469) 304-0382. 2017 U.S. Service Academy Information Forum WHO: Collin County Students & Families DAY: Saturday, September 9th, 2017 TIME: 9:15 am: Student Check-in 9:30 am: Program begins LOCATION: Collin College Preston Ridge Campus, Conference Center 9700 Wade Blvd. Frisco, TX 75035 ###
08.17.2017	PLANO, TX –U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will continue to accept applications for the 14th – and FINAL – annual Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) through September 7th at 5:00 pm. “Because Collin County has many outstanding students and the application process for CYAC can be competitive, I encourage students to thoughtfully prepare their applications as the deadline fast approaches. Any student interested in learning about our government through first-hand civic participation should consider this opportunity. Because this will be the program’s final year, we have some exciting things already on the books. I look forward to meeting the 2017-2018 CYAC class soon!” The CYAC program was formed in 2004 to gain insight from students in Collin County and to inspire civic-minded young adults to achieve their full potential and begin building a legacy of service. Students selected for CYAC will meet with Congressman Johnson and other civic leaders at least four times during the school year to learn about the development of public policy while exploring the role of citizens, lawmakers, experts, and those institutions that directly impact the world’s most successful democracy. CYAC is open to Third District high school freshmen, sophomores, juniors, and seniors enrolled in public, private, or home schools. They must exhibit leadership, strong academic performance, and community service. Each student is permitted to participate once during their high school career. For more information and to apply, please visit Congressman Johnson’s website. If you have any questions, please contact Meagan Talton at (469)-304-0382 or Meagan.Talton@mail.house.gov. ###
07.20.2017	PLANO, TX – With only a few days left to nominate local veterans for the final Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC) Award, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) encourages folks to consider their family, friends, neighbors, and work colleagues for this prestigious honor. Johnson established the annual CVC to publically recognize the wartime sacrifices and peacetime community involvement of Collin County’s military veterans. It is a nominations-based award – anyone may nominate a veteran, and they may nominate as many veterans as they would like. The deadline to nominate veterans ends Thursday, July 27th at 5:00 pm central. Due to the fact this is Rep. Johnson’s last term in office, this will also be the final year to nominate someone for a Congressional Veteran Commendation. “North Texas is home to many men and women who have donned the uniform in defense of Freedom,” said Johnson. “What’s more, many of these patriots continue to serve their community in a variety of ways after they retire from active duty. To honor these exceptional hometown heroes, it is my distinct honor and privilege to provide an opportunity for our community to thank these veterans for their service and sacrifice. That is where my Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC) ceremony comes into play. This annual, nominations-based program is designed to not only honor these exceptional veterans, but to inspire others to build a legacy of service. I look forward to learning more about this year’s nominees and having a large community turnout later this year to honor our local heroes.” For additional information about this program and to download a nomination form, please CLICK HERE. If you have any questions, please contact Megan Foreman at megan.foreman@mail.house.gov. ###
07.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (TX-03) introduced the Social Security Online Tools Innovation Act (H.R. 3309). This bill would require the Social Security Administration to reduce the complexity surrounding returning to work by providing an online resource to help disability beneficiaries assess how returning to work may affect their benefit payments. “We hear time and time again that one of the reasons beneficiaries don’t return to work is that the rules regarding work and benefits are really complex – these rules can even act as a disincentive,” said Johnson. “Social Security needs to provide better information in an easy-to-access way so that individuals who can return to work have the information they need to do so. This is a commonsense solution that brings Social Security into the 21st century.” In a 2010 beneficiary survey, over 40 percent of beneficiaries said they were interested in working. However, in 2015 less than one half of one percent of beneficiaries left the rolls due to earnings from work. While not all disability beneficiaries can return to work, experts believe over 10 percent could return to work if given the proper information and support. The Social Security Online Tools Innovation Act would require the Social Security Administration to create an online portal that has the ability to: Expand access to online tools that are already used successfully in some states; Decrease the spread of misinformation about employment and benefits; and Provide information before, during, and after engagement with a government office or direct service provider. ###
07.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (TX-03) introduced the Promoting Opportunity for Disability Benefit Applicants Act (H.R. 3310) in order to help denied disability benefit applicants return to the workforce. Specifically, the bill calls on the Commissioner of Social Security to provide information about employment support services to individuals who are not awarded disability benefits. “We’ve seen that the longer someone’s been out of the workforce, the harder it can be to get back in it,” said Johnson. “This can be especially true for folks who are denied disability benefits. That is where my bill comes into play. If the Commissioner provides information to denied applicants about employment support services, we can help folks find the resources they need to get back to work.” Disability benefits are for individuals who are unable to work due to a medical condition that is expected to last for at least a year or result in death. When someone applies for disability benefits, they face an average wait time of over 100 days for an initial decision regarding their claim. Generally, applicants remain out of the workforce during this time in order to prove the claim. Many applicants who are initially denied decide to appeal their claim and subsequently spend additional time out of the workforce. The Promoting Opportunity for Disability Benefit Applicants Act encourages the Commissioner of Social Security to provide denied disability benefit applicants information about public and private non-profit employment support services to help these individuals reenter the workforce. ###
06.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03), who serves as a Regent for the world famous Smithsonian Institution, introduced H.Res. 408 in order to commemorate the 50th Anniversary of the Smithsonian’s Folklife Festival. “For the past 50 years, the Folklife Festival has coincided with the celebration of our Great Nation’s independence,” said Johnson. “The festival brings to life our American heritage and also allows folks to see and experience aspects of other cultures around the world. This resolution honors the Smithsonian Folklife Festival for its educational outreach and efforts to bring folks with different backgrounds together.” The 2017 Folklife Festival will be celebrated Jun 29th-July 4th as well as July 6th-9th. Sabrina Motley, Smithsonian Folklife Festival Associate Director, stated, “Visitors to this year's Festival will encounter both story and spectacle. For a half-century, we have had the good fortune to work with individuals and communities to share their knowledge and skills with people from all walks of life. I am endlessly impressed by and appreciative of the generosity of our participants who spend 10 days with us on the National Mall.” ###
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (TX-03) and Rep. Adrian Smith (NE-03) introduced the Providing Choice for Social Security Retirees Act (H.R. 3112). This legislation would provide Social Security Old-Age (OASI) beneficiaries an option to claim a portion of their delayed retirement credit in a one-time, partial lump sum. “As a constitutional, free market conservative, one of the fundamental values I support is choice for the consumer,” said Johnson. “And while Social Security is an earned benefit, that doesn’t mean it has to be one-size-fits all. Folks across the nation have widely varying career choices, health situations, and financial needs. With this in mind, choice is important when it comes to claiming Social Security benefits. Folks already have the option to claim their earned benefits either early, on time, or later on down the road. But today’s bill goes one step further. It allows folks who choose to delay claiming their benefits past full retirement age the additional option to claim part of their delayed retirement credit as a lump sum in advance – whatever works best for their needs. This is a bipartisan idea, and I look forward to seeing this commonsense bill signed into law so that all Americans have greater choice when it comes to their retirement.” “A modernized Social Security should allow seniors to make their own retirement decisions rather than pressure them to conform to a one-size-fits-all program,” said Smith. “This new option will ensure seniors who choose to remain in the workforce have greater flexibility to determine how they access their benefits.” Things to Know about the Providing Choice for Social Security Retirees Act: The Providing Choice for Social Security Retirees Act creates the option for individuals who are eligible for Delayed Retirement Credits (DRCs) to receive some of the benefit increase up front in the form of a “lump sum DRC”. Those above their Full Retirement Age (FRA) may choose to receive 2 percentage points (one-quarter) of the annual 8 percent DRC as a lump sum for each year they delay claiming. The remaining 6 percentage points are added to the monthly benefit amount, as under current law. The lump sum would be actuarially fair, meaning that it would be equal to the present value of the expected lifetime benefit increase, and would depend on assumptions about interest rates and average life expectancy. This approach improves retirement security by providing flexibility and choice for beneficiaries. The lump sum DRC is a bipartisan idea. Peter Orszag, a former advisor to President Clinton and President Obama, proposed the option in a 2001 paper, and it was included in Chairman Sam Johnson’s 2016 solvency plan. ###
06.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (TX-03) and Rep. Jackie Walorski (IN-02) introduced the Senior Citizens’ Freedom to Work Act of 2017. This bill would eliminate a penalty on Social Security Old-Age (OASI) beneficiaries who choose to enter, remain in, or return to the labor force. Specifically, the bill would eliminate the Retirement Earnings Test (RET) that affects younger seniors who choose to continue working after claiming Social Security benefits. (In 2000, legislation championed by Chairman Johnson eliminated the RET for folks who are at or above their full retirement age. This bill finishes that work by eliminating this earnings penalty for all Social Security OASI beneficiaries.) “In 2000, my bill ended the earnings penalty for seniors once they reach their full retirement age. But that’s not enough. Now is the time to eliminate the earnings penalty for all Social Security beneficiaries. It makes no sense to punish hard work, but that is exactly what the earnings test does – it reduces benefits for seniors who choose to work,” said Johnson. “By eliminating the RET for all beneficiaries, Washington will send a clear message to seniors that their work is valued and that they remain a vital part of our economy.” “Older Americans who want to work should be able to do so without having their Social Security benefits reduced or delayed,” Congresswoman Walorski said. “Eliminating this unnecessary penalty on seniors in the workforce is an important, commonsense reform that will reward work and simplify Social Security for those who depend on it.” ###
05.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Last weekend U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) hosted his annual Academy Appointee Send-Off Ceremony to congratulate the 23 Collin County students who received appointments to U.S. Service Academies or one of the preparatory schools this fall. “It is my honor to congratulate these young men and women who have been chosen by the prestigious United States Service Academies,” said Johnson. “It is no easy task to receive an Academy appointment – students must excel academically and athletically over the years, and they must also contribute their time, talent, and effort to the community. The nomination process to even be considered is competitive, and these students’ appointments prove they are the gold standard. Seeing their commitment and love of freedom, liberty, and democracy gives me great hope that America’s best days are ahead. I thank them for their willingness to serve our Great Nation, and I wish them the best on the endeavor they are about to undertake.” Students interested in learning more about service academy applications should contact Gabriella Pate in Johnson’s Plano office at (469) 304-0382. In addition, Congressman Johnson will host a free Academy Information Session on Saturday, September 9, 2017 in Frisco with all academies represented for Third District students and families. The session, held every fall, provides students with an opportunity to learn more about each Academy and decide if military life is for them. Third District residents must be between the ages of 17 and 23 to be eligible to apply. Academy Appointees, Class of 2020 U.S. Air Force Academy Name School Hometown Rodney Belcher Plano Senior High School Plano Zackary Bowden* McKinney Boyd High School McKinney Yujun Chow Liberty High School Plano Parker Noren U.S. Air Force Academy Preparatory School McKinney Preston Polen Home School Wylie U.S. Naval Academy Michael Hamilton McKinney High School McKinney Amy Hoang U.S. Naval Academy Preparatory School Richardson Jun Jeon Liberty High School Frisco Alexander Kramer* Centennial High School Frisco Jae Hyun Lee Texas A&M University Frisco Peyton Long U.S. Naval Academy Preparatory School Plano Edward Xiao Allen High School Allen U.S. Military Academy Joshua Brock McKinney Christian Academy McKinney Madison Bryant Marion Military Institute Plano Matthew Carey Plano East Senior High School Plano Camden Harrison U.S. Military Academy Preparatory School Allen Nico Manzonelli Allen High School Allen Trajan Marchese Plano Senior High School Plano U.S. MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY Omar Calderon Plano East Senior High School Murphy Alexander Ellington Prestonwood Christian Academy Plano Tristan Jackson Plano West Senior High School Plano Mark Thompson * McKinney High School McKinney Alexander Webre Allen High School Allen *Denotes acceptance to one of the academy preparatory schools.
05.25.2017	PLANO, TX – Under doctor advisement, yesterday U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) underwent a minor surgery to address a reoccurring hernia. After the successful surgery, Johnson released the following statement: “I’m thankful for the expertise and care of the doctors and nurses who performed my surgery yesterday. I look forward to a quick recovery and getting back to Washington, D.C. in June. We have a lot of good work to accomplish over the next few months, and I’m eager to get back to it! I thank folks for their prayers.” ###
05.25.2017	PLANO, TX – To provide an opportunity for North Texas veterans to obtain the service medals they have earned, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) invites area veterans to attend the Badges of Honor Medals Event on Tuesday, June 27th. Congressman Sam Johnson’s staff will be on hand to assist veterans with the paperwork needed to begin the service medal request process – whether the medal request is for a replacement or if it’s a request to obtain a medal for the first time. This event is also open to children and spouses of veterans who seek to get the service medals of a family member. “Each faithful American veteran made a vow to put their life on the line to defend Freedom, and many of these brave men and women rightfully earned medals in recognition of their service,” said Johnson. “Sadly, many veterans and their families have trouble obtaining replacement medals. Worse, some veterans never received their earned medal. While my staff and I have worked with folks on this issue on a case-by-case basis, not everyone knows that we offer this assistance. That is why my staff and I are proud to host the Badges of Honor Medals Event. Our community’s veterans deserve to receive their earned medals as a physical recognition for their sacrifice. It is the least we can do to show our gratitude.” Congressman Sam Johnson encourages veterans and their family members to come to the Plano District Office anytime between 10:00am and 3:30pm to start the service medal request process. Veterans needing assistance are asked to bring a copy of their DD214 form. In order to adhere to the Privacy Act of 1974, folks must also be prepared to sign a privacy release form. Due to limited space, please RSVP by emailing events.tx03@mail.house.gov or by calling (469) 304- 0382. Tuesday, June 27th 10:00am to 3:30pm Congressman Sam Johnson’s Office 1255 W 15th Street, Suite 170, Plano, Texas 75075
05.19.2017	Plano, TX – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is pleased to announce the winners of the 2017 Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery.” Winners were announced at the Congressman’s free annual art exhibit and awards ceremony held at the McKinney Performing Arts Center. “The quality of talent in this year’s Congressional Art Competition is exceptional, and I thank all our student artists who participated and generously shared their original artwork with others,” said Johnson. “I also want to thank our parents and teachers for investing in these students and providing these young minds an environment to think creatively and further develop their artistic skills. I’m inspired not only by the artwork displayed, but by the support this community provides. It’s what makes Collin County such a great place to live. Again, I thank all our students for their hard work, and it is my pleasure to congratulate this year’s winners on their accomplishments!” The First Place winner of the 2017 Art Competition is Paris Poisso from Allen High School for her artwork, “Accession.” Poisso’s artwork will soon travel to Washington, D.C. where it will be displayed in the United States Capitol building for one year along with other First Place winners’ artwork from across the nation. At the awards ceremony, Southwest Airlines presented Poisso with two free tickets for roundtrip airfare to Washington, D.C. where she will attend the national 2017 Congressional Art Competition unveiling ceremony in June. The Second Place winner is Ariana Kypuros from Heritage High School for her artwork, “Dog.” As the second place winner, Kypuros’s work will be proudly displayed in Congressman Sam Johnson’s district office in Plano for one year. The winner of the People’s Choice Award is Juliana Rangel from McKinney Boyd High School for her artwork, “Unselfish Sacrifice.” Her patriotic artwork was selected for this award by a public, online poll. To view all of the winning artwork from this year’s competition, please visit the Congressman’s website. Full List of 2017 Art Competition Winners: Place Student Title of Piece School Hometown Teacher/Parent 1st Paris Poisso Accession Allen High School Allen Stephanie Richards 2nd Ariana Kypuros Dog Heritage High School McKinney Sarah Watkins 3rd Anukriti Singh Brilliance Allen High School Allen Laura Helms People’s Choice Julianna Rangel Unselfish Sacrifice McKinney Boyd High School McKinney Mary Woodruff Honorable Mention David Guo Runner’s High Plano West High School Plano Sarah Depetris Honorable Mention Lauren Lachausse Girl on a Lily Pad Prosper High School Prosper Judy Seay Honorable Mention Annette Meyer Katie Canyon Creek Christian Academy Plano Anne Blackburn Honorable Mention Ruben Montoya Clouded Mind McKinney Boyd High School McKinney Mary Woodruff Honorable Mention Michelle Park Night Statue Heritage High School Frisco Sarah Watkins Honorable Mention Megan Petrosky Blue Flower Prosper High School Prosper Gina Mock Honorable Mention Cameron Seibert Thinking of Nature McKinney Boyd High School McKinney Mary Woodruff Honorable Mention Pallavi Sridhar Switzerland Mountain Landscape Heritage High School McKinney Sarah Watkins Honorable Mention Benjamin Tung Reaching Out iSchool High STEM Academy Plano Steve Ko Honorable Mention Isabella Vivas Isolation Plano West High School Plano Sarah Depetris
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed an improved version of the American Health Care Act (H.R. 1628), – the Republican plan to repeal and replace Obamacare. Drawing upon ideas that Republicans have championed for years, the American Health Care Act was first introduced in the House in March. To read the full bill, visit readthebill.gop. You can also find additional information on Congressman Johnson’s website. “On this day, I think it’s important to first remember why Obamacare isn’t working,” said Johnson. “You see, Obamacare is failing – just like my fellow Republicans and I warned when it was first signed into law. Insurers are fleeing the Obamacare exchanges, premiums are soaring, and millions of folks have chosen to forgo buying Obamacare-mandated insurance because it’s simply too expensive. This heavy-handed government program is anything but affordable.” Johnson continued, “Since Day 1, I opposed Obamacare. Well, now that Republicans control the House, Senate, and White House, we finally have the opportunity to repeal and replace this bad law. The first step is passing today’s version of the American Health Care Act. I will be the first to admit this bill is by no means perfect, but it makes great strides forward within the parameters of what we are allowed to do under budget rules so that we are able to pass the bill with a simple majority in the Senate. As folks know, there are only 52 Senate Republicans. I look forward to seeing the Senate’s ideas and getting the best and most conservative bill possible on President Trump’s desk soon. Bottom line: Americans have been waiting for a repeal and replace of Obamacare for seven years. Now is the time to help provide access for the affordable health care Americans want, need, and deserve.” The American Health Care Act: Repeals the individual mandate; Repeals the employer mandate; Gets rid of $1 trillion in tax increases that have hurt American families and businesses from all walks of life; Protects folks with pre-existing conditions; Allows young adults aged 26 and younger to stay on their parents’ health care plans; and Provides a monthly refundable, “advance-able” tax credit for folks who participate in the individual marketplace (not folks who receive health insurance through their employer or participate in Medicare or some other federal health program). Congressman Johnson’s Second Steps to Repealing and Replacing Obamacare: For Veterans: Ensuring IRS Provides Veterans Equal Access to Health Care Our veterans have put their lives on the line to defend freedom and our individual liberties, and they are promised affordable access to health care through the VA when they return home. However, some veterans choose to forgo this health care option. That is why Congressman Johnson introduced the Veterans Equal Treatment Ensures Relief and Access Now (VETERAN) Act on May 4th. This bill would cement in legislation the IRS's current practice of providing eligible veterans the choice to get financial support for a private plan in lieu of enrolling in health care provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs. For Small Businesses: Expanding Access & Lowering Health Care Costs for Small Businesses Due to Obamacare’s burdensome and expensive regulations, fewer and fewer American small businesses are offering health care coverage – which in turn hurts American families. That is why Congressman Johnson reintroduced the Small Business Health Fairness Act (H.R. 1101). This bill is a commonsense solution that would empower small businesses by allowing them to join together through association health plans (AHPs) when shopping for health care plans. Essentially, this bill would allow them to have the same strength in numbers as large businesses and labor organizations. This bill passed the House on March 22nd. To learn more, CLICK HERE. To read his op-ed in the Wall Street Journal, CLICK HERE. To watch him on the House Floor discussing this bill, CLICK HERE. ###
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) introduced the Veterans Equal Treatment Ensures Relief and Access Now (VETERAN) Act, which would cement in legislation the IRS's current practice of providing eligible veterans the choice to get financial support for a private plan in lieu of enrolling in health care provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs. “Our veterans have put their lives on the line to defend freedom and our individual liberties, and they are promised affordable access to health care through the VA when they return home,” said Johnson. “However, some veterans choose to forgo this health care option. That’s where my VETERANS Act comes into play. This bill would provide veterans the certainty that they will continue to have access to health care if they decide the VA isn’t the best fit for their health care needs. I thank our veterans for their service and sacrifice to our Great Nation, and I look forward to seeing this bill swiftly signed into law.” What you should know about the VETERAN Act: Veterans who currently receive health care subsidies to buy private health insurance will experience no change to their current treatment under the law. This measure will codify current regulation, providing a "belt and suspenders" level of protection for our veterans. ###
05.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (TX-03) introduced legislation to help wounded warriors who return to work have access to the affordable health care they deserve. More specifically, the Health Equity and Access for Returning Troops and Servicemembers (HEARTS) Act would address an unintended consequence that affects veterans who are severely injured and qualify for disability due to their military service. The HEARTS Act would repeal the requirement that these wounded warriors maintain – and pay for – Medicare coverage upon returning to work in order to keep access to TRICARE. Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chairman Phil Roe, M.D. (TN-01) and Ranking Member Tim Walz (MN-01) joined Chairman Johnson in introducing this bipartisan bill. “I know what it’s like to return home wounded after serving your country,” said Johnson. “During my 29 years in the Air Force, I spent nearly seven years as a POW in the infamous Hanoi Hilton. I sustained injuries including a broken back, arm, and ribs as well as a dislocated shoulder. The fact is that every American service member willingly makes a commitment to put life and limb on the line in defense of freedom. In return, there is the promise that when they return home, they have access to quality, affordable health care. Unfortunately, right now many of our most seriously injured military retirees eventually lose access to their traditional, affordable TRICARE and cannot regain it for years if they return to work. This is wrong, which is why I’m introducing the HEARTS Act along with Chairman Roe and Ranking Member Walz. It is the least we can do for our troops and veterans who protect our Great Nation and the freedoms we hold dear. I thank Congressmen Roe and Walz for their dedication to helping our service members, and I hope to see this bill signed into law soon.” “There is no duty more important than ensuring the men and women who have served our great nation have access to the care and services they have earned,” said Roe. “I am proud to partner with my friends, two true patriots, Chairman Sam Johnson and Ranking Member Tim Walz, to introduce important legislation to address this serious issue affecting so many. I thank my colleagues for their service and leadership, and I look forward to working with them to move the HEARTS Act through Congress.” “Nothing should ever stand in the way of a veteran or wounded service member accessing the care and services they deserve,” Walz said. “I am proud to have partnered with my close friends and colleagues Chairman Sam Johnson and Chairman Phil Roe to introduce this important legislation, which will help improve timely access to affordable care for those brave men and women. The HEARTS Act serves as an example of the good we can do for those who have served when we commit ourselves to bipartisanship and remain focused on improving the lives of veterans and their families.” Background: When service members return home, they are eligible for TRICARE. They may also be eligible for Social Security Disability Insurance (DI) due to their injuries. If service members qualify for DI, after two years they become eligible for Medicare benefits. When retired service members become eligible for Medicare –based on age or disability – they are no longer eligible for traditional TRICARE. Instead, they become eligible for TRICARE for Life, which serves as a supplement to Medicare. However, in order to retain access to TRICARE for Life, service members must enroll in Medicare Part B, which has higher premiums than TRICARE. To make matters worse, even if these wounded warriors reenter the workforce and no longer receive DI benefits, they are required to remain on Medicare for eight and a half years in order to keep access to TRICARE for Life. Meanwhile, other individuals who may have retired from the military for medical reasons but were not severely injured enough qualify for DI can maintain their TRICARE access at standard TRICARE rates. In short, the interaction between Social Security’s disability program and the TRICARE program inadvertently ends up penalizing those wounded warriors who return to work after recovering from severe injuries. ###
05.01.2017	PLANO, TX – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson’s (TX-03) Congressional Art Competition continues as voting begins for the 2017 People’s Choice Award. From now through May 5th at 5pm CST, Collin County constituents are invited to view all 95 high school students’ entries on Congressman Johnson’s website and vote for their favorite. “Thank you to all the students who submitted artwork for the 35th Annual Congressional Art Competition and for sharing your talent with our community,” said Johnson. “To showcase their work, on May 8th I will be holding our annual Art Exhibit and Award Ceremony where our First, Second, and Third place winners as well as Honorable Mentions will be announced. But we still need your help in selecting this year’s People’s Choice Award! Therefore, I encourage folks to visit my website where you can check out the creativity of Collin County’s high school students – and then vote for your favorite piece! The artist whose work receives the most online votes will receive this year’s ‘People’s Choice Award.’ This means a lot to our student artists, and I know they would all appreciate your support. I wish all our students good luck and I thank them for participating!” Art Exhibit and Award Ceremony Details: McKinney Performing Arts Center 111 North Tennessee St. McKinney, TX 75069 6:00 pm – 7:00 pm If you plan to attend the Art Competition Award Ceremony, please RSVP to Rachel Shallow (469-304-0382) no later than 5:00pm on May 5th. Space is limited and spots will be given first to students, family, and art teachers. About the Art Competition The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students, whether they attend public, private, or home schools. On May 8th, Congressman Johnson will also host an art exhibit and award ceremony to display entries and announce the First, Second, and Third Place winners, as well as the People’s Choice Award and Honorable Mentions. The event is free and open to the public. The First Place winner will have the rare and unique opportunity to have their artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol Building for one year as part of an exhibition comprised of artwork from across the country. The First Place winner will also win a free trip to Washington, D.C. (courtesy of Southwest Airlines) where the student will meet with Congressman Johnson and attend an award reception and exclusive unveiling ceremony for all the art competition winners nationwide. The Second Place winner’s art will displayed in the Plano District Office for one year. ###
04.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) reintroduced his Refundable Child Tax Credit Eligibility Verification Reform Act. The bill seeks to prevent illegal immigrants from claiming the $1,000 refundable child tax credit. “I’m pleased that, unlike former President Obama, President Trump takes our immigration laws seriously and is working to make our borders more secure,” said Johnson. “In fact, Homeland Security Secretary Kelly announced in March that illegal immigration across the southwest border has seen a drastic decline since January.” Johnson continued, “While this is good news, it’s still a reality that illegal immigration can put large financial burdens on taxpayers – including public education, welfare, and benefits. One such benefit is the Refundable Child Tax Credit. You see, right now the IRS doesn’t require Social Security numbers for this credit. The Inspector General said that as a result, illegal immigrants can get thousands of dollars from the IRS. It’s no surprise that it also encourages more illegals to come here. To stop this credit abuse, my bill requires individuals to provide their Social Security numbers if they want to claim this tax credit. This is commonsense bill passed by the House before, and it’s something hardworking, taxpaying Americans want, need, and deserve.”
04.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Melissa Hatch, Lead Pastor at Prosper United Methodist Church’s The Mission, served as Guest Chaplain for the U.S. House of Representatives under the recommendation of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03). Every Congress, each Member of Congress is invited to recommend one pastoral leader to deliver the opening prayer at the start of that day’s House Floor session. After the conclusion of Pastor’s Hatch’s prayer, Rep. Johnson released the following statement: It’s an honor and a privilege to have Pastor Hatch lead the prayer in the House today on behalf of the Third District. It is moments like this that remind us how blessed we are to live in a country with freedom of religion. When I was a POW for nearly seven years, I lived without this freedom, and my buddies and I were brutally punished when we worshipped God against camp rules. To be on American soil at the United States Capitol – the home of our democracy – and to welcome one of our local pastors is a blessing I could not have imagined in that solitary cell. So I thank Pastor Hatch for opening our session with such thoughtful words of prayer. Her leadership is truly a reflection of Christ’s love. May we all strive to daily serve our community and country with compassion and humility. God bless you and God bless America. I salute you. Transcript of Pastor Melissa Hatch’s prayer: Almighty and Gracious God, today we are grateful for Your guidance and Your presence in our lives. We humbly follow Your lead and direction. When our own decisions seem too difficult to navigate, help us to turn to the One who never slumbers nor sleeps. When we are impatient for decisions, help us to wait upon You for the right way to go. Strengthen us for the work that You have called us to do. Help us to work together for the common good, and reach across lines to be Your hands and feet in a world that desperately needs You. And when times and situations seem uncertain, help us cling to the hope that we find in You. And in the words of Micah 6:8, help us to “act justly, love kindness, and walk humbly with our God.” We pray all of this in Your mighty name, Amen. ###
04.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Sam Johnson (TX-03) and Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) introduced the Safe Innovative Guide signs for the Nation (SIGN) Act. This bill would allow states the flexibility to use the Clearview font on road signs – an innovative font that research shows increases roadway safety. “Millions of Americans use roadways every day, and road signs play an important role in keeping folks safe,” said Congressman Sam Johnson. “It’s common sense that the clearer a sign appears, the sooner someone can read and react to it. That’s why Texas and many other states started to update their road signs after the Clearview font received interim approval. Unfortunately, last year the Federal Highway Administration in Washington revoked its interim approval of this more safety-friendly font. As a result, states are no longer able to use Clearview font, despite the fact that it has been successfully used for over a decade. Today’s bill rights this wrong and allows states the opportunity to use clearer font on their roadway signs in order to keep drivers safe. I thank my colleague, Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson, for joining me on this important effort, and I look forward to getting this responsible bill swiftly signed into law.” “We must ensure the American people that we are doing everything we can to keep them safe while they travel on the roads. That is why I joined my colleague, Rep. Sam Johnson, to introduce the SIGN Act,” says Congresswoman Johnson. “Prior to a recent change in law, research showed that the Clearview font was positively impactful for those viewing road signs. We should be proactive rather than reactive when assessing the issue of accidents on the road. I believe the SIGN Act will help address the issue of safety along our highways.” Leading up to the introduction of the SIGN Act, the Texas Department of Transportation issued the following statement in a letter to Rep. Sam Johnson: “The Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) is appreciative of your assistance and legislative efforts to allow the continued use of the Clearview Font on Positive Contrast Legends on Guide Signs. As written, your legislation provides a remedy to a problem we have been working to address for more than a year.” Background: Clearview is an innovative font that was designed to be easier to read at long distances and at night compared to traditional Highway Gothic – a font first created in the 1940s. In 2004, the Federal Highway Administration gave interim approval for states to use Clearview font. Under the interim approval, states could request permission to use Clearview font on signs along their roadways. An estimated 26 states used the font, including Texas. Despite the extensive use of Clearview across multiple states, FHWA abruptly terminated the font’s interim approval in 2016 without soliciting public comment. Many states strongly objected to the termination and have voiced their support for the flexibility to use Clearview. These states point to a large body of research demonstrating the font has a positive impact on roadway safety. For instance, a Michigan Department of Transportation study estimates that Clearview cut the number of freeway night crashes by 26%. In addition, a recent study from researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Texas A&M University found that Clearview font performed better than Highway Gothic across all tests. ###
03.28.2017	Plano, TX – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is pleased to announce the 35th annual Congressional Art Competition is now underway. This is an annual art competition for high school students to showcase their talent and artwork. First place winners in each of the congressional districts across the nation will have their artwork displayed at the United States Capitol. Congressman Johnson encourages all Collin County high school student artists to participate. “Our community is blessed with many talented student artists, and this annual competition gives them an opportunity to share their talent with their neighbors and peers,” said Johnson. “I encourage all students who are interested to enter, and I look forward to seeing the art subjects and ideas that inspire them. I also look forward to welcoming this year’s winner and their artwork to our Nation’s Capitol in June!” About the Art Competition The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students, whether they attend public, private, or home schools. In late April, entries will be displayed on Congressman Johnson’s website for the public to view and vote for their favorite. The winning artist will receive the People's Choice Award. Congressman Johnson will also host an art exhibit and award ceremony to display entries and announce the First, Second, and Third Place winners as well as Honorable Mention winners. The First Place Winner will have the rare and unique opportunity to have their artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol Building for one year. This student will also have the opportunity to travel to Washington, D.C. courtesy of Southwest Airlines, meet with Congressman Johnson, and attend an award ceremony where their artwork will join other first prize entries from other Congressional Districts for an exclusive unveiling ceremony. In addition, the Second Place Winner’s artwork will be proudly displayed in Congressman Johnson’s district office in Plano for one year. IMPORTANT DATES April 10th: Deadline to RSVP to participate. RSVP must be made by a student’s parent or teacher. See Guidelines and Participation Rules. April 17th: Deadline to contact Johnson staff and schedule a pick-up at the student’s school. Artwork may also be dropped off at the Plano office without appointment. April 21st: Deadline for artwork + student information and release form to be submitted. May 8th: Congressional Art Competition Awards Ceremony in McKinney, Texas. Guidelines and Participation Rules CLICK HERE for the full list of Rules and Regulations Please note a few key guidelines, keeping in mind that this is NOT the full list (which can be found in the link above): 1) The competition is open to high school students who currently reside in the Third District. Please be aware that not all students reside in the same district they attend school. 2) PARENTS OR TEACHERS must RSVP via email for any student who wishes to participate in the competition. 3) Only ONE entry per student. 4) The submitted artwork must be “ready to hang” (i.e. Dry/no wet paint; on canvas; framed with hooks or wire on the backing; etc.). How to Enter Students interested in participating in this year’s Congressional Art Competition must complete the following steps: Step 1: Have their parent or teacher email an RSVP for the Competition to Rachel Shallow (rachel.shallow@mail.house.gov) in Congressman Johnson’s Plano Office no later than April 10th. The RSVP must include the student's name, hometown, art teacher, and school. Step 2: Students must submit their finished artwork entries ALONG WITH their completed student information and release form no later than April 21st. Students may submit their original artwork one of two ways: 1) Contact Rachel Shallow (469-304-0382; rachel.shallow@mail.house.gov) to schedule a pick-up at their local school. o If scheduling a pick-up, you must contact Ms. Shallow no later than April 17th to schedule a time. Pick-up will occur only between April 17th and 19th. 2) Drop off their artwork submission at Congressman Johnson’s Plano office. o 1255 W 15th Street, Suite 170 Plano, Texas 75075 IMPORTANT: o Student artwork MUST meet all of the Rules and Regulations. o The Student Information and Release Form must be completed and will be collected at either the scheduled artwork pick-up time or when the student drops their artwork off at Congressman Johnson’s Plano office. Artwork without the proper paperwork will be ineligible. FULL LIST OF RULES AND REGULATIONS STUDENT INFORMATION & RELEASE FORM ART SUBMISSION CHECKLIST provided by the Congressional Institute For questions, please contact Rachel Shallow (469-304-0382; rachel.shallow@mail.house.gov). Additional information about the Competition can be found on my website: CLICK HERE. ###
03.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – As Americans across the country are finishing up filing their tax returns, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX), a senior member of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, reintroduced the No Bonuses for Tax Delinquent IRS Employees Act (H.R. 1599). The two-page bill does just as it sounds – it would prohibit the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) from handing out bonuses to IRS employees who owe back taxes. “The fact that the IRS has given out bonuses and other rewards to its employees who owe back taxes is disgraceful,” said Johnson. “The people who are hired to enforce our tax laws should not be delinquent on their own taxes, let along be rewarded bonuses. Even worse, these bonuses are paid for by tax dollars. What has been going on is a slap in the face to law-abiding, tax-paying citizens, and I’m working to end this NOW. The No Bonuses for Tax Delinquent IRS Employees Act is a commonsense bill – and it’s the right thing to do.” Background: The No Bonuses for Tax Delinquent IRS Employees Act of 2017 is in response to the most recent report released by the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration, which revealed the IRS paid out bonuses and other rewards to employees who owe back taxes. According to the Inspector General, more than 1,100 employees received cash awards totaling more than $1 million and more than 10,000 hours in extra time off. The IRS Restructuring and Reform Act of 1998 requires the IRS to fire workers who are tax cheats (e.g. failure to file a tax return). However, according to the Inspector General, the IRS does not, as a practical matter, take into account whether an employee has a tax problem when it comes to providing bonuses and other awards for employees.
03.16.2017	PLANO, TX – In order to help local veterans and their families preserve stories of heroism, patriotism, and sacrifice, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) invites North Texas folks to attend a training workshop on the Library of Congress’ Veterans History Project (VHP) on Saturday, April 8th. Congress created the Veterans History Project (VHP) in 2000 as part of the American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress. The VHP’s mission is to “collect, preserve, and make accessible the personal accounts of American war veterans so that future generations may hear directly from veterans and better understand the realities of war.” Since its establishment, thousands of veterans have submitted their stories from World War I, World War II, the Korean War, the Vietnam War, the Persian Gulf War, and Operations Iraq and Enduring Freedom. Currently, only 15,106 of the 1,670,186 veterans in Texas have recorded their personal history. “Now more than ever, our country needs to hear about the experiences of our veterans who have personally defended freedom,” said Johnson. “Reading a textbook is helpful, but it’s the real life stories that resonate with people and help folks to better understand the value of our democracy and the freedoms we often take for granted every day. As a 29-year Air Force veteran and POW, I speak from experience when I say how important it is to ensure these stories are not lost. If you are a veteran – or if you have a family member, friend, or neighbor who has served our Great Nation – I encourage you to attend this workshop. Your stories are important and deserve to be preserved and shared. To all our veterans: we thank you for your service and sacrifice. This project is just one way we can give back – to ensure your efforts are not forgotten.” The special training session will be held in conjunction with the Library of Congress Veteran History Project and the University of Texas at Dallas Veterans Service Center. The office of Congressman Johnson will provide the training resources for individuals to preserve the personal accounts of our American war veterans for future generations. Baylor University oral historian Jessica Roseberry will be on hand to lead the workshop, which will cover how to conduct interviews with veterans, how to gather original materials, and how to properly submit those interviews to the Library of Congress. In order to accommodate training participants and ensure sufficient training materials, the office of Congressman Johnson asks that those interested in attending RSVP by emailing events.tx03@mail.house.gov or calling (469) 304-0382. Saturday April 8, 2017 10:00am to 11:30am University of Texas at Dallas Jindal School of Management Room 1.107 800 W Campbell Road Richardson, Texas 75080 ###
03.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Early this morning, the Ways and Means Committee concluded its Markup on five budget reconciliation recommendations that make up part of the American Healthcare Reform Act – the Republican plan to repeal and replace Obamacare. Once joined with the reconciliation recommendations from the Energy and Commerce Committee, these bills will make up the American Healthcare Reform Act. (To read the full bill, visit readthebill.gop.) The American Healthcare Reform Act is a reconciliation bill that is the first of three steps to repeal Obamacare and replace it with affordable, patient-centered solutions. (The three-step repeal and replace plan is outlined below.) Notably, the bill repeals the individual and employer mandate; stops the $1 trillion in tax increases that have hurt American families from all walks of life; continues to protect folks with pre-existing conditions; and allows children 26 and under to stay on their parents’ health care plan. “As a conservative who opposed Obamacare at every turn, I’m pleased that – with a Republican in the White House – we are finally able to move forward with a real plan to repeal and replace Obama’s disastrous law,” said Johnson. “While I recognize that the Republican bill is not perfect, it’s a good and necessary step in the right direction – and my work on this issue won’t be done. There are still many conservative solutions that I would like to see put into effect that budget rules prohibit us from including in reconciliation – solutions like the ability to purchase health care plans across state lines as well as the bill I introduced (H.R. 1101) to allow small businesses to join together through association health plans (AHPs). In fact, H.R. 1101 passed the Education and Workforce Committee yesterday!” Three-step plan to repeal and replace Obamacare: 1) Pass the reconciliation bill – the American Healthcare Reform Act. 2) Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price will have regulatory flexibility to deregulate the marketplace to help lower costs and stabilize the market. 3) Congress will follow up on the reconciliation with further solutions (such as purchasing health care across state lines). ###
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson’s (TX-03) bill, the Small Business Health Fairness Act (H.R. 1101) was passed by the Education and Workforce Committee. This bill is part of a step-by-step process to replace the failed health care law with patient-centered solutions. It would do so by empowering small businesses to join together through association health plans (AHPs) to provide their employees greater access to affordable health care. “Due to Obamacare’s burdensome and expensive regulations, fewer and fewer American small businesses can afford to offer health care coverage – which in turn hurts American families,” Johnson said. “A commonsense way to help empower these small businesses is to allow them to join together when shopping for health care plans. This will allow them to have the same strength in numbers as large businesses and labor organizations. And the benefits will be real for hardworking American families. With this bill’s Committee passage, we are one step closer toward fixing our broken health care system, which continues to remain one of my top priorities.” BACKGROUND: Due to their size and economies of scale, large businesses and labor organizations have the ability to negotiate on behalf of employees for high-quality health care at more affordable costs. By offering a qualified group health plan under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), these large employers and labor organizations are also exempt from myriad state rules and regulations on health insurance. However, small businesses do not have the same bargaining power as larger businesses. Small businesses are also unable to band together to increase their bargaining power in the health insurance marketplace. By allowing small businesses to join together through association health plans (AHPs), small businesses can have greater ability to negotiate for lower health care costs for their employees. To read H.R. 1101, click here. ###
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) reintroduced the Servicemember Retirement Improvement Act (H.R. 1317). This bill would stop the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) from limiting the ability of Guard and Reserve service members to save for their retirement. Senator John Cornyn (TX-R) likewise introduced companion legislation in the Senate. “Ensuring our troops and veterans receive fair treatment is a top priority of mine, particularly as a 29-year Air Force veteran and POW for nearly seven years,” said Johnson. “Unfortunately, the IRS is able to limit many of America’s Guard and Reserve forces ability to save for their retirement if they also hold a civilian job. In effect, these service members and their families are being penalized when it comes to saving for their retirement just because they happen to serve our country. This is wrong. The men and women who defend freedom deserve better. That’s what today’s bill is about. I thank my friend Senator Cornyn for his support in this effort, and I look forward to getting this commonsense bill swiftly signed into law.” “So often our Guardsmen and Reservists put their civilian lives on hold to answer the call to protect our country, and that sacrifice deserves the full benefits of military service,” stated Cornyn. “I’m proud to work with Senator Casey to ensure our National Guard members and reservists can get the full retirement benefits they deserve.” The Servicemember Retirement Improvement Act is supported by a wide range of military and veteran advocacy groups, including the Reserve Officers Association (ROA) and the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States (EANGUS). ROA’s Executive Director, Jeff Phillips, spoke in support of the bill, saying “ROA believes reservists must be able to make the same TSP contributions and reap the same rewards as the active duty; we applaud Representative Johnson's bill, which will achieve this equality.” EANGUS’s Executive Director, Sergeant Major (Retired) Frank Yoakum, stated, "EANGUS fully supports this legislation. The uniformed services Blended Retirement System has some strong advantages to it, but one of the unintended consequences of the law is the IRS limit on contributions to defined contribution plans and its effect on National Guard and reserve members who already have civilian employers and defined contribution plans. We fully and firmly support this legislation which allows these citizen-patriots to invest in both their civilian and military retirement plans, negating the unintended consequences and providing full value of their contributions." Groups Supporting H.R. 1317: Association of the United States Army Association of the United States Navy Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States National Association for Uniformed Services National Guard Association of the United States Naval Enlisted Reserve Association Reserve Officers Association The Retired Enlisted Association Marine Corps Reserve Association U.S. Army Warrant Officers Association American Military Retirees Association Commissioned Officers Association of the U.S. Public Health Service Military Officers Association of America (MOAA) ###
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In response to President Donald Trump’s address at the first Joint Session of the 115th Congress, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) released the following statement: “After eight long years of Obama’s liberal, big government agenda, it was refreshing to hear President Trump's patriotic words and love of country tonight as he discussed solutions that will actually get our country back on track and help American families. Our country is facing many challenges when it comes to national security, and as a 29-year Air Force veteran I appreciate our new Commander-In-Chief making strides to protect our homeland. With a much-needed boost to defense, our troops will be better able to address the serious threats left unaddressed by former President Obama. Similarly, tackling illegal immigration and securing our borders will further strengthen national security – not to mention the fact that these efforts do right by hardworking American taxpayers. “President Trump is also right to work with House Republicans as we repeal Obamacare and replace it with commonsense health care reforms. Not only will folks have more freedom when it comes to health care choices, but getting rid of Obamacare – which has been a major burden on small businesses – will help boost our economy. Finally, as a fiscal conservative I wholeheartedly agree that it’s high time we reform our tax code – including the IRS! “We’ve got a lot of good work ahead of us, and I look forward to making progress on the key challenges confronting our great nation in the weeks and months ahead.”
02.17.2017	WASHINTGON, D.C. – Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) introduced H.R. 1156, the Patient Access to Higher Quality Health Care Act of 2017. This bill would repeal Obamacare’s ban on new construction of physician-owned hospitals. It also repeals a part of Obamacare that in essence bans the ability of physician-owned hospitals to expand. Physician-owned hospitals are frequently cited for their quality care. Over half the top 100 hospitals in the country are physician-owned. Additionally, seven out of 10 hospitals receiving Medicare award bonuses due to quality care are physician-owned. “I’m sure all Americans can agree that everyone deserves access to quality, affordable health care,” said Johnson. “And I’m sure we also agree that competition in the marketplace is a good thing. Unfortunately, Obamacare has been picking winners and losers when it comes to health care – and American families are paying the price due to this lack of competition. Physician-owned hospitals are small in number, so there is plenty of room in the health care market. It makes no sense to prohibit good hospitals from serving their communities. This bill is about doing the right thing. Americans want, need, and deserve quality, affordable health care options.” ###
02.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sam Johnson (R-TX), chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security, and Rep. Tim Walberg (R-MI), chairman of the Education and the Workforce Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions, today introduced the Small Business Health Fairness Act (H.R. 1101). Part of a step-by-step process to replace the failed health care law with patient-centered solutions, the legislation would empower small businesses to join together through association health plans (AHPs) to provide their employees greater access to affordable health care. Chairmen Johnson and Walberg released the following statements upon introduction: “Due to Obamacare, fewer and fewer American small businesses are offering health care coverage, and that’s a problem for American families,” Chairman Johnson said. “Everyone knows that large employers are able to provide more affordable health benefits for their employees. That’s because they have strength in numbers and don’t have to adhere to costly rules and regulations that small businesses do. But this isn’t right. Small mom and pop businesses on Main Street shouldn’t be treated like second class citizens when it comes to being able to offer health insurance. Bottom-line: if it’s good enough for Wall Street, it’s good enough for Main Street. This bill would allow small businesses to band together for that same strength in numbers and free them from unfair regulations. It is one good step toward fixing our broken health care system, and I thank Representative Walberg for his support in this effort. Americans want, need, and deserve quality, affordable health care — and you can rest assured this remains one of my top priorities.” “We are taking an important step toward providing a better way to access quality, affordable health care,” Chairman Walberg said. “By allowing small businesses to band together through association health plans, we can lower health care costs for working families. Obamacare not only failed to achieve this important goal, it made our nation’s health care challenges even worse. This bill is part of a step-by-step process to deliver commonsense health care reforms that put working families first. Representative Johnson has been leading this important effort for many years, and I look forward to working together to advance these reforms.” BACKGROUND: Due to their size and economies of scale, large businesses and labor organizations have the ability to negotiate on behalf of employees for high-quality health care at more affordable costs. By offering a qualified group health plan under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), these large employers and labor organizations are also exempt from myriad state rules and regulations on health insurance. Small businesses, however, do not have the same bargaining power as larger businesses. Small businesses are also unable to band together to increase their bargaining power in the health insurance marketplace. By allowing small businesses to join together through association health plans (AHPs), small businesses can have greater ability to negotiate for lower health care costs for their employees. Part of a broader effort to replace Obamacare with patient-centered solutions, Chairmen Johnson and Walberg introduced the Small Business Health Fairness Act. The legislation would empower small businesses to join together through AHPs to offer health insurance for their employees at a lower cost. Through these reforms, H.R. 1101 will: Increase small businesses’ bargaining power with insurance providers and put them on a more level playing field with larger companies and unions. Expand affordable coverage for working families who want to purchase health insurance through their employer. Lower administrative costs for small businesses who face limited resources and want to provide health insurance to their employees. For a copy of H.R. 1101, click here. To read a fact sheet, click here.
02.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week marks the 44th Anniversary of “Operation Homecoming” when U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) and U.S. Senator John McCain (R-AZ) returned from North Vietnam back to the United States, along with almost 600 American Prisoners of War (POWs). In memory of their fellow POWs and those Missing in Action (MIAs) who never made it home, Johnson and McCain introduced identical resolutions in the House and Senate calling for intensified efforts to investigate, recover, and identify all missing and unaccounted-for personnel of the United States. Specifically, H.Res. 129 and S.Res. 61 call on the United States government to intensify efforts to account for the 83,000 American service members who are still unaccounted for around the world. The resolutions also call on foreign governments to fully assist in search and recovery efforts. “This is a particularly meaningful week for me,” said Johnson. “It is when I returned home to my family after nearly seven years locked away as a POW in the Hanoi Hilton – 42 months of that in solitary confinement. The major reason my fellow POWs and I were able to make it home was because of our brave POW wives and folks like Ross Perot and Murphy Martin. They fought tooth and nail to educate the American public who believed North Vietnam’s false propaganda that we were treated in accordance with the Geneva Convention. While I was blessed to make it home to Freedom, many of my fellow compatriots did not. Our American Armed Forces swear to leave no man behind, which is why I have vowed I will never stop fighting for our Defenders of Freedom – just like our POW wives did for us. My commitment to this country and those who fight for it will never end. Thank you to all the brave men and women in our Armed Forces, past and present, for your service and sacrifice to the greatest nation in the world – the United States of America. God bless you and I salute you.” “I’m proud to join my friend and comrade Congressman Sam Johnson in introducing this resolution calling on the U.S. to intensify efforts to find answers about the American service members still unaccounted for abroad,” said Senator McCain stated. “Our country remains in their debt, and our thoughts and prayers are with their loved ones on the 44th anniversary of Operation Homecoming. The great honor of my life was to serve in the company of heroes in North Vietnam, Americans whose comradery, bravery, and resilience in the face of tremendous hardship inspired us to resist our captors and find strength and hope even in the darkest of hours. These men, those like them who served in other conflicts, and the thousands who made the ultimate sacrifice but never returned home, deserve our nation's highest respect and gratitude. While we owe these heroes a debt we can never truly repay, it is my hope this resolution contributes to achieving a full accounting of our missing comrades and delivers to their families the peace of mind they have long deserved.” “On behalf of the POW/MIA families, please accept our heartfelt gratitude for once again stepping forward to help achieve the fullest possible accounting for Americans still missing from our nation’s past wars and conflicts,” said Ann Mills-Griffths, Chairman and CEO of National League of Families of American Prisoners and Missing in Southeast Asia. To read the full letter of support, CLICK HERE. ###
02.09.2017	Washington, D.C. – To save American taxpayers’ dollars, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) reintroduced the Wasteful EPA Programs Elimination Act. This bill would terminate or eliminate federal funding for 13 wasteful Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) programs, would close all EPA field offices, and require the EPA to lease or sell all underutilized properties. The Heritage Foundation estimates this bill would save taxpayers more than $7.5 billion over 10 years. “As a fiscal conservative, I believe Washington should be a good steward of taxpayers’ dollars,” said Johnson. “Part of being a good steward includes reining in unnecessary spending and holding agencies accountable for ‘waste.’ For example, American taxpayers shouldn’t have to pay for the EPA’s many vacant and underutilized properties that the EPA’s own Inspector General identified as wasteful. My commonsense bill does right by the hardworking Americans, and I hope to see it swiftly move forward.” Specifically, the Wasteful EPA Programs Elimination Act of 2017 would: Terminate the following wasteful programs: All EPA grant programs (and also prohibit the EPA from establishing or implementing any new grant programs) National Clean Diesel Campaign Environmental justice programs Eliminate federal funding for the following: Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program Climate Resilience Fund Climate Resilience Evaluation Awareness Tool Green Infrastructure Program Climate Ready Water Utilities Initiative Regulating greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles Regulating greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuel-fired power plants Climate research at the EPA’s Office of Research and Development Prohibit the use of funds for new ozone standards Eliminate and close the EPA’s state, regional, district, local, and field offices Require the EPA to dispose of or lease any property determined by the EPA IG to be underutilized
02.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is proud to nominate 44 Collin County students to the U.S. Service Academies for the Class of 2021. Each service academy will make formal offers of appointment this spring. “Second to God, serving our Great Nation is the worthiest calling of my life, which is nominating students to America’s service academies is both a high honor and great responsibility,” said Johnson. “These 44 young men and women have undergone a competitive and rigorous selection process based on academic performance; extracurricular, civic, and service activities; and athletic aptitude. Each and every one of them is a fine young American, and it’s my privilege to nominate these young leaders as they answer the call of duty. I congratulate them and know they will represent our community well as the Academies make appointment decisions.” Students interested in learning more about service academy applications should contact Gabriella Pate in Johnson’s Plano office at (469) 304-0382. In addition, every fall Congressman Johnson hosts a free Academy Information Session with all branches represented for Third District students and families. The session provides students with an opportunity to learn more about each Academy and decide if military life is for them. Third District residents must be between the ages of 17 and 23 to be eligible to apply for an Academy, but the Info Session is open to all ages. Class of 2021 Academy Nominations by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson U.S. Naval Academy City School Noel Anderson McKinney McKinney Boyd High School Noble Bakken McKinney Independence High School Jalen Ball McKinney Prosper High School Tanner Cedrone Plano Plano Senior High School Khara Ekes Plano Plano Senior High School Robert Estes Lucas Lovejoy High School Kayla Gilbreath McKinney McKinney North High School Michael Hamilton McKinney McKinney High School Luke Harrell McKinney McKinney Christian Academy Amy Hoang Richardson Plano East High School Jun Jeon Frisco Liberty High School Jae Huyn (James) Lee Frisco Liberty High School Peyton Long Plano Jesuit Preparatory School Thomas McGowan McKinney McKinney High School Tyler Norwood Plano Plano West Senior High School Jordan Smith Plano Plano Senior High School Tyler Thompson Plano Prince of Peace Christian School Alexander Webre Allen Allen High School Edward Xiao Allen Allen High School Jacob Young McKinney McKinney North High School U.S. Air Force Academy City School Rodney Belcher Plano Plano Senior High School Tanner Cedrone Plano Plano Senior High School Yujun Chow Plano Liberty High School Kevin Hoodwin Plano Plano West Senior High School Tristan Jackson Plano Plano West Senior High School Colin McMahan Plano Plano ISD Academy Forrest Noey McKinney Independence High School Parker Noren McKinney McKinney Boyd High School Preston Polen Wylie Homeschool Mary Turner Prosper Prosper High School U.S. Military Academy City High School Paris Bland Dallas Parish Episcopal School Joshua Brock McKinney McKinney Christian Academy Matthew Carey Plano Plano East Senior High School Lucas Caskey Frisco Independence High School Oscar Ibanez Plano Plano West Senior High School Jared Jowdy Plano Jesuit College Preparatory School Nico Manzonelli Allen Allen High School Trajan Marchese Plano Plano Senior High School Martin Nguyen Allen Allen High School Jheel Patel Plano Plano West Senior High School U.S. Merchant Marine Academy City School Omar Calderon Murphy Plano East Senior High School Alexander Ellington Plano Prestonwood Christian Academy Tristan Jackson Plano Plano West Senior High School Mason Sims Plano Plano ISD Academy Mark Thompson McKinney McKinney High School Alexandre Webre Allen Allen High School
01.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – As Americans across the country join together for the 43rd annual March for Life, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) – a staunch defender of Life – released the following statement: “As a Christian, father, and grandfather, I believe in the sanctity of life and its uplifting message to our world. After all, our most precious gift is life. How we use our life is up to us. I believe one of the best ways we can spend our own life is by fighting for others to receive the same gift. Because human life begins at conception, I have steadfastly defended the unborn and opposed any and all efforts to federally fund abortion. In fact, this week I proudly voted in support of H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of 2017. This bill would put a stop to any federal funding of abortion, and would also prohibit Obamacare subsidies for insurance plans that cover abortion. Rest assured I will continue to advocate on behalf of those who cannot speak for themselves and do everything within my power to fight for LIFE. God bless you and God bless America. I salute you.” For more information about H.R. 7, CLICK HERE. To learn about Sam Johnson’s pro-life record, CLICK HERE. ###
01.25.2017	PLANO, TX – In light of National School Choice Week, which is designed to raise awareness of education options for children, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) shared the following update on his 13th annual Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) for Collin County high school students: The Third District provides fantastic education opportunities for students – whether it be public, private, charter, or home schools – and each year I am blessed to work with some of our student leaders from across the District through CYAC. It’s always a joy to see future generations get involved in their community and show an interest in serving others, and the CYAC Class of 2017 had a stellar fall semester! Our first meeting was centered on Homeland Security – a hot topic of interest for many CYAC students. They heard from special guests District Attorney Greg Willis, new Collin County Sheriff Jim Skinner, and FBI Special Agent in Charge Tom Petrowski. Our speakers discussed national security at the local level. Students also learned that ensuring Americans’ security is a team effort between local, state, and federal leaders. Students then had the unique opportunity to take part in a guided tour of the Collin County Detention Center. CYAC students’ second meeting began with the Congressional Veterans Commendation (CVC) Ceremony. At this event, they learned about 10 local veterans with inspiring legacies of service. Following the CVC, students learned about what it’s like to work in the halls of Congress by participating in a Q&A with my Chief of Staff and Legislative Director. The students’ first semester closed with Captain Sam Brown leading a testimonial meeting and Q&A. Captain Brown is a former West Point graduate who was injured in Afghanistan when he was struck by an improvised explosive device. Today, he uses his life experiences to encourage others to tackle obstacles and embrace taking on leadership roles. As the new semester starts, I look forward to our “CYAC in the Community” service projects, during which students will have a chance to give back to their hometowns. I am also eager to hear their ideas when they hold a Mock Congress later this spring. The CYAC Class of 2017 has already proven to be a fantastic and intellectually engaged group of future leaders, and their parents and teachers should be proud! Johnson created the annual high school-centered CYAC in 2004 to gain insight from Collin County students and to inspire civic-minded young adults to achieve their full potential and begin building a legacy of service. CYAC CLASS OF 2017 ALLEN Student School Grade Catherine Chen Allen High School Junior Parker Stevens Allen High School Sophomore ANNA Olivia Larson Imagine International Academy of North Texas Senior DALLAS Austin Dwiggins Plano Academy Senior Jonathan Lu Shepton High School Sophomore FAIRVIEW Cameron Stapleton Lovejoy High School Senior FRISCO Kayla Adams Centennial High School Senior Brooklyn Baum Heritage High School Senior Swetha Pamidimukkala Independence High School Junior Sai Vogirala Heritage High School Senior McKINNEY Joshua Brock McKinney Christian Academy Senior Zachary Clonch Hebron High School Sophomore Matthew Daley McKinney Boyd High School Junior Sam Fanatico John Paul II High School Junior Emma Guerra Imagine International Academy of North Texas Junior Luke Harrell McKinney Christian Academy Senior Tatiana Laporte Imagine International Academy of North Texas Junior Jakob Shackleton McKinney High School Freshman Trent Yarbrough McKinney North High School Junior MURPHY Scott Walker McMillen High School Freshman PARKER Elizabeth Reed Ursuline Academy of Dallas Junior PLANO Shambhavi Badi Plano East Senior High School Sophomore Shree Balaji Liberty High School Junior Reagan Cantrell Plano Senior High School Senior Allison Chang Plano Senior High School Junior Brandon Chen Jasper High School Sophomore Niruti Dhoble Plano East Senior High School Junior Nicholas Garcia Plano West Senior High School Junior Sreeragini Ghantasala Jasper High School Sophomore Alice Hou Jasper High School Sophomore Austin Katzer Plano West Senior High School Junior Ruxton Kelly John Paul II High School Sophomore I-Jung Lin Clark High School Sophomore Rahul Naik Jasper High School Sophomore Padmashree Pandy Plano West Senior High School Senior Purvee Patel Plano Senior High School Senior Jackson Pierce Plano East Senior High School Junior David Qian Clark High School Sophomore Emiko Rinkliff Shepton High School Sophomore Nicolas Teachenor Plano Senior High School Junior Emily Ward Plano Academy Junior PROSPER Emily Crone Prosper High School Junior Abby Kistner McKinney Christian Academy Junior RICHARDSON Timothy Interrante Williams High School Sophomore Nicholas Le Plano Academy Senior David Lorenz Lucas Christian Academy Junior Ben Randoing Plano East Senior High School Junior ###
01.18.2017	Washington, D.C. – To coincide with the National Salute to Veteran Patients (the week of Valentine’s Day), U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is holding his annual “Valentines for Vets” outreach program. Teachers and students in Collin County are encouraged to create Valentines that will be hand-delivered to veterans at the Dallas VA Medical Center. “Many of our hometown veterans are hospitalized for long periods of time, and the hours away from family and friends can get lonely – particularly on holidays,” said Johnson. “That is why every year I ask elementary school students and teachers in Collin County for their help in creating valentines for our veterans. I do this for two main reasons. First, it is an excellent opportunity to teach young students about freedom, protecting our American way of life, and what it means to serve in our Great Nation’s military. Second, this program provides us the chance to say ‘thank you’ to those who we can never thank enough for their service and sacrifice. I encourage all our area schools to participate – together, let’s make this a special day for our hometown heroes!” Johnson’s office will be accepting valentines through Thursday, February 9th, 2017. To see if your school is participating and to schedule a drop-off time at Johnson’s Plano office, please reach out to Valentines for Vets program coordinator, Meagan Talton. If your school has over 150 valentines and drop-off is difficult, you may also inquire about scheduling a pick-up time with a staffer. Details about valentine card specifications can be found HERE. Plano Office 1255 W 15th Street, Suite 170 Plano, Texas 75075 (469) 304-0382 ###
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (TX-03) introduced legislation that will permanently save Social Security, ensuring this vital program continues to work for today’s workers and beneficiaries and future generations. For years, the Social Security Board of Trustees has cautioned the program is on an unsustainable path. This year, the Trustees Report warned workers will face a 21 percent benefit cut starting in 2034 if Congress does not reform the program. Chairman Johnson’s legislation, the Social Security Reform Act of 2016 (H.R. 6489), puts Social Security back on a sustainable path by modernizing the program for the 21st century, rewarding retirees and individuals with disabilities for their years of work, and improving retirement security. Upon introducing the legislation, Chairman Johnson said: “For years I've talked about the need to fix Social Security so that our children and grandchildren can count on it to be there for them just like it’s there for today’s seniors and individuals with disabilities,” said Johnson. “My commonsense plan is the start of a fact-based conversation about how we do just that. I urge my colleagues to also put pen to paper and offer their ideas about how they would save Social Security for generations to come. Americans want, need, and deserve for us to finally come up with a solution to saving this important program.” The Social Security Reform Act of 2016 ensures Social Security will be there when Americans need it by: Modernizing how benefits are calculated to increase benefits for lower income workers while slowing the growth of benefits for higher income workers. Gradually updating the full retirement age at which workers can claim benefits. The new retirement age better reflects Americans’ longer life expectancy while maintaining the age for early retirement. Ensures benefits keep up with changes in the economy by using a more accurate measure of inflation for the annual Cost-of-Living-Adjustment. Protecting the most vulnerable Americans by increasing benefits for lower-income earners and raising the minimum benefit for those who earned less over the course of long careers. Promoting flexibility and choice for workers by eliminating the Retirement Earnings Test for everyone. This allows workers to receive benefits—without a penalty—while they are working, or fully delay retirement and wait to receive benefits. For those who delay claiming benefits, they can receive increases in a partial lump sum or add it all to their monthly check. Encouraging saving for retirement by phasing out Social Security’s tax on benefits for workers who continue to receive income after they retire or stop working due to a disability. Targeting benefits for those most in need by limiting the size of benefits for spouses and children of high-income earners. Treating all workers fairly when their Social Security benefits are calculated by using the same, proportional formula that looks at all of an individual’s earnings over the course of his or her career. To learn more about Chairman Johnson’s Social Security Reform Act of 2016, CLICK HERE. To read the full bill text, CLICK HERE. To read the Social Security Actuary letter, CLICK HERE. ###
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN) Act (S. 612), which included a modified bipartisan amendment introduced by Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) that will expedite the federal permitting process for the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir in North Texas. Specifically, this amendment would require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to finalize their review of the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir on an expedited basis. These federal regulators have already spent nearly a decade reviewing the reservoir – a reservoir that is crucial if North Texas wishes to avoid local water deficits projected to hit in 2021. Furthermore, the amendment sets forth an important benchmark that will require the Secretary of the Army to report back to Congress by June 30th, 2017 with an update on the reservoir’s permit review. After the passage of the WIIN Act, Representatives Sam Johnson – along with amendment co-authors Pete Sessions (TX-32), John Ratcliffe (TX-04), and Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) – released the following statements: Sam Johnson: “Drought is a frequent problem in Texas, which is why water is always a top priority in our area. But many folks don’t know that our local reservoirs will soon be unable to meet the total water demands of our area. You see, at Collin County’s current rate of projected population growth, by 2021 we won’t have enough water to meet demand unless a new reservoir is built. And the impact of not having this new reservoir would be direct –water as part of our normal, daily routine would be affected. It’s a serious situation, and one that I’ve long been working on. But with four years needed to build and fill the reservoir, time is running out. This amendment is a vital step to providing North Texans’ access to clean, affordable water – something all Americans want, need, and deserve.” Pete Sessions: “Water in Texas is a precious resource that must be valued, appreciated, and most importantly protected. I have fought long and hard alongside my North Texas colleagues and the North Texas Municipal Water District to cut through unnecessary bureaucratic hurdles and expedite construction on this necessary project. After a lot of hard work and persistence from everyone involved in this process, I am proud that we got this done to ensure North Texas families have access to a sustainable supply of drinking water.” John Ratcliffe: “Meeting Northeast Texas’ growing water needs is difficult enough without any extra roadblocks from federal bureaucrats. I’m glad the House has passed our legislation to peel back the layers of EPA red tape that have delayed a final decision on the Bois d'Arc Creek Reservoir for far too long.” Eddie Bernice Johnson: “The North Texas Municipal Water District has long endeavored to develop a reservoir project in Fannin County, Texas. This project would address the growing population within the water district, which is expected to double to 3.7 million residents within the next 50 years. The project would also support millions of dollars in regional economic growth, while helping us to meet the projected North Texas water supply needs through 2040 and beyond. I am glad we were able to get this accomplished today.” Congressman Johnson’s original amendment was adopted by the House of Representatives via voice vote on September 28th, 2016 as part of the Water Resources Development Act (H.R. 5303), and it was modified in conference committee and included in the final legislative package, S. 612. Water Facts You Should Know The Situation: The local NTMWD currently serves 1.6 million people across 10 counties in one of the fastest-growing areas in the nation. Population is expected to increase to almost 2.4 million by 2030 and double to 3.7 million by 2070. If population continues to grow as expected and a new reservoir isn’t online in the drought-prone region, a water supply deficit is projected to hit in 2021. The North Texas Municipal Water District (NTMWD) has worked over a decade to get a new reservoir (the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir) online. The EPA and USACE have needlessly obstructed this necessary project for the North Texas community and reversed course throughout the permit process. The Solution: The Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir in Fannin County is the first of several needed reservoirs over decades to come. It will provide for the water needs of existing and future residents and businesses in North Texas. The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality has already issued the state permit for the locally funded project – its first uncontested state water permit in 50 years. This reservoir will yield safe, high quality water that will be in compliance with all state and federal drinking water regulations. ###
12.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House passed by unanimous consent legislation to help wrongfully convicted individuals. Specifically, H.R. 6438 – introduced by Congressmen Sam Johnson (TX-03) and John Larson (CT-01) – temporarily extends the deadline for these innocent folks to apply for tax relief on their restitution. This extension is vital because the original one-year deadline to apply for refunds on taxes unfairly paid years ago was effectively cut short due to the IRS’s slow implementation of this critical relief. In response to the passage of the deadline extension, Johnson and Larson (CT-01) released the following joint statement: “Americans who have been wrongfully convicted suffered enough. While we can never right this wrong and return to them the time they spent behind bars, we can help these folks as they move forward with their lives. So when we found out the IRS was taxing the restitution awarded to wrongfully imprisoned folks, we worked hard to put a stop to this additional injustice. What’s more, we made sure the tax relief was retroactive. Unfortunately, despite our urging, the IRS took six months to release its guidance. This negligent delay effectively cut the one-year deadline for folks to apply in half. Today's deadline extension is the right thing to do, as is evidenced by its full support of the House.” Background: The original deadline for the Wrongful Conviction Tax Relief Act (H.R. 3086) was signed into law last December as part of the PATH Act (H.R. 2029). On January 12, 2016: Congressmen Johnson and Larson send letter to IRS Commissioner to ensure implementation of PATH Act without delay. On April 10, 2016: at a Ways and Means hearing, Commissioner Koskinen is asked for an update on implementation. ###
12.05.2016	Washington, D.C. – As Americans prepare to celebrate the holiday season and all we have to be thankful for as Americans, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is pleased to announce the ten Collin County veterans to be honored at his annual Congressional Veterans Commendation (CVC) Ceremony on December 10th at Collin College. The honorees were nominated by local Collin County constituents for their outstanding wartime sacrifices and peacetime community involvement. In addition, this year’s keynote speaker will be Major General James L. Williams, United States Marine Corps (retired). Maj. Gen. Williams served in the United States military for over 35 years, and he has commanded Marines at every level, both in and out of combat. Notably, during the Carter and Reagan presidencies from 1979-1981, Williams served as a Military White House Social Aide to both presidents. He currently serves in a variety of leadership roles in the North Texas community. “It is my high honor to congratulate this year’s ten veteran honorees,” said Johnson. “These men come from all across Collin County. They represent several military branches and a wide array of ranks. But most importantly, they represent several generations of faithful service to the protection of our Great Nation and to the betterment of our local community. I look forward to paying tribute to these outstanding veterans for their military and civilian service this Saturday, and I hope to see a large community turnout join me as we pass down our honorees’ examples of patriotism, bravery, and love of country to future generations.” Congressional Veteran Commendation Ceremony Information: WHERE: Collin College Spring Creek Campus John Anthony Theater 2800 E. Spring Creek Pkwy. Plano, Texas 75074 WHEN: Saturday, December 10th 10:00 am 2016 CVC Veteran Honorees NAME & RANK BRANCH YEARS OF SERVICE HOMETOWN Master Chief Anthony Brown Navy 1981-2008 McKinney Sergeant Major Bruce Cole Marine Corps 1981-2013 McKinney Colonel William Dwiggins Marine Corps 1978-2010 Dallas Lieutenant Colonel Paul Hendricks Air Force 1970-1990 Fairview Major James Hinton III Army 1980-1984 Parker Lieutenant Colonel Patrick McGaugh Army 1973-2006 Allen Sergeant Benjamin Rangel Marine Corps 2003-2011 McKinney Corporal John Roach, Jr. Marine Corps 1988-1995 Plano Commander Ray Rogers Navy 1969-2000 Murphy Major Van Taylor Marine Corps 1995-2004 Plano ###
11.16.2016	Washington, D.C. – With the annual Congressional Veterans Commendation (CVC) ceremony less than a month away, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is pleased to announce this year’s keynote speaker will be Major General James L. Williams, United States Marine Corps (retired). Maj. Gen. Williams served in the United States military for over 35 years, and he has commanded Marines at every level, both in and out of combat. Notably, during the Carter and Reagan presidencies from 1979-1981, Williams served as a Military White House Social Aide to both presidents. He currently serves in a variety of leadership roles in the North Texas community. (Full bio is listed below.) “North Texas is a deeply patriotic community that is home to many exceptional veterans,” said Johnson. “As a 29-year Air Force veteran and POW, I understand firsthand how important it is for a community to support its men and women in uniform – past and present. That’s why I’m proud to host the CVC – it’s an opportunity for us to take time out of our busy schedules and thank our local veterans for their service and sacrifice to our Great Nation. I look forward to paying tribute to our community-nominated veteran honorees on December 10th, and I’m honored Major General Williams will be joining us as our keynote speaker.” Congressional Veteran Commendation Ceremony & Reception Information WHERE: Collin College Spring Creek Campus John Anthony Theater 2800 E. Spring Creek Pkwy. Plano, Texas 75074 WHEN: Saturday, December 10th 10:00 am Full Bio for Major General James L. Williams, USMC (retired): Major General James L. Williams served his country in the military for over 35 years; he retired 1 August 2010. He has commanded Marines at every level in and out of combat. He was last assigned as the Commanding General, 4th Marine Division from April 2007 to April 2010. Previous positions held were as the Assistant Division Commander, 2nd Marine Division from November 2006 to March 2007; Deputy Commanding General (Mobilization), Marine Corps Combat Development Command in 2006; Assistant Division Commander, 2d Marine Division, in combat operations at Camp Blue Diamond, Ar-Ramadi, Iraq, from 2005-2006; and Deputy Commanding General, 1st Marine Expeditionary Force in Fallujah, Iraq, from 2004-2005. While serving with the 1st Marine Expeditionary Force he was assigned as the Deputy Director of Operations CJTF-180, conducting combat operations in Afghanistan for Operation Enduring Freedom, from 2001-2003. He also served on the Secretary of Defense’s Reserve Force Policy Board from 2007-2010. Maj. Gen. Williams has served throughout Asia, Europe, Central and South America, the Middle East, and Africa in numerous military operations. He has extensive experiences in China, Korea, Japan, and the Republic of the Philippines. In addition to multiple combat operations in Afghanistan and Iraq, he has extensive operational experience in the Counter-Drug War in Central and South America, and in Southwest Asia. While on his 2nd tour in Iraq, Williams and his integrated US team of military and joint coalition members were responsible for initiating the talks with terrorist and insurgent groups that caused the Sunni Awaking to occur in Al-Anbar Province. This allowed the beginning of the end in combat operations, thus saving countless friendly military and Iraqi lives from further misery. During the Carter and Reagan Presidencies from 1979-1981, Williams served as one of the Military White House Social Aides to both Presidents. He was serving at the White House during the Middle East Peace talks with Israel and Egypt; Operation Desert One, the rescue attempt to free the US Hostages from Iran; during the return of the US Hostages from Iran back to the USA and to the White House; and during the assassination attempt on President Reagan in Washington, DC in 1981. Williams was born in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. His formative years were spent in Philadelphia and Reading, Pennsylvania. He received a B.S degree from Slippery Rock University, PA, in 1975. He reported to Officer Candidate School in January 1976, and received his commission in March 1976. He received Master's degrees from Georgetown University in Government and National Security Affairs in 1981, from Yale University in Hospital Management/Public Health in 1984, and from the U.S. Army War College in International Security Studies in 2000. He has completed program studies at Harvard’s JFK School of Government in the National and International Studies Program, and at the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill’s Kenan-Flagler School of Business LOGTECH program. Currently, he is in the process of working on additional graduate degrees in Computer Engineering/Computer Science and in Business and Strategic Leadership. Among his personal decorations are included the Defense Meritorious Service Medal, Legion of Merit, Bronze Star Medal, Meritorious Service Medal, Navy Achievement Medal, Outstanding Volunteer Service Medal, Afghanistan Service Medal, Iraq Service Medal, Korean Defense Medal, Expeditionary Service Medal, Select Reserve Service Medal, and the National Defense Medal. He is also the 2012 recipient of the Ellis Island Gold Medal. In the business world, Williams has held leadership positions in healthcare, high technology, defense, financial services, and the international business trade industries. He is currently the Chairman and CEO, of Zenneck Power Company, a new global start-up company providing electrical power, electrical transmission, and electrical power services via joint ventures. He also provides financial advising and financial education services helping businesses, families, and military veterans. He also continues to assist American businesses with expanding their business products and services to other countries globally, as well as, teaching their key leadership strategic planning, financial skills, and team building skills. He has over 40 years of experience dealing with the Asia-Pacific Region and over 30 years dealing with the Middle East, Africa, and South America. Maj. Gen. Williams also has or is serving on the Boards of Directors/Advisors for Industry Capital and The RMF Group, two private multi-billion dollar venture capital funds; the North Texas Crime Commission and was former Chairman of the interagency Cybercrime Committee; the John Goodwin Tower Center for Political Studies at Southern Methodist University; the American Board of Physician Specialties/Disaster Medicine; former Board Director of Veterans Coalition of North Central Texas, VA Medical Center of North Texas; and the International Learning of Texas Charter School District. He provides professional financial services, financial literacy planning and financial education to interested individuals and businesses. In addition, he provides international business and security consulting services to numerous countries and companies in international business trade. He also spends numerous hours helping Veterans and their Surviving Spouses fight for jobs, benefits, and services they so richly deserve for their unselfish service to their country. ###
10.12.2016	Washington, D.C. – In an effort to prepare seniors for the 2017 Medicare program, on October 20th and October 25th U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host his annual information sessions covering Medicare Open Enrollment. These informative presentations are free and open to the public. Please note that these sessions are held in different locations in order to provide constituents convenient options. “Medicare serves millions of older Americans in our country, but most folks are unaware of how Medicare actually operates because they never received a basic overview of the program,” said Johnson. “As a result, selecting the best Medicare plan in anticipation of your health care needs can be very confusing. That is why, in order to help seniors navigate their options, I want to invite folks to attend one of these two helpful information meetings.” The sessions, hosted in conjunction with the North Central Texas Area Agency on Aging (NCTAAA), will provide a complete overview of the program and will coincide with the annual Medicare and Medicare Prescription Drug Program open enrollment period, which runs between October 15th and December 7th. After the program presentation, the NCTAAA will be on hand to take questions regarding the enrollment process. Please be aware that due to time constraints, attendees interested in one-on-one counseling will be contacted after the session in order to set up an appointment at a later date. FREE INFORMATION SESSIONS ON MEDICARE Session I Thursday, October 20, 2016 10:00 am – 12:00 pm Allen Senior Recreation Center 451 St. Mary Drive, Allen Session II Tuesday, October 25, 2016 10:00 am– 12:00 pm Plano Senior Center 401 W. 16th Street, Plano NCTAA Benefits Counselors will be on hand after the 2017 Medicare Overview Presentation. For questions regarding counseling services provided by the NCTAAA, please call Mary Jane Douglas at 1-800-272-3921, ext. 7166. For more information on these events, please contact Congressman Johnson’s Plano office at 469-304-0382. ###
10.11.2016	Washington, D.C. – On Wednesday, October 12th, 2016 the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host their monthly “Mobile Office Hours.” Folks living in the Third District who need assistance in dealing with a federal agency are encouraged to attend. October’s Mobile Offices will be located in Frisco, Richardson, Anna, and Fairview (times and specific locations listed below). Appointments are not necessary. “Dealing with federal agencies can be frustrating, whether it’s getting veteran benefits or a service medal you earned, help with Social Security or Medicare, or even passport assistance,” said Johnson. “While my staff and I offer assistance every day, sometimes a phone call or a trek out to our Plano office isn’t the best option for folks. That is why I’m proud to offer these monthly Mobile Office Hours. Folks can come out to one of these locations and ask my staff questions or get help with various issues in person. We are also happy to make requests on your behalf to federal agencies. I encourage people to visit the nearest Mobile Office location on October 12th, but if you are unable to make it, you are always welcome to contact my Plano office at 469-304-0382.” Johnson’s staff can help with federal agency issues, such as: Identity Theft Medicare; Veterans Affairs (VA); Home foreclosure; Social Security; and Internal Revenue Service. In addition, Johnson’s staff can also: Help with overseas adoptions; Provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C.; Offer application guidance to a U.S. Service Academy; Assist with Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) applications; and Process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Please be aware that Congressman Johnson is elected to serve in the legislative branch of our nation's federal government. He does not have jurisdiction to assist with the following: Agency decisions made in line with federal law or regulation; Problems with a state or local government agency – you must contact your state or local officials for help regarding these issues; Judicial matters; and Private disputes. (Examples of these issues are Child Custody, Divorce, and Criminal Trials or Imprisonment.) Please also be aware that, in order for Congressman Johnson’s staff to make inquiries on constituents’ behalf, the Privacy Act of 1974 requires a privacy release be signed before the agency is contacted. If you are represented by counsel, their permission to assist with the case is also required. Make sure to bring all relevant documents so staff is able to help you as expediently as possible. Mobile Office Times and Locations Frisco, 9:00 am – 10:30 am George A. Purefoy Municipal Center 6101 Frisco Square Blvd Frisco, TX 75034 Richardson, 9:00 am – 10:30 am Richardson Civic Center 411 W. Arapaho Road, Suite 102 Richardson, TX 75080 Anna, 2: 2:00 pm – 3:30 pm Anna City Hall 111 N. Powell Parkway Anna TX 75409. Fairview, 2:00 pm – 3:30 pm Fairview Municipal Court 372 Town Place Fairview, TX 75069 ###
10.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson’s (TX-03) bill, the Korean War Veterans Memorial Wall of Remembrance Act (H.R. 1475), was signed into law. This law will permit a Wall of Remembrance to be added to the Korean War Veterans Memorial in Washington, D.C. The Wall will list the names of all members of the U.S. Armed Forces who gave their lives in support of Freedom during the Korean War. It would also list the total number of all American POWs and MIAs from the Korean War. Additionally, H.R. 1475 – which has the co-sponsored support of over 300 Members of Congress – will be 100% privately funded. No taxpayer dollars will be spent on this addition. “As a 29-year Air Force veteran of both the Korean and Vietnam Wars, I’m thrilled that this important Wall of Remembrance will finally be made a reality,” said Johnson. “It was a team effort that would make our Armed Forces proud – I thank my fellow Korean War veterans, Congressmen Charles B. Rangel and John Conyers, as well as Senators John Boozman and Ben Cardin for their support.” Johnson continued, “A tremendous thanks is also owed to the fellow Korean War veterans who tirelessly championed this bill. My compatriots and I felt the memorial in its current state did not fully convey the magnitude of the sacrifice made by American service members during this war. More than 36,000 Americans gave their lives, and it is important that we honor our Fallen in this meaningful way.” “It is my hope that when folks one day visit this Wall of Remembrance at the Korean War Veterans Memorial, that they appreciate and honor the sacrifice of each of those who gave their lives in the Korean War. We are the land of the free because of our brave service members. These heroes are shining examples of everything great that America stands for. I can’t think of a better way to individually honor each American who gave their life in Korea than through this Wall of Remembrance. Our veterans – and all Americans – want, need, and deserve to have a place to come together in tribute to the memories of those who paid the ultimate sacrifice.” Quotes of Praise for Korean War Memorial Wall of Remembrance Act: “I am pleased that the Korean War Veterans Memorial will add a place for those to remember the names of our veterans and the heroes who never returned home. To know that out of ashes of impoverished people, a close ally, one of wealthiest countries and one of the firmest democracies has been established is a testament to the contributions Korean War veterans have made to the great American legacy that should be never forgotten.” U.S. Congressman Charles Rangel (NY-13) “Though a magnificent work of art, the Korean War Memorial fails to fully honor those who fell or suffered in battle as was intended by PL99-572, which authorized the Memorial. The subliminal message of such in the existing Memorial is far too subtle and viewers depart, impressed with the magnificent artistry, but unaware of the desired intent of the Memorial. Korean War veterans and the families of those who fell, were wounded, captured, or are still missing in action, will be forever indebted to Congressman Johnson. Without his untiring efforts to gain the support of his colleagues in the Congress, both House and Senate, those who sacrificed and served would remain unknown and, as is their war, forgotten. The Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States is proud to support H.R. 1475 because it will help ensure our nation never forgets the service and sacrifice of ordinary Americans accomplishing extraordinary things under the most arduous of conditions.” Veterans of Foreign Wars Adjutant General Robert E. Wallace, President of the Korean War Veterans Memorial Foundation “The Korean War Veterans Association and Korean Defense veterans of the United States of America would like to thank Congressman Sam Johnson and his wonderful staff for all their dedication and support in making the Korean War Veterans Memorial Wall of Remembrance a reality. Now America's finest who gave the ultimate sacrifice during that war will never be forgotten.” James R. Fisher, National Executive Director, Korean War Veterans Association "We extend our heartiest congratulations on the passage of the bill – Korean War Veterans Memorial Wall of Remembrance. The Korean War Veterans Memorial is a sacred place, symbolizing the blood-forged alliance between the two nations for the past 60 plus years. The Wall of Remembrance will record the names of the heroes who have devoted their service to protect the freedom and democracy in the Republic of Korea. The Wall of Remembrance will serve to remind the next generation of the Korean War veterans’ ultimate sacrifices and to solidify the Korea-U.S. alliance." LTCOL Lee Kangwook, Assistant Defense Attaché from South Korea, Korean Embassy in Washington D.C. ###
09.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed an amendment to H.R. 5303, the Water Resources Development Act, which would expedite a vitally needed new reservoir for North Texas citizens. The bipartisan amendment was introduced by Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) along with Representatives Pete Sessions (TX-32), John Ratcliffe (TX-04), and Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30). Specifically, this amendment would require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to issue a final permit for the construction of the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir no later than September 30, 2017. This reservoir is crucial if North Texas wishes to avoid local water deficits projected to hit in 2021. “Texans are no strangers to drought and water rationing,” Rep. Sam Johnson stated. “It’s something we try to avoid at all costs. But many folks don’t know that, at Collin County’s current rate of projected population growth, by 2021 we will not have enough water to meet demand unless a new reservoir is built. This goes beyond water rationing for lawns. This is about water as part of our normal, daily routine.” Rep. Sam Johnson continued, “It’s a serious situation, and I have long been working to ensure that we have sufficient water resources in our community. The solution is the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir. But time is running out. With two years needed for construction, and an additional two years to fill the reservoir, we need to get this reservoir online NOW. I thank my colleagues – Congressmen Sessions and Ratcliffe and Congresswoman Johnson – for their support to get this amendment passed and this reservoir across the finish line. Clean water is something all Americans want, need, and deserve.” “At a time when North Texas continues to experience booming growth and economic development we must ensure our vital infrastructure projects, including the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir, remain on schedule and get done,” stressed Rep. Pete Sessions. “This is not a partisan issue or a political issue, this is a regional issue that will affect millions of North Texans who will face higher prices, lack of water supply, and extreme rationing should this project not get done. I am proud to see Members of our North Texas delegation come together in support of this amendment and getting this reservoir online.” “The North Texas Municipal Water District has been working for years to develop a reservoir project in Fannin County, Texas,” said Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson. “This project would address the growing population within the water district, which is expected to double to 3.7 million residents within the next 50 years. The project would also support millions of dollars in regional economic growth that North Texas desperately needs.” “This reservoir is essential to meet the needs of 90 communities in the ten counties served by the North Texas Municipal Water District,” Tom Kula, executive director of NTMWD emphasized. “We supply water to one of the fastest-growing regions in the nation, and water conservation alone will not be enough to support a population that is expected to double over the next 50 years. We must start construction of the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir as soon as possible to avoid the risk of water shortages.” Water Facts You Should Know The Situation: The local NTMWD currently serves 1.6 million people across 10 counties in one of the fastest-growing areas in the nation. Population is expected to increase to almost 2.4 million by 2030 and double to 3.7 million by 2070. If population continues to grow as expected and a new reservoir isn’t online in the drought-prone region, a water supply deficit is projected to hit in 2021. The North Texas Municipal Water District (NTMWD) has worked over a decade to get a new reservoir (the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir) online. The EPA and USACE have needlessly obstructed this necessary project for the North Texas community and reversed course throughout the permit process. The Solution: The Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir in Fannin County is the first of several needed reservoirs over decades to come. It will provide for the water needs of existing and future residents and businesses in North Texas. The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality has already issued the state permit for the locally funded project – its first uncontested state water permit in 50 years. This reservoir will yield safe, high quality water that will be in compliance with all state and federal drinking water regulations. ###
09.21.2016	PLANO, TX – On Saturday, October 8th at 10:00 am, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will provide a FREE workshop on how to finance education beyond high school. This event will be held in conjunction with the Collin College Office of Financial Aid. “Education means opportunity, and I’m proud to say that our Third District schools are top-notch,” said Johnson. “But as our high school students and their parents look beyond graduation day, I know that paying for post-secondary education can seem daunting as costs continue to soar. That is why – as a father and grandfather who is also a proud fiscal conservative – I am pleased to offer this Paying for College Workshop.” Johnson continued, “I encourage everyone in our community to attend: from college-bound students, their parents and guardians, and even folks interested in returning back to school to get their degree. It is my hope that this workshop will help you navigate your financial options as you pursue higher education!” Carolyn Jones (who serves as Collin College's Financial Aid Technical Manager and Vice President of the Texas Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators) will be on hand to lead a presentation about saving, planning, and paying for college. Jones has 23 years of experience connecting students with funding for higher education and will provide valuable resources to guide students through the Financial Aid process. To learn more about this event, contact the Congressman’s Plano office at (469) 304-0382. Saturday, October 8, 2016 10:00 am – 11:30 am Collin College Spring Creek Campus Lecture Hall C104 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway Plano, Texas ###
09.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In honor of National POW/MIA Recognition Day this Friday, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) introduced H. Res. 871 calling on the United States government to intensify efforts to account for the 83,000 American service members who are still unaccounted for around the world. Johnson’s resolution also calls on foreign nations to fully assist in search and recovery efforts. “This is a particularly meaningful day for me and my fellow POW buddies as well as our Great Nation’s military families,” said Johnson. “While I was blessed to make it home to Freedom, many of my fellow compatriots did not. In keeping with America’s promise to leave no man behind, and as a gift to those who made the ultimate sacrifice, I have vowed I will never stop fighting for the Defenders of our Freedom.” Johnson continued, “Just like those who fought for my release, I am continuing that effort to return ALL our American POWs and MIAs home. There is always more work to be done. My commitment to this country and those who fight for it will never end. Thank you to all the brave men and women in our Armed Forces, past and present, for your service and sacrifice to the greatest nation in the world – the United States of America. God bless you and I salute you.” In addition to this resolution, Congressman Johnson recently urged the President to discuss ongoing U.S. recovery efforts in Laos to repatriate the remains of American personnel still Missing In Action in that country from the Vietnam War. In response, the government of Laos recently agreed to increase recovery personnel numbers and also indicated a willingness to ease burdens on excavation teams. ###
09.12.2016	Washington, D.C. – On Wednesday, September 14th, 2016 the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host their monthly “Mobile Office Hours.” Folks living in the Third District who need assistance in dealing with a federal agency are encouraged to attend. September’s Mobile Offices will be located in Allen, McKinney, Murphy, and Princeton (times and specific locations listed below). Appointments are not necessary. “Dealing with federal agencies can be frustrating, whether it’s getting veteran benefits or a service medal you earned, help with Social Security or Medicare, or even passport assistance,” said Johnson. “And while my staff and I offer assistance every day, sometimes a phone call or a trek out to our Plano office isn’t the best option for folks. That is why I’m proud to offer these monthly Mobile Office Hours. Folks can come out to one of these locations and ask my staff questions or get help with various issues. We are also happy to make requests on your behalf to federal agencies. I encourage people to visit the nearest Mobile Office location on September 14th, but if you are unable to make it, you are always welcome to contact my Plano office at 469-304-0382.” Johnson’s staff can help with federal agency issues, such as: Identity Theft Medicare; Veterans Affairs (VA); Home foreclosure; Social Security; and Internal Revenue Service. In addition, Johnson’s staff can also: Help with overseas adoptions; Provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C.; Offer application guidance to a U.S. Service Academy; Assist with Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) applications; and Process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Please be aware that Congressman Johnson is elected to serve in the legislative branch of our nation's federal government. He does not have jurisdiction to assist with the following: Agency decisions made in line with federal law or regulation; Problems with a state or local government agency – you must contact your state or local officials for help regarding these issues; Judicial matters; and Private disputes. (Examples of these issues are Child Custody, Divorce, and Criminal Trials or Imprisonment.) Please also be aware that, in order for Congressman Johnson’s staff to make inquiries on constituents’ behalf, the Privacy Act of 1974 requires a privacy release be signed before the agency is contacted. If you are represented by counsel, their permission to assist with the case is also required. Make sure to bring all relevant documents so staff is able to help you as expediently as possible. Mobile Office Times and Locations Allen, 9:00 am - 10:30 am Allen City Hall 305 Century Parkway Allen, Texas 75013 McKinney, 9:00 am - 10:30 am McKinney City Hall 222 Tennessee Road McKinney, Texas 75069 Murphy, 2:00 pm - 3:30 pm Murphy City Hall 206 North Murphy Road Murphy, Texas 75094 Princeton, 2:00 pm - 3:30 pm Princeton City Hall 123 W. Princeton Road Princeton, Texas 75407 ###
09.09.2016	PLANO, TX – On Saturday, September 24th, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) invites Collin County students and their families to attend the annual U.S. Service Academy Information Forum. Nomination and evaluation procedures will be explained and representatives from the Military, Naval, Air Force, and Merchant Marine Academies will be present. Afterwards, there will be a break out session for students and parents to meet Liaison Officers and learn more about Academy life. This is a FREE information session open to all, and no appointment or reservation is required. Students interested in seeking a nomination to the U.S. Air Force Academy (Colorado Springs, CO), the U.S. Military Academy (West Point, NY), the U.S. Naval Academy (Annapolis, MD), and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (Kings Point, NY) are strongly encouraged to attend. “Serving our Great Nation in the military was one of the highest callings of my life, and it’s inspiring to see America’s next generation of leaders seeking to do their part to serve the greatest country in the world that we are blessed to call home,” said Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran and POW. “It is my honor and my privilege to assist these young men and women in answering their own call to duty, and I hope this information session will help them and their families prepare for their service.” If selected to attend, academy cadets receive free tuition, room, and board, as well as a monthly stipend. Upon graduation, they are commissioned as officers in their branch of service where they must complete a multi-year obligation. Students submitting an application must do so by Monday, November 14th. For more information on the forum or to request an academy application packet, please visit Congressman Johnson’s website or contact Gabriella Pate at (469) 304-0382. 2016 U.S. Service Academy Information Forum WHO: Collin County Students & Families DAY: Saturday, September 24th, 2016 TIME: 9:15 am: Student Check-in 9:30 am: Program begins LOCATION: Collin College Preston Ridge Campus, Conference Center 9700 Wade Blvd. Frisco, TX 75035 ###
09.07.2016	PLANO, TX – With the schoolyear in full swing, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) encourages Third District High School students to take advantage of the Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) program, the first of its kind and now in its 13th year. CYAC is ideal for students interested in: Learning more about the development of public policy; Exploring roles of citizens and leaders in American democracy; Developing leadership skills; Serving their community; and Bolstering their college applications. “Every year that I host CYAC, I’m always inspired by Collin County’s high-caliber students who are seeking to achieve their full potential. It’s encouraging to watch them grow throughout the school year, and now that the program is in its thirteenth year, it’s also a thrill to see how previous CYAC graduates are making a positive difference in our community, our state, and our country. I look forward to meeting this next CYAC class and getting started on some exciting new program curriculum!” Established in 2004 to provide a unique opportunity for students to learn about government through first-hand civic participation, CYAC’s theme for 2016-2017 will be “A Legacy of Service.” Students can expect to hear from dynamic speakers, take part in interactive legislative activities, and give back to Collin County through a community service day called “CYAC in the Community.” CYAC is open to Third District high school freshmen, sophomores, juniors, and seniors enrolled in public, private, or home schools. They must exhibit leadership, strong academic performance, and community service. Each student is permitted to participate once during their high school career and they are welcome to apply multiple years. The application deadline has been extended to September 30th, 2016. For more information and to apply, please visit the Constituent Services tab on Congressman Johnson’s website. If you have any questions, please contact Meagan Talton at (469)-304-0382 or Meagan.Talton@mail.house.gov. ###
09.07.2016	PLANO, TX – To help honor Collin County’s local veterans, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is extending the nomination deadline for the prestigious Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC) award to September 16th, 2016. This annual program is designed to publicly recognize the wartime sacrifices and peacetime community involvement of Collin County’s military veterans. Veteran honorees will be recognized at a community-wide ceremony with special guest speakers, local community leaders, and Boy Scout troops lending their support. “North Texas is home to many men and women who have donned the uniform in defense of Freedom,” said Johnson. “Many of these patriots are so dedicated to serving others that when they retire from active duty, they continue to serve their community in a variety of ways. To honor these exceptional hometown heroes, it is my distinct honor and privilege to provide an opportunity for our community to learn about – and thank these veterans – for their service and sacrifice.” Johnson continued, “I encourage all Collin County constituents to consider the veterans they know for nomination: their family members, friends, neighbors, and work colleagues. This ceremony is a unique way to show our veterans our deepest gratitude and utmost respect for their service. And as a former military officer, I can also attest to how vital it is that we share our veterans’ stories – it is how we preserve America’s legacy of freedom and inspire our Great Nation’s future leaders.” Anyone may nominate a veteran, and they may nominate as many veterans as they like. Complete nomination packets should be mailed or hand-delivered to Johnson’s Plano office (address below) or emailed to Megan Foreman at megan.foreman@mail.house.gov by Friday, September 16th, 2016. Congressman Johnson will also be personally accepting completed nomination packets at the Grand Opening of Plano’s NEW VA Community-Based Outpatient Clinic on September 16th, 2016. For event details, CLICK HERE. The Grand Opening is free and open to the public. To be considered for the CVC Award, veteran nominees must meet all of the following criteria: They must currently reside in the Third Congressional District; They must have served as active duty military personnel or been reservists called to active duty; and They must be retired or honorably discharged from a branch of the United States Armed Forces. 2016 CVC Nomination Form Veteran honorees will be determined by an independent board of community leaders and veterans. Honorees will be announced mid-fall and the ceremony will be held December 10th, 2016. For additional information, please call the Plano office at (469) 304-0382 or visit Congressman Johnson’s website. Sam Johnson’s Plano Office: 1255 W 15th Street, Suite 170 Plano, Texas 75075 ###
09.07.2016	Plano, TX – On Friday, September 16th, 2016, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) invites North Texans to join him at the Grand Opening of Plano’s NEW VA Community-Based Outpatient Clinic. The 10,000 square foot clinic opens access to the fast-growing North Texas population and will be equipped to serve 6,000 veterans per year. The CBOC will house five Patient-Aligned Care Teams (PACT) and will be able to provide primary care, mental health, telemedicine, laboratory, and x-ray services. The VA Grand Opening is free and open to the public. Press is encouraged to attend. “Many North Texas veterans and their families have been eagerly awaiting the opening of Plano’s new VA clinic since its location was announced last fall,” said Johnson. “This clinic has been a long time coming, and after years of working behind the scenes to see it established, I’m thrilled that this clinic is already helping our hometown heroes receive more efficient access to the healthcare they want, need, and deserve. I look forward to celebrating the clinic’s Grand Opening later this month, and I hope to see a large community turnout at the event. This ceremony is a small but tangible way for us to thank ALL our veterans for their service and sacrifice to our Great Nation.” While at the event, Congressman Johnson will also be personally accepting nomination applications for his annual Congressional Veterans Commendation Ceremony (CVC) to be held later this fall. This day (September 16th) will be the last day to submit nominations. Anyone is able to nominate a veteran who resides in the Third District for this prestigious award. For more information about the CVC and to nominate a deserving veteran you know, visit the Constituent Services tab on Johnson’s website: www.samjohnson.house.gov. You may also call the Plano Office at (469) 304-0382. Important Information: WHO: Former POW and Congressman Sam Johnson; VA North Texas Health Care System Director Jeff Milligan; Joseph M. Dalpiaz, Network Director, VISN 17; and other community leaders WHAT: Grand Opening of Plano’s NEW Community Based Outpatient Clinic DATE: September 16th, 2016 TIME: 9:30am – 10:30am LOCATION: 3804 West 15th Street Plano, Texas 75075 CONTACT: Event Inquiries: Gabriella Pate, gabriella.pate@mail.house.gov, (469) 304-0382 Press Inquiries: Adrienne Rimmer, Adrienne.rimmer@mail.house.gov, (202) 225-4201 ###
08.02.2016	WASHINGTON, DC -- In preparation for President Obama's upcoming state visit to Laos in September, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is calling on the President to discuss ongoing U.S. efforts in Laos to repatriate the remains of American personnel still Missing in Action (MIA) in that country from the Vietnam War, and to ask that the Lao government lift certain restrictions that have hampered U.S. recovery efforts. Congressman Johnson is widely known for his longstanding efforts to account for those servicemen and women still Missing in Action from all U.S. conflicts. This plea to the President comes after Johnson was contacted by Nancy Whitford Eger, whose father, Col. Larry Whitford, was classified as MIA during the Vietnam War. A mere 11 years old when her father was shot down in 1969 over Laos, Eger promised her now-deceased mother that she would carry on the 46-year responsibility of finding her father’s remains and give him a proper burial in the United States. “Given my life experiences, it is my privilege to do what I can for those who have made the ultimate sacrifice for our nation and our freedom," said Congressman Johnson. "Essentially, the next generation of family members are the new voice to remind our government that more must be done to return to American soil the real defenders of freedom. We must remain united in our efforts and never forget.” Today there are 301 American personnel still MIA in Laos from the Vietnam War. The Defense POW / MIA Accounting Agency (DPAA) conducts ongoing search efforts in Laos and around the world to identify and repatriate the remains of missing American service members. However, the Lao government limits the crew size of DPAA recovery teams and requires these teams to stay in a “base camp” arrangement. These two factors have severely prolonged DPAA efforts to bring home American MIAs and to provide an accounting to their families who have waited for so long. Congressman Johnson is hopeful that President Obama’s state visit will provide an opportunity to highlight these issues and to secure greater access for U.S. recovery teams. Congressman Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran who spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War (POW) in the infamous "Hanoi Hilton" in Vietnam after being shot down on his second tour and 25th combat mission, has made the recovery of fellow POWs and MIAs a top priority since his return to American soil in 1973's "Operation Homecoming." While a POW in Vietnam, Congressman Johnson’s wife, Shirley Johnson, helped to create the National League of Families which started a campaign to draw international attention to the cruel treatment of the Prisoners of War in Vietnam. Today Congressman Johnson serves as a Commissioner on the U.S.-Russia Joint Commission on POW / MIAs and has conducted multiple trips to Vietnam and elsewhere to search for American MIAs who never returned home to their families. Johnson is joined by a bipartisan group of House and Senate leaders in his letter to the President, including fellow "Hanoi Hilton" POW Senator John McCain and Senator Chuck Grassley, who represents Col. Whitford’s home state of Iowa. Full text of the letter is attached. ###
06.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today the Supreme Court announced its ruling on a major abortion case, Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt. This case reviewed Texas’s pro-life law, H.B. 2, relating to proper medical and health standards at abortion clinics. Unfortunately, in a 5-3 decision the Court struck down the Lone Star State’s law requiring the same minimum medical standards at abortion clinics that are expected at ambulatory surgical centers. After the Supreme Court released its decision, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) made the following statement: “As a Christian, father, and grandfather – and as a Constitutional conservative – I believe in the sanctity of human life. That is why the High Court’s decision today breaks my heart. While it is no secret that I oppose abortion, I supported this law (even signing onto an Amicus brief to the Court) because it was not just about protecting the unborn – it was about protecting all people by encouraging high quality health standards that help provide a full and healthy life. “Our country is in a worrisome place when we do not respect life at all stages – and when folks demonize those who protect the unborn. It boggles the mind. “Today’s Supreme Court decision further reiterates how important this November election will be for the future of our country. In the meantime, I will continue to pray for our Great Nation – that Life will once again be valued.” ###
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This morning the Supreme Court issued a split decision regarding a challenge to President Obama’s executive amnesty in the case led by Texas and 26 states. Due to the 4-4 decision, the ruling of the lower court remains in place. This means President Obama’s illegal amnesty is officially null and void. U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03), who supported Texas's case in an Amicus brief to the Court, released the following statement in response to the decision: “The fight against Obama’s executive amnesty has first and foremost always been about the rule of law. This president has abused his executive powers time and again, but this is particularly true when it comes to illegal immigration. “Not only does Obama’s amnesty show an utter disregard for our Constitution, but it also continues to have terrible impacts throughout Texas and our country. Worst of all, Americans are paying the price – with their pocketbooks as well as their safety. “I’ve said it before and I’ll say it again: citizenship in America is a privilege, NOT a right. While we have been a nation of immigrants from the very beginning, we are ALSO a nation of LAWS. “Today’s decision is a victory for the rule of law; it’s a victory for those who chose to play by the rules and immigrate legally; and it’s a victory for hardworking, taxpaying Americans. “Rest assured that as a 29-year Air Force fighter pilot and POW, I will continue to defend our freedoms and our Constitution. This is what Americans want, need, and deserve.” Below are a few of Congressman Johnson’s recent key efforts to stop Obama’s executive amnesty: NOW LAW! H.R. 1298, the No Amnesty Tax “Refunds” for Illegals Act. H.R. 2334, a bill to stop illegals from claiming the $1,000 refundable child tax credit. H.R. 1996, the No Social Security Numbers for Illegal Aliens Act. Johnson opposed the Omnibus on December 18, 2015, because it failed to defund Obama’s executive amnesty. Johnson opposed the DHS Appropriations bill (H.R. 240) on March 3, 2015, because it failed to defund Obama’s executive amnesty. *For a more comprehensive list of Johnson’s efforts on this issue, CLICK HERE. *To watch Johnson on the House Floor as he urges his colleagues to join him in this fight, CLICK HERE. ###
06.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - This Saturday, June 18, 2016, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) invites North Texans to join him at his inaugural "Honor Our Stars and Stripes" flag decommissioning ceremony in Frisco, Texas. The event will be held with participation from community leaders as well as various service, veteran, and civic associations. Event details, including participant information and what attendees are encouraged to bring, are listed below. On Flag Day, Congressman Johnson took to the House Floor to further speak about this important ceremony and encourage community-wide participation: "This week we celebrate Flag Day, a special day when we reflect on what our American Flag stands for and how blessed we are to live in this Great Nation that celebrates freedom. I believe this reflection is particularly important given this weekend's ISIS-inspired terrorist attack in Orlando - the deadliest terrorist attack on U.S. soil since 9/11. We must remember that there are those who seek to destroy our way of life. And we also remember that freedom must be actively defended." "So as our American flag waves proudly and we reflect on its symbol of hope, I invite Collin County folks to join me this Saturday for a special event that I will be hosting - the inaugural 'Honor Our Stars and Stripes' flag retirement ceremony. I hope you will join me for this unique program that honors our flag and our country's unique founding. God bless America, and I salute you." Event Details: Saturday, June 18 10:30 am Veterans Memorial at Frisco Commons Park 8000 McKinney Road, Frisco TX *Due to time limitations, some flags will be decommissioned at a later time. *Future ceremonies will be scheduled to fit demand. For more information on the “Honoring Our Starts and Stripes” flag program, please call Congressman Johnson’s Plano office at 469-304-0382. Participation by: OldWornFlag.com City of Frisco Dallas Chapter of the Sons of the American Revolution The Lone Star Chapter, Paralyzed Veterans of America, Honor Guard (rifle volley) Frisco Mayor Maso Boy Scout Troops 22 and 216 Musical guests: Wakeland High School student, vocal performance Lt. Brian McConnaughy, Frisco Fire Dept. Bagpipers Bugles Across America What to Bring: Lawn chairs are encouraged. Select seating will be provided on a first-come, first-serve basis, with elderly and handicapped attendees given priority seating. If attendees wish to stay after the ceremony to help dismantle additional flags, they are encouraged to bring an extra pair of scissors. When properly retiring unserviceable American flags, the blue canton should be cut out and the red and white stripes should be burned first because they represent the original 13 colonies. If you have an unserviceable American flag: According to the U.S. Flag Code, “The flag, when it is in such a condition that it is no longer a fitting emblem for display, should be destroyed in a dignified way, preferably by burning.” Flags are considered to be unserviceable when they are torn, soiled, faded, or frayed. If you have a flag in these conditions, you are invited to drop it off at Congressman Johnson’s Plano office located at 1255 West 15th Street, Ste. 170, Plano, Texas 75075. You may also take the flag to one of Johnson’s Monthly Mobile Office Hours across the district. For details about the next Mobile Office Hours (June 15th), call 469-304-0382 or visit Johnson’s website. If you would like to purchase a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol: As an additional constituent service, the office of Congressman Johnson can assist individuals desiring to purchase a new flag flown over the U.S. Capitol in order to commemorate a special occasion. Congressman Johnson receives no profit from the sale of flags. Ordering options can be found on Johnson’s website. ###
06.09.2016	Washington, D.C. – On Wednesday, June 15th 2016 the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host their monthly “Mobile Office Hours.” Folks living in the Third District who need assistance in dealing with a federal agency are encouraged to attend. June’s Mobile Offices will be located in Allen, Melissa, Plano East, and Prosper (times and specific locations listed below). Appointments are not necessary. “Dealing with federal agencies can be frustrating, whether it’s getting veteran benefits or a service medal you earned, help with Social Security or Medicare, or even passport assistance,” said Johnson. “And while my staff and I offer assistance every day, sometimes sometimes a phone call or a trek out to our Plano office isn’t the best option for folks. That is why I’m proud to offer these monthly Mobile Office Hours. Folks can come out to one of these locations and ask my staff questions or get help with various issues. We are also happy to make requests on your behalf to federal agencies. I encourage people to visit the nearest Mobile Office location on June 15th, but if you are unable to make it, you are always welcome to contact my Plano office at 469-304-0382.” Johnson’s staff can help with federal agency issues, such as: Identity Theft Medicare; Veterans Affairs (VA); Home foreclosure; Social Security; and Internal Revenue Service. In addition, Johnson’s staff can also: Help with overseas adoptions; Provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C.; Offer application guidance to a U.S. Service Academy; Assist with Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) applications; and Process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Please be aware that Congressman Johnson is elected to serve in the legislative branch of our nation's federal government. He does not have jurisdiction to assist with the following: Agency decisions made in line with federal law or regulation; Problems with a state or local government agency – you must contact your state or local officials for help regarding these issues; Judicial matters; and Private disputes. (Examples of these issues are Child Custody, Divorce, and Criminal Trials or Imprisonment.) Please also be aware that, in order for Congressman Johnson’s staff to make inquiries on constituents’ behalf, the Privacy Act of 1974 requires a privacy release be signed before the agency is contacted. If you are represented by counsel, their permission to assist with the case is also required. Make sure to bring all relevant documents so staff is able to help you as expediently as possible. Mobile Office Times and Locations Allen, 9:00 am - 10:30 am Allen Senior Recreation Center 451 St. Mary Drive Allen, TX 75002 Melissa, 9:00 am - 10:30 am Melissa City Hall 3411 Barker Avenue Melissa, TX 75454 Plano East, 2:00 pm - 3:30 pm Plano Municipal Center 1520 K Avenue Plano, TX 75074 Prosper, 2:00 pm - 3:30 pm Prosper City Hall 121 W. Broadway Street Prosper, TX, 75098
06.08.2016	Washington, D.C. – On Sunday U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) hosted his annual Academy Appointee Send-Off Ceremony to congratulate the 22 Collin County who received appointments to U.S. Service Academies or one of the preparatory schools this fall. “It is my honor to congratulate these young men and women who have been chosen as the future leaders of our Armed Forces by the prestigious United States Service Academies,” said Johnson. “It is no easy task to receive an Academy appointment – students must excel academically and athletically over the years, and they must also contribute their time, talent, and effort to the community. The nomination process to even be considered is competitive, and these students’ appointments prove they are the gold standard. Seeing their commitment and love of freedom, liberty, and democracy gives me great hope that America’s best days are ahead. I thank them for their willingness to serve, and I wish them the best on the endeavor they are about to undertake.” Students interested in learning more about service academy applications should contact Gabriella Pate in Johnson’s Plano office at (469) 304-0382. In addition, every fall Congressman Johnson hosts a free Academy Information Session on Saturday, September 17, 2016 with all branches represented for Third District students and families. The session provides students with an opportunity to learn more about each Academy and decide if military life is for them. Third District residents must be between the ages of 17 and 23 to be eligible to apply. Academy Appointees, Class of 2020 U.S. Air Force Academy Name High School Hometown Timothy Barber Farmersville High School Farmersville Parker Noren *will attend USAF Prep School McKinney Boyd High School McKinney Mark Simpson Liberty High School Plano Connor Spencer John Paul II High School Fairview Conley Walters McKinney High School McKinney U.S. Naval Academy Peyton Long *will attend NAPS Jesuit College Preparatory School Plano Richard Tapia Lone Star High School Plano U.S. Military Academy Chris Aselton Plano Senior High School *has served in U.S. Army and attended USMAPS Plano Jake Baumert Lovejoy High School Lucas Madison Bryant *will attend USMAPS Liberty High School Plano Jaxson Deaton Frisco High School Frisco Andrew Durham Plano East Senior High School Richardson Katelyn Gross Ursuline Academy of Dallas Plano Elias Jesus Valley Forge Military Academy Plano Jonathan Lindstrom New College Preparatory Academy McKinney Kaelynn Mayes Plano West Senior High School Plano Aidan Mulligan McKinney High School McKinney Kevin Rinkliff Plano West Senior High School Plano Nicholas Perovich Imago Dei Homeschool McKinney Corinne Schnell Prince of Peace Christian School Plano Amelia Trotter Plano West Senior High School Plano Morgann Yancey Plano West Senior High School Plano
05.31.2016	PLANO, TX – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is pleased to announce that the inaugural “Honor Our Stars and Stripes” Flag Retirement Ceremony will be held on June 18th, 2016 in Frisco Texas. The program was announced in the fall of 2015 in an effort to meet the needs of constituents seeking to properly retire old and worn U.S. flags. Folks across Collin County dropped off over 150 American flags, and the public is invited to participate in the decommissioning ceremony along with Johnson and local leaders including the Oldwornflag.com. “The American flag represents our freedom and the individual rights we all hold dear,” said Johnson. “It is a powerful symbol, and as proud Americans we must treat it with proper respect. As a 29-year Air Force veteran and POW who was denied basic human rights during my nearly seven years in captivity – including the right to display our national flag – I am honored to host this community-wide event. It will provide an opportunity for North Texans to come together in remembrance of all that our flag stands for and to reflect on the unique founding of our Great Nation.” Event Details: Saturday, June 18 10:30 am Veterans Memorial at Frisco Commons Park 8000 McKinney Road, Frisco TX *Due to time limitations, some flags will be decommissioned at a later time. *Future ceremonies will be scheduled to fit demand. For more information on the “Honoring Our Starts and Stripes” flag program, please call Congressman Johnson’s Plano office at 469-304-0382. If you have an unserviceable American flag: According to the U.S. Flag Code, “The flag, when it is in such a condition that it is no longer a fitting emblem for display, should be destroyed in a dignified way, preferably by burning.” Flags are considered to be unserviceable when they are torn, soiled, faded, or frayed. If you have a flag in these conditions, you are invited to drop it off at Congressman Johnson’s Plano office located at 1255 West 15th Street, Ste. 170, Plano, Texas 75075. You may also take the flag to one of Johnson’s Monthly Mobile Office Hours across the district. For details about the next Mobile Office Hours (June 15th), call 469-304-0382 or visit Johnson’s website HERE. If you would like to purchase a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol: As an additional constituent service, the office of Congressman Johnson can assist individuals desiring to purchase a new flag flown over the U.S. Capitol in order to commemorate a special occasion. Congressman Johnson receives no profit from the sale of flags. Ordering options can be found HERE. ###
05.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is pleased to announce that nominations for his Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC) ceremony are now open. This annual program is designed to publicly recognize the wartime sacrifices and peacetime community involvement of Collin County’s military veterans. “North Texas is home to many men and women who have donned the uniform in defense of Freedom,” said Johnson. “Many of these patriots are so dedicated to serving others that when they retire from active duty, they continue to serve their community in a variety of ways. To honor these exceptional hometown heroes, it is my distinct honor and privilege to provide an opportunity for our community to learn about – and thank these veterans – for their service and sacrifice.” Johnson continued, “I encourage all Collin County constituents to consider the veterans they know for nomination: their family members, friends, neighbors, and work colleagues. This ceremony is a unique way to show our veterans our deepest gratitude and utmost respect for their service. And as a former military officer, I can also attest to how vital it is that we share our veterans’ stories – it is how we preserve America’s legacy of freedom and inspire our Great Nation’s future leaders.” Anyone may nominate a veteran, and they may nominate as many veterans as they like. Complete nomination packets should be mailed or hand-delivered to Johnson’s Plano office (address below) or emailed to Megan Foreman at megan.foreman@mail.house.gov by Friday, September 9th, 2016. To be considered, veteran nominees must meet all of the following criteria: They must currently reside in the Third Congressional District; They must have served as active duty military personnel or been reservists called to active duty; and They must be retired or honorably discharged from a branch of the United States Armed Forces. 2016 CVC Nomination Form For additional information, please call the Plano office at (469) 304-0382 or visit Congressman Johnson’s website. *Honorees will be announced in the fall and recognized at a public ceremony in December of this year. ###
05.18.2016	PLANO, TX – As the school year comes to a close, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) congratulates his graduating Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) of 2015-2016. In addition, as students gear up to enjoy the summer months, Johnson is also happy to announce that applications for the 12th annual CYAC program are now open. High school students living in the Third Congressional District are invited to submit their applications no later than Friday, September 16th, 2016. “I congratulate the students of the 2015-2016 CYAC for a successful school year,” said Johnson. “We had some great meetings during which we had detailed policy discussions, and I was so impressed with how these CYAC students continued to challenge one another for better ideas and understanding of today's issues. I thank all our students for their hard work and generosity of spirit – y’all have bright futures ahead!” Johnson continued, “Because Collin County has many outstanding students and the application process for CYAC can be competitive, I am also happy to announce that this year my staff and I are giving students time over the summer months to thoughtfully prepare their applications. I encourage any student interested in learning about our government through first-hand civic participation to consider the opportunity, and I look forward to meeting the 2016-2017 CYAC class this fall!” The CYAC program was formed in 2004 to gain insight from students in Collin County and to inspire civic-minded young adults to achieve their full potential and begin building a legacy of service. Students selected for CYAC will meet with Congressman Johnson and other civic leaders at least four times during the school year to learn about the development of public policy while exploring the role of citizens, lawmakers, experts, and those institutions that directly impact the world’s most successful democracy. CYAC is open to Third District high school freshmen, sophomores, juniors, and seniors enrolled in public, private, or home schools. They must exhibit leadership, strong academic performance, and community service. Each student is permitted to participate once during their high school career and they are welcome to apply multiple years. For more information and to apply, please visit Congressman Johnson’s website. If you have any questions, please contact Meagan Talton at (469)-304-0382 or Meagan.Talton@mail.house.gov. ###
05.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – As Americans join together to pray for the future of our country on the 65th annual National Day of Prayer, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) released the following statement: “We are at a pivotal moment in our nation’s history, and the theme for this year’s Day of Prayer – ‘Wake Up America’ – could not be more appropriate. It is a reminder of the importance of the faith and principles shared by so many of our Founding Fathers – faith and principles that played a major role in the establishment of our Constitution and the protection of our individual liberty. Today is also a reminder that we should embrace these roots because they are what make America unique and exceptional. “With that in mind, I invite folks to join me in calling for His holy guidance. I pray that God has grace upon the American people. I pray that all the men and women in government roles who serve the American people would be given strength to always act with integrity. I pray that they will be open to God’s Word, and that God grants them infinite wisdom as they make decisions that impact the future of our country. “We are One Nation Under God. May we always continue to be so.” ###
05.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – After the Social Security Administration (SSA) announced its proposed rulemaking to limit gun ownership for certain Social Security disability beneficiaries, Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX) released the following statement: “Contrary to President Obama’s disdain for our Constitution’s 2nd Amendment, many Americans still very much value their right to bear arms. Unfortunately but unsurprisingly, the President is now targeting certain Social Security disability beneficiaries. This is wrong, which is why I am committed as ever to moving forward with my bill, the Social Security Beneficiary 2nd Amendment Rights Protection Act (H.R. 3516). This commonsense legislation stops any decisions made by President Obama’s Social Security Administration from being used to take away a person’s 2nd Amendment rights. “Social Security has no business stripping people of their Constitutional rights. We need to protect the rights of all Americans, including individuals with disabilities.” The proposed rule will remain open for public comment for 60 days, at which time the SSA will review the comments before deciding whether to move forward with a final rule. ###
05.02.2016	Plano, TX – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is pleased to announce the winners of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery.” Winners were announced at the Congressman’s free annual art exhibit and awards ceremony held at the McKinney Performing Arts Center. “We had a record-setting Art Competition this year with 112 local student artists who submitted artwork and over 3,700 people who participated in this year’s online poll for the People’s Choice Award,” said Johnson. “The outstanding turnout and quality of work speaks volumes about the encouragement and training that is going on in Collin County’s high school art classes. So I thank our parents and teachers for investing in these students and allowing these young minds to think and create for themselves. Of course the real congratulations go to all of our student artists! Collin County has so many talented, creative students, and I congratulate each and every one of them for their hard work!” The First Place winner of the 2016 Art Competition is Lauren LaChausse from Prosper High School for her artwork, “South Texas Oranges.” LaChausse’s artwork will soon travel to Washington, D.C. where it will be displayed in the United States Capitol building for one year along with other First Place winners’ artwork from across the nation. At the awards ceremony, Southwest Airlines presented LaChausse with two free tickets for roundtrip airfare to Washington, D.C. where she will attend the national 2016 Congressional Art Competition unveiling ceremony in June. The Second Place winner is Hannah Nolan from Plano Senior High School for her artwork, “Fruit Face.” As the second place winner, Nolan’s work will be proudly displayed in Congressman Sam Johnson’s district office in Plano for one year. The winner of the People’s Choice Award is Benjamin Tung from I-School High STEM Academy for his artwork, “One Gloomy Day.” To view all of the winning artwork from this year’s competition, please visit the Congressman’s website. Full List of 2016 Art Competition Winners: Place Student Title of Piece School Hometown Teacher/Parent 1st Lauren LaChausse South Texas Oranges Prosper High School Prosper Judy Seay 2nd Hannah Nolan Fruit Face Plano Senior High School Plano Allison Garrison 3rd Olivia Zha Autumn Scenery Allen High School Allen John Garrott 4th Colin Chan Dream or Reality Plano East Senior High School Plano Doris Chan People’s Choice Award Benjamin Tung One Gloomy Day I-school High STEM Academy Plano Kathy Tung Honorable Mention Ovet Reynoso Winter Bloom McKinney Boyd High School McKinney Mary Woodruff Honorable Mention Stephanie Shu Sunflower Portrait Liberty High School Plano Pernie Fallon Honorable Mention Jaylen Miller Door to Elysium Heritage High School Frisco Sarah Watkins Honorable Mention Stacey Li Winter Window Prosper High School McKinney Judy Seay Honorable Mention Julia Patterson Canine Cosmonauts Plano Senior High School Plano Allison Garrison Honorable Mention Logan Gardner Camouflaged Allen High School Allen John Garrott Honorable Mention Layna Maso Hometown Spirit Prestonwood Christian Academy Frisco Brenda Robson Honorable Mention Mia Elizondo Mermaid Prosper High School Frisco Judy Seay Honorable Mention Austin Galletti Iris in Spring Allen High School Allen John Garrott Honorable Mention Samantha Cheng Fleurs Allen High School Allen John Garrott Honorable Mention Grace McCraw Nothing Ventured, Nothing Gained Prestonwood Christian Academy Plano Brenda Robson
04.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – On Tuesday, April 19th, 2016 the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host their monthly “Mobile Office Hours.” Folks living in the Third District who need assistance in dealing with a federal agency are encouraged to attend. April’s Mobile Offices will be located in Frisco, Fairview, McKinney, and Anna (times and specific locations listed below). Appointments are not necessary. “My staff and I help Third District constituents deal with federal agencies every day, but sometimes a phone call or a trek out to our Plano office isn’t the best option for folks,” said Johnson. “That is why I’m proud to offer these monthly Mobile Office Hours. Folks can come out to one of these locations and ask my staff questions or get help with various issues. We are also happy to make requests on your behalf to federal agencies. I encourage people to visit the nearest Mobile Office location on April 19th, but if you are unable to make it, you are always welcome to contact my Plano office at 469-304-0382.” Johnson’s staff can help with federal agency issues, such as: Identity Theft Medicare; Veterans Affairs (VA); Home foreclosure; Social Security; and Internal Revenue Service. In addition, Johnson’s staff can also: Help with overseas adoptions; Provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C.; Offer application guidance to a U.S. Service Academy; Assist with Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) applications; and Process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Please be aware that Congressman Johnson is elected to serve in the legislative branch of our nation's federal government. He does not have jurisdiction to assist with the following: Agency decisions made in line with federal law or regulation; Problems with a state or local government agency – you must contact your state or local officials for help regarding these issues; Judicial matters; and Private disputes. (Examples of these issues are Child Custody, Divorce, and Criminal Trials or Imprisonment.) Please also be aware that, in order for Congressman Johnson’s staff to make inquiries on constituents’ behalf, the Privacy Act of 1974 requires a privacy release be signed before the agency is contacted. If you are represented by counsel, their permission to assist with the case is also required. Make sure to bring all relevant documents so staff is able to help you as expediently as possible. Mobile Office Times and Locations Frisco, 9:00 am - 10:30 am George A. Purefory Municipal Center 6101 Frisco Square Boulevard Frisco, TX 75034 Fairview, 9:00 am - 10:30 am Fairview Town Hall 372 Town Place Fairview, TX 75069 McKinney, 2:00 pm - 3:30 pm McKinney City Hall 222 Tennessee Street McKinney, TX, 75454 Anna, 2:00 pm - 3:30 pm Anna City Hall 111 North Powell Parkway Anna, TX 75409
04.11.2016	PLANO, TX – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson’s (TX-03) Congressional Art Competition continues as voting begins for the 2016 People’s Choice Award. From now through April 18th at 5pm CST, Collin County constituents are invited to view all 112 high school students’ entries on Congressman Johnson’s website and vote for their favorite. “Thank you to all the students who submitted artwork for the 2016 Congressional Art Competition – we have some exceptionally talented young artists,” said Johnson. “On April 25th, I will be holding our annual Award Ceremony where our First, Second, Third, and Fourth place winners as well as Honorable Mentions will be announced. But we still need your help in selecting this year’s People’s Choice Award! Therefore, I encourage folks to visit my website where you check out the hard work and creativity of Collin County’s high school students – and then vote for your favorite piece! The artist whose work receives the most online votes will receive this year’s ‘People’s Choice Award.’ This means a lot to our student artists, and I know they would all appreciate your support. I wish all our students good luck and I thank them for participating!” If you plan to attend the Art Competition Award Ceremony, please RSVP to Meagan Talton no later than 5:00pm on April 20th. About the Art Competition The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students, whether they attend public, private, or home schools. On April 25th, Congressman Johnson will also host an art exhibit and award ceremony to display entries and announce the First, Second, Third, and Fourth Place winners, as well as the People’s Choice Award and Honorable Mentions. The event is free and open to the public. The First Place winner will have the rare and unique opportunity to have their artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol Building for one year as part of an exhibition comprised of artwork from across the country. The First Place winner will also win a free trip to Washington, D.C. where the student will meet with Congressman Johnson and attend an award reception and exclusive unveiling ceremony for all the art competition winners nationwide. The Second Place winner’s art will displayed in the Plano District Office for one year. ###
03.18.2016	Washington, D.C. – On Tuesday, March 22nd, 2016 the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host their monthly “Mobile Office Hours.” Folks living in the Third District who need assistance in dealing with a federal agency are encouraged to attend. March’s Mobile Offices will be located in Plano East, Richardson, Murphy, and Princeton (times and specific locations listed below). Appointments are not necessary. “My staff and I help Third District constituents deal with federal agencies every day, but sometimes a phone call or a trek out to our Plano office isn’t the best option for folks,” said Johnson. “I understand that, which is why I’m proud to offer these monthly Mobile Office Hours. My staff and I are happy to answer questions, help you handle various issues, and also make requests on your behalf to make this process easier. I encourage people to visit the nearest Mobile Office location on March 22nd, but if you are unable to make it, you are always welcome to contact my Plano office at 469-304-0382.” Johnson’s staff can help with federal agency issues, such as: Medicare; Veterans Affairs (VA); Home foreclosure; Social Security; and Internal Revenue Service. In addition, Johnson’s staff can also: Help with overseas adoptions; Provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C.; Offer application guidance to a U.S. Service Academy; Assist with Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) applications; and Process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Please be aware that Congressman Johnson is elected to serve in the legislative branch of our nation's federal government. He does not have jurisdiction to assist with the following: Agency decisions made in line with federal law or regulation; Problems with a state or local government agency – you must contact your state or local officials for help regarding these issues; Judicial matters; and Private disputes. (Examples of these issues are Child Custody, Divorce, and Criminal Trials or Imprisonment.) Please also be aware that, in order for Congressman Johnson’s staff to make inquiries on constituents’ behalf, the Privacy Act of 1974 requires a privacy release be signed before the agency is contacted. If you are represented by counsel, their permission to assist with the case is also required. Make sure to bring all relevant documents so staff is able to help you as expediently as possible. Mobile Office Times and Locations Plano East, 9:00 am - 10:30 am Plano Municipal Center 1520 K Avenue Plano, TX 75074 Richardson, 9:00 am - 10:30 am Richardson Civic Center 411 West Arapaho Road, Suite 102 Richardson, TX 75080 Murphy, 2:00 pm - 3:30 pm Murphy City Hall 206 North Murphy Road Murphy, TX 75094 Princeton, 2:00 pm - 3:30 pm Princeton City Hall 123 West Princeton Drive Princeton, TX 75407
03.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On March 15th, 2016, the Bipartisan Policy Center awarded U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) with its first Congressional Patriot Award. The biennial award, established by representatives John Larson (D-CT) and Tom Cole (R-OK), recognizes "two Members of Congress – one Democrat and one Republican – who have performed patriotic deeds worthy of remembrance." Johnson shared the award stage with Congressman John Lewis (D-GA), the iconic civil rights activist and first Democrat recipient of the award. Congressman Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran who served in both the Korean and Vietnam wars, spent nearly seven years of his life in the infamous Hanoi Hilton POW camp. While imprisoned, Johnson fought back and was dubbed a "diehard resistor" along with 10 other individuals. Subsequently, these 11 men – self-titled the "Alcatraz Gang" – were moved to solitary confinement. Johnson spent 42 months alone in a 3x9 foot cell – the longest time of any POW in the camp Following the award presentation, Johnson released the following statement "I’m deeply honored to be one of the inaugural recipients of the Congressional Patriot Award. I believe this award will serve as a great opportunity to pass down some key moments in our Great Nation’s history to future generations and to reiterate the importance of patriotism. "Patriotism is important and it must be fostered in our future generations. Even more important, patriotism must be put into practice. That means each individual serving our Great Nation with the talents and skills which God has blessed them. It also means defending our freedom when it is threatened, because without freedom all the other rights Americans enjoy – and at times take for granted – are mute. "To quote one of my favorite presidents, Ronald Reagan, 'Freedom is never more than one generation away from extinction. We didn't pass it to our children in the bloodstream. It must be fought for, protected, and handed on for them to do the same.'" About the Congressional Patriot Award (according to the Bipartisan Policy Center): Recipients will have demonstrated the immeasurable value of placing the interests and goals of the nation above all other interests, as well as characteristics of both courage and civility. In so doing, they will have brought credibility and honor to the United States Congress in a manner which reflects our Founding Fathers’ vision for service in the Legislative Branch, and builds the trust of the American people in the capacity of its governing institutions to secure and advance our nation.
03.13.2016	PLANO, TX – To help Collin County constituents save their hard-earned dollars during tax season, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will be joining Free File Alliance for a briefing and “Free File” tax workshop. The event is free and open to the public. The briefing will highlight the IRS “Free File” program, which provides free online tax-prep and e-filing services to taxpayers who earned an annual income of $62,000 or less in 2015. Following the briefing, there will be a one hour interactive demonstration to see how easy it is to use “Free File” and learn about other free tax services in the community. “As a fiscal conservative, I want to do everything I can to help folks navigate the cumbersome tax filing process and keep money in their pocketbooks,” said Johnson. “I look forward to a productive meeting, and I also encourage folks who need any other assistance with the IRS to please call my Plano office at (469) 304-0382. My staff and I are always happy to help!” WHAT: Learn how to file your taxes for free with Free File Alliance WHEN: March 24, 2016 10:00 a.m. – 11:30 a.m WHERE: Collin College, Spring Creek Campus 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway Room I 123 Plano, Texas 75074 If you would like to attend, please RSVP to Lori Baux: MLBaux@aol.com, 202-265-8148. For more information, please visit www.irs.gov/freefile. In addition to the Free File Workshop, Congressman Sam Johnson again provided local libraries with paper copies of the IRS’s “Tax Guide 2015 for Individuals” (IRS publication 17) as an affordable alternative for constituents. This 288-page publication provides critical information for individuals doing their 2015 tax returns. To view the list of 12 local libraries and find a copy close to you, CLICK HERE. To learn more about Congressman Johnson’s efforts regarding fiscal responsibility, CLICK HERE. ###
02.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed Congressman Sam Johnson’s (TX-03) bill, The Korean War Veterans Memorial Wall of Remembrance Act (H.R. 1475). This bill would permit a Wall of Remembrance to be added to the Korean War Veterans Memorial in Washington, D.C. The Wall would list the names of all members of the U.S. Armed Forces who gave their lives in support of Freedom during the Korean War. It would also list the total number of all American POWs and MIAs from the Korean War. Additionally, H.R. 1475 – which has the co-sponsored support of over 300 Members of Congress – is privately funded and the money has already been raised. No taxpayer dollars would be spent on this addition. This bill marks the first of Congressman Johnson’s bills to pass the House in 2016, and the tenth to do so in the 114th Congress. During Floor Debate for H.R. 1475, Johnson (a 29-year Air Force veteran of both the Korean and Vietnam Wars), delivered the following prepared remarks: “I’d like to start off by thanking my fellow Korean War veterans – Congressman Charles Rangel and Congressman John Conyers – for their support. I also want to thank Chairman Rob Bishop, the Natural Resources Committee, and the House Leadership for bringing this bill to the Floor. Additionally, I want to thank my fellow Korean War veterans who have tirelessly advocated for this bill. It’s been a long time coming. “Mr. Speaker, sadly the Korean War is often referred to as the ‘Forgotten War.’ And yet the magnitude of the sacrifice made by Americans during this conflict was enormous. More than 36,000 Americans gave their lives. “My fellow Korean War Veterans and I believe that the magnitude of this enormous sacrifice is not yet fully conveyed by the memorial in Washington, D.C. That is where my bill – H.R. 1475, the Korean War Veterans Memorial Wall of Remembrance Act – comes into play. “This bill, which already has the support of over 300 of my colleagues, would allow for the creation of a Wall of Remembrance at the site of the Korean War Veterans Memorial on the National Mall. “Similar to the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Wall, the Korean War Veterans Memorial Wall of Remembrance would eternally honor the brave Americans who gave their lives in defense of freedom during the Korean War. It would list their names as a visual record of their sacrifice. Furthermore, the wall would also list the total numbers of all of America’s wounded, Missing in Action, and Prisoners of War. “As a veteran and POW, I can tell you that these memorials are a special place for service members and their families to pay their respects to fallen comrades and loved ones. And as a Constitutional conservative who values our Great Nation’s history, I believe these memorials also serve as a unique and physical reminder that freedom is not free. Future generations need to know and appreciate the sacrifices made by the service members who fought and died to protect freedom. These memorials can physically convey what oftentimes our words fail to do.” “Lastly, Mr. Speaker, as a fiscal conservative I am proud to say that this project won’t cost taxpayers a dime. In fact, the cost has been 100% privately fundraised, and my bill prohibits any federal funding of this project. “Mr. Speaker, as we remember the service and sacrifice of those who gave their lives in the Korean War, we can only humbly acknowledge that we are the land of the free because of our brave men and women. These heroes are shining examples of everything great that America stands for. I can’t think of a better way to individually honor each man and woman who gave their life in Korea than through this Wall of Remembrance. I urge all of my colleagues to support this important piece of legislation. I yield back the balance of my time.” For a full list of Johnson’s 30 sponsored bills and the status of each, CLICK HERE. To learn more about Johnson’s efforts on behalf of America’s veterans, CLICK HERE. ###
02.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On February 23rd, 2016, President Obama announced his plan to close Guantanamo Bay, the maximum security prison that houses some of the world’s most dangerous terrorists. His plan – which violates federal law – would move these terrorists to other prisons in the continental United States or other overseas countries. After the President’s announcement, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) released the following statement: “A President’s most sacred duty is to protect our homeland and every citizen in it. As a 29-year Air Force veteran and POW, I never dreamed we would have a President who believes releasing some of the world’s most dangerous terrorists – terrorists hell-bent on the destruction of our democratic way of life – would in any way make our country safer. President Obama must either be living in denial or a fantasy land to have misinterpreted the way these radical Islamic terrorists work. Just take a look at the five terrorists he released in exchange for deserter Bowe Bergdhal – without Congressional approval. Reports indicate that at least one of these released detainees attempted to return to the battlefield against America. “We’ve known since Day One that Obama wanted to close down Gitmo at the expense of American safety. He failed to find the support among the American majority, so now he’s trying to go around Congress, the American people, and laws that Republicans already have in place and Obama himself signed into law. If he actually attempts to follow through with this plan, the House is already eyeing a lawsuit. You better believe I’ll do everything within my power to keep our country safe.” ###
02.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In response to U.S. Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia’s passing, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) released the following statement: “Justice Scalia faithfully served our Great Nation in the High Court, and he courageously defended America's Constitution as our Founding Fathers intended. His passing is a great loss not only for the Supreme Court, but for all Americans. I pray that God comforts Justice Scalia's family during this difficult time. I also pray for our country and the man or woman who eventually succeeds him. Justice Scalia's successor has big shoes to fill, and America wants, needs, and deserves the kind of Constitutional leadership Scalia provided.” ###
02.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today President Obama released his budget proposal for Fiscal Year (FY) 2017. In response, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) made the following statement: “The one good thing I can say about President Obama’s budget proposal is that it will be his LAST budget proposal,” said Johnson. “Unfortunately, it comes as no shock to see that Obama proposes more of the same: more spending, more taxes, and more debt. This is WRONG. At a time when our debt is over $19 trillion, Obama needs a reality check. And House Republicans and I are going to give it to him. In the coming weeks we’ll be hard at work writing a conservative budget to get our fiscal house in order. Americans want, need, and deserve a budget that balances and stops passing on crushing debt to the next generation.” ###
02.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On February 5, 2016 U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) returned to Texas’ southern border in response to the Department of Homeland Security’s recent report, which shows a 30% increase in border crossings compared to the previous year. Johnson and fellow Border Security Caucus members were briefed by the Rio Grande Valley Sector Border Patrol as well as the Texas Department of Public Safety. In addition, Johnson toured the Rio Grande River by boat to see the security challenges firsthand. Following the briefings and tour, Johnson released the following statement: "While this certainly wasn't my first trip to Texas' southern border, the new surge of illegal aliens over the past few months is why I made this trip today. It's no secret that Obama's lawless executive amnesty is having devastating impacts not only on Texas border cities but across the country. That's why I've been hard at work in Washington to stop illegal immigration and Obama’s amnesty. As part of that effort I've introduced several pieces of legislation such as my bill, the No Amnesty Tax Refunds for Illegals Act, which was just signed into law. I and my fellow Border Caucus colleagues most sacred duty is to protect our homeland and every citizen in it. I spent 29 years as a fighter pilot and seven as a POW doing just that. And the House Border Caucus will continue to fight to keep America safe." In Washington, D.C., Congressman Johnson is hard at working fighting Obama’s executive amnesty. Below are some of his recent key efforts: Introducing legislation: NOW LAW! On March 4, 2015, Johnson introduced H.R. 1298, the No Amnesty Tax “Refunds” for Illegals Act. During a February 2015 hearing IRS Commissioner John Koskinen confirmed in response to Congressman Johnson’s questions that under the President’s executive amnesty the IRS can take hard-earned taxpayer dollars and hand them out as amnesty tax “refunds” to illegal immigrants. Congressman Johnson introduced H.R. 1298 to stop illegals from receiving up to $24,000 in tax “refunds” from the IRS. On December 18, 2015, the PATH Act was signed into law, which included the No Amnesty Tax “Refunds” for Illegals Act. On May 14, 2015, Johnson re-introduced H.R. 2334, a bill to stop illegals from claiming the $1,000 refundable child tax credit. Right now, the IRS doesn’t require Social Security numbers for this credit. In fact, the Inspector General has said that, as a result, this refundable credit can encourage illegals to come here. To stop this, Congressman Johnson’s bill would simply require individuals to provide their Social Security numbers to get the refundable credit. On December 18, 2015, the PATH Act was signed into law, which included a provision of this bill that would prohibit individuals who commit fraud from being able to claim the child tax credit for ten years. On April 23, 2015, Johnson re-introduced H.R. 1996, the No Social Security Numbers for Illegal Aliens Act. Under Obama’s executive amnesty, illegals can get work permits that would then enable them to get Social Security numbers as well as Social Security benefits. This is wrong and unfair to the law abiding and hardworking American taxpayer. As Chairman of the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee, Congressman Johnson reintroduced H.R. 1996, which would prohibit Obama from handing out Social Security numbers to illegals. (He originally introduced this legislation on December 1, 2014.) Votes on the House Floor: On December 18, 2015, Congressman Johnson opposed the Omnibus because it failed to defund the President’s executive amnesty. On June 3, 2015, Congressman Johnson voted for Representative Steve King’s (R-IA) amendment to H.R. 2578, the Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations bill. This amendment would have prohibited the Obama Administration from using federal funds to defend itself against the lawsuit Texas initiated to challenge the President’s 2014 executive amnesty in court. (State of Texas, et a. v. United States of America.) On March 3, 2015, Congressman Johnson voted against the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Appropriations bill, H.R. 240, because it did not stop President Obama’s executive amnesty. Unfortunately, this bill passed by a vote of 257 to 167. On January 14, 2015, Congressman Johnson voted in support of the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill, H.R. 240, which included provisions to prohibit the President from carrying out his executive amnesty program. On December 11, 2014, Congressman Johnson voted against the CR/Omnibus bill because it did nothing to stop President Obama’s amnesty actions. On December 4, 2014, Congressman Johnson voted for H.R. 5759, the Preventing Executive Overreach on Immigration Act, to prohibit President Obama from granting amnesty to illegal immigrants. ###
02.04.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – To coincide with Texas Water Day, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) introduced the North Texas Reservoir Approval Act (H.R. 4466). This bill would provide additional water that is in demand due to significant population growth in North Texas. Specifically, H.R. 4466 would exempt the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir from the Clean Water Act so that the project can proceed immediately. At the current rate of projected population growth, by 2020 Collin County will not have enough water to meet demand without this reservoir. To avoid a lag in resources, this project must move forward immediately given the time required to construct and fill the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir, and that is exactly what Johnson’s bill would do. Shortly before introducing the North Texas Reservoir Approval Act, Johnson attended the annual Texas Water Day event at the U.S. Capitol where he delivered the following remarks: “Happy Texas Water Day! It’s great to be here this morning with y’all! “Water – or lack thereof – is something Texans know all about. We all know that Texas had record rainfall last summer. And because our lakes are finally full for the first time in years, drought and water rationing may not be the first thing on people’s minds. But folks know our weather can change at the drop of a hat. “That is why, for several years now, I’ve been hard at work to ensure North Texas has reliable, clean water. You see, North Texas is one of the fastest growing areas in the nation with a thriving business community. It’s a blessing, to be sure! It’s a great place to live! But a growing population means that growing resources are also needed. “Unfortunately, North Texas is facing one of the most critical water supply situations in our country today. We’re going to have more people than our water resources can support. And rationing water is a near certainty…especially if things don’t change now. “This isn’t for lack of effort. In fact, I’ve been working alongside the North Texas Municipal Water District for several years to bring online the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir. This reservoir would provide water for our community for years to come. However, the EPA has not been willing to play ball. I’m sure that comes as no surprise! “The Administration has run down the clock. We’ve played by the rules, but North Texans are out of time. Water is absolutely critical, and I can assure you that my full attention is on this issue. “That’s why I’m proud to announce that today I will be introducing the North Texas Reservoir Approval Act. This bill will exempt the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir from the Clean Water Act – essentially bypassing the EPA and allowing construction of this vital reservoir to proceed immediately. Enough is enough. “Now I realize that getting this bill passed won’t be easy. But I want to assure you that I’m committed to ensuring that this new reservoir is approved. Clean water is something ALL Americans want, need, and deserve. PERIOD. “God bless y’all. God bless Texas. And God bless America. I salute you.” ###
02.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – To coincide with the National Salute to Veteran Patients (the week of Valentine’s Day), U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is holding his annual “Valentines for Vets” outreach program. Teachers and students in Collin County are encouraged to create Valentines that will then be picked up by staff between February 8th and February 12th. Congressman Johnson will hand-deliver the heart-felt messages to veterans at the Dallas VA Medical Center. “Across the country, thousands of veterans are hospitalized in medical centers operated by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA),” said Johnson. “Many times, these hometown heroes are away from their family and friends for long periods of time. That is why each year I ask students and teachers in Collin County for their help in creating valentines for our veterans. I do this for two main reasons. First, it is an excellent opportunity to teach young students about freedom, protecting our American way of life, and what it means to serve in our Great Nation’s military. Second, this program provides us the chance to say ‘thank you’ to those who we can never thank enough for their service and sacrifice. I encourage all our area schools to participate – together, let’s make this a special day for our hometown heroes!” To see if your school is participating and to schedule a pick-up time no later than February 12th, please reach out to Valentines for Vets program coordinator, Chance Watson. Details about the special card specifications can be found HERE. ###
02.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – On Tuesday, February 9th the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host their monthly “Mobile Office Hours.” This outreach program works to better help constituents with federal agency assistance by meeting Collin County folks at convenient locations across the district. February’s Mobile Offices will be located in Plano West, McKinney, Lucas, and Wylie (times and specific locations listed below). Appointments are not necessary. “Dealing with a federal agency can be very confusing and frustrating, but the good news is that you don’t navigate all the rules and regulations alone,” said Johnson. “My staff and I are happy to answer questions, help you handle various issues, and also make requests on your behalf to make this process easier. I encourage people to visit the nearest Mobile Office location on February 9th, but if you are unable to make it, you are always welcome to contact my Plano office at 469-304-0382.” Johnson’s staff can help with federal agency issues, such as: Medicare; Veterans Affairs (VA); Home foreclosure; Social Security; and Internal Revenue Service. In addition, Johnson’s staff can also: Help with overseas adoptions; Provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C.; Offer application guidance to a U.S. Service Academy; Assist with Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) applications; and Process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Please be aware that Congressman Johnson is elected to serve in the legislative branch of our nation's federal government. He does not have jurisdiction to assist with the following: Agency decisions made in line with federal law or regulation; Problems with a state or local government agency – you must contact your state or local officials for help regarding these issues; Judicial matters; and Private disputes. (Examples of these issues are Child Custody, Divorce, and Criminal Trials or Imprisonment.) Please also be aware that, in order for Congressman Johnson’s staff to make inquiries on constituents’ behalf, the Privacy Act of 1974 requires a privacy release be signed before the agency is contacted. If you are represented by counsel, their permission to assist with the case is also required. Make sure to bring all relevant documents so staff is able to help you as expediently as possible. Mobile Office Times and Locations Plano West, 9:00 am - 10:30 am Christopher A. Parr Library 6200 Windhaven Parkway Plano, TX 75093 McKinney, 9:00 am - 10:30 am Collin College- Central Park Campus 2200 West University Drive McKinney, TX 75071 Lucas, 2:00 pm - 3:30 pm Lucas City Hall 665 Country Club Lucas, TX 75002 Wylie, 2:00 pm - 3:30 pm Wylie City Hall 300 Country Club Road Wylie, TX 75098
02.01.2016	Plano, TX – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is pleased to announce that the 34th annual Congressional Art Competition is now underway. This is an annual art competition for high school students to showcase their talent and artwork. First place winners in each of the congressional districts across the nation will have their artwork displayed at the United States Capitol. Congressman Johnson encourages all Collin County high school student artists to participate. “Our community is blessed with many talented student artists, and this annual competition gives them an opportunity to share their talent with their neighbors and peers,” said Johnson. “It’s always inspiring to see the different art subjects and ideas from our young adults. I encourage all students who are interested to enter, and I look forward to seeing their creativity! ” About the Art Competition The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students, whether they attend public, private, or home schools. In April, entries will be displayed on Congressman Johnson’s website for the public to view and vote for their favorite. The winning artist will receive the People's Choice Award. Congressman Johnson will also host an art exhibit and award ceremony to display entries and announce the First, Second, and Third Place winners as well as Honorable Mention winners. The First Place Winner will have the rare and unique opportunity to have their artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol Building for one year. This student will also have the opportunity to travel to Washington, D.C. courtesy of Southwest Airlines, meet with Sam Johnson, and attend an award ceremony where their artwork will join other first prize entries from other Congressional Districts for an exclusive unveiling ceremony. In addition, the Second Place Winner’s artwork will be proudly displayed in Congressman Johnson’s district office in Plano for one year. IMPORTANT DATES March 21st: Deadline to RSVP to participate March 28th: Deadline for artwork to be submitted April 25th: Congressional Art Competition Awards Ceremony in Texas Guidelines and Participation Rules The FULL LIST of guidelines as well as the application form that MUST be filled out and submitted for a student to participate is FOUND HERE. Please note a few key guidelines, keeping in mind that this is NOT the full list (which can be found in the link above): 1) The competition is open to high school students who currently reside in the Third District. Please be aware that not all students reside in the same district they attend school. 2) TEACHERS OR PARENTS must RSVP via email for any student who wishes to participate in the competition. 3) Only ONE entry per student. 4) The artwork must be submitted in a “ready to hang” format (i.e. canvas, framed with hooks or wire on the backing, etc.). How to Enter Students interested in participating in this year’s Congressional Art Competition must complete the following steps: Step 1: Email an RSVP for the Competition to Meagan Talton in Congressman Johnson’s Plano Office no later than March 21st. Students may not RSVP themselves – a teacher or parent must RSVP on each student's behalf. The RSVP must include the student's name, hometown, art teacher, and school. Step 2: Students must submit their artwork entries no later than March 28th. Student artwork MUST meet all of the Rules and Regulations. Students may submit their original artwork one of two ways: 1) Contact Meagan Talton (469-304-0382) to schedule a pick-up at their local school; or 2) Drop off their artwork submission at Congressman Johnson’s Plano office. IMPORTANT: There are two pieces of paperwork that MUST be completed in order to participate in the Art Competition – a Student Release Form and a Student Application. This completed paperwork will be collected at either the scheduled artwork pick-up time or when the student drops their artwork off at Congressman Johnson’s Plano office. For questions, please contact Meagan Talton (469-304-0382). Additional information about the Competition can be found HERE. ###
01.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – To help Collin County constituents during this tax season, Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is providing local libraries with paper copies of the IRS’s “Tax Guide 2015 for Individuals” (IRS publication 17). This 288-page publication provides critical information for individuals doing their 2015 tax returns. “As a fiscal conservative, I want to do everything I can to help my constituents save money – particularly during what can be a stressful and confusing tax season,” said Johnson. “Part of that effort is making sure Collin County folks have affordable access to the resources they need! Following the law and saving money shouldn’t be difficult! I hope this resource proves helpful, and if you and your families should need any other assistance with the IRS, please don’t hesitate to call my Plano office at (469) 304-0382. My staff and I are always happy to help!” Where to find copies of IRS Publication 17, provided by Congressman Johnson: Frisco Frisco Public Library 6101 Frisco Square Blvd. Frisco, TX 75034 (972) 292-5669 McKinney John and Judy Gay Library 6861 W. Eldorado Pkwy. McKinney, TX 75070 (972) 547-7323 Roy & Helen Hall Memorial Library 101 E. Hunt St. McKinney, TX 75069 (972) 547-7323 Melissa Melissa Public Library 3411 Barker Ave. Melissa, TX 75454 (972) 837-4540 Plano Harrington Library 1501 18th St. Plano, TX 75074 (972) 941-7175 Maribelle Davis Library 7501 Independence Pkwy #B Plano, TX 75025 972-208-8000 LER Schimelpfenig Public Library 5024 Custer Rd Plano, TX 75023 972-769-4200 Princeton Princeton Community Library 319 McKinney Ave. Princeton, TX 75407 (972) 736-3741 Prosper Prosper Community Library 700 N. Coleman St. Prosper, TX 75078 469-219-2499 Richardson Richardson Public Library 900 Civic Center Dr. Richardson, TX 75080 (972) 744-4350 Sachse Sachse Public Library 3815 Sachse Rd. Building C Sachse, TX 75048 (972) 530.8966 Wylie Rita & Truett Smith Public Library 300 Country Club Rd. #300 Wylie, TX 75098 (972) 516-6250 ###
01.27.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is proud to nominate 47 Collin County students to the U.S. Service Academies for the Class of 2020. Each service academy will make formal offers of appointment this spring. “Second to God, serving our Great Nation is the worthiest calling of my life, which is why I find nominating students to America’s service academies to be one of the most rewarding parts of my job as Collin County’s U.S. Representative,” said Johnson. “These 36 young men and women have undergone a competitive and rigorous selection process based on academic performance; extracurricular, civic, and service activities; and athletic aptitude. Each and every one of them is a fine young American, and it’s my privilege to nominate these young leaders as they answer the call of duty. I congratulate them and know they will represent our community well.” Students interested in learning more about service academy applications should contact Robyn Hess in Johnson’s Plano office at (469) 304-0382. In addition, every fall Congressman Johnson hosts a free Academy Information Session with all branches represented for Third District students and families. The session provides students with an opportunity to learn more about each Academy and decide if military life is for them. Third District residents must be between the ages of 17 and 23 to be eligible to apply. Class of 2020 Academy Nominations by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson U.S. Naval Academy School Joshua Belonga Prosper High School Christopher Beltran Heritage High School Brandon Brown Plano West Sr. High School Harrison Hanes McKinney North High School Eungjae Kim Plano West Sr. High School Jaehyun Lee Liberty High School Aali Sahay Plano ISD Academy High School Richard Tapia Lone Star High School Michael Wlodawsky Prosper High School Travis Wright Yokohama International School U.S. Air Force Academy School Timothy Barber Farmersville High School Miles Charles Heritage High School Kaelynn Mayes Plano West Sr. High School William Mays Plano West Sr. High School Collin McMahan Plano ISD Academy High School Anthony Niedzielski Lucas Christian Academy Mark Simpson Liberty High School Connor Spencer John Paul II High School Russell Sutton Plano East Sr. High School Conley Walters McKinney High School U.S. Military Academy School Christopher Aselton Plano Sr. High School Jake Baumert Lovejoy High School Samuel Beaty Lovejoy High School Madison Bryant Liberty High School Jaxson Deaton Frisco High School Katelyn Gross Ursuline Academy of Dallas Nicholas Hughes Plano ISD Academy High School Nathan Hwang Frisco High School Elias Jesus Valley Forge Military Academy Nathaniel Kaufman Plano East Sr. High School Matthew Kim Plano Sr. High School Eric Li Plano West Sr. High School Jonathan Lindstrom NEW College Prep Academy Kaelynn Mayes Plano West Sr. High School Aidan Mulligan McKinney High School Kevin Rinkliff Plano West Sr. High School Andres Salerno Frisco High School Corinne Schnell Prince of Peace Christian School Amelia Trotter Plano West Sr. High School Morgann Yancey Plano West Sr. High School U.S. Merchant Marine Academy School Colleen Blahnik Allen High School Oscar Castillo Prosper High School Connor Diggs Texas High School Bryce Foster The Canterbury Episcopal School Eric Han Independence High School Harrison Hanes McKinney North High School Kaelynn Mayes Plano West Sr. High School Jonathan Rivera Plano East Sr. High School Nicholas Scrofano McKinney Boyd High School Caleb Wysong McKinney Christian Academy
01.26.2016	PLANO, TX – Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) announced that the VA has approved a new specialty clinic to be built in conjunction with the VA Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) that will open in the spring of 2016. Johnson’s work to see a new VA clinic open in the North Texas area has spanned several years. The announcement regarding this new specialty clinic comes just three months after the location decision for the CBOC. “As a 29-year Air Force veteran and POW for nearly seven years, proper care and treatment for our servicemen and women has always been a top priority of mine,” said Johnson. “That is why, to help our local veterans with the long commute to the Dallas VA hospital, I have been working to get a local clinic approved that would help ease the travel burden on North Texas veterans. While the previously announced CBOC will help ease that burden by providing veterans with primary care, this new specialty clinic will further help our veterans receive specialized care closer to home. With these two clinics, our hometown heroes will be able to receive high-quality health care that best meets their needs. This is another huge win for North Texas, and I look forward to sharing updates with our community as the process moves along.” Jeff Milligan, Director of the VA North Texas Health Care System said, “I am very happy to announce the VA’s footprint in Plano will continue to grow with the addition of another clinic that will provide specialty services to area Veterans! We appreciate Congressman Sam Johnson’s support of all Veterans. His leadership was a significant part of getting this project approved.” Additional details about the newly announced specialty clinic: A site survey will be conducted within the vicinity of the current primary care CBOC (3804 West. 15th Street, Plano, Texas 75075) to determine the best location to build the new specialty clinic. Upon completion of a design, competitive bidding of the construction will take place. Current and future data will be reviewed to determine what services will best meet the needs of North Texas veterans, which may include Physical Medicine and Rehabilitative Services (Physical Therapy/Occupational Therapy services), additional mental health and primary care teams, Radiology, and other specialties. Additional details regarding the annual number of veterans to be served, number of employees, and anticipated date for doors to open will be forthcoming as the project moves forward. Additional details about the CBOC scheduled to open in spring 2016: The 10,000 square foot clinic will open up access to the fast-growing North Texas population and will be equipped to serve 6,000 veterans per year. The CBOC will house five Patient-Aligned Care Teams (PACT) and will be able to provide primary care, mental health, telemedicine, laboratory, and x-ray services. ###
01.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) introduced his 29th piece of legislation in the 114th Congress and his first for 2016, the Service Member Retirement Improvement Act (H.R. 4381). This bill would stop the IRS from stifling Guard or Reserve service members’ ability to save for their retirement. “Ensuring our troops and veterans receive fair treatment is top priority of mine, particularly as a 29-year Air Force veteran and POW for nearly seven years,” said Johnson. “So when I learned that the IRS is able to limit many of America’s Guard and Reserve forces ability to save for their retirement if they also hold a civilian job, I wanted to do something about it. This bill is all about doing the right thing by these selfless heroes and their families. Our service members shouldn’t be penalized when it comes to saving for their retirement just because they happen to serve our country.” The Service Member Retirement Improvement Act is supported by a wide range of military and veteran advocacy groups, including: Association of the United States Army Association of the United States Navy Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States National Association for Uniformed Services National Guard Association of the United States Naval Enlisted Reserve Association Reserve Officers Association The Retired Enlisted Association To read their letter of support, CLICK HERE.
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This afternoon U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) hosted a press conference in Washington, D.C. to build public awareness about his Wrongful Convictions Tax Relief Act, including the December 2016 retroactive relief deadline. The Wrongful Convictions Tax Relief Act, which was signed into law December 18, 2015, allows wrongfully convicted individuals to keep their restitution tax free. It is supported by conservative groups including FreedomWorks and Americans for Tax Reform. During the press event, Johnson also announced that today he is sending, along with Congressman John Larson (CT-01), a letter to Commissioner John Koskinen to ensure the IRS implements the new law without delay. “As a 29-year Air Force veteran who spent nearly seven years as a POW in the infamous Hanoi Hilton, I understand what it means to have years of your life robbed from you,” said Johnson. “When I learned that folks who had been wrongfully imprisoned were suffering the additional injustice of having to pay the IRS taxes on their restitution, I wanted to do something about it. What’s so great about the Wrongful Convictions Tax Relief Act is that it is also retroactive – which is a pretty rare thing in the tax world. But that’s where today’s event comes into play. You see, folks only have until December of this year to get their money back from the IRS. That’s why we MUST hold the IRS’s feet to the fire. Our letter to the Commissioner today seeks details about how this agency is going to go about implementing this law. We are also asking for details about the Commissioner’s plans to make sure that wrongfully convicted individuals are aware of the deadline for retroactive relief as soon as possible. His deadline is February 1st, and you can rest assured I’ll be holding him to it.” The full text of the letter is below: “Dear Commissioner Koskinen: “The recently enacted Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015 (Division Q of H.R. 2029) includes our bill, the Wrongful Convictions Tax Relief Act (Section 304 of H.R. 2029), which would prohibit the taxation of civil damages, restitution, or other monetary award provided to those who have been wrongfully imprisoned. This victory is long overdue and much deserved for these individuals. No longer will the wrongfully imprisoned have to suffer the additional injustice of paying taxes on compensation intended to help make them financially whole. “As important as it was for this bill to become law, it is just as important that the IRS implement the legislation without delay. Of particular importance is the waiver of limitations provision. This provision allows for those who have been wrongfully imprisoned and who ordinarily cannot file for tax refunds due to the expiration of the statute of limitations to have the opportunity to do so. This is only right and fair. However, given that this opportunity is only available for just one year from the date of enactment, we would like the IRS to respond to the following questions by February 1, 2016: How will the IRS implement the waiver of limitations? How long will it take the IRS to implement the waiver of limitations? How will the IRS communicate the waiver of limitations so as to enable all interested and eligible individuals the opportunity to take advantage of this one-time retroactive relief? “And more generally: How will the IRS communicate the overall change in law? How long will it take the IRS to implement the change in law? “With the tax filing season fast approaching, we strongly encourage the IRS to expeditiously implement this legislation. Those who have been wrongfully imprisoned should not have to wait a day more than absolutely necessary to benefit. Thank you for your attention to this critical matter.” ###
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s final State of the Union address: “Just a few hours ago 10 American sailors were captured by the Iranian military. Just a few days ago a refugee in Houston was arrested as part of terrorist plot. Just a few weeks ago a jihadist couple in San Bernardino murdered 14 people. But listening to Obama talk, you’d think everything was going well. Obama seems to think his foreign policy is working, when we all know that it is much to the contrary. “It also came as no surprise that the President failed to discuss the biggest issues my constituents and I are concerned about right now – issues that are on the forefront of most Americans – like illegal immigration, Obamacare, and the soaring debt under Obama. “While tonight was certainly more of the same from this President, as a staunch Constitutional conservative I will continue to do what’s right for America. "We must protect our homeland. We must put American citizens first. We must repeal and replace Obamacare. And we must get our budget balanced and pay down the debt. And while it will be a long, up-hill battle this last year with Obama, this is why we must get a Republican in the White House in 2017 so we can finally get our country back on track and create a better future – not only for ourselves, but our children and grandchildren as well. This is what Americans want, need, and deserve.”
01.06.2016	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) voted to pass Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015 (H.R. 3762) – legislation that repeals Obamacare and defunds Planned Parenthood. This is the first time Obamacare repeal legislation will hit the President’s desk. “I can’t think of a better way to start off the New Year,” said Johnson. “I have been opposed to Obamacare since Day One for MANY reasons. It puts the government in control over your health care; it has forced Americans to lose access to the doctors and health care plans they liked and Obama falsely promised they could keep; it has hit American families with higher premiums and out-of-pocket costs; and it has hurt small businesses from growing and hiring new workers. The list goes on. That’s why I have voted over 50 times to repeal this harmful law, but this bill is special because it will be the first time a repeal measure will hit the President’s desk! We will finally force him to answer to the fact that a majority of Americans still oppose his big government health care takeover – a takeover that was rammed into law without a single Republican and sold under false pretenses to the American public. What’s more, at a time the national debt is fast approaching $19 trillion, this bill would reduce the deficit by half a trillion.” Johnson continued, “As a father, grandfather, and Christian who is a staunch supporter of Life, I am also pleased that today’s bill does the right thing by stopping federal funding of Planned Parenthood. Congress is currently investigating Planned Parenthood’s practice of selling aborted babies’ body parts, and the President needs to answer to his support of this vile practice.” “Republicans are starting the year off strong, and I look forward to continuing that momentum and championing the conservative principles that my constituents and I hold dear – values that make our nation the Greatest Nation in the world.” In addition to today’s repeal vote, Johnson is a co-sponsor of two Obamacare replacement bills that focus on common-sense, patient-centered solutions: H.R. 2300, Empowering Patients First Act, and H.R. 2653, American Health Care Reform Act. These bills also include legislation Johnson introduced, the Small Business Health Fairness Act (H.R. 2868), which would allow businesses to join together to purchase more affordable health insurance through Association Health Plans.
01.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In response to President Obama’s announcement that he is again using executive action – this time to advance his gun control agenda that he couldn’t get through Congress – U.S Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) expressed his strong opposition to the President’s gun control effort. Additionally, Johnson also reiterated his priority to move forward with his legislation, the Social Security Beneficiary 2nd Amendment Rights Protection Act (H.R. 3516), which he introduced September 16, 2015. “As a Constitutional conservative, I am a proud defender of the 2nd Amendment,” said Johnson. “President Obama, on the other hand, has made gun control a central goal of his presidency. He has repeatedly tried to impose his gun control agenda on law-abiding citizens. He has also repeatedly failed because a majority of Americans value their 2nd Amendment rights. So while the President’s executive action today should come as no surprise, what he is doing is WRONG. “But Americans don’t have to take this lying down,” Johnson continued. “In fact, last fall I caught wind of the fact that Obama wanted to target certain Social Security beneficiaries’ 2nd Amendment rights, so as Chairman of Social Security I introduced a bill to stop him because Social Security has no business stripping people of their Constitutional rights. My bill stops any decisions made by Obama's Social Security Administration from being used to take away a person’s 2nd Amendment rights. We need to protect rights of all Americans, including individuals with disabilities. It’s time to make this bill law and stop the President’s outrageous overreach.” To watch Congressman Sam Johnson blast the President’s Social Security gun grab on the House Floor, CLICK HERE.
12.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – In keeping with his conservative record, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) voted against the Consolidated Appropriations Act, also known as the “Omnibus.” The bill passed 316-113. Johnson was one of 95 Republicans to oppose the bill. After casting his vote against the Omnibus, Johnson made the following statement: “As a staunch social and fiscal conservative, there is a laundry list of reasons I oppose this Omnibus spending bill – not the least of which is the fact that a vast majority of my constituents oppose it! Besides the fact that it spends too much, this bill also 1) funds Obama’s executive amnesty, 2) funds Obamacare, 3) funds Planned Parenthood, 4) funds the Syrian refugee resettlement program, and 5) dramatically increases the numbers of visas available to foreign workers at a time of economic and national security uncertainty. This bill is simply not responsible, and it’s certainly not conservative. Despite the fact that this bill passed, my constituents can rest assured that I will continue to stand should-to-shoulder with them as we fight together against Obama’s liberal agenda.”
12.17.2015	Washington, DC – Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) voted in support of the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act (H.R. 2029), a bill that includes permanent extensions of tax provisions important to Texas such as the state and local sales tax deduction, the Research & Development (R&D) tax credit, and small business expensing. The bill passed the House by a vote of 318 to 109. Included in the bill was legislation spearheaded by Congressman Johnson cracking down on IRS tax “refund” handouts to illegal immigrants as well as ending the IRS’s cruel and unjust taxation of restitution awards given to those wrongfully imprisoned. “Time after time, the Obama Administration has used the IRS to advance President Obama’s radical liberal agenda…from targeting conservatives for their beliefs, to giving away billions of taxpayer dollars to illegal immigrants,” said Johnson. “And while lawbreaking people – who aren’t even from our country – are collecting checks paid by American taxpayers, wrongfully convicted and imprisoned Americans are actually being forced to hand over part of their restitution awards to the IRS! NOTHING about this situation is right or fair – and the American people deserve better. The tax bills I introduced this year are all about righting these wrongs and putting the IRS in its place.” To learn more about Johnson’s four legislative measures with respect to the PATH Act, please see below: #1: No Amnesty Tax Refunds for Illegals Act (H.R. 1298) At a February 11th, 2015 Ways and Means Oversight hearing with IRS Commissioner John Koskinen, Congressman Johnson exposed the President’s bogus claim he made in November 2014 that, among the requirements for getting his executive amnesty, illegals must be “willing to pay your fair share of taxes.” In fact, the IRS Commissioner grudgingly confirmed that, as a result of the President’s executive amnesty, illegals could actually get as much as $24,000 from the IRS by retroactively claiming the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC), a refundable tax credit. To STOP these amnesty “refunds” from going to illegals, Johnson introduced H.R. 1298 earlier this year. #2 ITIN Reform Act of 2015 (H.R. 2478) Back in 2012, the Inspector General for the IRS issued a shocking report exposing the IRS’s troubling management of the Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN) program. According to the IG, IRS managers were encouraging employees to ignore questionable applications and blatant fraud for the sake of fast-tracking ITINs. (The IRS issues ITINs to individuals ineligible for Social Security numbers.) Originally put in place to allow individuals without Social Security Numbers to report their income and pay taxes in the U.S., the ITIN process has become a ticket for illegal immigrants to get cash benefits from the federal government such as the $1,000 refundable child tax credit. In response, Johnson called on the then-IRS Commissioner to resign as well as introduced the Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN) Reform Act that would protect the American taxpayer through commonsense anti-fraud reforms such as putting in place stronger safeguards with respect to the ITIN application process. The PATH Act includes ITIN reforms inspired and modelled off of Johnson’s bill. According to the Joint Committee on Taxation, these reforms will save $3.4 billion. #3 Refundable Child Tax Credit Eligibility Verification Reform Act of 2015 (H.R. 2334) The PATH Act includes one of two provisions included in Johnson’s bill targeting fraud and abuse with the $1,000 refundable child tax credit. The included provision would prohibit individuals committing fraud from being able to claim the child tax credit for 10 years. #4 Wrongful Convictions Tax Relief Act of 2015 (H.R. 3086) To ensure individuals who were wrongfully imprisoned don’t suffer the additional injustice of the IRS taxing their restitution, Johnson introduced legislation – included in the PATH Act – that prohibits the IRS from taxing these innocent folks’ compensation. (This law is supported by FreedomWorks and Americans for Tax Reform.)
12.16.2015	Washington, DC – In response to the San Bernardino terrorist attack and increased national security concerns among the American people, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) introduced The K-1 Visa Program Suspension Act. During his House Floor remarks about the legislation, Johnson stated: “Mr. Speaker, the terrorist attack in San Bernardino – the deadliest attack on U.S. soil since September 11th – made it clear that our homeland is vulnerable to terrorism. This terrorist couple’s attack ALSO made it clear that there are serious screening problems associated with the K-1 fiancé visa program. That’s exactly how the wife involved in these attacks came to the United States to begin with! “Protecting our homeland is my most sacred duty, which is why I want the American people to know that right now I will be introducing legislation to put a halt on the K-1 visa program until Congress votes to resume it. In the meantime, my legislation would require the GAO to review the national security risks associated with this program and to submit the findings to Congress. “This is the right and common-sense thing to do. We must protect our homeland.” To watch Johnson deliver his Floor remarks on December 16, 2015, CLICK HERE.
12.03.2015	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson sorrowfully released the following statement: “It is with a broken heart that I announce the passing of the love of my life and my best friend, Shirley. “Our extended Johnson family feels heartbroken, and we appreciate your prayers during this very difficult time as we mourn the loss of a devoted wife, selfless mother, loving grandmother, and dutiful patriot. “Shirley and I truly shared a love story for the ages. She patiently and prayerfully waited for me to return home after nearly seven long years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam. I can never thank her enough for her service and sacrifice. “Beloved by many, we take comfort knowing that she’s resting in the arms of her Lord and Savior.” More details will be forthcoming as they become available. A full bio of Shirley Melton Johnson, 85, follows. Shirley Melton Johnson Shirley Melton Johnson, wife of Congressman Sam Johnson, was born in Brady, Texas and moved to Dallas at the age of five. After graduating from Woodrow Wilson High School, she attended Hockaday Junior College before entering Southern Methodist University (SMU). At SMU, Shirley majored in interior design and pledged the Delta Gamma sorority. Sam and Shirley were married in 1950, during their senior year at SMU. Immediately after graduation, Sam joined the Air Force. During their 29 years with the Air Force, they moved over 30 times within the United States and abroad. In 1966, Sam was shot down over North Vietnam, where he spent nearly seven years as a prisoner of war. Shirley joined other wives and families of POWs to enlist help from the Air Force and Congress. She traveled to Washington to publicize the plight of the POWs and to ensure they were afforded basic rights as stated in the Geneva Convention. During Sam's imprisonment, Shirley was involved with many POW family support groups and programs. In 1970, she helped found the League of Families of American Prisoners of War and Missing in Southeast Asia. She served as a member of the league's first Board of Directors and as the North Texas State coordinator. In 1971, Shirley helped establish Dallas Cares, a local group that assisted wives and families in the Dallas area with petitions, speeches, and other public events. Soon after his return from Vietnam, Sam became Wing Commander at Homestead Air Force Base. Along with Sam's new title, Shirley also acquired new responsibilities. While at Homestead, she served as honorary president and advisor to the following: Officers' Wives Club, NCO Wives Club, Airmen Wives Club, the Red Cross chapter at the base, and the Hospital Auxiliary. When Sam retired from the Air Force in 1979, he and Shirley started a home building company in Plano. Their lives turned again to politics in 1984 when Sam was elected to the Texas State House of Representatives where he served for seven years. He was elected to the United States Congress in May of 1991. Residents of Plano, the Johnsons are members of the First United Methodist Church in Plano. They have three children and ten grandchildren. # # #
12.02.2015	Washington, D.C. – On Wednesday, December 9th the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host their monthly “Mobile Office Hours.” This outreach program works to meet Collin County constituents at convenient locations across the districts in order to better help folks with federal agency assistance. December’s Mobile Offices will be located in Murphy, Princeton, Plano East, and Richardson (times and specific locations listed below). Appointments are not necessary. “Dealing with a federal agency can be very confusing and frustrating – whether it’s veteran benefits, a problem with the IRS, or Social Security – but you don’t have to do it alone,” said Johnson. “My staff and I are happy to answer questions, help you navigate issues with federal agencies, and also make requests on your behalf to make this process easier. I encourage people to visit the nearest Mobile Office location on December 9th, but if you are unable to make it, you are always welcome to contact my Plano office at 469-304-0382.” Johnson’s staff can help with federal agency issues, such as: Medicare; Veterans Affairs (VA); Home foreclosure; Social Security; and Internal Revenue Service. In addition, Johnson’s staff can also: Help with overseas adoptions; Provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C.; Offer application guidance to a U.S. Service Academy; Assist with Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) applications; and Process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Please be aware that Congressman Johnson is elected to serve in the legislative branch of our nation's federal government. He does not have jurisdiction to assist with the following: Agency decisions made in line with federal law or regulation; Problems with a state or local government agency – you must contact your state or local officials for help regarding these issues; Judicial matters; and Private disputes. Examples of these issues are: Child Custody, Divorce, and Criminal Trials or Imprisonment. Please also be aware that, in order for Congressman Johnson’s staff to make inquiries on constituents’ behalf, the Privacy Act of 1974 requires a privacy release be signed before the agency is contacted. If you are represented by counsel, their permission to assist with the case is also required. Make sure to bring all relevant documents so staff is able to help you as expediently as possible. Mobile Office Times and Locations Murphy, 9:00 am – 11:00 am Murphy City Hall 206 North Murphy Road Murphy, Texas 75094 Princeton, 9:00 am – 11:00 am Princeton City Hall 123 West Princeton Drive Princeton, Texas 75407 Plano East, 2:00 pm-4:00 pm Plano Municipal Center 1520 K Avenue Plano, Texas 75074 Richardson, 2:00 pm-4:00 pm Richardson Civic Center 411 West Arapaho Road Suite 102 Richardson, Texas 75080 ###
11.19.2015	PLANO, TEXAS – On Friday, December 4th from 10:30-11:30 am, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host a Fall Open House at his Plano office. This will serve as an informal time for Collin County constituents to come learn about the many services Johnson’s office provides, including: help with a federal agency, various programs for civic-minded youth, community outreach events, and much more. Due to space considerations, attendees must RSVP by phone (469-304-0382) or email (gabriella.pate@mail.house.gov). “Many folks reach out to me during district events because they have questions about getting a service medal for a loved one, they need help with Social Security or Medicare, or they want to apply for a military academy – just to name a few,” said Johnson. “So, in an effort to help folks have a better idea of what I can do as their Representative in Congress, I’m excited to host these seasonal Open Houses. I look forward to meeting with you for some good coffee, cookies, and conversation!” Plano Office Location: 1255 West 15th Street Suite 170 Plano, Texas 75075 Open House Times: 10:30-11:30 am December 4th, 2015
11.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, in response to the Supreme Court of the United States' announcement that it would be hearing a case against a Texas Pro-Life law, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) released the following statement: "As a staunch defender for Life, I am disheartened by the Supreme Court’s decision to review the Texas pro-life law. This law not only protects the unborn, but also ensures women have access to quality health care. I remain hopeful that the Supreme Court will uphold the law to protect the unborn, not just in Texas – but around our nation." ###
11.02.2015	Washington, D.C. – As Americans prepare to celebrate Veterans Day, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is pleased to announce the twelve Collin County veterans to be honored at his annual Congressional Veterans Commendation (CVC) Ceremony on November 14th at Collin College. The honorees were nominated by local Collin County constituents for their outstanding wartime sacrifices and peacetime community involvement. Major Heather Penney – one of two Air Force pilots who took to the skies on September 11, 2001 on orders to take down Flight 93 with her own aircraft before the terrorists reached Washington, D.C. – will serve as keynote speaker at the ceremony. “It’s truly my honor to congratulate this year’s twelve veteran honorees,” said Johnson. “These men come from all across Collin County. They represent several military branches and a wide array of ranks. But most importantly, they represent several generations of faithful service to the protection of our Great Nation. That’s the special thing about North Texas – we are a deeply patriotic community. I look forward to paying these outstanding veterans tribute for their military and civilian service on November 14th, and I hope to see a large community turnout join me as we pass down our honorees’ examples of patriotism, bravery, and love of country to future generations.” Congressional Veteran Commendation Ceremony Information: Collin College John Anthony Theater 2800 E. Spring Creek Pkwy. Plano, Texas 75074 Saturday, November 14th 1:00pm – 3:00pm 2015 CVC Veteran Honorees NAME BRANCH RANK SERVICE ERA Fairview Greg Smith Army Lieutenant Colonel 1969-1991 Frisco Peter Burns Army First Sergeant 1978-1999 Edward Myers Army Sergeant 1967-1970 Dallas Allen Clark Army Captain 1963-1968 McKinney Scott Brewer Navy Sonar Technician Petty Officer 3rd Class 1990-1993 Ben Rangel Marine Corps Sergeant 2003-2011 Murphy Joseph Spraggins Navy Ist Class Store Keeper 1943-1946 Plano James Boddie Air Force Brigadier General 1955-1983 Howard Leidy Air Force Major 1952-1975 Hal Power Army Private First Class 1943-1945 Andrew White Army Major 1999-Present Prosper Sam Wilder Army Colonel 1961-1990 ###
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) voted in opposition to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 (H.R. 1314). After his vote, Johnson made the following statement: “As a staunch fiscal conservative, I have been working with my fellow conservative colleagues to stop Washington’s out-of-control spending and get our fiscal house in order,” said Johnson. “Unfortunately, today’s budget deal goes in the wrong direction. Instead of building upon our hard-won efforts, this deal increases spending…and I could not in good conscience support it. “American families want, need, and deserve a Washington that is fiscally responsible, and my constituents can rest assured I’ll continue to do everything within my power to get our country back on track.” ###
10.26.2015	Washington, D.C. – In an effort to meet the needs of constituents seeking to properly retire old and worn U.S. flags, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) announced that his Plano office will now be accepting flags through his new program, “Honor Our Stars and Stripes.” Folks are invited to drop off their flags unsuitable for display, which will be retired in a ceremony in the spring of 2016. Details about the program will be announced at a later date, and future ceremonies will be scheduled to fit demand. According to the U.S. Flag Code, “The flag, when it is in such a condition that it is no longer a fitting emblem for display, should be destroyed in a dignified way, preferably by burning.” Flags are considered to be unserviceable when they are torn, soiled, faded, or frayed. Adhering to the policy of the respectful treatment of our national symbol, this spring Congressman Sam Johnson will be holding an event to properly retire flags. “During my nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in the Hanoi Hilton, we were denied our most basic constitutional freedoms and human rights, and we were expressly prohibited from displaying our national flag,” said Johnson, a 29-year Air Force Veteran and Vietnam POW. “But even the mere idea of the U.S. flag and all it embodies served as a reminder to me and my POW buddies of our fight to protect the values that we hold dear and stay strong in the face of the Communist Vietcong.” Johnson continued, “As Americans, we must all remember what our flag represents – freedom and the individual rights we all hold dear. As such, we must also uphold our duty to honor this symbol of our freedom. We are proud to be Americans, and we show that pride through the proper and respectful treatment of our Stars and Stripes. That’s why it’s my honor to host this event and to provide this necessary service to the folks in Collin County.” As an additional constituent service, the office of Congressman Johnson can assist individuals desiring to purchase a new flag flown over the U.S. Capitol in order to commemorate a special occasion. Congressman Johnson receives no profit from the sale of flags. Ordering options can be found HERE. For more information on the “Honoring Our Starts and Stripes” flag program, please call Congressman Johnson’s Plano office at 469-304-0382. Individuals are encouraged to drop off their old, worn U.S. flags at either the local office of Congressman Sam Johnson located at 1255 West 15th Street, Ste. 170, Plano, Texas 75075 or at the Congressman’s monthly Mobile Office Hours. For details about the next Mobile Office Hours, call 469-304-0382 or visit Johnson’s website HERE. ###
10.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – With the annual Congressional Veterans Commendation ceremony less than a month away, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is pleased to announce this year’s keynote speaker will be Major Heather Penney. Major Penney was one of two Air Force pilots who took to the skies on September 11, 2001 on orders to take down Flight 93 with her own aircraft before the terrorists reached Washington, D.C. “North Texas is a deeply patriotic community, and as such we are home to many exceptional veterans,” said Johnson. “As a 29-year Air Force veteran and POW, I understand firsthand how important it is for a community to support its men and women in uniform – both while they serve and when they come home. That’s why I’m proud to host the CVC – it’s an opportunity for us to take time out of our busy schedules and thank our local veterans for their service and sacrifice to our Great Nation. I look forward to paying tribute to our veteran honorees on November 14th with our community, and I’m honored Major Penney will be joining us as our keynote speaker.” Congressional Veteran Commendation Ceremony Information: Collin College John Anthony Theater 2800 E. Spring Creek Pkwy. Plano, Texas 75074 Saturday, November 14th 1:00pm – 3:00pm Bio for Major Heather Penney: Heather Penney attended Purdue University from 1992 to 1997, receiving her B.A. in English in 1995, and her M.A. in American Studies in 1997. In 1994, she helped create the Purdue Air Race Team, the first collegiate team to race in the Air Race Classic. It was during her graduate studies that she learned that Congress had opened combat aviation to women. She applied to, and was selected by, the 121st Fighter Squadron to fly the F-16 Viper. Heather was an F-16C+ pilot in the 121st Fighter Squadron on Andrews AFB, MD for over 10 years. Heather has flown numerous combat air patrols, sat alert, and scrambled in support of Operation Noble Eagle. She deployed to a classified location during the initial hostilities of Operation Iraqi Freedom, where she primarily flew at night as a "scud hunter," also providing close air support for special operations forces. She has been the electronic combat pilot, served in squadron weapons and as the squadron readiness officer, served two combat tours, and has assisted and evaluated other Air National Guard units during operational exercises. She has multiple Air Medals and has been recognized as a superior performer during inspections. As a single mother of two young daughters, Major Penney made the difficult decision to leave the demanding life of a fighter pilot to spend more time with her children. Her last flight in the Viper was February 2009, and she continues to fly in the Air National Guard in the 201st Airlift Squadron as an instructor pilot and aircraft commander in the C-38 Gulfstream. She is currently enrolled in the Air Command and Staff College Master’s degree program (Master of Operational Military Science). After leaving the F-16, Heather was selected as the race pilot for the jet racing team “AirRace21.” In this position, Heather gave extensive live television, internet media, and print interviews on behalf of AirRace21 and the Reno Air Racing Association. In the 2010 Reno Air Races, Heather raced the modified L-29 “Raju Grace,” an Eastern-Bloc primary military aircraft trainer that had undergone airframe modifications but was still powered by the original engine. Flying between 50’and 350’ AGL at over 410mph, she placed first in her speed grouping of stock-engine racers, and won second place in the Silver. In 2011, while testing and verifying “Raju Grace’s” new engine modification at PRS, Heather flew a highly competitive 57 seconds on the course (over 520mph). Structural failure of a rear engine mount resulted in a nearly catastrophic tail fire, from which Heather safely recovered the aircraft. Heather raced in the 2011 Reno Air Races, and in February 2012 chose to leave the team due to competing priorities. Heather remains supportive of AirRace21, RJI, and the Reno Air Racing Association. Heather has held the position of Director, USAF Air Superiority Programs, Aviation Systems, Lockheed Martin Washington Operations since 2006. She led the 2006 F-22 Collier Trophy team; is a LEAD (Leadership and Executive Assessment and Development) graduate; and has completed numerous corporate courses including management strategies, capture team, and media training. The current focus of her portfolio includes emerging training and simulation technologies, F-35 training for U.S. services and international customers, and the T-X Advanced Jet Trainer competition. Heather is a civilian flight instructor and continues to fly her 1950 Cessna 170A. She has 3,000 hours in multiple military jets and vintage taildraggers. She has flown her antique 1941 Taylorcraft aircraft coast-to-coast, and she co-pilots the Collings Foundation B-17, “Nine’O’Nine,” for a brief time in the summers. She is very involved with her alma mater, Purdue University College of Liberal Arts through regular visits, lectures, and student engagements; actively supports numerous charitable organizations and aviation museums; has been a keynote speaker for the USNA Character Capstone Seminar and Clemson University’s Leadership Summit; is a Jimmy Doolittle Fellow recipient; a panelist at the USNA’s Leadership Conference; a Purdue University Emerging Voices Award recipient; and has been honored by the Red Cross. ###
10.06.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is pleased to announce the 2015-2016 Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) participants. These 87 Collin County high school students were selected by a community board to serve on the council due to their outstanding leadership skills, academic performance, extra-curricular activity participation, and community service. The names of CYAC students are listed below by school. “We’ve got a great group of students this year – they’re bright, talented, and highly driven to make an impact in their community,” said Johnson. “Now more than ever, it’s imperative that our young people not only understand how our democracy works, but get involved so that they can make positive, wise contributions to our country. That’s why I’m looking forward to hearing from these CYAC ‘student ambassadors’ on the issues that matter most to them and their peers and also to joining them in giving back through our CYAC in the Community service projects.” “I congratulate the students of the 2015-2016 Congressional Youth Advisory Council and I thank all our students who applied,” Johnson continued. “We had hundreds of applicants this year, and moving forward CYAC will be a one-year program to allow more students the opportunity to participate – because Collin County has an abundance of exceptional students! With that in mind, I encourage those who are interested in serving on the 2016-2017 Council to apply next fall!” About CYAC: Congressman Johnson created CYAC in 2004 to gain insight from students in the 3rd District and to inspire civic-minded young adults to achieve their full potential. The group meets roughly twice each school semester with Congressman Johnson and distinguished guest speakers. During the CYAC activities, high-caliber students explore the role citizens, lawmakers, and experts play in a vibrant democracy. Anna High School Madisen Leggett Allen High School Omar Amir Colleen Blahnik Worsham Bryant Regan Butler Josephine Kimbrough Miriam Laeky Carson Leung John Payne Centennial High School Chloe Campos Shawn Kennedy Clark High School John Scott Faith Lutheran School Paul Merritt Frisco High School Bryce Johnson Madelyn Hicks Hebron High School Sarah Clonch Homeschooler (Parker, Texas) Steven Elliott Imagine International Academy of North Texas Nora Castaneda iUniversity Prep Hannah Faulkner Independence High School Thanuja Suram Jasper High School Kerhsin Zhuang John Paul II High School Shelby Highlander Anna Matthews Liberty High School Akash Baskaran Nitin Gharpure Lovejoy High School L. Elizabeth Jowers Michael Kline Steven Sereno McKinney High School Neelam Bohra Ryan Stewart McKinney Boyd High School Brendan Corcoran Brendon McMahon Lauren Patton Joshua Pereira Alexandra Thorson McKinney North High School Kayla Gilbreath McKinney Christian Academy Noah Kane NEW College Prep Academy Jonathan Lindstrom Plano Academy High School John Brubaker Thomas Cheng Purvi Contractor Rahul Menon Mason Sims Erin Wanek Plano East High School Matthew Carey Madison Guerra Nathaniel Kaufman Rishi Shridharan Zachary Thomas Plano Sr. High School Joey Basdeo Tanner Cedrone Parker Duncan Daniel Edwards John Hoyt Veronica Michaels Rupasri Shankar Wendy Wang Plano West McKenna Black Sam Bragg Benjamin Carter Brian Du Madeline Groves Stanton Harris Alyssa Hill Kevin Hoodwin Tristan Jackson Andrew Kaminski Catherine Kennington Kaelynn Mayes Daniel Pick Maya Rigley Kevin Rinkliff Taryn Shanes Fatimah Sunez Chelsey Wen Prestonwood Christian Academy Alex Ellington Elizabeth Ellington Prince of Peace Christian High School Corinne Schnell Prosper High School Sydney Alley Myles Bowman Callie Dugger Bailey McGraw Shepton High School Supria Anand Devon Mayes Wylie High School Breanna Jones St. Mark Catholic School Bryce Killian Trinity Christian Academy Andrew LaGassa
10.01.2015	Washington, D.C. – After several years pushing for a local VA clinic to be established in Collin County for North Texas’ many veterans, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is pleased to announce the location for the new VA Community-Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) will be at 3804 West. 15th Street, Plano, Texas 75075. “I know many of our veterans and their families have been eagerly waiting to hear where our new VA clinic would be – in fact it’s one of the questions people ask me the most – so I’m absolutely thrilled to announce the location has been decided,” said Johnson. “The new Collin County VA Clinic will make a huge difference for veterans and their loved ones because they’ll finally be able to receive high-quality care closer to home. This is a huge win for North Texas, and I couldn’t be happier for our community and our hometown heroes.” "The new Plano Clinic will allow more Veterans in North Texas to receive the timely, compassionate, and high quality health care they have earned and deserve," said Jeff Milligan, VA North Texas Health Care System Director. "I would like to personally thank Representative Sam Johnson for his leadership in making this project a reality for our Nation's heroes." “This new clinic is something I’ve been working on for a long time behind the scenes, and it’s great to see this has finally come full circle,” Johnson continued. “It was the right thing to do, and our hard work is paying off. We’re looking forward to the groundbreaking in early fall and I know North Texas veterans will breathe a sigh of relief when this clinic finally opens its doors sometime in the spring!” The 10,000 square foot clinic will open up access to the fast-growing North Texas population and will be equipped to serve 6,000 veterans per year. The CBOC will house five Patient-Aligned Care Teams (PACT) and will be able to provide primary care, mental health, telemedicine, laboratory, and x-ray services. ###
09.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – On behalf of Collin County constituents and in keeping with his Pro-Life record, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) voted against H.R. 719, the Continuing Resolution for FY2016, because it failed to defund Planned Parenthood. Prior to the final vote on H.R. 719, Congressman Johnson supported H.Con.Res.79, a measure to defund Planned Parenthood. After casting these Pro-Life votes, Johnson released the following statement: “As a proud champion of Life, one of my priorities has been to permanently defund Planned Parenthood, America’s largest abortion provider. With the revelation that this organization has been harvesting and selling aborted babies’ body parts and organs, it is clearer than ever that Planned Parenthood must be defunded. As a Christian, father, and grandfather, I believe ALL Life is precious and sacred and must be protected.” ###
09.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – On Wednesday, October 7th the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host their monthly “Mobile Office Hours” to provide Collin County constituents with federal agency assistance at convenient locations across the Third District. October’s Mobile Offices will be located in Allen, Prosper, McKinney, and Sachse (times and specific locations listed below). Appointments are not necessary. “Whatever your issue may be with a federal agency – whether it’s veteran benefits, a problem with the IRS, or Social Security – navigating steps can be very confusing if you’re doing so alone,” said Johnson. “My staff and I understand your frustrations and we’re happy to help you in dealing with federal agencies and making requests on your behalf to make this process easier. I encourage people to visit the nearest Mobile Office location on October 7th, but if you are unable to make it, you are always welcome to contact my Plano office at 469-304-0382.” Johnson’s staff can help with federal agency issues, such as: Medicare; Veterans Affairs (VA); Home foreclosure; Social Security; and Internal Revenue Service. In addition, Johnson’s staff can also: Help with overseas adoptions; Provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C.; Offer application guidance to a U.S. Service Academy; Assist with Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) applications; and Process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Please be aware that Congressman Johnson is elected to serve in the legislative branch of our nation's federal government. He does not have jurisdiction to assist with the following: Agency decisions made in line with federal law or regulation; Problems with a state or local government agency – you must contact your state or local officials for help regarding these issues; Judicial matters; and Private disputes. Examples of these issues are: Child Custody, Divorce, and Criminal Trials or Imprisonment. Please also be aware that, in order for Congressman Johnson’s staff to make inquiries on constituents’ behalf, the Privacy Act of 1974 requires a privacy release be signed before the agency is contacted. If you are represented by counsel, their permission to assist with the case is also required. Make sure to bring all relevant documents so staff is able to help you as expediently as possible. Mobile Office Times and Locations Allen, 9:00am-11:00am Allen Senior Recreation Center 451 St. Mary Drive Allen, Texas 75002 Prosper, 9:00am-11:00am Prosper City Hall 121 W. Broadway St. Prosper, Texas 75078 McKinney, 2:00pm-4:00pm Collin College – Central Park Campus 2200 West University Drive McKinney, Texas 75071 Sachse, 2:00pm-4:00pm Sachse City Hall 5560 Highway 78 Sachse, Texas 75048 ###
09.23.2015	Washington, D.C. – In an effort to prepare seniors for changes to the 2016 Medicare program, on October 15th U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host two information sessions covering Medicare Open Enrollment. These informative presentations are free and open to the public. “Medicare serves millions of older Americans in our country, however, understanding this program and selecting the best plan in anticipation of your health care needs can be very confusing,” said Johnson. “Many folks are unaware of how Medicare actually operates because they never received a basic overview. As part of my ongoing effort to help seniors with their health care needs, I want to ensure folks are made aware of their options prior to selecting their plan for the upcoming year. I encourage all Collin County seniors and caregivers to attend.” The sessions, held in conjunction with the North Central Texas Area Agency on Aging (NCTAAA), will provide a complete overview of the program and will coincide with the annual Medicare and Medicare Prescription Drug Program open enrollment period, which runs between October 15th and December 7th. After the program presentation, benefits counselors with NCTAAA will be on hand to take questions regarding the enrollment process. Please be aware that due to time constraints, the NCTAAA will contact interested attendees in order to set up a specific time for one-on-one counseling at a later date. FREE INFORMATION SESSIONS ON MEDICARE Thursday, October 15, 2015 10:00 am – 12:00 pm Allen Senior Recreation Center 451 St. Mary Drive, Allen Thursday, October 15, 2015 2:00 – 4:00 pm Senior Center at Frisco Square 6670 Moore Street, Frisco NCTAA Benefits Counselors will be on hand after the 2016 Medicare Overview Presentation. For questions regarding counseling services provided by the NCTAAA, please call Mary Jane Douglas at 1-800-272-3921, ext. 7166. For more information on these events, please contact Congressman Johnson’s Plano office at 469-304-0382.
09.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) voted in support of two Pro-Life bills of which he is an original co-sponsor: The Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015 (H.R. 3134) and The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act (H.R. 3505). “As a Christian, father, and grandfather, I believe in the sanctity of LIFE,” said Johnson. “It breaks my heart to see the vile and horrific videos that have surfaced over the last few months depicting Planned Parenthood’s selling of babies’ body parts. I worry that many people around the world have become desensitized to the fact that ALL life is precious and sacred. That’s why I have taken to the House Floor to denounce what is going on at Planned Parenthood.” Johnson continued, “Defunding Planned Parenthood is actually something I have been working on for quite some time. In fact earlier this year, before these videos were released, I called on the Appropriations Committee to stop allowing taxpayer dollars to go to this organization.” “While these votes this week are a great step forward to protect the lives of the unborn, I also believe Washington should follow Texas’ lead by permanently defunding Planned Parenthood. Rest assured I will continue to be a champion for LIFE.” Johnson 2015 Pro-Life Efforts Johnson cosponsors the following Pro-Life bills: The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act (H.R. 36) would ban abortions after 20 weeks. Title X Abortion Provider Prohibition Act (H.R. 217) would prohibit federal planning funding to entities which perform abortions. Life at Conception Act (H.R. 816) would define life as starting at conception. Health Care Conscience Rights Act (H.R. 940) would prohibit retribution against healthcare providers who refuse to provide abortions. Protecting Life and Taxpayers Act (H.R. 3197) would ban all federal funding to entities that perform abortions. End Trafficking of the Terminated Unborn Act (H.R. 3215) would prohibit any fetal tissue research from aborted fetuses. Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act (H.R. 3504) explicitly states that a baby born alive after an attempted abortion is fully protected under federal law. It also would increase federal penalties by including federal murder charges against anyone who performs an act that results in the death of an aborted, live-born baby. Defund Planned Parenthood Act (H.R. 3134) would stop any federal funding to Planned Parenthood for one year after enactment while Congress investigates the Planned Parenthood videos. READ THE LETTER Johnson signed urging the Appropriations Committee to defund Planned Parenthood WATCH JOHNSON ON THE HOUSE FLOOR speaking out against Planned Parenthood videos *Also of note: in the 111th Congress, Johnson voted for two bills to explicitly defund Planned Parenthood (Pence Amendment to H.R. 1 and H.Con.Res. 36). ###
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) voted in opposition to President Obama’s nuclear deal with Iran (H.R. 3461). Johnson has been a fierce critic of the nuclear deal: he took the House Floor most recently on September 10th, 2015 (links to all remarks below). This week Johnson also voted to prohibit President Obama from lifting sanctions on Iran (H.R. 3460). After his “no” vote on the President’s nuclear deal with Iran, Johnson released the following statement: “As America recognizes the 14th Anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks at the World Trade Center, the Pentagon, and Flight 93 – as well as the 3rd Anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attack in Benghazi, we find ourselves at another grave hour. President Obama is seeking approval for his nuclear deal with Iran. Iran – the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism! “Make no mistake about it: this deal is beyond disgraceful…it is dangerous. This deal will harm America’s national security as well as the safety, stability, and security of the region – and the world. I don’t say this lightly. I say this as one of the few Members of Congress who has actually seen combat, who fought in two wars, and who spent nearly seven years as a POW. “To this day, Iran chants “Death to America!” Its regime has the blood of our service members on its hands. Iran is our enemy. Despite these facts, the President asks us to trust Iran. But what has Iran done to earn our trust? Nothing. “The most fundamental question we must ask is: will this deal prevent a nuclear Iran? I can tell you the answer to that question – and it is a resounding NO. “The idea that this deal will prevent Iran from obtaining nuclear capabilities flies in the face of history. Period. This deal paves the way for Iran to get the bomb. It gives Iran everything it wants. It lifts sanctions on Iran to the tune of hundreds of billions of dollars – money that will line the pockets of terrorists. Meanwhile, we must ask Iran’s permission to inspect their nuclear sites…and Iran can tell us no! “This deal is not verifiable. It is not enforceable. And it is fails to hold Iran accountable. It puts America at the mercy of the Iranian government. Worse yet, I’m afraid this deal will start a nuclear arms race in the Middle East. Saudi Arabia has already said as much. “This is not just a bad deal. It is a deal of surrender – and with it, Iran will go nuclear. The alternative to this deal isn’t war. The alternative is to strike a better deal! The irony is that Obama’s deal may very well bring the region closer to war. “Rest assured that I will continue to uphold my most sacred duty – I will do everything within my power to protect the lives of Americans, bring home our hostages, and safeguard our Republic from those who seek to destroy it. The world cannot let Iran become a nuclear power.” Click on a link to view: Remarks during Floor Debate on September 10th, 2015 Remarks on the House Floor July 15th, 2015 Remarks on the House Floor March 26th, 2015 ###
09.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) encourages Third Congressional District high school students to apply for the 2015-2016 Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC). The CYAC provides students with a unique opportunity to learn about hot topics and participate in round table discussions with Congressman Johnson and other distinguished local and state leaders as well as participate in community service activities. The group meets roughly two times each school semester and is open for students enrolled in public, private, and home schools. Completed applications must be submitted to Johnson’s Plano office by September 16th. “Our students in the Third District are smart, savvy, and engaged, which is why it’s always so exciting to help foster and inspire our young leaders through CYAC,” said Johnson. “Every year, the students who apply are more and more impressive, and I look forward to hearing from this school year’s newest group of CYAC student ambassadors and learning about the issues that matter the most to them and their peers.” Johnson created the Council in 2004 to gain insight from students in his district and to inspire civic-minded young adults to achieve their full potential. During the CYAC activities, high-caliber students explore the role citizens, lawmakers, and experts play in a vibrant democracy while starting to build a legacy of service. Students must apply for the CYAC and may only serve on the CYAC two of four years between grades 9 – 12 to ensure as many students as possible are able to participate. For applicants to be considered, they must submit a complete application form, a release form, a current photo for identification purposes only, a short personal essay, and two recommendation forms to Johnson’s Plano office by Wednesday, September 16th. The Council will be comprised of high school freshmen, sophomores, juniors and seniors selected based on proven leadership skills, academic performance, extra-curricular activities, and community service. Click here to print the 2015-2016 CYAC application or call (469) 304-0382 for more information. ###
08.26.2015	Washington, D.C. – On Monday, September 21st, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host a “Fight Fraud Seminar” to help folks protect themselves against identity theft. Congressman Johnson, along with representatives from the Federal Trade Commission and the Office of the Texas Attorney General, will conduct this informative seminar, which is free and open to the public. “Having your identity stolen can be devastating, and many folks who have fallen prey to identity thieves can find themselves fighting to restore their financial lives for years on end,” said Johnson. “What’s worse is that in this day and age the number of identity theft victims in this country is growing. That is why I strongly encourage folks to educate themselves on what they can do to reduce their chances of becoming a victim.” The Fight Fraud Seminar will serve as an opportunity to educate individuals on the ways to prevent and combat fraud and will include hot topics such as types of scams, fraud trends, and identity theft prevention. For more information on this seminar, please call Congressman Johnson’s Plano office at 469-304-0382. FREE FIGHT FRAUD SEMINAR WHEN: Monday, September 21st from 1:30 pm – 3:00 pm WHAT: Fight Fraud Seminar WHERE: Plano Senior Recreation Center Multipurpose Room 401 W. 16th Street Plano, TX 75075 WHO: U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson* Federal Trade Commission Texas Attorney General Office of Consumer Protection *Subject to votes on Capitol Hill.
08.24.2015	PLANO, TX – On Saturday, September 12th, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) invites Collin County students and their families to attend the annual U.S. Service Academy Information Forum to learn more about the selection process and application requirements to attend our nations’ service academies. This is a FREE information session open to all, and no appointment or reservation is required. Students interested in seeking a nomination to the U.S. Air Force Academy (Colorado Springs, CO), the U.S. Military Academy (West Point, NY), the U.S. Naval Academy (Annapolis, MD), and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (Kings Point, NY) are strongly encouraged to attend. “Serving our Great Nation was one of the greatest callings of my life, and it’s inspiring to see America’s next generation of leaders seeking to do their part to serve the greatest country in the world that we are blessed to call home,” said Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran and POW. “It is my honor and my privilege to help these young men and women help answer their own call to duty, and I hope this information session will help them and their families prepare for their service.” If selected to attend, academy cadets receive free tuition, room, and board, as well as a monthly stipend. Upon graduation, they are commissioned as officers in their branch of service where they must complete a multi-year obligation. Students submitting an application must do so by November 12th. For more information on the forum or to request an academy application packet, please visit Congressman Johnson’s website or contact Lori McMahon at (469) 304-0382. 2015 U.S. SERVICE ACADEMY INFORMATION FORUM WHO: Collin County Students and Families DAY: Saturday, September 12th, 2015 TIME: 1:00 pm - 3:00 pm LOCATION: Collin College Preston Ridge Campus, Conference Center 9700 Wade Blvd. Frisco, TX 75035
07.31.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson’s (TX-03) Help Veterans Save for Health Care Act (H.R. 2514) was signed into law as part of H.R. 3236, which passed the House earlier this week on Wednesday. The Help Veterans Save for Health Care Act, which Johnson reintroduced May 21, 2015, helps veterans with service-connected disabilities save for, pay for, and access quality health care. “America’s veterans deserve the best care when they return home after bravely serving our country,” said Johnson. “But unfortunately the IRS has been a major road block for veterans, as well as their families, because the IRS is prohibiting veterans from contributing to a health savings account for a period of time if they choose to get care at the VA. Veterans shouldn’t be put between a rock and hard place when it comes to saving for and receiving health care for service-connected disabilities. On behalf of our veterans I am pleased this common-sense solution, the Help Veterans Save for Health Care Act, is now law. Veterans can rest assured that I will continue to be an advocate on their behalf in Washington.” Raymond Kelley, Veterans of Foreign Wars National Legislative Director, praised Johnson’s effort, stating, “The Helping Veterans Save for Health Care Act is a significant step towards addressing a detrimental inequity in current law. This legislation would ensure veterans who utilize their earned VA benefits for service-connected health care are not precluded from saving for future health care needs. The VFW applauds Congressman Johnson for his leadership in addressing this important issue.” ###
07.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – In order to ensure Collin County and Texas teachers, firefighters, and police officers are treated no differently than other workers when it comes to their Social Security benefits, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) has signed on to H.R. 711, the Equal Treatment of Public Servants Act of 2015, which would do away with the Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP). “Collin County’s teachers, firefighters, and police officers go above and beyond to serve our community and help make it a place people are proud to call home,” said Johnson, Chairman of Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee. “Just because someone happens to serve the public doesn’t mean that they should be penalized when it comes to their retirement. Unfortunately, many of our public servants who have paid into Social Security are treated unfairly due to the Windfall Elimination Provision. This is WRONG! The men and women who teach our children and protect our communities, at times even putting their lives on the line, work hard – and they deserve to have their work treated the same as every other American who pays into Social Security. ALL Americans want, need, and deserve the ability to achieve a secure retirement. I thank my colleague, Chairman of Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Kevin Brady, for leading the way on this issue. I am proud to join this fight.” Specifically, H.R. 711 repeals the Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP), which applies a different and arbitrary formula for public servants and replaces it with the same formula for all workers. Moreover H.R. 711 satisfies the Johnson Rule, as H.R. 711 would help improve the solvency of Social Security. “I am honored to have the House Ways and Means leader on Social Security as a cosponsor for this important piece of legislation,” stated Brady. “Social Security is extremely complicated, and through its formulas, it often doesn't treat people fairly. This bill is about treating our public servants who teach our children and protect our communities the same as any other American.” Texas Retired Teachers Association (TRTA) and Association of Texas Professional Educators (ATPE) both praised Johnson’s efforts to see the current WEP Provision replaced. “The Texas Retired Teachers Association (TRTA) is proud to stand with Congressman Sam Johnson in his support of the Equal Treatment of Public Servants Act. Texas’ retired school employees have always appreciated the support and leadership provided by Congressman Johnson, and we agree that this bill will help resolve an unfair disadvantage for our public school employees, firefighters, police officers and other public workers. Texas public education retirees support H.R. 711 for its problem-solving approach, which fixes this unfair provision affecting thousands of public workers in Texas and around the country – and does so with the kind of common-sense fiscal discipline we have come to count on from Congressmen Sam Johnson and Kevin Brady.” Tim Lee, Texas Retired Teachers Association (TRTA) Executive Director “ATPE has worked closely with Congressman Johnson to solve this problem, which is so important to public servants in Texas. We thank Congressman Johnson for his endorsement of H.R. 711 and are grateful for his continued support for this proposal as a fix to the WEP. ATPE looks forward to working with the bill’s co-sponsors and the Ways and Means Committee to pass this important legislation in the 114th Congress.” Cory Colby, State president of the Association of Texas Professional Educators (ATPE) ###
07.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House passed U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson’s (TX-03) Help Veterans Save for Health Care Act (H.R. 2514) as part of H.R. 3236. Johnson’s bill would help veterans with service-connected disabilities save for, pay for, and access quality health care. The passage of the Help Veterans Save for Health Care Act preceded the House’s approval of H.R. 1994, the VA Accountability Act that would, in light of the VA wait-listing scandal, make it easier to fire bad VA employees. During debate on the House Floor, Congressman Johnson made the following statement regarding the Help Veterans Save for Health Care Act: “As a 29-year Air Force veteran and former POW, it’s no secret I’m a proud advocate for America’s veterans. They bravely served our country, and they deserve the best care when they return home. Unfortunately, the Veteran’s Administration has failed to uphold its end of the bargain. And we’ve been working hard to fix it. “But to add insult to injury, the IRS – yes the IRS – has also let down our veterans. “Right now, the IRS prohibits veterans from contributing to a health savings account for a period of time if they choose to get care at the VA. These health savings accounts enable Americans to save and pay for medical expenses. And yet here we have the IRS standing in the way of veterans… keeping them from getting the care they want, need and deserve. That’s wrong! “Bottom-line, veterans shouldn’t have to choose between getting care at the VA for a service-connected disability or being able to save for health care, including for their families. My bill would allow veterans to do both. “In closing I thank my colleagues from both sides of the aisle for their support. I’d also like to thank the Chairman for working with me on this. But most importantly, I want to personally thank each of our veterans who faithfully served to protect our Great Nation. Let’s get this done.” ###
07.17.2015	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) reintroduced the Wrongful Convictions Tax Relief Act (H.R. 3086) – legislation that would prohibit the IRS from taxing compensation awarded to people who have been imprisoned due to a wrongful conviction. “Many folks know that I spent nearly seven years of my life as Prisoner of War – those are years away from my family that I can’t get back…and the same can be said for individuals who have been locked up due to a wrongful conviction,” said Johnson. “While I wish we could return to them the years these innocent individuals lost in imprisonment, Congress can ensure they don’t suffer the additional injustice of the IRS taxing their restitution. What the IRS is doing is just wrong! These wrongfully convicted folks – and their families – have already suffered enough. They are working hard to move forward with their lives and they deserve to do so without obstacle.” According to the Innocence Project there have been over 300 DNA exonerations, with 52 in Texas alone. Texas provides $80,000 per year as well as other benefits for those who have been wrongfully imprisoned. Most recently, on June 1, Governor Greg Abbott signed into law legislation establishing the Timothy Cole Exoneration Review Commission, which will be charged with coming up with recommendations to prevent future wrongful convictions. The Commission is named after Timothy Cole who was imprisoned and subsequently died in prison for a crime he did not commit. Johnson’s Wrongful Convictions Tax Relief Act is supported by FreedomWorks and Americans for Tax Reform, and both have called on other lawmakers to support the legislation. Full letters of support can be read by following the links. Excerpts below: Americans for Tax Reform: “Closing the recompense tax problem should be at the forefront of all legislators concerned with fair taxation and legal justice. No innocent person should have to spend time in prison only to find a tax bill in the mail for their rightful compensation. I ask that your colleagues in the House and Senate take up this essential legislation.” FreedomWorks: “When someone is wrongfully convicted of a crime they didn’t commit, it is both unjust and insulting to then apply taxes to their restitution. I hope you’ll contact your representative and urge him or her to support and co-sponsor the Wrongful Convictions Tax Relief Act, H.R. 3086.” ###
07.15.2015	Washington, D.C. – On Wednesday, July 29th the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host their monthly “Mobile Office Hours” to provide Collin County constituents with federal agency assistance at convenient locations across the Third District. July’s Mobile Offices will be located in Celina, McKinney, Murphy and Fairview (times and specific locations listed below). Appointments are not necessary. At each Mobile Office, folks will also able to pick up nomination forms for Congressman Johnson’s annual Congressional Veterans Commendation (CVC) ceremony held in the fall. This program is designed to publicly recognize the wartime sacrifices and peacetime community involvement of Collin County veterans. More information about the CVC can be found HERE. “Constituents frequently contact my office because they require assistance with federal agencies – which can be very confusing if you are navigating steps alone,” said Johnson. “My staff and I are happy to help you in dealing with federal agencies and making requests on your behalf to make this process easier. Maybe you need help with veteran benefits, a problem with the IRS, or emergency passport assistance for summer travel! Whatever the issue may be, I encourage people to visit the nearest Mobile Office location on July 29th, but if you are unable to make it, you are always welcome to contact my Plano office at 469-304-0382.” Johnson’s staff can help with federal agency issues, such as: Medicare; Veterans Affairs (VA); Home foreclosure; Social Security; and Internal Revenue Service. In addition, Johnson’s staff can also: Help with overseas adoptions; Provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C.; Offer application guidance to a U.S. Service Academy; Assist with Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) applications; and Process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Please be aware that Congressman Johnson is elected to serve in the legislative branch of our nation's federal government. He does not have jurisdiction to assist with the following: Agency decisions made in line with federal law or regulation; Problems with a state or local government agency – you must contact your state or local officials for help regarding these issues; Judicial matters; and Private disputes. Examples of these issues are: Child Custody, Divorce, and Criminal Trials or Imprisonment. Please also be aware that, in order for Congressman Johnson’s staff to make inquiries on constituents’ behalf, the Privacy Act of 1974 requires a privacy release be signed before the agency is contacted. If you are represented by counsel, their permission to assist with the case is also required. Make sure to bring all relevant documents so staff is able to help you as expediently as possible. Mobile Office Times and Locations Celina, 9:00am-11:00am Old City Council Chambers 302 W. Walnut Street Celina, Texas 75009 McKinney, 9:00am-11:00am McKinney City Hall 222 N. Tennessee Street McKinney, Texas 75069 Murphy, 2:00pm-4:00pm Murphy City Hall 206 N. Murphy Road Murphy, Texas 75094 Fairview, 2:00pm-4:00pm Fairview City Hall 372 Town Place Fairview, Texas 75069
07.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – In response to the White House’s announcement that President Obama and the P5+1 group (China, Russia, United Kingdom, United States, plus Germany) have reached a nuclear deal with Iran, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) made the following statement: “Time and again Obama has proven we can’t take him at his word – and that is especially the case with this nuclear deal with Iran. It’s a bad deal that gives away the farm, and Obama’s assurances that it will prevent a nuclear Iran are delusional. The idea that Iran will not go nuclear with this deal simply flies in the face of history. PERIOD. “Thanks to Obama, the deal would lift tough, crippling sanctions on Iran that would boost Iran’s Islamic theocracy by hundreds of billions of dollars. And what does America get out of this deal? We get to ask permission from Iran to inspect their nuclear sites…and they have 14 days to decide whether or not they would like to grant it to us. This does nothing to ensure Iran DOESN’T obtain nuclear weapons, and instead puts us at the mercy of the Iranian government. Worse yet, I’m afraid this deal will undoubtedly start a nuclear arms race in the Middle East. Saudi Arabia has already said as much. “Unfortunately this deal is part and parcel with Obama’s disastrously naïve foreign policy that is based on accommodating and appeasing our adversaries, stiffing our friends, and all the while gutting our military. This is a sad day for America. “Rest assured I will be opposing this bad deal and will be doing everything in my power to keep Iran from getting a nuclear weapon. I am also calling on the American people to make sure the President hears you loud a clear: we DO NOT want this deal! If Obama follows through on his veto threat, we will need 2/3 of Congress to stand strong and STOP this deal in its tracks.” ###
07.04.2015	PLANO, TX – As America celebrates its independence, declared 239 years ago, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03), 29-year Air Force veteran and POW for nearly seven years, released the following statement: “America’s Independence Day is a day I look forward to every year. It’s a day when we celebrate what makes our nation the greatest nation in the world. Our country has a truly unique history. Men and women came to America seeking freedom from persecution, and our Founding Fathers sought freedom from a monarchy – they declared independence to instead govern themselves and they created the first true republic of We The People. As a result, we are blessed beyond measure to live in a country where we enjoy freedom in its many forms – the freedom of speech, the freedom to bear arms, and the freedom of religion, just to name a few. “As we celebrate our freedom, we also honor the men and women who ensure that we remain the Land of the Free. After all, freedom is not free and we are only as strong as our protectors and defenders – our troops and veterans who have put their lives on the line, many even giving their lives. I thank all our service members and their families for their dedication and their sacrifice. “So as we join together to celebrate our American independence, I’d like to quote the last line from our Founding Father’s Declaration of Independence: ‘And for the support of this Declaration, with a firm reliance on the protection of divine Providence, we mutually pledge to each other our Lives, our Fortunes and our sacred Honor.’ “To the families across Collin County I am privileged to represent, it is my prayer that God may continue to bless our Great Nation. And it is my pledge to you that I will continue to fight to uphold the values that founded America and our Constitution. May God bless you and your families. I salute you.” ###
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) made the following statement in response to today’s Supreme Court ruling, which upheld Obamacare subsides (King v. Burwell case): “Obamacare is a TERRIBLE law, and it’s been terrible since day one for more reasons than I can count. Today’s Supreme Court ruling was a loss for the rule of law, and to say I’m disappointed is an understatement. We unfortunately have a Court that is shirking its responsibility to uphold the Constitution. But you can rest assured that, regardless, I will continue to fight Obamacare until it is fully repealed. It is the right thing to do.”
06.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) reintroduced his Small Business Health Fairness Act (H.R. 2868), a health care solution that would allow small business employers to band together through association health plans (AHPs) in order to purchase quality health care at a lower cost. After reintroducing the bill, Congressman Johnson released the following statement: “Right now hardworking Americans are struggling due to Obamacare, and it’s becoming harder for employers, especially small businesses, to provide their employees with affordable coverage. I hear from folks all the time who have experienced sharp increases with out-of-pocket costs and premiums due to this bad law. I also hear from small business owners who want to offer health insurance but simply can’t afford it. Maybe you’ve experienced the same thing. And let me tell you, I think that’s wrong. That’s why I’m offering a solution with my Small Business Health Fairness Act – a bill to help Americans by enabling employers to provide affordable coverage to workers and their families. “You know, people like to accuse Republicans of not having alternative solutions for health care, but that really couldn’t be further from the truth. There have been several plans offered over the years, and the Small Business Health Fairness Act has been a key component of almost every one of those plans. I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure this bill is enacted not if but when we repeal and replace Obamacare!” Local small business owners have lauded Johnson’s bill, including Jeff Scheumack of Plano. Said Scheumack, “With not being able to pool small companies together to get a break on insurance policies and prices, small businesses like my own are at a competitive disadvantage in hiring employees since large employers can offer lower premiums and therefore higher take-home pay. At present, since my insurance has gone up so much, offering an employee a 3-5% raise does not even cover the increased cost of their insurance premium, even after I pay 75% of my employee’s premiums. I need the ability to pool together with other small businesses so that we have the bargaining power to get better policies and at lower costs.” ###
06.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – On Tuesday, June 23rd the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) will host their monthly “Mobile Office Hours” to conveniently provide Collin County constituents with federal agency assistance. June’s Mobile Offices will be located in Frisco, Plano West, Wylie, and Princeton (times and specific locations listed below). Appointments are not necessary. At each Mobile Office, folks will also able to pick up nomination forms for Congressman Johnson’s annual Congressional Veterans Commendation (CVC) ceremony held in the fall. This program is designed to publicly recognize the wartime sacrifices and peacetime community involvement of Collin County veterans. More information about the CVC can be found HERE. “Dealing with federal agencies can be very confusing, and a top priority of mine is ensuring my staff and I provide you with help – whether that’s helping you navigate steps or making requests on your behalf,” said Johnson. “Maybe you need help with veteran benefits, a problem with the IRS, or emergency passport assistance for summer travel. I encourage people to visit the nearest Mobile Office location on June 23rd, but if you are unable to make it, you are always welcome to contact my Plano office at 469-304-0382.” Johnson’s staff can help with federal agency issues, such as: Medicare; Veterans Affairs (VA); Home foreclosure; Social Security; and Internal Revenue Service. In addition, Johnson’s staff can also: Help with overseas adoptions; Provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C.; Offer application guidance to a U.S. Service Academy; Assist with Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) applications; and Process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Please be aware that Congressman Johnson is elected to serve in the legislative branch of our nation's federal government. He does not have jurisdiction to assist with the following: Agency decisions made in line with federal law or regulation; Problems with a state or local government agency – you must contact your state or local officials for help regarding these issues; Judicial matters; and Private disputes. Examples of these issues are: Child Custody, Divorce, and Criminal Trials or Imprisonment. Please also be aware that, in order for Congressman Johnson’s staff to make inquiries on constituents’ behalf, the Privacy Act of 1974 requires a privacy release be signed before the agency is contacted. If you are represented by counsel, their permission to assist with the case is also required. Make sure to bring all relevant documents so staff is able to help you as expediently as possible. Mobile Office Times and Locations Frisco, 9:00am-11:00am George A. Purefory Municipal Center 6101 Frisco Square Boulevard Frisco, TX 75034 Plano West, 9:00am-11:00am Christopher A. Parr Library 6200 Windhaven Parkway Plano, TX 75078 Wylie, 2:00pm-4:00pm Wylie City Hall 300 County Club Road, Building 100, 1st Floor Wylie, TX 75098 Princeton, 2:00pm-4:00pm Princeton City Hall 123 West Princeton Drive Princeton, TX 75407 ###
06.12.2015	Washington, DC – On June 11th and 12th, 2015 the U.S. House of Representatives voted on several trade bills: H.R. 1295, Trade Preferences Extension; H.R. 1314, Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA); H.R. 1314, Trade Promotion Authority (TPA); and H.R. 644, Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement. After the conclusion of the four votes, Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) made the following statement regarding his vote for Trade Promotion Authority: “I don’t trust this President as far as I can throw him. I’ve opposed the President at every turn, from Obamacare to his amnesty for illegal immigrants ... the list goes on. The very last thing I would ever do is give this President any more power. But TPA doesn’t do that. On the contrary, TPA is all about empowering Congress and the American people when it comes to trade. Because right now, the President can not only negotiate a deal but also leave Congress in the dark – and I think this is WRONG. TPA changes all that. With TPA Congress sets the trade negotiating objectives – not the President. With TPA the President can’t hide what he is doing. The President must present to the American people any trade deal before Congress can even consider it. Fundamentally, TPA is about accountability, transparency, and America getting the best trade deal. I don’t know about you, but I want to ensure We The People have a real say on trade. “This is also about jobs. Texas is the #1 state for exports, and with trade exports come jobs. In fact, 3,000,000 jobs are dependent on trade in Texas. That is another reason why I support TPA. In addition to keeping Obama in check, I will not turn my back on all the workers, farmers, and ranchers in Collin County whose livelihoods’ depend on trade. It’s why I will not stand with Nancy Pelosi and the Elizabeth Warrens of the world who would rather have the U.S. lose out on jobs by having the U.S. sit on the trade sidelines. It’s why I refuse to subscribe to the politics of paranoia and fear of the naysayers, even if it would do me political good. As a former POW, American patriot, and constitutional conservative, I’ve always been committed to doing what is right for God and country. And in this case it is standing up for free trade, jobs, and holding President Obama accountable.” Congressman Johnson voted in support of H.R. 1295, Trade Preferences Extension; H.R. 1314, TPA; and H.R. 644, Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement. He opposed H.R. 1314, TAA. To read TPA (a public bill) in its entirety, CLICK HERE. For more information about TPA, TPP, and key points on trade, visit Congressman Johnson’s website hot topic page HERE.
06.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Last evening U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) and Congresswoman Vicky Hartzler (R-MO) introduced the Right of Way for American Drivers Act. This bill takes an important and commonsense step towards putting drivers first by ending one of Washington’s gas tax diversions. “It’s not news that North Texas is booming, and I’m sure it also comes as no surprise that most commuters drive – in fact, over 85% of American commuters are drivers,” said Johnson. “And yet every time commuters fill up at the pump, some of their gas tax dollars go towards projects like buggy trails and bike paths rather than where they are needed most – roads and bridges. My bill would right this wrong. I thank Congresswoman Hartzler for joining me in this commonsense effort.” “From 1992 to 2013, over $1.3 billion was spent on landscaping and scenic beautification,” Hartzler continued. “That’s $1.3 billion that could have been spent repairing the over 60,000 “structurally deficient” bridges – more than 3,300 of which are in Missouri – or the miles of highways that continue to plague our commutes and our vehicles. My bill will free funds from extraneous projects, allowing them to go where they are needed – upgrading and improving our national infrastructure – and I thank Congressman Johnson for joining me in straightening out our transportation funding priorities.” The Right of Way for American Drivers Act effort, which would repeal the Transportation Alternatives Program (TAP), is supported by Americans for Prosperity. ###
05.21.2015	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03), Chairman of the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee, joined fellow Committee member Congresswoman Kristi Noem (R-SD) in reintroducing the Control Unlawful Fugitive Felons (CUFF) Act. This bill would prevent felons who are fleeing the law or who are violating a condition of their probation or parole from getting Social Security benefits. “Individuals running from the law or violating their parole or probation shouldn’t be supported with taxpayer dollars,” said Johnson. “That’s why I’m pleased to join Congresswoman Noem in reintroducing this commonsense Law and Order bill. Not only would it help law enforcement, but it is the right thing to do on behalf of hardworking American taxpayers!” Local law enforcement widely supports Johnson’s CUFF Act: “In the effort to combat crime and help get dangerous felons off the streets of our communities, it is imperative that we use all of the resources available. Many times, individuals who are the subject of a felony warrant have little fear that they will be arrested. The Control Unlawful Fugitive Felon (CUFF) Act, authored by Congressman Johnson, provides an unconventional tool that will make it more difficult for felons to avoid capture and continue in their activities by removing any source of federal financial support. This Act removes the incentive for these individuals to avoid responsibility and will assist law enforcement in apprehending dangerous felons.” Police Chief Greg Rushin, City of Plano “Once again, Congressman Johnson is on the forefront of ensuring safer communities by introducing this legislation that will assist law enforcement efforts in apprehending fugitive felons. This bill will remove a source of funding that enables fugitive felons to remain at large and evade capture. Congressman Johnson's common sense approach eliminates the possibility that Social Security funds will be perverted and expended for the counter-productive use of financing felons' ability to become or remain fugitives. The law enforcement community applauds and supports Congressman Johnson for introducing this legislation." Police Chief Doug Kowalski, Town of Prosper “I support this legislation. After all, most law and order advocates hate for any fugitive/criminal to benefit from public funds. I believe Social Security benefits are meant for law-abiding individuals who are in good standing. We do not believe that these benefits are for those who flee from charges and perhaps use those monetary benefits to remain on the run.” Police Chief Kenny Jenks, City of Anna “A citizen who has a clear responsibility to comply with a duly issued warrant for his or her arrest pending the outcome of a trier of fact, should not be allowed to benefit from public programs that support his or her life style while avoiding living up to his or her responsibilities as a citizen. Those responsibilities include the duty to yield to the authority of a court or a magistrate who, upon having been presented with a set of facts and circumstances, has issued a warrant of arrest for this person making him or her a fugitive. Fugitives should not benefit while in such a status. I, totally, support the intent of this law.” Police Chief G.M. Cox, City of Murphy “I support the Control Unlawful Fugitive Act. This legislation would restore a valuable law enforcement tool that will help keep our communities safe by disrupting a felony fugitive’s ability to escape justice.” Police Chief B.E Harvey, City of Allen “I am happy to lend my support to Congressman Johnson's Control Unlawful Fugitive Felons Act. It is only right that fugitive felons be denied government benefits paid for by law abiding citizens. This legislation will very likely give us another advantage in keeping our streets safe.” Police Chief Jimmy L. Spivey, City of Richardson “I support the introduction of this important legislation. The Control Unlawful Fugitive Felon (CUFF) Act amends the Social Security Act to prohibit an individual who is the subject of an outstanding arrest warrant for a felony or parole violation from receiving Social Security Retirement and Disability benefits, Special World War II benefits, and Supplemental Security Income (SSI) payments. Removal of benefits may cause fugitives from justice to resolve their cases.” Police Chief John W. Bruce, City of Frisco "I thank Sam Johnson for his leadership in being tough on crime. By preventing felons from accessing benefits, his bill will help keep criminals from evading the law - and will ultimately help law enforcement catch these criminals." Terry G. Box, Collin County Sheriff
05.20.2015	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) and Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) reintroduced the Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN) Reform Act. The ITIN Reform Act is in response to a highly critical 2012 Tax Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA) report on the IRS’ handling of ITIN applications. The IRS provides ITINs to individuals ineligible for Social Security numbers such as illegal immigrants. The ITIN can be used to get refundable tax credits such as the $1,000 refundable child tax credit. “This bill is part of my ongoing effort to root out waste, fraud, and abuse,” said Johnson. “The ITIN Reform Act makes commonsense reforms that hard-working American taxpayers want, need, and deserve. I thank my colleague and fellow Texan, Senator Cornyn, for leading the effort in the Senate.” Johnson’s and Cornyn’s ITIN Reform Act would put safeguards in place to prevent fraud in the ITIN application process. It would also require the Tax Inspector General for Tax Administration to conduct regular audits to ensure the IRS is protecting taxpayer dollars. “Everything we hear about the IRS lately points to abuse, discrimination, and waste. Passing this bill would eliminate one avenue for tax fraud and save American taxpayers billions of dollars,” said Sen. Cornyn. Specifically, the ITIN Reform Act would require first-time applicants to submit an ITIN application in-person at a Taxpayer Assistance Center or diplomatic consulate. Currently, applicants can submit their applications by mail or through a third party. Individuals seeking an ITIN would need to provide original documentation establishing their identity and foreign status. Additionally, new ITINs would have a 5-year time limit with an option to renew while existing ITINS would be time limited.
05.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) reintroduced his Refundable Child Tax Credit Eligibility Verification Reform Act. The bill seeks to prevent illegal immigrants from claiming the $1,000 refundable child tax credit. Last year the House passed this measure, which at the time was estimated to save taxpayers $24.5 billion. Johnson spoke out about this problem on the House Floor, stating: “It’s no secret that a majority of Americans oppose Obama’s amnesty. And I’ve been fighting against it from day one. As part of my on-going effort to combat Obama’s amnesty, I’m reintroducing my bill to stop illegals from claiming the refundable child tax credit. “Right now, the IRS doesn’t require Social Security numbers for this credit. The Inspector General said that as a result, illegals can get thousands of dollars from the IRS. It’s no surprise that it also encourages more illegals to come here. “To stop this, my bill requires individuals to provide their Social Security numbers if they want to claim this tax credit. Last year, the House passed my measure, which was estimated to save taxpayers $24.5 billion. This is a common-sense bill Americans, want, need, and deserve. Let’s get this done!” ###
05.13.2015	Washington, D.C. – On Wednesday, May 20th the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) will host their monthly “Mobile Office Hours” of 2015. The Mobile Offices will be located in Allen, Anna, Plano East, and Fairview (times and specific locations listed below). This is an ongoing effort to conveniently provide Collin County constituents with assistance by visiting different communities across North Texas. Appointments are not necessary. “Dealing with federal agencies can be very confusing, and it’s important to me that my staff and I provide you with help – whether that’s helping you navigate steps or making requests on your behalf,” said Johnson. “I encourage people to visit the nearest Mobile Office location on May 20th, but if you are unable to make it, you are always welcome to contact my Plano office at 469-304-0382.” Johnson’s staff can help with federal agency issues, such as: Medicare; Veterans Affairs (VA); Home foreclosure; Social Security; and Internal Revenue Service. In addition, Johnson’s staff can also: Help with overseas adoptions; Provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C.; Offer application guidance to a U.S. Service Academy; Assist with Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) applications; and Process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Please be aware that Congressman Johnson is elected to serve in the legislative branch of our nation's federal government. He does not have jurisdiction to assist with the following: Agency decisions made in line with federal law or regulation; Problems with a state or local government agency – you must contact your state or local officials for help regarding these issues; Judicial matters; and Private disputes. Examples of these issues are: Child Custody, Divorce, and Criminal Trials or Imprisonment. Please also be aware that, in order for Congressman Johnson’s staff to make inquiries on constituents’ behalf, the Privacy Act of 1974 requires a privacy release be signed before the agency is contacted. If you are represented by counsel, their permission to assist with the case is also required. Make sure to bring all relevant documents so staff is able to help you as expediently as possible. Mobile Office Times and Locations Allen, 9:00am-11:00am Allen Senior Recreation Center 451 St. Mary Drive Allen, Texas 75002 Anna, 9:00am-11:00am Anna City Hall 111 North Powell Parkway Anna, Texas 75409 Plano East, 2:00pm-4:00pm Plano Municipal Center 1520 K Avenue Plano, Texas 75074 Fairview, 2:00pm-4:00pm Fairview Town Hall 372 Town Place Fairview, Texas 74069 ###
05.13.2015	Washington, DC – Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) voted in support of the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act (H.R. 36), which protects unborn children, empowers women, and saves lives. Specifically, this bill would prohibit abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy, while allowing for exceptions in cases of rape, incest, or when the life of the mother is threatened. Additionally, it would provide victims of sexual assault with options for medical and emotional support. “I believe in the sanctity of Life, which is why I’ve consistently supported legislation to protect the rights of our unborn who cannot speak for themselves,” said Johnson. “That’s why I find it so disturbing that right now America finds itself on the short list of countries – including North Korea, Vietnam, and China – that allow late term-term abortions.” Johnson continued, “The fact that unborn babies feel pain at the 20-week mark, and that advances in medicine increasingly enable children to survive premature birth, only makes late-term abortions more horrifying. We need to stop this practice. I’m pleased the House passed this important bill, and I hope the new Republican Senate does the right thing by passing the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act and placing it on the President’s desk.” ###
04.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – To save American taxpayers’ dollars, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) introduced the Wasteful EPA Programs Elimination Act of 2015. This bill would terminate or eliminate federal funding for 13 wasteful Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) programs, would close all EPA field offices, and require the EPA to lease or sell all underutilized properties. The Heritage Foundation estimates this bill would save taxpayers more than $7.5 billion over 10 years. “As a fiscal conservative, I believe Washington should be respectful of taxpayers’ dollars and live within its means,” said Johnson. “American taxpayers certainly don’t need to be paying for the EPA’s empty and unused buildings and its wasteful programs. This bill does right by the hardworking folks in my district and across the country and is part of my ongoing effort to get our fiscal house in order.” Specifically, the Wasteful EPA Programs Elimination Act of 2015 would: Terminate the following wasteful programs: All EPA grant programs (and also prohibit the EPA from establishing or implementing any new grant programs) National Clean Diesel Campaign Environmental justice programs Eliminate federal funding for the following: Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program Climate Resilience Fund Climate Resilience Evaluation Awareness Tool Green Infrastructure Program Climate Ready Water Utilities Initiative Regulating greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles Regulating greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuel-fired power plants Climate research at the EPA’s Office of Research and Development Prohibit the use of funds for new ozone standards Eliminate and close the EPA’s state, regional, district, local, and field offices Require the EPA to dispose of or lease any property determined by the EPA IG to be underutilized
04.28.2015	Plano, TX – On Monday night, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) announced the winners of the 2015 Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery,” during a free exhibit and awards ceremony held at the McKinney Performing Arts Center. “During this year’s Art Competition, we had more entries than ever before – and the wealth of creativity that our North Texas student artists demonstrated is outstanding,” said Johnson. “The student turnout speaks volumes about the breadth of artistic talent across the district, and it also speaks highly of the encouragement and training that is going on in Collin County’s high school art classes. I congratulate all our students for participating – and I thank everyone who came out to support our young artists!” The First Place winner of the 2015 Art Competition is Hannah Driks from Allen High School for her piece, “Orangeade.” Driks’s artwork will soon travel to Washington, D.C. where it will be displayed in the United States Capitol building for one year along with other First Place winners’ artwork from across the nation. At the awards ceremony, a Southwest Airlines representative also presented Driks with two free tickets for roundtrip airfare to Washington, D.C. where she will attend the national 2015 Congressional Art Competition unveiling ceremony in June. The Second Place winner is Isabel Arcellana for “A Day in the Sun.” As the second place winner, Arcellana’s work will be proudly displayed in Congressman Sam Johnson’s district office in Plano for one year. First Place winner Hannah Driks and Congressman Sam Johnson with Hannah's winning artwork, "Orangeade." Full List of 2015 Art Competition Winners: Place Student Title of Piece School Hometown Teacher First Hannah Driks Orangeade Allen High School Allen John Garrott Second Isabel Arcellana A Day in the Sun Arcellana Home School Frisco Margret Kunkel Third Varsha Appaji The Colors of Rhythm Jasper High School Plano Synne Ferguson-Aurora Images Art Studio Fourth Vivian Chao En Pointe Allen High School Allen Stephanie Richards People’s Choice Award George Makary The Virgin and the Evangelists Allen High School Allen Stephanie Richards Honorable Mention Alondra Carbajal Recuerdate Williams High School Plano Christine Miller Honorable Mention Ellie Erhart Behind the Mirror McKinney North High School McKinney Hope Dodson Honorable Mention Caroline Hudson Grandma Tournebene Allen High School Allen Stephanie Richards Honorable Mention Sydney Landers Breathe Plano Senior High School Plano Andy Serie Honorable Mention Layna Maso Retro Girls Prestonwood Christian Academy Frisco Brenda Robson Honorable Mention Nikita Menta Ice Cream Shop Heritage High School Frisco Sarah Watkins Honorable Mention Abigail Renee Merz Still Life in Geometry John Paul II High School Lucas Jeff Steed Honorable Mention Nik Peacock Giverny Purple McKinney Boyd High School McKinney Cindi Garrett Honorable Mention Alexis Rambo Bowl of Apples John Paul II High School Dallas Jeff Steed Honorable Mention Alicia Yu Serenity Frisco High School Frisco Suzanne Blair
04.23.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) reintroduced the No Social Security Numbers & Benefits for Illegal Aliens Act. This bill is in direct response to President Obama’s November 21st executive order that allows illegal immigrants to receive work permits that would then enable them to get Social Security numbers and government benefits. After reintroducing the No Social Security Numbers & Benefits for Illegal Aliens Act, Johnson made the following statement: “A majority of Americans oppose the President’s executive amnesty, and for good reason! It’s unfair to America’s millions of law-abiding citizens who came here legally, and it’s unfair to every hardworking American taxpayer who will now have to pay for these illegal immigrants’ Social Security benefits! The President is bilking the American people and he’s willfully ignoring our Constitution and way of government. I won’t stand for it, which is why I continue to oppose his executive amnesty by voting time and again against Obama’s illegal actions. But I’m also fighting amnesty as Chairman of the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee through the No Social Security Numbers & Benefits for Illegal Aliens Act. NO American taxpayer should be responsible for someone else’s benefits when that person broke the law and is not an American citizen. PERIOD.” Specifically in response to President Obama’s executive action, the Johnson bill would: Prevent Social Security numbers from being issued by the Social Security Administration to those made eligible for Social Security numbers by Obama’s executive amnesty. Prevent Social Security benefit eligibility for those made eligible for benefits by the executive amnesty. Deny credit towards earning Social Security benefits during periods when an individual was not authorized to work. ###
04.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) introduced the No More Tolls for Roads Act, which would repeal federal law that allows for tolling. “I have been hearing loud and clear from my constituents about their rising frustrations over the rapid expansion of tolls in our area,” said Johnson. “With the North Texas area set to have the largest toll network in the country, it is clear that tolling has gone overboard.” Johnson continued, “The bottom line is that these tolls are a double tax. Collin County drivers already pay both state and federal gas taxes for roads. What’s more, Texas is the ONLY ‘donor state’ in the country – meaning Texas’ taxpayers give more to the federal government than they get in return. That’s why, to save North Texans’ hard-earned dollars, I am introducing the No More Tolls for Roads Act. My bill puts up a ‘stop sign’ on future tolling by ending the federal government’s tolling authority. My bill also sends a clear warning to President Obama that I will fight his pro-tolling agenda. Enough is enough. “I’m proud to join our state legislators in Collin County who are leading this effort in Austin, and I look forward to working with our transportation leaders. My constituents deserve responsible solutions that respect their pocketbooks and also effectively meet the transportation needs of Collin County.” North Texas state legislators have rallied behind Congressman Sam Johnson’s No More Tolls for Roads Act: "Hardworking taxpayers expect and deserve our elected leaders - at all levels of government - to stand up and push back against the rush to build new toll roads and to toll existing roads. I laud Congressman Johnson for stepping up with a bold, common-sense plan that is responsive to the concerns of our commuters and taxpayers." State Rep. Jeff Leach (House District 67) "I am excited to work with Congressman Johnson to provide relief for our constituents from excessive tolling." State Rep. Matt Shaheen (House District 66) "The people of Senate District 8 have spoken loud and clear and they are fed up with the excessive tolling that engulfs our communities. While I will continue to fight vigorously in the Texas Senate to not only stop the construction of new toll roads, but to also begin the conversion of current toll roads into free lanes, I am excited to learn Congressman Johnson has taken this fight to the federal government. The Collin County legislative delegation stands united against the proliferation of tolling in our area." State Senator Van Taylor (District 4) By way of background, at the federal level there is currently a general prohibition on tolls, with two major exceptions to the general prohibition. One exception allows tolls for new highways and/or new lanes on existing highways (Section 129 General Tolling Program). The other exception provides for tolls on HOV-converted HOT lanes (Section 166 HOV/HOT Lanes program). In addition, there are two pilot programs that allow for tolling. The “No More Tolls for Roads Act” repeals both Section 129 and Section 166 to effectively put an end to all federal tolling authority.
04.15.2015	Washington, D.C. – As Americans across the country race to file their tax returns on the last filing day of the tax season, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX), a senior member of the Ways and Means tax-writing Committee, reintroduced the No Bonuses for Tax Delinquent IRS Employees Act. The two-page bill does just as it sounds – it would prohibit the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) from handing out bonuses to employees who owe back taxes. After introducing his bill, Sam Johnson made the following statement: “Last year we learned that the IRS gave over $1 million in bonuses and other rewards to more than 1,100 employees who owe back taxes. I don’t know what’s most outrageous – that the very people hired to enforce our tax laws owe taxes, that the IRS has the audacity to reward these tax-owing employees, or that these IRS employees receive bonuses paid for by American taxpayers! What the IRS is doing is offensive to hardworking, law-abiding taxpayers. And I’m working to end this NOW. “The No Bonuses for Tax Delinquent IRS Employees Act is a commonsense bill – and it’s the right thing to do. It’s time for the IRS to respect hardworking American taxpayers.” Background: The No Bonuses to Tax Delinquent IRS Employees Act of 2014 is in response to a report released by the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration revealing that the IRS paid out bonuses and other rewards to employees who owe back taxes. According to the Inspector General, more than 1,100 employees received cash awards totaling more than $1 million and more than 10,000 hours in extra time off. The IRS Restructuring and Reform Act of 1998 requires the IRS to fire workers who are tax cheats (e.g. failure to file a tax return). However, according to the Inspector General, the IRS does not, as a practical matter, take into account whether an employee has a tax problem when it comes to providing bonuses and other awards for employees. ###
04.10.2015	PLANO, TX – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson’s (TX-03) Congressional Art Competition continues as voting begins for the 2015 People’s Choice Award. From now through April 17th at 5pm CST, Collin County constituents are invited to view all 84 high school students’ entries on Congressman Johnson’s website and vote for their favorite. “Collin County has some exceptionally talented high school artists, and I’m thrilled to offer this opportunity to let them showcase their unique artwork,” said Johnson. “I encourage everyone to check out the creativity of these students and vote for their favorite piece! The artist whose work receives the most online votes will receive this year’s ‘People’s Choice Award’ – and they will be recognized at the upcoming Art Competition Ceremony in May. This means a lot to our student artists, and I know they would all appreciate your support. I wish all our students good luck and I thank them for participating!” About the Art Competition The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students, whether they attend public, private, or home schools. On April 27th, Congressman Johnson will also host an art exhibit and award ceremony to display entries and announce the First, Second, Third, and Fourth Place winners, as well as the People’s Choice Award and Honorable Mentions. The event is free and open to the public. The First Place winner will have the rare and unique opportunity to have their artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol Building for one year as part of an exhibition comprised of artwork from across the country. The First Place winner will also win a free trip to Washington, D.C. where the student will meet with Congressman Johnson and attend an award reception and exclusive unveiling ceremony for all the art competition winners nationwide. The Second Place winner’s art will displayed in the Plano District Office for one year. If you plan to attend the Art Competition Award Ceremony, please RSVP to Alexis Dromgoole. ###
03.26.2015	Washington, DC – Washington, D.C. – Today the House passed, as part of H.R. 2, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson’s (TX-03) legislation, the Medicare Identity Theft Prevention Act (H.R. 380). This measure would protect American seniors from identity theft by ending the use of Social Security numbers on Medicare cards. “Our seniors are some of the most vulnerable targets for identity theft, and it’s high time that Congress passes this common-sense solution,” said Johnson. “The Social Security number is the key to identity theft, and thieves are having a field day with seniors’ Medicare cards. And why? Because these cards have seniors’ Social Security numbers printed right on them! Ending Social Security numbers on Medicare cards once and for all is a no-brainer. On behalf of the over 80,000 beneficiaries in Collin County I represent, I look forward to the Senate’s swift passage of this measure.”
03.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Last year, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) and other Pro-Life Caucus members requested a report to determine which family planning groups receive federal funding. The report, publicly released today by the non-partisan Government Accountability Office (GAO), found that Planned Parenthood receives the vast majority of federal family planning funding – about $500 million a year. By its very own data, Planned Parenthood admitted that in 2013 over 94 percent of all pregnancy-related services it provided were abortions. After the report was released, Johnson released the following statement: “Our Great Nation was founded upon the idea that ALL people are ‘endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights. And the first right mentioned in our Declaration of Independence is that of Life. We must do all we can to uphold this most fundamental value. As a member of the Congressional Pro Life Caucus, I have consistently co-sponsored and voted for legislation that protects the sanctity of human life, which begins at conception. I have also long-supported denying federal funds to Planned Parenthood. “The facts in today’s report are very disturbing. Especially when we know that in 2013 Planned Parenthood performed more than one abortion every two minutes – that’s 327,653 total lives lost in just one year! Meanwhile, they only provided 1,800 adoption referrals and 18,684 prenatal services. This is just wrong! Think of all those precious lives who could have gone on to do great things but were robbed of that opportunity. “That is why today I proudly continue to be a champion for America’s unborn. And I’m joined in my effort by Congressman Black, Congresswoman Roby, and 70 other colleagues who are dedicated to defending life. Together, we are sending a formal request to the Appropriations Committee demanding that NO federal funds go to Planned Parenthood in FY16. “Rest assured that I will continue to do all I can to fully protect our God-given right to Life for ALL.”
03.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed its budget that balances within ten years. Notably, the budget includes a measure introduced by Congressman Sam Johnson in February (H.R. 918) that works to protect hardworking taxpayers’ dollars. “As a fiscal conservative I’m proud to support this Republican budget that, unlike the President’s proposal, will continue to cut federal spending and balance the budget – without raising taxes,” said Johnson. “Constituents of Collin County will also be happy to know that this budget fully repeals Obamacare and provides greater support for American troops at a time when the world has grown more dangerous.” “I’m also pleased that this budget includes a measure of mine that works to protect taxpayers’ dollars,” Johnson continued. “Last month I introduced common-sense legislation to ensure Social Security disability benefits are only for those who truly cannot work– including the nearly 8,000 Collin County folks I represent who are disabled. Unfortunately, some individuals are abusing the system by ‘double-dipping’ unemployment and disability benefits at the same time. With the disability program going broke next year, Congress should stop this double-dipping now. My bill does just that!” “Many hardworking Americans continue to struggle to make ends meet due to the President’s policies. You can rest assured that I will continue to support conservative principles to get our country back on track so that all Americans can have a better life.”
03.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Following the Army’s announcement that it would charge Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl with one count of desertion and one count of misbehavior before the enemy, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) – a decorated 29-year combat veteran of two wars and a Prisoner of War (POW) in Vietnam for nearly seven years – released the following statement: “As a POW and 29-year Air Force veteran, it pains me to think any serviceman or woman would abandon their post – abandon their country and their military family. Unfortunately, that appears to be the case with Sgt. Bergdahl. He clearly did NOT serve our country with ‘honor and distinction,’ as National Security Advisor Susan Rice stated. “Every American serviceman and servicewoman makes an oath to serve and protect our Great Nation. I have taken this oath myself, and it’s something I take very seriously. As a member of the Armed Forces, not only are you responsible for protecting the lives of America’s citizens and the values our democratic Republic holds dear, but you also make a commitment to the individuals with whom you serve. You must be able to trust your fellow patriots in life or death situations. “Regardless of the trial’s outcome, I think it’s important to first honor the real heroes in this situation – the men and women who DO serve our country faithfully. President Obama and his Administration owe their deepest and most heart-felt apology to the troops who risked their lives trying to rescue Bergdahl. “The fact that the Administration carelessly and unlawfully negotiated with terrorists to return Bergdahl to America in exchange for five Taliban leaders shows a serious lack in judgement. And in doing so, the Administration has, in effect, put a price on the head of each Soldier, Sailor, Airman, Coast Guardsman, and Marine serving abroad in defense of freedom. What’s worse, U.S. intelligence officials now suspect that at least one of these released detainees has attempted to return to the battlefield. “My prayers are with all our servicemen and women –that their sacrifices are valued by those they serve and that their efforts will not be in vain. And I pray for wisdom for President Obama and his Administration – that they learn from this egregious failure.”
03.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – To help Collin County constituents during this tax season, Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is providing local libraries with paper copies of the IRS’s “Tax Guide 2014 for Individuals” (IRS publication 17). This 280-page publication provides critical information for individuals doing their 2014 tax returns. “As a fiscal conservative, I want to do everything I can to help my constituents save money – particularly during what can be a stressful and confusing tax season,” said Johnson. “Part of that effort is making sure Collin County folks have affordable access to the resources they need! While constituents can print the book-long IRS Publication 17 document at home, purchase the document for $23.00, or have it printed at a local shop for a fee, you can bet your bottom dollar that I will be providing my constituents with an affordable solution! Following the law and saving money shouldn’t be difficult! I hope this resource proves helpful, and if you and your families should need any other assistance with the IRS, please don’t hesitate to call my Plano office at (469) 304-0382. My staff and I are always happy to help!” Where to find copies of IRS Publication 17, provided by Congressman Johnson: Frisco Frisco Public Library 6101 Frisco Square Blvd. Frisco, TX 75034 (972) 292-5669 McKinney John and Judy Gay Library 6861 W. Eldorado Pkwy. McKinney, TX 75070 (972) 547-7323 Roy & Helen Hall Memorial Library 101 E. Hunt St. McKinney, TX 75069 (972) 547-7323 Melissa Melissa Public Library 3411 Barker Ave. Melissa, TX 75454 (972) 837-4540 Plano Harrington Library 1501 18th St. Plano, TX 75074 (972) 941-7175 Princeton Princeton Community Library 319 McKinney Ave. Princeton, TX 75407 (972) 736-3741 Richardson Richardson Public Library 900 Civic Center Dr. Richardson, TX 75080 (972) 744-4350 Sachse Sachse Public Library 3815 Sachse Rd. Building C Sachse, TX 75048 (972) 530.8966 Wylie Rita & Truett Smith Public Library 300 Country Club Rd. #300 Wylie, TX 75098 (972) 516-6250
03.19.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, 29- year Air Force Veteran, POW, and U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) introduced the Korean War Veterans Memorial Wall of Remembrance Act (H.R. 1475). This bill would permit a privately funded addition of a Wall of Remembrance to the Korean War Veterans Memorial. The Wall would list the names of all members of the U.S. Armed Forces who were killed in action during the Korean War and list the number of all American POWs and MIAs. “As a veteran who served in the Korean and Vietnam Wars, I can attest to the personal importance that our war memorials have for our veterans and military families as well as for future generations,” said Johnson. “Our war memorials are an important physical reminder that the price of freedom is not free. Fittingly, they also serve as places where all Americans can pay their respects to the brave men and women who fought on behalf of our Great Nation.” Johnson continued, “Many of our veterans returned home, some were taken as Prisoners of War, too many are still missing in action – and then there are the men and women who gave the ultimate sacrice with their lives. All of them are heroes. “Sadly, the Korean War and its veterans are often forgotten. And America’s memorial for this Forgotten War is incomplete. That is why this Wall of Remembrance is so important.” In support of Johnson’s bill, J.D. Randolph, 2nd Vice President of the Korean War Veterans Association, stated, “It is important for this Wall of Remembrance to be erected because thousands of young men gave their lives fighting for a mostly forgotten war. Many were held POW for many years and many are still MIA. Since it is privately funded, it should go forward.” Colonel J.P. Hogan, USA, Retired, Texas State President of the Association of the U.S. Army, echoed these sentiments: “It is fitting that we remember the names of our Korean War brethren who were lost in action during this ‘Forgotten War’ that in many respects continues to this day. These warriors are to be remembered for their courage, their selflessness, and their commitment to Duty, Honor, and Country.” ###
03.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) introduced the Preserve and Protect God in Military Oaths Act (H.R. 1425). This bill is in response to the U.S. Air Force Academy’s 2013 decision to make the final clause of the Cadet Honor Oath, which states “so help me God,” optional. Before introducing his legislation, Johnson made the following statement on the House Floor: “Our Constitution’s very First Amendment protects every individual’s freedom of religion. But our servicemen and women who protect our county with their lives are seeing that freedom under fire. “In 2013, the U.S. Air Force Academy made the phrase “so help me God” optional in the oath each cadet takes. And why did they do this? Because of one radical atheist group’s demands! “Let me be clear: Americans have the freedom of religion – but not freedom from religion. That’s why I am introducing legislation that requires Congressional approval before any change would be made to military oaths. “The moral foundation of our country is in serious danger if we allow radical groups to dictate whether or not we can freely express our religious beliefs! It’s time to take a stand.”
03.04.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) introduced the No Amnesty Tax “Refunds” for Illegals Act, a bill that would prevent illegals from receiving up to $24,000 in tax “refunds” from the IRS. This legislation follows his “no” vote last evening for a Homeland Security funding bill that would fund President Obama’s executive amnesty. “It’s no secret that I adamantly oppose the President’s amnesty,” said Johnson. “It’s why I voted against yesterday’s Homeland Security bill that funds his unlawful actions. And when I recently found out that the IRS can indeed take your hard-earned taxpayer dollars and hand it out as amnesty tax ‘refunds’ to illegal immigrants, I decided to do something about that, too. That’s why I’ve introduced this common sense bill to stand up for the hardworking, law-abiding American taxpayer and stop the IRS from giving out these ‘refunds.’” “A majority of Americans – including the folks in Collin County who elected me to represent them – OPPOSE the President’s executive amnesty,” Johnson continued. “And it’s no wonder why – it’s not just wrong but unconstitutional. We are a Nation of laws. It’s wrong that Obama wants to grant amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants and offensive to American taxpayers who will be footing the bill for Obama’s amnesty – like these $24,000 ‘amnesty’ checks! “The President may try to ignore the Constitution, but as a staunch constitutional conservative I will do everything I can to ensure that the rule of law is upheld. It’s time the President begins to listen to the majority of Americans he serves. Regardless, you can rest assured to I will be working to protect YOU – the American people.” At a February 11 Ways and Means Oversight hearing with IRS Commissioner John Koskinen, Mr. Johnson exposed as bogus the President’s claim made in November 2014 that, among the requirements for getting his executive amnesty, illegals must be “willing to pay your fair share of taxes.” Instead, as a result of the President’s executive amnesty, illegals can get as much as $24,000 from the IRS by retroactively claiming the Earned Income Tax Credit, a refundable tax credit. Current law requires tax filers to provide their Social Security numbers as well as that of their dependents for the EITC. The President’s executive amnesty will allow illegals to get Social Security numbers and thus enable them to claim the EITC. ###
02.26.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03), who reintroduced his Medicare Identity Theft Prevention Act earlier this year, released the following statement after the Ways and Means Committee passed H.R. 1021, which included Johnson’s measure: “Our seniors are some of the most vulnerable targets for identity theft, and there are some very common-sense solutions we can take to help them! One of the easiest ways we can do this is by removing Social Security numbers from Medicare cards once and for all – and that’s exactly what my Medicare Identity Theft Prevention Act does. “You see, the Social Security number is the key to identity theft and the thieves know that. Well here’s the problem: seniors’ Medicare cards include their Social Security numbers. And while Americans are told not to carry their Social Security cards in order to protect their identities in case their wallet is lost or stolen, at the same time seniors are told they must carry their Medicare cards! This makes no sense, and it puts Medicare beneficiaries – including Collin County’s over 80,000 beneficiaries I represent – at risk! “This is a problem that has gone on for far too long. Our seniors want, need, and deserve this common-sense consumer protection.”
02.23.2015	Washington, DC – With the 33rd annual Congressional Art Competition now underway, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) invites all Collin County high school students to participate. “Our community is blessed with many talented student artists, and this annual competition gives them an opportunity to share their talent with their neighbors and peers,” said Johnson. “I encourage all students who are interested to enter, and I look forward to seeing their creativity!” About the Art Competition The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students, whether they attend public, private, or home schools. In April, entries will be displayed on Congressman Johnson’s website for the public to view and vote for their favorite. The winning artist will receive the People's Choice Award. On April 27th, Congressman Johnson will also host an art exhibit and award ceremony to display entries and announce the First, Second, and Third Place winners. The First Place Winner will have the rare and unique opportunity to have their artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol Building for one year. This student will also have the opportunity to travel to Washington, D.C., meet with his or her Member of Congress, and attend an award ceremony where their artwork will join other first prize entries from other Congressional Districts for an exclusive unveiling ceremony. How to Enter Students interested in participating in this year’s Congressional Art Competition must complete the following steps: Step 1: Email an RSVP for the Competition to Alexis Dromgoole in Congressman Johnson’s Plano Office no later than March 23, 2015. Students may not RSVP themselves – a teacher or parent must RSVP on each student's behalf. The RSVP must include the student's name, hometown, and school. Step 2: Students must submit their artwork entries no later than March 31, 2015. Student artwork MUST meet all of the Rules and Regulations. Students may submit their original artwork one of two ways. 1) Contact Alexis Dromgoole (469-304-0382) to schedule a pick-up at their local school; or 2) Drop off their artwork submission at Congressman Johnson’s Plano office. IMPORTANT: There are two pieces of paperwork that MUST be completed in order to participate in the Art Competition – a Student Release Form and a Student Application. This completed paperwork will be collected at either the scheduled artwork pick-up time or when the student drops their artwork off at Congressman Johnson’s Plano office. For questions, please contact Alexis Dromgoole (469-304-0382). Additional information about the Competition can be found HERE. ###
02.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – As part of his ongoing effort to protect taxpayer dollars by rooting out waste, fraud, and abuse, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) introduced legislation (H.R. 918) to stop individuals from abusing the system by “double-dipping” unemployment and disability benefits at the same time. After introducing his legislation, Congressman Johnson (Chairman of the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee) released the following statement: “Under current law, some people can get both disability benefits and unemployment benefits. That just makes no sense! Think about it – disability benefits are for those who can’t work and unemployment benefits are for those who can work. That’s why I’ve introduced this common-sense legislation to protect taxpayers’ dollars. It will help ensure Social Security disability benefits are only for those who truly cannot work and for which this safety net was designed to help – including the nearly 8,000 Collin County folks who are disabled. With the disability program going broke next year, Congress should stop this double-dipping and now.” Social Security’s disability program is projected to be unable to pay full benefits in 2016. Earlier this year the House passed a measure offered by Johnson as part of its rules package. The measure would encourage Congress to work to fix Social Security by preventing Congress from raiding the retirement program to bail out the disability program. ###
02.05.2015	Washington, DC – This week U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) voted in support of several bills to help small businesses and encourage charitable giving. “Hard work and charitable giving are some of our Nation’s core values, and we should be doing all we can to encourage strengthening and continuing these values – particularly when too many Americans are still struggling in today’s economy,” said Johnson. “Over half of America’s work force is employed by a small business,” Johnson continued. “In fact, seven out of every 10 new jobs comes from a small business. They are the backbone of our economy, and in order to help small businesses grow and invest in the future, the best thing we can do is get Washington out of the way by easing the tax and regulatory burden these job creators face. The Small Business Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act, the Unfunded Mandates Information and Transparency Act, and the America’s Small Business Tax Relief Act do just that. I am also proud to have supported several bills to permanently incentivize charitable giving. “I encourage the Senate to follow our lead in the House by taking up these important bills. American families and small business owners want, need, and deserve no less.” Bills Passed in Ways and Means Committee Markup: H.R. 636, America’s Small Business Tax Relief Act of 2015, would create stability for small businesses by making permanent increased small business expensing. H.R. 637, Permanent IRA Charitable Contribution Act of 2015, would permanently allow tax-free distributions from Individual Retirement Accounts (IRA) for charitable purposes. H.R. 641, Conservation Easement Incentive Act of 2015, would permanently extend the deduction of land for conservation purposes. Bills passed on House Floor: H.R. 527, Small Business Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act of 2015, would require regulatory agencies to analyze the direct and indirect impact their regulations have on small businesses. In addition, it would require federal agencies to establish small business advocacy panels to review major regulations. H.R. 50, Unfunded Mandates Information and Transparency Act, would require federal agencies to consider the cost and impact federal mandates have on consumers, workers, and employers.
02.04.2015	Washington, DC – In response to IRS Commissioner John Koskinen confirming that illegal immigrants would be able to get extra “refunds” from the IRS, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) – Chairman of the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee – issued the following statement: “This week the IRS confirmed that it indeed can take your hard-earned taxpayer dollars and hand it out as ‘refunds’ to illegal immigrants. This is WRONG. And it’s yet another cost of Obama's executive amnesty. Rest assured that I will be introducing legislation to stop this total lack of respect to law-abiding American taxpayers.” ###
02.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – As part of his on-going opposition to Obamacare, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) voted in support of H.R. 596 to repeal the President’s harmful health care law. Congressman Johnson cosponsored H.R. 596 and this marks the fourth time he has voted with House Republicans to fully repeal Obamacare. After the vote, Congressman Johnson released the following statement: “Americans need health care solutions that actually work for them. As millions of Americans are discovering Obamacare is the wrong answer and it always has been. That’s why I opposed the President’s government takeover of our health care system when it was first introduced – AND it’s why I’ve since voted over 50 times to repeal the law both in part and in whole. “The numbers don’t lie. A majority of Americans oppose Obamacare. And regardless of what the President named the law, it is anything but ‘affordable.’ In Texas, the Obamacare health insurance tax alone will cost our Lone Star State almost 15,000 jobs. This is on top of the fact that Texas’ economic growth will be reduced by $2.5 billion. “Obamacare is especially bad news for seniors, as it also cuts Medicare by $716 billion – with $300 billion coming from Medicare Advantage (MA). In Collin County, 24 percent of Medicare beneficiaries rely on MA plans. Those who do not lose access to their plan will see an estimated $600 reduction in benefits just from 2014-2015 because of these cuts. This is wrong! “Hardworking American families want, need, and deserve the freedom to choose their own doctor and their own health care plan – and to not have those choices hurt their pocketbooks. I urge Senate Republicans to follow the House’s lead. Let’s repeal Obamacare once and for all and begin working on real solutions!” ###
02.02.2015	Washington, D.C. – After President Obama released his budget proposal for Fiscal Year (FY) 2016, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) made the following statement: “As if record debt, spending, and taxes weren’t enough, President Obama today proposed trillions more in spending, taxes, and debt. That’s trillion with a ‘T.’ Bottom-line: Obama is budgeting our country into bankruptcy. Americans want, need, and deserve better. As a fiscal conservative, I will continue to fight against this President’s reckless spending of taxpayers’ dollars and build upon the hard-fought progress we’ve made in getting our fiscal house in order.”
01.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – On Tuesday, February 24, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) will host their first monthly “Mobile Office Hours” of 2015. The Mobile Offices will be located in Melissa, Murphy, Prosper, and Richardson. This is an ongoing effort to conveniently provide Collin County constituents with assistance by visiting different communities across North Texas. Appointments are not necessary. “It’s my privilege to serve the Collin County community, and it’s important to me that my staff and I provide constituents help with federal agencies,” said Johnson. “Dealing with these agencies can be very confusing, and we are happy to help navigate steps and make requests on your behalf. I encourage people to visit the nearest Mobile Office location on February 24, but if you are unable to make it, you are always welcome to contact my Plano office at 469-304-0382.” Johnson’s staff can help with federal agency issues, such as: Medicare; Veterans Affairs (VA); Home foreclosure; Social Security; and Internal Revenue Service. In addition, Johnson’s staff can also: Help with overseas adoptions; Provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C.; Offer application guidance to a U.S. Service Academy; Assist with Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) applications; and Process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Please be aware that Congressman Johnson is elected to serve in the legislative branch of our nation's federal government. He does not have jurisdiction to assist with the following: Agency decisions made in line with federal law or regulation; Problems with a state or local government agency – you must contact your state or local officials for help regarding these issues; Judicial matters; and Private disputes. Examples of these issues are: Child Custody, Divorce, and Criminal Trials or Imprisonment. Please also be aware that, in order for Congressman Johnson’s staff to make inquiries on constituents’ behalf, the Privacy Act of 1974 requires a privacy release be signed before the agency is contacted. If you are represented by counsel, their permission to assist with the case is also required. Make sure to bring all relevant documents so staff is able to help you as expediently as possible. Mobile Office Times and Locations Melissa, 9:00am-11:00am Melissa City Hall 3411 Barker Avenue Melissa, TX 75454 Prosper, 9:00am-11:00am Prosper City Hall 1500 East 1st Street Prosper, TX 75078 Murphy, 2:00pm-4:00pm Murphy City Hall 206 North Murphy Road Murphy, TX 75094 Richardson, 2:00pm-4:00pm Richardson Civic Center, Suite 102 411 W. Arapaho Rd. Richardson, TX 75080 ###
01.27.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is proud to nominate 33 Collin County students to the U.S. Service Academies for the Class of 2019. Each service academy will make formal offers of appointment this spring. “Serving our Great Nation is the worthiest calling of my life, and I find nominating like-minded students to America’s service academies to be one of the most rewarding parts of my job as Collin County’s U.S. Representative,” said Johnson. “These young men and women are the cream-of-the-crop. They have undergone a competitive and rigorous selection process based on academic performance; extracurricular, civic, and service activities; and athletic aptitude. It’s my privilege to nominate these young leaders as they answer the call of duty. Their willingness to sacrifice everything to defend and protect our country and the freedom we hold so dear gives me great hope for the future strength and readiness of our Armed Forces. I congratulate them and know they will represent our community well.” Students interested in learning more about service academy applications should contact Lori McMahon in Johnson’s Plano office at (469) 304-0382. In addition, every fall Congressman Johnson hosts a free Academy Information Session with all branches represented for Third District students and families. The session provides students with an opportunity to learn more about each Academy and decide if military life is for them. Third District residents must be between the ages of 17 and 23 to be eligible to apply. Class of 2019 Academy Nominations by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson U.S. Naval Academy City School Mr. Christopher Beltran Frisco Heritage High School Mr. Jeremy Cerf Plano Greystone Preparatory School at Schreiner University; Graduate of Liberty High School Mr. Dang Do Plano University of Texas at Dallas; Graduate of Plano East Senior High School Mr. Dat Do Plano University of Texas at Dallas; Graduate of Plano East Senior High School Mr. Connor Doyle Melissa McKinney Christian Academy Miss Carnley Graham Prosper Prosper High School Mr. Harrison Hanes McKinney McKinney North High School Mr. Regan Railey Frisco Frisco High School Mr. Rhee Joo-Young Plano Plano East Senior High School Mr. Joshua Webb Plano Plano West Senior High School U.S. Air Force Academy City School Mr. John Blasingame Plano Liberty High School Mr. Omar Calderon Murphy Plano East Senior High School Miss Taylor Cobb McKinney McKinney Boyd High School Mr. Trevor Frye Fairview Lovejoy High School Mr. Daniel Hancock Frisco Northwestern Preparatory School; Graduate of Faith Christian School Miss Miranda Higginbotham Plano Parish Episcopal School in Dallas Miss Emily Krupka Plano Kent School in Connecticut; Graduate of Plano West Senior High School Mr. William Mays Plano Plano West Senior High School Mr. Rudra Patel Plano Plano Senior High School Mr. Thomas Whittington Allen Allen High School U.S. Military Academy City School Mr. Nikolas Bogost Plano Plano Senior High School Mr. Daniel Hancock Frisco Northwestern Preparatory School; Graduate of Faith Christian School Miss Sean A. Hurley McKinney McKinney Boyd High School Mr. Joseph Kim Frisco Liberty High School Miss Kaitlyn Luckock Prosper Prosper High School Mr. Nelson Morrow Prosper Prosper High School Mr. Jesse Palmer Plano Marion Military Institute at the Military College of Alabama; Graduate of Plano West Senior High School Mr. Rhee Joo-Young Plano Plano East Senior High School Mr. Ian Stephens Dallas Plano West Senior High School Miss Amelia Trotter Plano Plano West Senior High School U.S. Merchant Marine Academy City School Mr. Tyler Betz Frisco Frisco Heritage High School Mr. Cornelius Brady Dallas Dhahran College Preparatory School in Al-Khobar, Saudi Arabia Mr. Omar Calderon Murphy Plano East Senior High School Mr. Jeremy Cerf Plano Greystone Preparatory School at Schreiner University; Graduate of Liberty High School Mr. Dang Do Plano University of Texas at Dallas; Graduate of Plano East Senior High School Mr. Dat Do Plano University of Texas at Dallas; Graduate of Plano East Senior High School Mr. Nelson Morrow Prosper Prosper High School Mr. Kase Stevens Plano Plano West Senior High School Mr. Thang Nguyen Plano Allen High School Mr. David Washington Plano Liberty High School
01.26.2015	Washington, D.C. – To coincide with the National Salute to Veterans Week (February 9-15th), U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is organizing his annual “Valentines for Vets” outreach program. Teachers and students in Collin County are encouraged to create Valentines that will be picked up by staff during the week of February 1st – Congressman Johnson will then hand-deliver the heart-felt messages to veterans at the Dallas VA Medical Center. “Across the country, thousands of veterans are hospitalized in medical centers operated by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA),” said Johnson. “Many times, these special men and women are away from their family and friends for long periods of time. That is why each year I ask students and teachers in Collin County for their help in creating valentines for our veterans. This program is an excellent opportunity to teach young students about freedom and military service. It also provides us the chance to say ‘thank you’ to those who we can never thank enough for their service and sacrifice. I encourage all our area schools to participate – together, let’s make this a special day for our hometown heroes!” To see if your school is participating and to schedule a pick-up time no later than February 1st, please reach out to Valentines for Vets program coordinator, Chance Watson. Details about the special card specifications can be found below under "Related Files."
01.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – On the anniversary of the tragic Roe v. Wade ruling, thousands of Americans flocked to Washington, D.C. to participate in the annual March for Life. In support of the rally and its participants, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) – a staunch pro-life advocate – released the following statement: “Our Great Nation was founded upon the idea that ALL people are ‘endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights.’ And the first right mentioned in our Declaration of Independence is that of Life. We must do all we can to uphold this most fundamental value. That is why I have consistently cosponsored and voted for legislation that protects the sanctity of human life, which begins at conception. “Today, millions of Americans stand together – whether they are in Washington D.C. or at home – so that those who cannot speak for themselves do have a voice. But we cannot rest. Therefore I look forward to joining you all as we continue the important work of fully protecting our God-given right to Life for ALL, including our most innocent.” Congressman Johnson is a co-sponsor of pro-life legislation including the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act (H.R. 36), the Title X Abortion Provider Prohibition Act (H.R. 217), and the Health Care Conscience Rights Act.
01.21.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union address on January 20, 2015: “You know, after the Democrats’ shellacking in the November midterm elections, it’s disappointing but not surprising to hear the President propose a liberal agenda that is really all about political point scoring. Instead of listening to the majority of Americans and the folks of Collin County, the President has yet again unveiled a tax-spend agenda and is issuing veto threats against bipartisan, common-sense, pro-growth measures like the House-passed Keystone XL Pipeline Act. Keep in mind that the President’s call follows a record high in tax revenue. Last year, for the first time ever, Washington collected over $3 trillion in taxes. “America is not about punishing hard work and the success that comes with it. It certainly shouldn’t be about punishing hardworking families who are trying to save money for their children’s college education – but that’s exactly what the President is asking to do when he proposes taxing 529 accounts that parents and students use to save for college. “As a fiscal conservative I, and my fellow Republicans, am committed to policies that will help grow the economy and Americans’ paychecks while continuing to responsibly get our fiscal house in order. Americans want, need, and deserve pro-growth solutions, not the President’s politics as usual.”
01.14.2015	Washington, DC – As a part of his on-going efforts to fight President Obama’s unconstitutional immigration actions, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) voted in support of H.R. 240, the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, which would prohibit the President from carrying out his executive amnesty. The House passed H.R. 240 by a vote of 236 - 191. The bill now goes to the Senate. In addition, today Johnson co-sponsored H.R. 191, the Repeal Executive Amnesty Act of 2015, introduced by Rep. Aderholt (R-AL). “The House took an important step today towards stop stopping Obama’s lawless actions. I now look forward to my fellow conservatives in the Senate leading the charge and getting the job done by passing the House bill. Texans want, need, and deserve no less.”
01.14.2015	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) reintroduced his Medicare Identity Theft Prevention Act, which would protect seniors from identity theft by removing Social Security numbers from Medicare cards. Fellow Texan Lloyd Doggett (TX-35) joined him in authoring this legislation. “Our seniors should have peace of mind when it comes to their personal identity,” said Johnson. “Unfortunately, seniors can be easy targets for criminals due to the fact that their Social Security numbers are on their Medicare cards. The fact that seniors are told they must carry their Medicare card with them – which clearly displays their Social Security numbers – makes no sense. If the Department of Defense can protect troops by stopping the issuance of ID cards with Social Security Numbers, then we can certainly do the same for our seniors." “Our seniors want, need, and deserve this commonsense consumer protection,” Johnson continued. “I thank my fellow Texan Rep. Doggett for working with me on this important bill.” “With identity thieves becoming more sophisticated, a little prevention can save a lot of heartache,” said Rep. Lloyd Doggett. “This legislation will help protect the approximately 50 million Medicare beneficiaries from identity theft by removing Social Security numbers from Medicare cards.”
01.12.2015	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) joined fifteen members of the Texas Delegation in reaffirming the fight against President Obama’s unconstitutional executive amnesty. “President Obama’s executive amnesty is an affront to the rule of law,” said Johnson. “I have voted time and again to STOP his amnesty efforts. That’s why I voted against the CR/Omnibus in December, and that’s why this week I will vote to defund the President’s executive amnesty. As a longtime, staunch supporter for strong border security and the strict enforcement of our Nation’s immigration laws, I am fully committed to holding the President accountable for his unlawful actions. This is one of my top priorities in 2015.” Full text of the Texas Members’ joint statement: “As members of the Texas delegation, we will continue to stand firmly against any action that erodes our constitutional values, degrades our nation’s rule of law, and circumvents the legislative process. Since the President announced his amnesty plan, we have been vigorously fighting against his unconstitutional actions and have been working together to find effective solutions to win this battle. “Last December House Republicans vowed to take up legislation in the second week of the 114th Congress to fight the President’s illegal executive fiat. Today the Republicans of the Texas Delegation join together in support of legislation that is scheduled to be considered by the House this week that stops the President’s amnesty plan and reflects our conservative values. This legislation would prevent the President from enforcing his executive amnesty plan by barring any funds from being used to carry out his executive actions or any other related illegal executive action that he might take in the future. While we recognize the value that legal immigrants bring to our nation and the economy, we must ensure that our laws are followed. We support this legislation because it enforces the law, secures our border, and reinforces the oath that we have taken as legislators to preserve and protect the Constitution. “As Members of Congress, we have the responsibility to effectively work within the constraints of the Constitution and the limits of the law. As members of the Texas delegation, we have the responsibility to act in the best interest of the people of Texas. This week we will uphold both of those responsibilities by preserving our nation’s rule of law, fighting for the people of Texas, and combating the President’s unconstitutional, unilateral actions.” Texas Members in joint statement: Congressman Brian Babin, Congressman Kevin Brady, Congressman John Carter, Congressman Blake Farenthold, Chairman Bill Flores, Chairman Jeb Hensarling, Congressman William Hurd, Congressman Sam Johnson, Chairman Michael McCaul, Congressman Randy Neugebauer, Congressman Pete Olson, Congressman Ted Poe, Congressman John Ratcliffe, Chairman Pete Sessions, Chairman Lamar Smith, and Chairman Mac Thornberry.
01.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – With the House of Representatives back for the new 114th Congress, this week U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) supported a number of bills including green-lighting the Keystone Pipeline (H.R. 3), providing relief from the Obamacare employer mandate (H.R. 30), and encouraging employers to hire more veterans (H.R. 22). “We’ve only been back in session a few days, but I’m pleased to report that House Republicans started right out of the gate with some very important bills that will help hardworking American families,” said Johnson. “And now that we have a Republican Senate, I look forward to these bills finally landing on the President’s desk. President Obama can no longer hide behind Harry Reid’s obstruction.” “Most notably, the House passed the Keystone XL Pipeline Act on Friday,” Johnson stated. “It’s been over six years since the Keystone application was first submitted, and it’s long past time for President Obama to approve this pro-jobs bill. Not only would its construction support approximately 42,100 much-needed jobs, but the State Department’s latest and final environmental review (Jan. 31, 2014) reported it would pose little environmental risk. It goes without saying that the additional energy security provided by Keystone would also be of great benefit to Americans. It’s no wonder that a majority of Americans support it!” “To counteract the disastrous Obamacare employer mandate and encourage job growth, the House also passed the Save American Workers Act of 2015, of which I am an original co-sponsor, and the Hire More Heroes Act of 2015. Due to Obamacare, many employers are cutting back workers’ hours to avoid the costly mandate! To address this, the Save American Workers Act would clearly define the 40-hour work week and remove the mandate burden. Similarly, the Hire More Heroes Act would allow veterans who are already covered by Veterans Affairs (VA) or TRICARE to be exempt from the employer mandate. In turn, this will encourage more businesses to hire veterans. This is particularly important for the 3rd District because it is home to many servicemen and women – both active duty and veterans.” “The new Republican Congress is just getting started. I look forward to continuing to help get America’s economy back on track by encouraging the creation of good-paying jobs, and I won’t quit until we’ve fully and permanently repealed Obamacare!”
01.06.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In the first day of the new 114th Congress, the House passed U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson’s (TX-03) measure to protect Social Security as part of its rules package for the 114th Congress (H. Res. 5). “As Chairman of the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee, I’m pleased to start the year off strong with this important and common-sense measure,” said Johnson. “Americans rely on the promise that Social Security will be there for them, especially individuals with disabilities, and my measure seeks to protect that promise.” Johnson continued, “In 2016 the fraud-plagued disability program will become insolvent. If nothing is done, Americans with disabilities will see an across-the-board cut of 20% to their benefits. Unfortunately, the President and Democrats support raiding the Social Security retirement program to bail out the disability program. This is worse than kicking the can down the road – it will actually make the retirement program worse off, and it does nothing to fix the disability program. That’s wrong! To address this issue, my measure creates a point-of-order to prohibit any diversion of funds from the retirement program to the disability program. But more than that, the rule seeks to encourage much-needed reform.” “I look forward to a productive year leading the Social Security Subcommittee, and I am pleased the House has joined me in passing this important measure.”
12.19.2014	Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson’s (R-TX) legislation, the No Social Security for Nazis Act, was signed into law. In late October, an Associated Press investigative report uncovered the fact that Nazi persecutors are receiving Social Security benefits from American taxpayers due to a loophole in current law. Johnson’s bill, which passed the House by a vote for 420 and the Senate by unanimous consent earlier this month, will terminate Social Security benefits for Nazis. “Social Security was never intended for those who participated in the horrific acts of the Holocaust," said Johnson. "Unfortunately a loophole has allowed Nazis who came to America to get Social Security. But now with my bill being signed into law, this loophole has been rightly closed. I call on both the Department of Justice and the Social Security Administration to carry out this law without delay.”
12.11.2014	Washington, D.C. – On behalf of Collin County constituents and in keeping with his conservative voting record, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson voted against H.R. 83, The Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act of 2015 – also known as the “Cromnibus.” The bill passed 219-206. “Today I voted against the so-called ‘Cromnibus’ because it spends too much and does nothing to stop the President’s executive action that grants amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants,” said Johnson. “The good folks of Collin County, as well as the majority of Americans, have spoken loud and clear – stop Obama’s amnesty for illegals.” “Despite the fact that this bill passed, my constituents can rest assured knowing that I will continue to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with them in fighting against the President’s lawless amnesty.”
12.04.2014	Washington, D.C. – As part of his ongoing commitment to stand with his constituents in opposing President Obama’s executive amnesty, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) today voted in support of H.R. 5759, the Executive Amnesty Prevention Act of 2014. Following the bill’s passage, Congressman Johnson released the following statement: “The President’s executive action is illegal and unfair to those who have played by the rules to legally call America home. It’s no wonder that a majority oppose the President’s action. “By unilaterally granting amnesty – against the Will of the People – President Obama is not only ignoring the majority of those who elected him, but he’s ignoring our Constitution and the rule of law. “I refuse to sit on my hands and let the President continue his lawless ways, and I will continue to fight to hold this President accountable to the American people. “The Senate needs to follow suit and pass this bill. In fact, there are six Democratic Senators on record who have said they oppose the President’s action.” The Executive Amnesty Prevention Act of 2014 would make clear that the President does not have the authority to defer deportation of illegal immigrants. The House passed H.R. 5759 by a vote of 219-197. KEY ACTIONS BY CONGRESSMAN JOHNSON December 4: Voted in support of the Executive Amnesty Prevention Act of 2014. December 1: Introduced the No Social Security Numbers & Benefits for Illegal Aliens Act. This bill addresses a specific part of the President’s executive order that allows some illegal immigrants to receive work permits which would then enable them to receive Social Security numbers and benefits. November 20: Took to the House Floor to speak out against the President’s executive amnesty. November 12: Joined colleagues on a letter by Rep. Matt Salmon calling on House Appropriations Chairman Rogers to prohibit the funding of Obama's amnesty plan. August 1: Voted for Rep. Marsha Blackburn’s bill that freezes and defunds President Obama’s 2012 DACA decision. July 25: The House passed Congressman Johnson’s measure that would help deter illegal immigration by stopping illegal immigrants from claiming the $1,000 refundable child tax credit. July 18: Led a Congressional Delegation to the Rio Grande Valley Sector of the border in McAllen, Texas to see the border crisis first-hand. ###
12.03.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) voted in support of H.R. 647, the Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act, legislation that seeks to help families and individuals more easily cover the costs associated with disabilities. The bill passed the House by a vote of 404 to 17. “Individuals with disabilities – and their families – face what can seem to be insurmountable financial struggles when it comes to paying for the costs associated with disabilities,” said Johnson. “The ABLE Act would ease that burden by allowing families and individuals to set up tax-free accounts to pay for such costs. Today I was proud to join my colleagues to help those who, despite their disabilities, are trying to live their lives to their fullest.” Michael Thomas, Executive Director for My Possibilities of Plano, stated, "This is a wonderful opportunity for families with children with special needs. The ABLE Act helps level the playing field for so very many families with children with disabilities that may not have the access or funds to set up a special needs trust. It will simplify the process and make it accessible to all families across all income brackets, to set something up for their loved one with a disability, while preserving benefits. This is a BIG win for the disability community!" The ABLE Act would allow individuals with disabilities to open an ABLE savings account. • Contributions to an ABLE account could be made by any person; • Contributions would not be tax deductible; • Income earned by the accounts would not be taxed; • Account withdrawals to pay for qualified* expenses would not be taxable. * Qualified expenses are those related to the individual’s disability (i.e. health, education, housing, transportation, training, assistive technology, and personal support).
12.01.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) introduced the No Social Security Numbers & Benefits for Illegal Aliens Act. This bill addresses a specific part of the President’s November 21st executive order that allows some illegal immigrants to receive work permits that would then enable them to get Social Security numbers and government benefits. “Immigration is one of the biggest issues facing America – and Texas – right now,” said Johnson. “But instead of securing America’s borders and enforcing our immigration laws, on November 21st President Obama granted amnesty to even more illegal immigrants – millions more. What the President is doing is illegal, and to make matters worse, these same illegal immigrants may now also be eligible for government benefits – benefits paid for by hardworking American taxpayers. That’s just wrong!” “The President’s executive actions are unfair to the American people – both those who were born here and those who immigrated legally,” Johnson continued. “He is ignoring the American people, our Constitution, and our way of government. That is why, as Chairman of the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee, I am introducing the No Social Security Numbers & Benefits for Illegal Aliens Act.” Specifically in response to President Obama’s executive action, the Johnson bill would: Prevent Social Security numbers from being issued by the SSA to those made eligible for Social Security numbers by the executive action. Prevent Social Security benefit eligibility for those made eligible for benefits by the executive action. Deny credit towards earning Social Security benefits during periods when an individual was not authorized to work. ###
11.20.2014	Washington, D.C. – In anticipation of President Obama’s reported plan to grant amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) took to the House Floor to speak out against the President’s abusive executive actions. Regarding the President’s plan, Johnson stated: “This summer’s border crisis was the result of President Obama’s 2012 decision to grant amnesty to some illegal immigrants. Now the President is planning to grant amnesty to even more illegal immigrants – millions more. And to make matters worse, these illegal immigrants may also be eligible for government benefits. That’s just wrong. What the president is doing is illegal. “Hardworking American taxpayers didn’t sign up to foot the bill for lawbreaking illegal immigrants. The President is ignoring the American people, our Constitution, and our way of government. America is a country of laws, not men. “My constituents are outraged at the President’s Imperial actions. The American people want, need, and deserve a President who respects and follows the Constitution. On behalf of my outraged constituents, I am fully committed to stopping this illegal action by the President. Our democratic way of life is on the line.” On November 12th, Congressman Johnson joined his colleagues on a letter by Rep. Matt Salmon calling on House Appropriations Chairman Rogers to prohibit the funding of Obama's amnesty plan. To view the letter, CLICK HERE. ###
10.28.2014	Washington, D.C. – As Veterans Day nears, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) is pleased to announce the nine Collin County veterans to be honored at his annual Congressional Veterans Commendation (CVC) Ceremony on November 1st. Keynote speaker Alvin Townley, best-selling author of Defiant, will serve as keynote speaker and hold a book-signing after the awards ceremony. “I’d like to offer my heartfelt congratulations to this year’s nine veteran honorees,” said Johnson. “These men represent all five branches of our Armed Services, but more importantly they represent several generations of faithful service to the protection of our Great Nation. I look forward to paying these outstanding veterans tribute for their military and civilian service on Saturday, and I hope to see a large community turnout join me as we pass down our honorees’ examples of patriotism, bravery, and love of country to future generations.” 2014 CVC VETERAN HONOREES: Plano • Gil Benoit, Coast Guard, 1965-1973 • Christopher DeBord, Navy, 2006-2009 • Jack Hughes, Army, 1947-1978 • Mike Martin, Marines, 1994-1990 • Robert Paulk, Navy, 1984-2014 • Don Stevenson, Army, 1966-1969 Richardson • James Knabel, Army, 2002-2008 McKinney • Donald Sams, Air Force, 1966-1970 Frisco • Cliff Sosamon, Marines, 1992-1998 CONGRESSIONAL VETERAN COMMENDATION CEREMONY INFORMATION: Where: Collin College John Anthony Theater 2800 E. Spring Creek Pkwy. Plano, Texas 75074 When: Saturday, November 1st at 2pm For more information about the Congressional Veteran Commendation, contact Johnson’s Plano office at (469) 304-0382.
10.17.2014	Washington, D.C. – In light of a second health care worker, 29-year-old Amber Vinson, contracting Ebola on American soil, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is following up on his recent efforts to protect the health of Americans by proposing legislation, the Stop Ebola Act, calling for an investigation of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and seeking answers with respect to the deployment of troops to Liberia. “Nearly two-thirds of Americans are concerned Ebola could become widespread in the United States,” said Johnson. “I have personally called on President Obama and other high ranking officials to halt travel and visas from Ebola affected countries. Unfortunately, the President is failing to listen to the American people and do the right thing by stopping travel and visas from these countries. That is why I introduced the Stop Ebola Act, along with my colleague Congressman Kenny Marchant.” “Our nation is behind the curve in combating the domestic spread of Ebola,” said Rep. Marchant (TX-24). “Containment efforts will remain inadequate if we rely solely on the reactive measures being taken by the administration. The Stop Ebola Act is a proactive approach to preventing additional travel-related cases of Ebola in the United States. I have called for travel and visa restrictions since Ebola’s first appearance in North Texas and thank Congressman Johnson for his shared commitment to utilizing every available precaution to keep the American people safe." The Stop Ebola Act would ban all new visas to citizens of Ebola-affected countries and would ban travel to the U.S. for any person who is not a U.S. citizen or Legal Permanent Resident if their journey originated in, or they traveled through, any Ebola-affected country. Congressman Johnson continued, “While preventing more Ebola cases from being brought into our country is of critical importance, we must also contain the disease here. After all, the latest developments in Dallas show the dangers of Ebola – it just takes one individual to spread Ebola. That is why I’ve called on Inspector General (IG) Levinson of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to investigate the CDC’s response. Bottom-line: we cannot afford any further mistakes.” Johnson’s letter asks the IG to determine what “breach in protocol” at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital led to the infections of health care workers Nina Pham and Amber Vinson. Because the CDC admitted it had failed to send teams to Dallas with the necessary equipment, protocols, and procedures to stop the further spread of Ebola, the letter also requests specific information about what measures and protocols are now being implemented to adequately protect our health care workers and prevent the future spread of Ebola on American soil. “As a 29-year Air Force veteran and a Prisoner of War for nearly seven years, I have always been a strong advocate for our servicemen and women. I am deeply concerned by the President’s decision to send our troops to Liberia. That is why – in addition to these other measures – I’ve asked Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel for answers regarding the risks facing our troops fighting Ebola.” “It is time for President Obama to put the health of Americans first. Period. Rest assured that I am fully committed to making sure that my constituents are protected and will continue to do everything I can to contain and stop this deadly disease in its tracks.” ###
10.16.2014	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) is pleased to announce the 2014-2015 Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) participants. These 81 Collin County high school students were selected by a community board to serve on the council due to their outstanding leadership skills, academic performance, extra-curricular activity participation, and community service. The names, grade levels, and hometowns of each student are listed below. “Now more than ever, it is imperative that our young people not only understand how our democracy works but to get involved so that they can make positive, wise contributions to our country,” said Johnson. “This year’s Congressional Youth Advisory Council is an exciting group of smart and engaged high school students. I consider these young adults to be my ambassadors to Congress, and I look forward to hearing from them on issues that matter the most to them and their peers.” “The fact that there are such bright, talented, and highly driven young people who are already seeking to engage in the world around them and make their communities a better place gives me great hope for the future of North Texas – and the future of our Great Nation.” “I congratulate the students of this year’s Congressional Youth Advisory Council, and I thank all our students who applied. We had a record number of applicants, and I encourage those who are interested in serving on the 2015-2016 Council to apply next fall!” About CYAC: Congressman Johnson created CYAC in 2004 to gain insight from students in the 3rd District and to inspire civic-minded young adults to achieve their full potential. The group meets roughly twice each school semester with Congressman Johnson and a distinguished guest speaker. During the CYAC activities, high-caliber students explore the role citizens, lawmakers, and experts play in a vibrant democracy. Allen Students: 1. Miriam Laeky, 11th grade 2. Carson Leung, 10th grade 3. Gordan Li, 11th grade 4. Anthony Niedzielski, 11th grade 5. Grace Swanson, 10th grade Dallas Students: 1. Daniel Madden, 11th grade 2. Victoria Vandekop, 10th grade Fairview Students: 1. Michael Kline, 11th grade 2. Benjamin Prengler, 12th grade 3. Connor Spencer, 11th grade 4. Julia Vastano, 11th grade Frisco Students: 1. Chloe Campos, 9th grade 2. Anna Ellis, 9th grade 3. Nathan Hwang, 11th grade 4. Jake James, 9th grade 5. Alyssa Messner, 12th grade 6. Sydney Polk, 9th grade 7. Anjali Sridharan, 11th grade 8. Pranarshitha Veeramraju, 12th grade 9. Harshini Vivekanandan, 11th grade McKinney Students: 1. Andrew Boese, 12th grade 2. Nora Castaneda, 11th grade 3. Isabella Colandrea, 9th grade 4. Sean Hurley, 12th grade 5. Morgan Kee, 10th grade 6. Isabel Killroy, 11th grade 7. Budd Millikan, 9th grade 8. Lauren Patton, 11th grade 9. Madison Paxton, 12th grade 10. Nicholas Perovich, 11th grade 11. Haley Polk, 11th grade 12. Laiken Ritchie, 11th grade 13. Christopher Rodenbaugh, 11th grade 14. Ana Rodriguez, 11th grade 15. Brennan Stewart, 12th grade 16. Alexandra Thorson, 10th grade Murphy Students: 1. Alyssa Bottlinger, 9th grade 2. Audrey Fisher, 12th grade 3. Devarya Raman, 10th grade Parker Students: 1. Steven Elliot, 10th grade Plano Students: 1. Akash Baskaran, 9th grade 2. McKenna Black, 11th grade 3. Sam Bragg, 11th grade 4. Connor Bresnahan, 11th grade 5. Purvi Contractor, 9th grade 6. Andrew Dickson, 11th grade 7. Brian Du, 10th grade 8. Parker Duncan, 10th grade 9. Britton Edwards, 11th grade 10. Elizabeth Ellington, 10th grade 11. Caroline Gaggini, 11th grade 12. Rohan Gopal, 11th grade 13. Noah Gonzalez, 10th grade 14. Aayush Goyal, 11th grade 15. Madeline Groves, 10th grade 16. John Hatch, 12th grade 17. Olivia Heatley, 12th grade 18. Shelby Highlander, 11th grade 19. Kevin Hoodwin, 10th grade 20. Nicholas Hughes, 11th grade 21. Catherine Kennington, 11th grade 22. Bryce Killian, 11th grade 23. Tracy Lu, 12th grade 24. Sophia Mapes, 10th grade 25. Colin McMahan, 11th grade 26. Veronica Michaels, 11th grade 27. Shayla Nebeker, 12th grade 28. Karthik Prabhakaran, 12th grade 29. Maya Rigley, 11th grade 30. Kevin Rinkliff, 11th grade 31. Paige Sellars, 12th grade 32. Rupasri Shankar, 11th grade 33. Jared Stahel, 11th grade 34. Makenzie Stuard, 12th grade 35. Amelia Trotter, 12th grade 36. Wendy Wang, 10th grade 37. Chelsey Wen, 10th grade Prosper Students: 1. Julia Bristol, 12th grade 2. Hannah Crawford, 11th grade Richardson Students: 1. Brent He, 11th grade 2. Spencer Humphrey, 11th grade ###
10.15.2014	Washington, D.C. – In anticipation of the annual Congressional Veterans Commendation ceremony on Saturday, November 1, Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) encourages 3rd District constituents to show their gratitude to all our veterans by attending this special event. The program will include a reception with veteran honorees and a book-signing with best-selling author Alvin Townley. “North Texas is home to many veterans, and it’s important that we take time out of our busy schedules to thank these brave men and women for their service and sacrifice to our Great Nation,” said Johnson. “Our veteran honorees faithfully served their country, and they continue to serve as civilian leaders. They truly are our hometown heroes, and I look forward to paying them tribute on November 1 with our community.” “I am also thrilled to announce that best-selling author Alvin Townley will be our event’s keynote speaker,” Johnson continued. “I’ve had the privilege of working with Mr. Townley on his new book, Defiant, which was released earlier this year. He is a man who shares a deep appreciation for our Nation’s veterans and believes in the importance of passing down their inspirational stories to future generations.” Townley’s book relates the story of the eleven American POWs known as the “Alcatraz 11,” who the North Vietnamese expelled from the infamous Hanoi Hilton for their extraordinary leadership and bold defiance. The book also tells how the wives of these eleven men founded the POW-MIA Movement and rallied a divided nation behind a common promise to POWs like Congressman Johnson: You are not forgotten. “I hope to see a large community turnout at the ceremony as we publicly recognize the wartime sacrifices and peacetime community involvement of Collin County veterans,” Johnson concluded. “Let’s show our veterans how much we care in a tangible and personal way.” Alvin Townley will be available for interviews. Congressional Veteran Commendation Ceremony Information: WHERE: Collin College John Anthony Theater 2800 E. Spring Creek Pkwy. Plano, Texas 75074 WHEN: Saturday, November 1st at 2pm ###
10.14.2014	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host a free information session covering Medicare Open Enrollment on October 17th at 11am. The information session will feature the North Central Texas Area Agency on Aging (NCTAAA). “In order to best serve seniors living in the 3rd District, my staff and I have organized this free session to help folks navigate their Medicare options,” said Johnson. “There have been a few changes regarding Medicare premiums for 2015, and I want to help seniors make sure their selected plans are the best option for their anticipated health care needs in the New Year. I encourage all 3rd District seniors and caregivers to attend.” WHERE Allen Senior Center 451 St. Mary Drive Allen, TX 75002 WHEN October 17th at 11am WHAT TO EXPECT An overview of the 2015 Medicare Open Enrollment period, which runs from October 15th through December 7th; Benefits counselors with the NCTAAA who can discuss the 2015 Medicare program; Counselors to provide one-on-one assistance to help individuals sign up or change their Medicare plan. 2015 Medicare Premiums Earlier this month, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) announced the 2015 Medicare Premiums, which are as follows: Part A Premium (Note that most seniors do not pay this premium): $407 Per Month Part A Deductible: $1,260 Per Benefit Period Part B Premium: $104.90 Per Month Part B Deductible (After deductible, you must pay 20% Coinsurance): $147 Per Year For questions regarding services provided by the NCTAAA, please call Mary Jane Douglas at 1-800-272-3921, ext. 7166. For more information, please contact Congressman Johnson’s Plano office at 469-304-0382. ###
10.10.2014	Washington, D.C. – In the wake of recent Ebola-related events in the United States, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) released the following statement: “The recent case of U.S. citizen Thomas Eric Duncan – who entered the country from Ebola-affected Liberia and passed away October 8th – makes it crystal clear that decisive action must be taken in order to contain the spread of this disease and protect the health and safety of all Americans. This action must come from the President and his Administration. “That is why, on October 3rd, I sent a letter to Acting Surgeon General Rear Admiral Lushniak requesting he use his authority to ban travelers from Ebola-affected countries. As a follow-up to that letter, I joined my fellow Texas colleagues today in calling on President Obama and Secretary of State John Kerry to immediately ban travel to the U.S. from Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone, as well as immediately suspend all new visas from these countries until the Ebola epidemic is over. “Rest assured that I will continue to closely monitor this situation and will do everything I can when it comes to protecting the health and safety of my constituents. “I also encourage North Texans and all Americans to take every proper safety precaution, including educating themselves on how Ebola in contracted. The safety of all Americans is my top priority.” ###
10.09.2014	Washington, D.C. – Nearly 10 years ago, on May 26, 2005, U.S. Congressmen Sam Johnson (TX-03) and Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) introduced The Right to Fly Act (H.R. 2646) to repeal the Wright Amendment that unfairly punished consumers flying out of Dallas Love Field. As North Texans celebrate the full repeal of the Wright Amendment on October 13th, 2014, Congressman Sam Johnson released the following statement: “It was almost a decade ago that Jeb Hensarling and I introduced The Right to Fly Act. And on October 13, our dream is fully realized – North Texans will now be free to fly where they want to, from where they want, when they want to, on what airline they want to – and at more affordable prices. “While the repeal of the Wright Amendment is widely supported today, that wasn’t always the case. Economists called for its repeal – not government officials – and we were initially hit with loud opposition from critics who wanted to see the Wright Amendment remain in place to protect DFW. But we knew it wasn’t right or fair for the government to pick winners and losers. We felt determined to ‘Set Love Free.’ “Our efforts slowly gained momentum, and national support soon followed. In 2006, President George W. Bush signed a version of our bill into law that would slowly dismantle the Wright Amendment over eight years. That day has finally arrived. Now that Love Field is fully open for business, this means North Texans will have more travel options and at more competitive prices. “Signed into law in 1980, the Wright Amendment was intended to protect the struggling Dallas-Fort Worth (DFW) International Airport from local competition by placing distance limitations at Love Field. While the Wright Amendment helped the DFW Airport – which is now the third busiest airport in the world – it is no longer necessary. But more importantly, this Amendment needed to be repealed because it hurt consumers. The Wright Amendment’s restrictions made it hard for Love Field to compete with other airports that were allowed to offer nonstop, long-distance flights. Texans were paying the price for this lack of competition – both with their time and their pocketbooks. In fact, according to the Department of Transportation data from 2005, North Texas residents were paying approximately 30% more than the national average for comparable flights out of the DFW Airport. This was just plain wrong! “Everyone wins when you unleash competition and let freedom and free enterprise prevail. That is what the Wright Amendment Repeal is all about – giving consumers choice through competition. At a time when government tries to regulate virtually every aspect of Americans’ lives, this repeal is a particularly meaningful win that should be celebrated. The repeal of the Wright Amendment also serves as a testament to what we can accomplish with the American principles of hard work, determination, and commitment to freedom. “As a 29-year Air Force veteran, I took an oath to defend freedom and the American way of life. In Congress it is my honor to continue to fight for those same freedoms on behalf of my constituents.” ###
10.03.2014	Washington, D.C. – In response to the recent Ebola case in Dallas, Texas, Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) sent the following letter to the Acting United States Surgeon General, Rear Admiral Lushniak: “Earlier this week, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announced the first case of Ebola had been diagnosed in Dallas, Texas. As a lifelong Texan who represents a district neighboring Dallas, this development is of grave concern to my constituents and me. “Already, the U.S. State Department has issued travel warnings and advisories for the countries most affected by Ebola, and several African countries and airlines have implemented their own travel restrictions. And while the CDC has been screening travelers who fly out of those countries, the Dallas case proves that this is clearly not enough. A person can evade CDC detection and arrive in the United States if that individual is asymptomatic and intentionally lies about, or is unaware of, their exposure to Ebola. “While I understand an asymptomatic individual is not contagious, the person is contagious once they begin to show symptoms. As a result, the CDC is monitoring upwards of fifty individuals who may have contracted Ebola from the Dallas patient once he arrived in the United States. “The Dallas incident clearly shows that while the CDC can prevent infected individuals with Ebola symptoms from leaving these countries – screeners cannot identify all infected persons. Therefore, I am hereby requesting that you use the Surgeon General’s authority granted under 42 U.S.C. §265 and prohibit individuals from these countries which have had cases of Ebola from entering the United States. Without a cure or a vaccine for Ebola – which has a fatality rate of nearly 50 percent - we must do all that we can to protect American citizens from this horrific disease.” ###
09.30.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Wednesday, October 1, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) will host their monthly “Mobile Office Hours.” The Mobile Offices will be located in Plano East and West, McKinney, and Frisco. This is an effort to conveniently provide 3rd District constituents with assistance by visiting different communities across North Texas. Appointments are not necessary. “It’s my privilege to serve the good folks of the Third District, and it is important to me that my staff and I be available to help constituents with their various needs whenever possible. I encourage people to visit on October 1, but if you are unable to make it, you are always welcome to contact my Plano office at 469-304-0382.” Johnson’s staff can help with federal agency issues, such as: Medicare; Veterans Affairs (VA); Home foreclosure; Social Security; and Internal Revenue Service. In addition, Johnson’s staff can also: Help with overseas adoptions; Provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C.; Offer application guidance to a U.S. Service Academy; Assist with Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) applications; and Process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Please be aware that Congressman Johnson is elected to serve in the legislative branch of our nation's federal government. He does not have jurisdiction to assist with the following: Agency decisions made in line with federal law or regulation; Problems with a state or local government agency – you must contact your state or local officials for help regarding these issues; Judicial matters; and Private disputes. Examples of these issues are: Child Custody, Divorce, and Criminal Trials or Imprisonment. Please also be aware that, in order for Congressman Johnson’s staff to make inquiries on constituents’ behalf, the Privacy Act of 1974 requires a privacy release be signed before the agency is contacted. If you are represented by counsel, their permission to assist with the case is also required. Make sure to bring all relevant documents so staff is able to help you as expediently as possible. Mobile Office Times and Locations: Plano East, 9:00-11:00 Plano Municipal Center 1520 K Avenue Plano, Texas 75074 Plano West, 2:00-4:00 Christopher A. Parr Library 6200 Windhaven Parkway Plano, Texas 75093 McKinney, 9:00-11:00 Collin College- Central Park Campus 2200 West University Drive McKinney, Texas 75071 Frisco, 2:00-4:00 George A. Purefoy Municipal Center 6101 Frisco Square Boulevard Frisco, Texas 75034
09.17.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) released the following statement on the Continuing Resolution (CR), which would fund the government through December 11, 2014: “As a fiscal conservative, Air Force veteran, and POW, I could not in good conscience support today’s bill for several reasons. First, when so many Americans have had to tighten their belts in today’s economy, the last thing Washington needs to do is spend more of hardworking taxpayers’ money. This bill forfeits spending cuts Republicans have fought so hard for from the Obama Administration. Second, I was also disappointed to see this bill extend the Export-Import Bank, which I have opposed previously. “Today’s Continuing Resolution also included President Obama’s request to train and arm Syrian rebels as part of the President’s strategy to fight ISIS. Make no mistake – ISIS is a threat to America and must be defeated. Unfortunately, I am left with too many concerns with the President’s request. Bottom-line: the last thing we need is our own weaponry and training to ultimately be used against us.” On June 19, 2014, Congressman Johnson voted in support of H.Amdt. 917 to the Department of Defense Appropriations Act (H.R. 4870). This amendment would have prohibited the use of funds to provide weapons to Syria, but it ultimately failed 167-244. Separately, on May 9, 2012, the Congressman voted against the last extension of the Export-Import Bank (H.R. 2072), which passed the House by a vote of 330-93. ###
09.12.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Wednesday, September 17, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) will host their monthly “Mobile Office Hours” in Allen, Richardson, Fairview, and Anna. This is an effort to conveniently provide 3rd District constituents with assistance by visiting different communities across North Texas. Appointments are not necessary. “It’s my privilege to serve the good folks of the Third District, and it is important to me that my staff and I be available to help constituents with their various needs whenever possible. I encourage people to visit our Mobile Offices on September 17, and if you are unable to make it that day, you are always welcome to contact my Plano office at 469-304-0382.” Johnson’s staff can help with federal agency issues, such as: Medicare; Veterans Affairs (VA); Home foreclosure; Social Security; and Internal Revenue Service. In addition, Johnson’s staff can also: Help with overseas adoptions; Provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C.; Offer application guidance to a U.S. Service Academy; Assist with Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) applications; and Process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Please be aware that Congressman Johnson is elected to serve in the legislative branch of our nation's federal government. He does not have jurisdiction to assist with the following: Agency decisions made in line with federal law or regulation; Problems with a state or local government agency – you must contact your state or local officials for help regarding these issues; Judicial matters; and Private disputes. Examples of these issues are: Child Custody, Divorce, and Criminal Trials or Imprisonment. Please also be aware that, in order for Congressman Johnson’s staff to make inquiries on constituents’ behalf, the Privacy Act of 1974 requires a Congressional Inquiry Form be signed before the agency is contacted. If you are represented by counsel, their permission to assist with the case is also required. Make sure to bring all relevant documents so staff is able to help you as expediently as possible. Mobile Office Times and Locations: Allen, 9:00-11:00 Allen Senior Recreation Center 451 St, Mary Drive Allen, Texas 75002 Richardson, 9:00-11:00 Richardson Civic Center 411 West Arapaho Road, Suite 102 Richardson, Texas 75080 Fairview, 2:00-4:00 Fairview Town Hall 372 Town Place Fairview, Texas 75069 Anna, 2:00-4:00 Anna City Hall 111 North Powell Parkway Anna, Texas 75409
08.27.2014	On Saturday, September 6th, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) invites Third District students and their families to attend the annual U.S. Service Academy Information Forum to learn more about the selection process and application requirements for our nations’ service academies. The FREE information session will take place in the Conference Center of the Collin College Preston Ridge Campus, located at 9700 Wayne Blvd. in Frisco. Students interested in seeking nomination to the U.S. Air Force Academy (Colorado Springs, CO), the U.S. Military Academy (West Point, NY), the U.S. Naval Academy (Annapolis, MD), and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (Kings Point, NY) are strongly encouraged to attend. All are welcome to attend; no appointment or reservation is required. “I commend each and every student for their desire to serve our great nation,” says Johnson. “As America’s next generation of leaders, you will be the protectors and defenders of liberty, freedom, and democracy. It is my privilege to help you answer this call of duty. It is a worthy and noble call.” If selected to attend, academy cadets receive free tuition, room and board, as well as a monthly stipend. Upon graduation, they are commissioned as officers in their branch of service, where they must complete a multi-year obligation. Students submitting an application must do so by November 14th. For more information on the forum or to request an academy application packet, please visit Johnson’s website or contact Lori McMahon at (469) 304-0382. Johnson represents the majority of Collin County. WHO: Saturday, September 6th at 9:00 a.m. WHAT: 2014 U.S. Service Academy Information Forum WHEN: Third District High School Students & Families WHERE: Collin College- Preston Ridge Campus Conference Center 9700 Wade Blvd. Frisco, Texas 75035 ###
08.26.2014	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) encourages Third Congressional District high school students to apply for the 2014-2015 Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC). The CYAC is open for students enrolled in public, private and home schools. Completed applications must be submitted to Johnson’s Plano office by October 3. “It’s been ten years since I started the Congressional Youth Advisory Council and these kids just keep getting more impressive, more engaged and more involved. It’s exhilarating to watch these ultra-dynamic students develop into truly inspiring leaders,” stated Johnson. “I look forward to hearing and learning from eager, smart and savvy students on issues that matter the most to them and their peers. The Congressional Youth Advisory Council gives young adults the opportunity to learn about all levels of government –from federal, state and local – while also giving back to our community through a group service project,” said Johnson. Johnson created the Council in 2004 to gain insight from students in his district and to inspire civic-minded young adults to achieve their full potential. The group meets roughly twice each school semester with Congressman Johnson and distinguished guest speaker. During the CYAC activities, high-caliber students explore the role citizens, lawmakers, and experts play in a vibrant democracy while starting to build a legacy of service. Students must apply for the CYAC and may only serve on the CYAC two of four years between grades 9 – 12 to ensure as many students as possible participate. For applicants to be considered, they must submit a complete application form, a release form, a current photo for identification purposes only, a short personal essay and two recommendation form to Johnson’s Plano office by Friday, October 3. The Council will be comprised of high school freshmen, sophomores, juniors and seniors selected based on proven leadership skills, academic performance, extra-curricular activities and community service. Click here to print the 2014-2015 CYAC application or call (469) 304-0382 for more information.
07.31.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX) introduced H.R. 5260, the Stop Disability Fraud Act of 2014, to combat fraud in the Social Security Disability Insurance (DI) program and better protect taxpayers and beneficiaries. Upon introducing the bill, Chairman Johnson gave the following remarks on the House floor: “Every worker in America pays a portion of their hard-earned wages into the Social Security Disability Insurance program for promised benefits if he or she becomes too disabled to work. “While providing a vital safety net, the disability program is plagued by major fraud. “This fraud reveals significant weaknesses in the program that put at risk not only billions of taxpayer dollars, but also the benefits on which millions of disabled Americans rely. “At a time when the program revenues will cover only 81 percent of benefits in 2016, not one dime should be lost to fraud, waste, or abuse. “That’s why, as Chairman of the Social Security Subcommittee, I’m introducing the Stop Disability Fraud Act which makes fair, commonsense changes to combat fraud and better protect taxpayers and beneficiaries. Americans want, need, and deserve no less. “I urge my colleagues to support this effort.” Background: Every worker in America pays a portion of their hard-earned wages to the Social Security DI program for promised benefits if he or she becomes too disabled to work. Unfortunately, recent DI fraud scandals have revealed significant vulnerabilities in the program that have resulted in lost taxpayer dollars. Due to poor oversight, badly outdated rules and the DI program’s “pay first” culture, Social Security has awarded benefits to those who are not truly disabled. Additionally, Social Security’s complex application and disability determination process makes it nearly impossible for many claimants to apply without paid professional help. Through common sense and fair changes, the Stop Disability Fraud Act of 2014 seeks to combat fraud and better protect taxpayers and beneficiaries. Bill text can be found here. Background on the Stop Disability Fraud Act of 2014 can be found here. A bill summary can be found here. More information on the Social Security Subcommittee’s efforts on DI can be found here
07.25.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) delivered the following remarks in support of H.R. 4935, the Child Tax Credit Improvement Act of 2014. H.R. 4935 includes Johnson’s commonsense measure to require a Social Security number when claiming the $1,000 refundable child tax credit. Remarks as prepared: I thank my colleague for yielding. I would also like to thank Chairman Camp for including in this bill my common sense measure to require tax filers to provide their Social Security numbers in order to claim the $1,000 refundable child tax credit, formerly known as the additional child tax credit. My measure would save $24.5 billion. That’s real money. Sadly, there’s been a lot of misinformation about this common sense measure that I would like to clear up. First, this is basically a benefit check handed out by the IRS. Second, my measure is based on the good work of the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration. Right now the IRS is providing this refundable child tax credit to those who are here illegally. But don’t take my word for it. This is what the IG has said about the refundable credit: “Although the law prohibits aliens residing without authorization in the United States from receiving most Federal public benefits, an increasing number of these individuals are filing tax returns claiming the Additional Child Tax Credit (ACTC).” Notice the IG refers to this as a public benefit. The IG also points to an increase in the number of illegal immigrants claiming this benefit. And I would add that some are claiming children who don’t even live here. Third, and even more troubling in light of the border crisis, is that the IG says this credit can encourage individuals to come illegally to the U.S. The last thing we need is to continue to encourage folks from Central America to make the dangerous and life threatening trek to Texas. Accordingly the IG has recommended that the IRS require Social Security numbers. And why is that? Because Social Security numbers are provided to those who can legally be in the U.S. Additionally, this credit is based on earned income. Income that should be earned by those who have Social Security numbers. Period. Fourth, it’s not just Republicans who have expressed concern and the need to take action but also Democrats – yes Democrats -- about the IG’s work. For instance, following the 2011 IG report, Democrat Senator Claire McCaskill from Missouri, demanded answers from the IRS and more importantly vowed to end payments to individuals without Social Security numbers. Also then-Finance Chairman and Democrat Senator Max Baucus from Montana along with other Finance Committee members fired off a letter expressing “serious concern” to Treasury and the IRS. Fifth, requiring tax filers to include their Social security numbers for the $1,000 refundable child tax credit is a long-standing commonsense idea. For instance, the IRS requires Social Security numbers for the Earned Income Tax Credit, a similar refundable credit for low-income families. Congress included this anti-fraud measure in the 1996 Welfare Reform law signed by Democrat President Bill Clinton. Democrats such as then-Senator Joe Biden, Senator Harry Reid and Congressman Steny Hoyer voted for the law. Now let me ask: Do Democrats now oppose requiring Social Security numbers for the Earned Income Tax Credit? And in 2008, 215 House Democrats voted for the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 which provided tax rebates to individuals and children. Guess what? That bill also required Social Security numbers. Do Democrats now regret supporting this policy back in 2008? What’s going on here is that President Obama and his Democrat allies in Congress are now playing politics with taxpayer dollars. It’s wrong and irresponsible! There is no policy reason for this opposition. Bottom-line, my measure is about protecting the hard-earned taxpayer dollars of Americans, especially those who are struggling to make ends meet in this economy. It’s time to stop playing politics with this. It’s time to stand up for the American taxpayer. I thank the Chairman again for working with me on this important taxpayer protection measure. I yield back. # # #
07.18.2014	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) issued the following statement on H.R. 4935, the Child Tax Credit Improvement Act of 2014, which includes a Johnson-based provision to require a Social Security Number (SSN) for the $1,000 refundable child tax credit. H.R. 4935 is scheduled for consideration on the House floor next week. According to the Treasury Inspector General (IG) for Tax Administration, the refundable child tax credit can serve as an incentive for individuals to come illegally into the United States. The Johnson-based provision would save $24.5 billion. “In light of the border crisis, my effort to stop fraud and abuse of the refundable child tax credit is more critical than ever. As tens of thousands of individuals surge over the southern border, it is just not right that struggling American families should have billions of their hard-earned taxpayer dollars be handed out by the IRS to illegal immigrants. Enough is enough.” Johnson originally proposed legislation following a March 2009 IG report finding that the credit could encourage individuals to come to the United States illegally. The IG recommended that tax filers provide their SSNs in order to receive the refundable credit. More specifically, the IG said in reference to the refundable child tax credit: “…the payment of Federal funds through this tax benefit appears to provide an additional incentive for aliens to enter, reside, and work in the United States without authorization, which contradicts Federal law and policy to remove such incentives.” In July 2011, the IG issued another report on the credit entitled “Individuals Who Are Not Authorized to Work in the United States Were Paid $4.2 Billion in Refundable Credits.” That report sparked strong bipartisan concern. Requiring tax filers to include their SSNs for the $1,000 refundable child tax credit is a long-standing commonsense idea. For instance, the IRS requires Social Security numbers for the Earned Income Tax Credit, which provides a refundable credit for low-income families. Congress included this anti-fraud measure in the 1996 Welfare Reform law signed by President Clinton. Democrats such as then-Senator Joe Biden, Senator Harry Reid and Congressman Steny Hoyer voted for the law. Last Congress, the House passed a version of Johnson’s refundable child tax credit bill three times as part of larger bills. However, Reid refused to take them up even though one of his colleagues, Senator Claire McCaskill (D-MO), expressed “alarm” about the IRS’ improper payment of the refundable child tax credit and vowed to take action to end it. Johnson re-introduced his bill in February 2013 (H.R. 556). “I’d like to thank Chairman Camp for including this commonsense measure that will protect and save taxpayers billions of dollars and deter illegal immigration. Now more than ever we must stand up for hardworking American taxpayers who in today’s economy are struggling to make ends meet.” ###
07.18.2014	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) issued the following statement on his visit to Texas’ southern border in the Rio Grande Valley sector – the primary entry point for the tens of thousands of illegal immigrants coming from Central America and Mexico “I’ve been to the border many times, but I never expected to witness what I saw today – a real man-made crisis. It’s truly an outrage and a tragedy what is happening on our southern border. "It is clear as ever that the President’s failure to secure our border and enforce our immigration laws has encouraged this flood of illegal immigrants. His unlawful actions have left Border Patrol agents overwhelmed, migrant children and families risking life and limb, Texans to fend for themselves, and Americans’ wondering if they’re safe. What a grave failure of leadership “I am grateful for the committed men and women who are on the front lines working around the clock to manage the crisis. As it is the responsibility of the federal government to secure our borders, Washington must do so now and send more border patrol agents to Texas. I will continue working to ensure Texas has the resources and man power it needs to secure the border. It can and must be done. Johnson has previously relayed deep concern on the insufficient number of border patrol agents in a letter to Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson where he demanded an explanation as to why the most trafficked area, the Rio Grande Valley, has less agents than areas where illegal crossings are relatively low. Congressman Johnson led a Congressional Delegation (CODEL), which included Congressman Jeb Hensarling(R-TX), Michael Conaway (R-TX), and Kenny Marchant (R-TX) to the Texas-Mexico border in the Rio Grande Valley. The CODEL met with Chief Patrol Agent Kevin Oaks, Deputy Chief Patrol Agent Raul Ortiz and other agents on their team at the McAllen Border Patrol Station. In addition, the visit included a stop at the Rio Grande Valley Centralized Processing Center in McAllen followed by a boat and aerial tour of the South Texas border.
07.16.2014	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX03) announced on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives that he will head to Texas’ southern border on Friday, July 18, to see the immigration crisis first-hand. Since October 2013, more than 52,000 unaccompanied minors many from Central America have illegally crossed the southern border. According to Customs and Border Protection, the number will increase to more than 150,000 next year unless Congress acts. Today, in advance of the border visit, Johnson spoke with Texas Governor Rick Perry and Texas Homeland Security Deputy Director Robert Bodisch to get their perspective on the border crisis and what Congress can do to immediately help the State of Texas manage the crisis. On Friday, Johnson will meet with Chief Patrol Agent Kevin Oaks, Deputy Chief Patrol Agent Raul Ortiz and other agents on their team at the McAllen Border Patrol Station. Johnson will then head to the Rio Grande Valley Centralized Processing Center in McAllen, which is the first stop for the tens of thousands of illegal immigrants who cross into the United States. Click Here to Play Remarks as prepared for delivery: “The immigration crisis taking place on the southern border of my home state of Texas demands our undivided attention as well as immediate action. “That’s why unlike the President, I will head to the Rio Grande Valley on Friday. This area covers over 320 river miles and 19 counties equating to over 17,000 square miles. Knowing this, there’s no way to fully grasp the scope and depth of the crisis through a simple briefing in Washington. “The President and Harry Reid just don’t get it. Last night Harry Reid declared, ‘The border is secure.’ That blew my mind! If he and the President spent any time at the border they would see just how out of touch they are. “Mr. President, Americans – particularly Texans – have been waiting 5 ½ years for a secure border. It's time to secure our border. It's time to enforce our immigration laws.” Note: In response to the border crisis, Congressman Johnson has recently voted to: Support the national guard in securing our border; Investigate Homeland Security’s immigration decisions; and Deny law enforcement funds to sanctuary cities that fail to cooperate with immigration enforcement officials. Johnson has cosponsored legislation to help secure the border (H.R. 4962, The National and Homeland Security Act) and change a 2008 law to discourage future flows of illegal immigrants to the U.S. (H.R. 5053, The Expedited Family Reunification Act of 2014). Additionally, Johnson wrote a letter to Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson demanding an explanation as to why the most trafficked area, the Rio Grande Valley, has less Border Patrol agents than areas where illegal crossings are relatively low and to also address what is currently being done to secure the border. # # #
07.09.2014	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) sent a letter to Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson on the current humanitarian and national security crisis involving tens of thousands of unaccompanied minors who are illegally crossing Texas’ southern border. The letter calls on Secretary Johnson to explain why the most trafficked area, the Rio Grande Valley, has less Border Patrol agents than areas where illegal crossings are relatively low and to also address what is currently being done to secure the border. Excerpts: “A recent Associated Press article titled, “A Look at the Border Patrol’s Staffing Imbalance,” highlights the inadequate number of Border Patrol agents in the Rio Grande Valley. While this region is the most trafficked when it comes to illegal crossings, it is not the most staffed. “As Secretary of Homeland Security your number one priority is to protect the U.S. and the safety of U.S. Citizens. It’s clear that our southern border needs more protection. Now more than ever, the Rio Grande Valley needs your utmost attention. The time for concrete action is now. Americans want, need, and deserve more than an editorial. It’s past time for a secure border. “On behalf of my constituents, I would like to know why the Rio Grande Valley, the leading region in illegal crossings, has less Border Patrol agents than areas where illegal crossings are lower? In addition, what is currently being done to address these staffing inadequacies?” The full text of the letter can be read here. # # #
06.20.2014	Washington - During a House Ways and Means Committee hearing with Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner John Koskinen, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) slammed the IRS for its bogus claim that it didn't have the money to backup employee emails. Johnson also strongly backs Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp’s renewed call for a special prosecutor to investigate the IRS’s illegal targeting of Americans based on their beliefs. In May, Johnson joined the House in passing a resolution calling on the Attorney General to appoint a special prosecutor. “Today’s hearing further proves the IRS can’t be trusted. The IRS claims that it didn't have the money to back-up emails. Yet, this is the same agency that pays out bonuses to workers who owe back taxes. Enough is enough. The American people have been waiting long enough for the truth. The IRS clearly has no interest in cooperating with us to get to the truth. It’s past time for a special prosecutor,” said Johnson. Johnson’s remarks as prepared for delivery Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding this important hearing. Learning about the loss of Lois Lerner’s emails and other IRS officials is troubling and received with great skepticism. Americans have been waiting for the whole truth. I hope we begin to get it today. It’s past time to hold all of those responsible accountable for targeting Americans for their beliefs. Commissioner, you have argued that the IRS’s practice of destroying employee emails after six months was a cost-cutting measure. In FY 2011 the IRS’s enacted budget was $12.77 billion-- a high water mark of spending. Can you tell me whether in 2011, the IRS was engaged in a policy of destroying and reusing its backup tapes? Didn’t the IRS estimate that keeping and storing those tapes would only cost $200,000 annually? Mr. Koskinen, my constituents and I refuse to accept that in years of record high IRS budgets, the IRS destroyed employee emails every six months to save $200,000 annually. I am far too familiar with the rampant wasteful spending at the IRS during this time. To date, the Committee has uncovered wasteful spending in Star Trek parody videos, lavish conferences; $23.5 million in spending on salary and benefits due to union time, and to bonuses going to workers who owe back taxes. Mr. Commissioner, you and I both know that the IRS’s failure to backup employee emails began long before any budget cuts to the Agency. There is simply no excuse for what happened. I yield back. Watch Congressman Johnson’s exchange with the commissioner here. # # #
06.19.2014	Washington, DC – Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) introduced commonsense legislation to give veterans and their families more freedom when saving for health care. Johnson introduced H.R. 4900, the Helping Veterans Save for Health Care Act of 2014, on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. Remarks as prepared for delivery: “We’ve heard the horror stories of our veterans experiencing long wait times, subpar care or worse, no care at all at VAs across the country. While we can’t fix the broken VA system overnight, we can do something now to help our brave men and women in uniform. “That’s why; I’m introducing the Helping Veterans Save for Health Care Act that would allow veterans who receive care through the VA to contribute to a Health Savings Account. Such savings could then be used by the veteran or their family. “Veterans want, need, and deserve more choices when it comes to saving for health care, particularly at a time when our VA is failing to provide the care they earned. We must continue to put our veterans first, and we can start by making it easier for them to save through an HSA for quality care. “I ask my colleagues to join me in this effort. It’s the right thing to do.” Background Under current law, taxpayers cannot make contributions to Health Savings Accounts (HSA) if, in addition to a High-Deductible Health Plan (HDHP), they have other qualifying health coverage. Although the tax code does not specify whether veterans’ coverage or medical care obtained through the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) disqualifies a veteran from contributing to an HSA, it is reasonable to conclude that it might. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has clarified the status of VA coverage – offering relief from an outright disqualification – by stating that someone who is eligible for VA medical benefits but does not receive VA care during the preceding three months is eligible to make HSA contributions. Helping Veterans Save for Health Care Act of 2014 The Helping Veterans Save for Health Care Act would provide clarity and additional relief by allowing veterans to make contributions to their HSA while receiving VA care. The HSA could be used to defray the cost of health care for the veteran, veteran's spouse or children. Johnson represents Texas’ Third Congressional District and serves on the House Ways and Means Committee. Johnson is a 29-year career Air Force veteran and former Prisoner of War. # # #
06.09.2014	Washington, DC – Ahead of Senate and House Armed Services Committee hearings on the recent terrorist trade, former Prisoner of War for nearly seven years U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) sends an open letter to House and Senate colleagues. Excerpts: “As you may know, I spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War (POW) in Vietnam, more than half of that time in solitary confinement in a place so desolate and isolating it could only be called Alcatraz. I served with many brave Americans. I lived through those filthy, atrocious and inhumane conditions. I know what it is like to pray to God that the enemy will kill you right then and there to end the long periods of torture and excruciating pain. Today, I humbly write this letter as a decorated combat veteran of two wars and as a sitting Member of Congress. “While U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and I don’t agree on much, we agree that President Obama broke the law when he released the five top terrorists in exchange for a detained American soldier. Our mutual outrage over the President’s destructive and unilateral action proves that this is not a Democrat issue or a Republican issue. It is an American issue. “Time magazine now reports that the Taliban feels inspired, empowered and emboldened to capture American soldiers. ‘It's better to kidnap one person like Bergdahl than kidnapping hundreds of useless people. It has encouraged our people. Now everybody will work hard to capture such an important bird.’ “Our worst enemies just confirmed that President Obama's unilateral decision, in effect, put a price on the head of each soldier, sailor, airmen, coast guardsmen and Marine serving abroad in defense of freedom. From here on out, every single American, both military and civilian, has a right to be fearful. The President failed us miserably with his ill-advised, inappropriate and immature actions. This leaves innocent Americans and our brave men and women in harm's way to bear the consequences of such failure. Full letter can be found here. # # #
05.30.2014	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) released the following statement after President Obama accepted Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki’s resignation. "After significant pressure, the President has made the right decision. The bottom line is that new leadership is needed to change the culture of fraud and negligence towards our veterans at the VA. This gives us an opportunity to do just that and ensure that our heroes get the best possible care available. Our veterans want, need and deserve an honest, effective and efficient VA. “Once veterans come home, it’s our turn to stand up for them the way they bravely stood for us in harm’s way. I urge our Commander-in-Chief to move beyond lofty rhetoric and work with us in Congress to ensure our veterans get the care they deserve.” Johnson was a fighter pilot in the U.S. Air Force for 29 years, spending nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam. He currently represents Texas’ Third Congressional District. ###
05.21.2014	WASHINGTON – Today legislation authored by Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) honoring America’s top fighter pilots heads to the White House for the President’s signature. The measure, H.R. 685, the American Fighter Aces Congressional Gold Medal Act, will award American Fighter Aces with Congress’ highest recognition, the Congressional Gold Medal. “I am honored that ahead of Memorial Day, Congress acted quickly and in a bipartisan manner to honor the heroism, service, and sacrifice of all American Fighter Aces with the Congressional Gold Medal. I can think of no group more deserving of Congress’ highest recognition than this elite group of fighter pilots,” said Johnson and veteran fighter pilot. To learn more about the bill, click here. ###
05.16.2014	PLANO, TX – On Wednesday, May 21, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) will host their monthly “Mobile Office Hours” in McKinney, Plano, and Princeton. Times and locations are listed below. On this day, Johnson’s staff visits different communities across North Texas to assist Third District constituents with federal issues or government agencies - such as Medicare, Veterans Affairs (VA), U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security, or the Internal Revenue Service – in an area most convenient for them. Johnson encourages constituents to visit one of the locations below on Wednesday, May 21, at the designated time. Appointments are not necessary. Johnson’s staff can also help facilitate overseas adoptions, provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C., applying to a U.S. Service Academy and process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Anyone requesting assistance with a federal agency should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. Constituents who cannot attend the scheduled “Mobile Office Hours” are welcome to contact the Congressman’s Plano office at 469-304-0382. For more information, please visit www.samjohnson.house.gov and click “Get Help with a Federal Agency.” McKinney Collin College Central Park Campus 2200 West University Drive McKinney, Texas 75071 9:00 – 11:00 a.m. Plano East Plano Municipal Center 1520 K Avenue Plano, Texas 75074 9:00 – 11:00 a.m. Plano West Christopher A. Parr Library 6200 Windhaven Parkway Plano, Texas 75093 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. Princeton Princeton Chamber of Commerce 275 West Princeton Drive, Suite 105 Princeton, Texas 75407 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. # # #
05.01.2014	Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) introduced H.R. 4531 No Bonuses for Tax Delinquent IRS Employees Act of 2014 that would prohibit the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) from handing out bonuses to employees who owe back taxes. “Last week we learned that the IRS paid out more than $1 million of taxpayer-funded bonuses and other rewards to more than 1,100 employees who owe back taxes. That’s outrageous! This bonus scandal comes at a time when the IRS is under fire for targeting Americans based on their beliefs and amid reports that reveal IRS workers broke the law by engaging in political activity on the job. Simply put the IRS is out-of-control,” said Johnson. “IRS employees are failing to comply with the very laws they were hired to enforce. Worse, it further proves that Washington doesn’t respect nor care how Americans’ hard earned tax dollars are spent. It’s time for the IRS to respect hardworking American taxpayers. “That’s why I’m introducing a commonsense bill to prohibit the IRS from providing bonuses to tax delinquent IRS workers. I urge my colleagues to join this effort; it’s the right thing to do!” Background: H.R. 4531, No Bonuses to Tax Delinquent IRS Employees Act of 2014, is in response to a report released by the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration revealing that the IRS paid out bonuses and other rewards to employees who owe back taxes. According to the Inspector General, more than 1,100 employees received cash awards totaling more than $1 million and more than 10,000 hours in extra time off. The IRS Restructuring and Reform Act of 1998 requires the IRS to fire workers who are tax cheats (e.g. failure to file a tax return). However, according to the Inspector General, the IRS does not, as a practical matter, take into account whether an employee has a tax problem when it comes to providing bonuses and other awards for employees. Original Sponsors: Rep. Kevin Brady (TX), Pat Tiberi (OH), Dave Reichert (WA), Charles Boustany Jr. (LA), Peter Roskam (IL), Jim Gerlach (PA), Aaron Schock (IL), Lynn Jenkins (KS), Erik Paulsen (MN), Kenny Marchant (TX), Diane Black (TN), Mike Kelly (PA), Tim Griffin (AR), and Jim Renacci (OH). ###
04.29.2014	Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) released the following statement on the unanimous passage of H.R. 4032, the North Texas Invasive Species Barrier Act of 2014. “Knowing there are other invasive species that could threaten water supply for North Texans due to restrictions in the Lacey Act, we took preemptive action to allow access, transfer, and treatment of water from Lake Texoma to a treatment facility in Wylie. North Texans want, need, and deserve access to an adequate supply of clean water. I commend my colleague and fellow Texan Ralph Hall for his leadership and urge the Senate to consider this commonsense bill immediately.” Last Congress, both chambers worked in a bipartisan manner and passed H.R. 6007, the North Texas Zebra Mussels Barrier Act of 2012, to allow the transfer of water from Lake Texoma – a key water source for North Texas - to a treatment facility in Wylie that works to remove invasive species known as the zebra mussels, without suffering stiff penalties under the Lacey Act. The Lacey Act prohibits the transfer of water containing invasive species across state lines. Zebra mussels were found in the lake in 2008. ###
03.28.2014	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) released the following statement on the passing of friend, fellow Prisoner of War and American hero, retired Admiral Jeremiah “Jerry” A. Denton. “Today we mourn the loss of a man who symbolized freedom, my dear friend Jerry Denton. His patriotism knew no bounds and his bravery pushed every limit. I’ll never forget how he had the intestinal fortitude to blink the letters of the word TORTURE in Morse code while under duress to alert the world of our horrible and inhuman treatment in Hanoi. I will always cherish the memories of our friendship forged in the fire as a gift from above. Generations to come will honor and celebrate his legacy of freedom and his leadership in Hanoi – and for America upon his return. "Jerry, you will always hold a special place in my heart for your bravery, valor and service. Shirley and I will miss you tremendously. Rest in peace and G.B.U." Meaning of GBU In a dank, dark prison cell in Hanoi, many rights including freedom of speech were denied to all Prisoners of War leaving us no choice but to communicate by tapping on the walls in a language created out of necessity. Known as the tap code, we placed each letter in the alphabet in five rows with five letters each; eliminating K and using C for K. The first taps represent the letter in the horizontal row – then a pause – then the second series of taps represents the position of the letter in the vertical row. Like tap (pause) tap, tap for “B.” Each night we would sign off by tapping GBU and that stood for God Bless You. ###
03.26.2014	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) released the following statement after Raytheon Company announced plans to move its operations based in Garland, Texas, to a new state-of-the-art office complex in Richardson, Texas. The new building will occupy 489,000 square feet and accommodate 1,700 employees and visitors. “I am thrilled to welcome an additional Raytheon division and its dedicated employees to the Third District. This is great news for Richardson and great news for hardworking families as more businesses continue chomping at the bit to move to Collin County. I applaud Raytheon for their leadership, commitment to our community and vision for Collin County’s continued growth,” said Congressman Johnson. “This goes to show that when freedom and free enterprise are at the forefront, companies will invest, expand, and create jobs.” # # #
03.24.2014	Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) released the following statement as the Supreme Court prepares to hear oral arguments in the cases Sebelius v. Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc. and Conestoga Wood Specialties Corp. v. Sebelius. “It’s shameful to know that after numerous waivers, delays and changes made to Obamacare over the past four years; the only mandate the Obama Administration will strictly implement involves forcing religious groups and businesses like Hobby Lobby to violate deeply held personal beliefs. This is America - a nation founded on freedom of religion. My hope is that the Justices will stand firmly by our Constitution and protect every Americans’ right to exercise religious freedom.” ###
02.26.2014	In response to U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson’s (TX-03) ongoing effort to provide North Texas veterans with a medical clinic in Collin County, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs notified Johnson that he secured a new VA Community-Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) for North Dallas. The new VA Clinic will serve the residents of Collin and surrounding counties, and will be located in Plano. In response to constituent concern, the growing veteran population in North Texas, and personally experiencing the long drive to the Dallas VA Medical Center, Johnson has been pushing the VA for this clinic for years. “I am thrilled to announce our veterans will soon have better access to high-quality care closer to home. The new Collin County VA Clinic will make a huge difference for veterans, active duty, reservists and their loved ones. This is a win for North Texas and a win for our heroes,” said Johnson. “Nothing makes me happier than to give our brave men and women in uniform the health care services they earned and deserve.” The long-awaited CBOC is expected to provide primary care, mental health, telemedicine, laboratory and x-ray services. The clinic will provide services to nearly 6,000 veterans across the area each year. Additionally, it will provide 25 full-time jobs, including but not limited to five physicians, five registered nurses, five licensed vocational nurses, as well as a phlebotomist, pharmacist and social workers. The workload will be closely monitored each year to identify the need for further expansion of specialty care services. “North Texas veterans have waited far too long for a clinic of their own and I commend the VA for moving forward with the project. I look forward to continue working closely with VA North Texas Health Care System Director Jeff Milligan to ensure this long-fought for clinic becomes a reality,” concluded Johnson. # # #
02.26.2014	As a member of the Ways and Means Committee, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) released the following statement on the tax reform discussion draft by Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp. “Everyone can agree that our tax code is broken. It’s complex, confusing, and costly. Worse, it stands in the way of much-needed economic growth and job creation. I’ve heard from families and businesses across North Texas who are overwhelmed and frustrated with our broken tax code. “Today’s release of the discussion draft is just the start of an important conversation with the American people about tax reform. We need a tax code that is simpler, fairer, and pro-growth through lower rates. However, the key is to do it right. That’s why I will continue to listen to my constituents and ensure their voices are heard in Washington. “I commend Chairman Camp for his steadfast commitment to reform our broken code, and I look forward to continue the work to fix our tax code once and for all.”
02.25.2014	Today, Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX) issued the following statement in response to additional indictments in the Social Security Disability Insurance fraud in New York City. “Today we learned that the New York disability fraud scheme carried out by retired police officers and fire fighters was more rampant than we originally thought. I am outraged that these trusted public servants would engage in such deception. Stealing money from a program that in two years won’t be able to pay full benefits to those who truly need them is deplorable. This further reinforces the American public’s serious doubts about the Social Security Administration’s ability to prevent fraud in this vital program. “I suspect that the incidents in New York and Puerto Rico are not the last major fraud cases to make headlines. That’s why tomorrow, as part of my efforts to hold Social Security accountable, the Subcommittee on Social Security will hear from Acting Commissioner Colvin on a previously requested action plan to stop disability fraud schemes. The time for excuses is over, which is why I will be introducing legislation to help stop conspiracy fraud that cheats hardworking taxpayers and honest beneficiaries. This legislation will take an important step forward in protecting the Social Security Disability Insurance program.” ###
02.25.2014	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) and Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) introduced the ITIN (Individual Taxpayer Identification Number) Reform Act in response to the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) scandalous management of the ITIN program. In 2012 the Tax Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA) issued a scathing report finding that IRS managers were encouraging employees to ignore questionable applications and blatant fraud for the sake of quickly issuing ITINs. Last year, the IG issued another report finding on-going problems with the ITIN program, such as the IRS assigning over 1,000 ITINs to individuals using the same address. The report also stated that IRS workers remained concerned of the pressure from management to basically rubberstamp ITIN applications. Currently, the IRS issues ITINs to individuals ineligible for Social Security numbers such as illegal immigrants. Over time, ITINs have become a ticket for illegal immigrants to get cash benefits from the federal government, such as the $1,000 refundable child tax credit. “It’s time to hold the IRS’s feet to the fire when it comes to protecting taxpayer dollars,” said Johnson. “Instead of aiding and abetting fraud, the IRS needs to prevent fraud from happening in the first place. Enough is enough. This bill will go a long way towards putting in place the necessary safeguards that hard-working American taxpayers want, need and deserve. I thank my colleague and fellow Texan, Senator Cornyn, for leading the effort in the Senate.” According to analysis from Congress’ non-partisan tax scorekeeper, the Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT), the ITIN Reform Act will save $7.6 billion by preventing fraud, especially fraudulent child tax credit payments. “The independent Inspector General reports have shown that the ITIN program is filled with abuse and fraud,” said Cornyn. “Rather than letting another tax season go by with this wasteful program in place, we need to make common sense reforms that cut off the avenues for abuse.” The ITIN Reform Act would put safeguards in place to prevent fraud in the ITIN application process and require the TIGTA to conduct regular audits to ensure the IRS is protecting taxpayer dollars. The Act would require first time applicants to submit an ITIN application in-person at a Taxpayer Assistance Center or diplomatic consulate. Currently, applicants can submit their applications by mail or through a third party. Individuals seeking an ITIN must provide original documentation establishing their identity and foreign status. Additionally, new ITINs will have a 5-year time limit with an option to renew. Existing ITINs will have a 3-year limit with an option to renew. # # #
02.14.2014	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) delivered thousands of handmade valentines to veterans at the Dallas Veterans Affairs Medical Center as a part of Johnson’s annual Valentines for Veterans program. The heartfelt cards come from students and businesses across North Texas who took the time to tell our hometown heroes, "thank you for our freedoms," on Valentine’s Day. To kick off the event, Johnson encouraged the students of Huffman Elementary to make a valentine as a token of gratitude to those who make living in a free America possible. From February 3-7, Johnson collected valentines from over 60 schools and businesses across North Texas to be hand-delivered on Valentine’s Day as a part of The National Salute to Hospitalized Veterans Week. Johnson concludes Valentines for Veterans this morning at Sloan Creek Intermediate School, thanking the students for their heartfelt participation, and then headed to the Dallas VA Hospital to deliver the cards. TX State Rep. Scott Sanford and U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson with Sloan Creek Intermediate School’s 6th grade choir (on left) U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson, U.S. Congressman Michael Burgess(on right) “Without the brave men and women I met today, we would not be able to proudly say that, ‘We are Americans, and we are free,’ said Johnson. These veterans love our country with a depth some will never know. They willingly answered the call of duty to defend, preserve, and protect, and I’m proud to call them patriots. “Thank you to all the North Texans who opened their hearts to help make Valentine’s Day special for our veterans. No group is more deserving of our thanks. Happy Valentine’s Day.” A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson served in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars. He spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. Johnson represents a significant portion of Collin County. # # #
02.11.2014	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) made the following statement after the Ways and Means Committee passed a bill to stop the Obama Administration from implementing new regulations targeting 501(c)(4) conservative groups. The bill, H.R. 3865, Stop Targeting of Political Beliefs by the IRS Act of 2014 can be read here. “The IRS’s attempt to permanently stifle Americans’ freedom of speech is unprecedented and outrageous! Any American, including members of the Allen Area Patriots, seeking to speak-out in support of our hard-fought freedoms, a limited government, and a stronger America should never be subjected to intimidation because of their political beliefs. “In spite of President Obama expressing anger and calling the IRS’s acts ‘inexcusable,’ his administration’s actions sing a different tune. These new regulations would, once again, target the very same groups and deny Americans the fundamental freedom to participate and engage in the democratic process. That’s wrong! Lawmakers – both Republican and Democrat - have a responsibility to stop it!” To watch Johnson’s remarks during Committee markup, click here. # # #
02.11.2014	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) released the following statement on the so-called Temporary Debt Limit Extension Act, which would suspend the nation’s debt limit until March 15, 2015. “As a fiscal conservative, I once again voted against increasing the debt limit. My constituents did not send me to Washington to add to the already out-of-control debt. It’s over $17 trillion, yet President Obama continues to offer the same failed solution: spend and borrow more. Enough is enough. Just today the Director of the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office warned that the U.S. could face a ‘fiscal crisis.’ It’s time for President Obama and Congressional Democrats to listen to hardworking taxpayers and work to cut spending, balance the budget, and pay down the debt, rather than resort to the same failed agenda. “The American people have had enough of Washington’s fiscal recklessness. Enough piling more and more debt on to our children. American families have done their part to live within their means. It’s time for Washington to do the same and show respect to hard-working taxpayers.” # # #
02.05.2014	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) released the following statement in response to a new report from the non-partisan budget scorekeeper, the Congressional Budget Office, stating Obamacare will cause a ‘reduction in full-time-equivalent employment of about 2.3 million.’ “CBO’s report further proves what we’ve known all along, Obamacare is a job-killer. That’s wrong! If President Obama truly wants 2014 to be his ‘year of action,’ he can start by working with us to repeal this flawed law that’s leaving millions of Americans worse off. Americans want, need, and deserve action – not empty promises.” # # #
02.05.2014	Representative Jeff Leach, Senator Ken Paxton and the Texas Department of Transportation will host the official ceremonial event honoring United States Congressman Sam Johnson in a community celebration for the newly renamed "Sam Johnson Highway." The event will take place on Monday, February 24, at 10:00 a.m. at the Living Legends Conference Center of Collin College located at 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway in Plano. The event is free and open to the public. Doors will open at 9:00 a.m. Renaming Highway 75 is a way to honor Collin County's highly decorated American hero and United States Congressman Sam Johnson. Having served in the United States Air Force for 29 years, Johnson flew combat missions over Korea and Vietnam. During his second tour and 25th mission over North Vietnam, Johnson was shot down by enemy fire and held captive as a Prisoner of War in Hanoi for nearly seven years, spending more than half of that time in solitary confinement. Upon returning home to Texas and reuniting with his wife and three children, Johnson started a homebuilding business in Plano and was soon after elected to represent Collin County in the Texas House of Representatives. Following his tenure at the Texas House, Johnson was elected to the United States Congress, where he currently serves in the powerful Ways & Means Committee and sits as Chairman of the Social Security Subcommittee. His unwavering commitment to freedom, free enterprise and American family values continue to drive his efforts in Washington. “Serving our great country has been one of the most rewarding experiences of my life," said Congressman Johnson. "North Texas is home to many American patriots and this recognition is not only for my service, but also for theirs. I humbly thank Senator Paxton and Representative Leach for this tremendous honor.” In recognition of Congressman Johnson’s lifelong commitment to the North Texas community and love of country, Representative Leach and Senator Paxton passed legislation during the 83rd Legislative Session (House Bill 1534) which directs, through private funding, the renaming of Highway 75, the "Sam Johnson Highway," along the corridor between the intersections of the President George Bush Turnpike and U.S. Highway 380. Representative Leach, who served as the author of House Bill 1534, stated, "Having endured so much for our country, Congressman Johnson truly personifies the meaning of an American patriot and it is a tremendous honor to take part in this effort." Senator Ken Paxton, who served as the Senate sponsor for House Bill 1534, stated, “Congressman Johnson’s name will forever be ingrained in Collin County as a result of the passage of House Bill 1534, and I am so honored to be a part of this legacy.” NOTE: RSVP is requested, please contact Rep. Leach's office at (972) 424-1419 or District67.Leach@house.state.tx.us. # # #
02.03.2014	On Tuesday, February 11, and Wednesday, February 12, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) will host the monthly Mobile Office Hours in Allen, Frisco, McKinney, Murphy, Plano, Prosper, and Richardson. Times and locations are listed below. On this day, Johnson’s staff visits different communities across North Texas to assist Third District residents with federal issues or government agencies - such as Medicare, Veterans Affairs (VA), U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security, or the Internal Revenue Service – in an area most convenient to them. Johnson encourages constituents to visit one of the locations below on Tuesday, February 11, and Wednesday, February 12, at the designated time. Appointments are not necessary. Johnson’s staff can also help facilitate overseas adoptions, provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C., applying to a U.S. Service Academy and process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Anyone requesting assistance with a federal agency should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. Constituents who cannot attend the scheduled Mobile Office Hours are welcome to contact the Congressman’s Plano office at 469-304-0382. For more information, please visit www.samjohnson.house.gov and click “Get Help with a Federal Agency.” Tuesday, February 11 Plano West Christopher A. Parry Library 6200 Windhaven Parkway Plano, Texas 75093 2:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. Frisco George A. Purefory Municipal Center 6101 Frisco Square Boulevard Frisco, Texas 75034 2:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. Allen Senior Recreation Center 451 St. Mary Drive Allen, Texas 75002 9:00 a.m. - 11:00 a.m. Murphy City Hall 206 North Murphy Road Murphy, Texas 75094 9:00 a.m. - 11:00 a.m. Wednesday, February 12 Plano East Plano Municipal Center 1520 K Avenue Plano, Texas 75074 2:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. McKinney Collin College - Central Park Campus 2200 West University Drive McKinney, Texas 75071 2:00 p.m.- 4:00 p.m. Prosper City Hall 1500 East 1st Street Prosper, Texas 75078 9:00 a.m. - 11:00 a.m. Richardson Richardson Civic Center 411 West Arapaho Road, Suite 102 Richardson, Texas 75071 9:00 a.m. - 11:00 a.m. # # #
01.29.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) released the following statement congratulating McKinney resident Johnny Quinn as he prepares to compete as a member of the 2014 U.S. Olympics Team at the Olympic Winter Games in Sochi, Russia, starting on February 7. This year 230 Americans, comprised of 102 women and 125 men – the largest athlete delegation for any nation in the history of the Winter Games - will represent the United States of America. “I am thrilled that one of our very own will be competing in the 2014 Olympic Winter Games. Entering his fourth year as a bobsledder, Johnny’s focus, perseverance, hard work, and dedication are paying off,” said Johnson. “His tremendous achievements and contributions on and off the ice are inspiring other young athletes across North Texas to pursue their athletic dreams.” “From one Christian to another, may he rely on God’s strength and remember ‘I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me.’ This is a proud moment for North Texas, and we stand ready to cheer Johnny on as he takes the world’s biggest stage. I’m confident he will wear the red, white, and blue with pride and distinction,” concluded Johnson. Quinn, a former McKinney High football star, will compete as one of the two four-man sleds entering the Olympic Bobsled Team. To learn more about Johnny Quinn, click here. # # #
01.28.2014	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) proudly announced that 49 students across North Texas have been nominated to the U.S. Service Academies for the Class of 2018. Each service academy will make formal offers of appointment this spring. Once selected, the students will begin classes in July 2014. As a 29-year Air Force veteran and former Prisoner of War in Vietnam for nearly seven years, more than half of that time in solitary confinement, Johnson knows the strength of character, courage, and conviction necessary to serve your country. “As we answer the call of duty, we do so with the willingness to sacrifice everything to defend and protect our neighbors and nation. Serving our country is the worthiest calling of my life, and I commend each student who upholds the same desire to serve," said Johnson. “Each student nominated is among the best and brightest across North Texas. They truly are the cream of the crop and give me great hope for the future strength and readiness of our armed forces.” Johnson, a decorated combat veteran, finds nominating Third District students to the service academies as one of the most rewarding parts of his job as a U.S. Representative. The selection process is competitive and rigorous, based on academic performance, exhibited by class rank, SAT or ACT scores, and grade point average. Participating in extracurricular, civic, and service activities as well as athletic aptitude are also taken into consideration by the selection board. Students interested in learning more about service academy applications should contact Lori McMahon in Johnson’s Plano office at (469) 304-0382. In addition, every fall the Congressman hosts a free Academy Information Session with all branches represented for Third District students and families. The session provides students with an opportunity to learn more about each Academy and decide if military life is for them. Third District residents must be between the ages of 17 and 23 to be eligible to apply. Class of 2018 Nominations for U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson U.S. MILITARY ACADEMY – WEST POINT City School Andre Bergstein Parker Plano East Senior High School Myles Caddle Plano Plano West Senior High School Taylor Chambers Plano Plano Senior High School Shelby Hill Frisco Frisco High School Timothy Johnson McKinney McKinney Boyd High School Jonathan Lara Plano Plano Senior High School Vincent Martiano Plano Plano Senior High school Jesse Palmer Plano Plano West Senior High School Matthew Shao Plano Plano West Senior High School Hunter Stevens Allen Allen High School U.S. AIR FORCE ACADEMY Natasha Blaskovich McKinney McKinney North High School Rebekah Burnham Plano Plano West Senior High School John Carver Frisco Wakeland High School Collin Charles McKinney Heritage High School Brock Crawford Frisco Legacy Christian Academy Dang Do Murphy Plano East Senior High School Dat Do Murphy Plano East Senior High School Jesus Garcia Allen John Paul II High School Julie Hodges Allen Allen High School Erin Hoppe McKinney McKinney High School Willliam King Allen Plano East Senior High School Emily Krupka Plano Plano West Senior High School Jamie Lewis Plano Plano West Senior High School Alessandro Lione Plano Plano East Senior High School Vincent Martiano Plano Plano Senior High school Ryan McMullin McKinney McKinney Boyd High School Drew Morgan Parker Pecan Orchard Academy Abigail Paxton McKinney Legacy Christian Academy; currently attending Baylor University Samuel Schell Plano Plano West Senior High School Brian Simpson Plano Liberty High School U.S. NAVAL ACADEMY Rebekah Burnham Plano Plano West Senior High School Jeremy Cerf McKinney Frisco Liberty High School Dang Do Murphy Plano East Senior High School Dat Do Murphy Plano East Senior High School Brock Dudley Plano Plano West Senior High School Jessica Martinez Plano Ursuline Academy of Dallas Ryan McMullin McKinney McKinney Boyd High School Simic Tuan Richardson Plano East Senior High School Christopher Turner McKinney Liberty High School Andrew Wicker Prosper Prestonwood Christian Academy U.S. MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY Rebekah Burnham Plano Plano West Senior High School Dang Do Murphy Plano East Senior High School Dat Do Murphy Plano East Senior High School Clayton Foster Palmer Canterberry Episcopal School Willliam King Allen Plano East Senior High School Colby Knight Allen Lovejoy High School Alessandro Lione Plano Plano East Senior High School Ryan McMullin McKinney McKinney Boyd High School Christopher Turner McKinney Liberty High School Johnson represents a significant portion of Collin County. # # #
01.28.2014	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) delivered the following remarks in support of H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funds for Abortion Act. Click here to play Remarks as prepared for delivery: “Last week, amid frigid temperatures, hundreds of thousands of Americans marched up our nation’s Capital in support of the unborn and the value of life. “Today it's our turn. “Our turn to stand for life by supporting H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funds for Abortion Act. This bill would ban the use of taxpayer dollars to fund abortions once and for all. “The last thing pro-life taxpayers should be required to do is subsidize unethical practices. It's their money, and you better believe I'll fight for them to have a say in how it's spent. Enough is enough. “Mr. Speaker, this isn’t just what Republicans want. According to multiple polls, the majority of Americans oppose the use of federal funding for abortions. This is what the American people want, and it’s time folks in Washington listened. Remember, we work for them. “Let's stand for life. It's the right and just thing to do.” # # #
01.28.2014	Washington, D.C. - Tonight U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) released the following statement after the President delivered the State of the Union Address. “In one sentence, tonight was a missed opportunity. As Americans continue to look for jobs, see their wages stagnate, have their work hours cut, and receive health insurance cancellations, President Obama proposes the same old policies that have failed to make life better for hardworking Americans. For five straight years, families and small businesses have struggled under the Obama economy. It’s time for President Obama to read the writing on the wall and try something new. Quite frankly, I think our North Texas business community would gladly give the President a few pointers – starting with get out of our way and learn to balance your budget! “However, the real story tonight comes from the state of our families, neighbors and communities. Each time I meet with constituents the first thing they say is how sick and tired they are of Washington’s out-of-control spending. How government keeps getting bigger yet accomplishes so little. How onerous regulations – from EPA to ObamaCare – hurt their small business and employees. This, unfortunately, is the real state of our union: Americans are worse off today than they were five years ago. This is not the America we know and love. “We can turn this around. To get businesses growing and creating jobs, Washington must get out of the way. To get our fiscal house in order, we must balance the budget, pay down the debt and shrink the deficit. To improve our health care system, we must repeal ObamaCare and truly make healthcare affordable, accessible and patient-centered. It’s time we empower American citizens – not the government. If we stick to these ideas we will see real opportunity, sustainable economic growth, and long-term prosperity for all Americans. “Lastly, as President of the United States, Obama has the responsibility – under oath - to ensure laws are faithfully executed and to adhere to the letter of the U.S. Constitution. In order to accomplish both he must be willing to work with us in Congress, not bypass us. A true leader knows the importance of compromise, reaching across party lines to achieve the greater good – that’s what the American people expect from their President. I urge the President to honor the office of the presidency and end the threat of executive fiat. Mr. President, the well-being of the American people must always come first.” # # #
01.15.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) released the following statement on the Fiscal Year 2014 Consolidated Appropriations Act – also known as the Omnibus. “This bill is a trillion dollar, 1,500-page spending monstrosity that reverses hard-fought spending cuts that are key to getting our fiscal house in order. Across the nation, hardworking taxpayers have cut back and stretched their hard-earned dollars in order to make ends meet under the Obama economy; Washington, however, is loosening its belt. I won’t stand for it! We’re facing a debt crisis because Washington spends and wastes too much. “As a fiscal conservative, my constituents sent me to Washington to cut spending, balance the budget and pay down our debt -- not increase spending. If we want to leave our children and grandchildren with the opportunity of a brighter future, we need to continue building on the fiscal progress we have made.” ###
01.15.2014	PLANO, TX - On Tuesday, January 21 at 1:30 p.m., U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will launch the annual “Valentines for Veterans” drive at Huffman Elementary School in Plano. Johnson encourages students of all ages across North Texas to hand-make valentines for veterans, the men and women who fought tirelessly to protect our freedoms. The “Valentines for Vets” program occurs every February as a part of The National Salute to Hospitalized Veterans Week – an opportunity for all Americans to say thank you to a revered group of men and women by sending cards and letters to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical centers across the country. Johnson personally will deliver the hand-made greetings to veterans at the Dallas VA on Valentine’s Day. “What better way to spend Valentine’s Day than expressing our love and honor to those who never quit serving, the brave members of our armed forces. As a 29-year Air Force veteran and former POW in Vietnam, I know how difficult the transition from military to civilian life can be. These men and women deserve our 110% support and our eternal gratitude for their service and sacrifice. If we can brighten even one day, then it makes a difference. I’m incredibly proud of our veterans and our North Texas students who take the time to say thanks,” says Johnson. This year, Johnson’s staff will pick up valentines from schools from February 3-7. To schedule a pick-up, contact Susan Fischer by February 3 at Susan.Fischer@mail.house.gov or by phone at 469-304-0382. WHAT: Congressman Johnson kicks off annual “Valentines for Veterans” WHEN: Tuesday, January 21 at 1:30 p.m. WHERE: Huffman Elementary School 5510 Channel Isle Drive Plano, Texas 75093 A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson served in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars. He spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. Johnson represents a significant portion of Collin County. # # #
01.15.2014	Washington, DC –Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) released the following statement on Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp’s (R-MI) bill that would block for one year the Department of Treasury (Treasury) proposed 501(c)(4) regulations issued last November. The regulations come on the heels of the ongoing investigation of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) targeting of conservative groups. “Instead of punishing the IRS for wrongly targeting conservative organizations, the Obama Administration seems to want to continue the job with its onerous rules that will only restrict Americans’ fundamental freedom to participate in the democratic process. That’s just wrong, this is America! As lawmakers, we have a responsibility to stand up and protect every American’s First Amendment right. Congress must work to ensure that political targeting never happens again, whether it comes from the IRS or any other government agency. Chairman Camp’s bill along with my simple 4-page bill, making jail time mandatory for any federal worker involved in political targeting, is a step in that direction.” Johnson’s bill, H.R. 2557, the Imprisonment for Tax Targeting of American Act of 2013, would make jail time mandatory for any federal employee involved in political targeting, unauthorized inspection of returns or unauthorized disclosure of information. Currently, the tax code includes a number of criminal offenses such as the unauthorized release and inspection of tax returns as well as political targeting. However, jail time for such offenses is optional. This legislation is in response to the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) blatant abuse of power by targeting Americans based on their political beliefs. # # #
01.14.2014	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) delivered the following remarks on the U.S. House of Representatives floor on the shocking disability scandal in New York involving 106 people, including former policemen, FBI employee, and firemen. Click here to play Remarks as prepared for delivery “Mr. Speaker, this past summer we learned of the largest disability fraud in the history of Social Security taking place in Puerto Rico. “Now, less than six months later, we hear of an even more shocking scandal in New York where 106 people have been arrested, including former policemen, FBI employee, and firemen. Worse, about half of the defendants falsely claimed that their ‘disability’ was caused as a result of the 9-11 terrorist attacks, even though many had never even worked at Ground Zero. These individuals are stealing from a program that serves those who can no longer work due to a disability. This is unacceptable! “The American people are outraged and fast losing confidence in Social Security, and rightfully so. “That’s why this Thursday; I’ll be holding a hearing to ensure Social Security makes fighting fraud and protecting hardworking taxpayer dollars its number one priority. The time for excuses is over.” # # #
01.13.2014	Watchdog.org chief Kenric Ward writes that Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said he will allow votes Monday on “reasonable” reforms to a bill extending unemployment benefits. Ward includes: Turning up the heat, U.S. Rep. Sam Johnson, R-Texas, assailed Reid for flip-flopping on the IRS’ handling of the child tax-credit program. “Why does Reid now support allowing illegal immigrants to receive billions in taxpayer dollars? That’s just wrong,” Johnson said. In 2008, Reid and other Democrats supported H.R. 5140, the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008, which provided IRS tax-credit checks to taxpayers and their children. At that time, all recipients were required to provide Social Security numbers to be eligible. Since then, the IRS has determined that an Individual Taxpayer Identification Number, which can be obtained without proof of legal residency, was sufficient to receive the $1,000 Additional Child Tax Credit. Full story below. By Kenric Ward | Watchdog.org WASHINGTON, D.C. — Bowing to a flurry of cost-cutting amendments on a bill extending unemployment benefits, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said he will allow votes Monday on “reasonable” reforms. Reid’s sudden about-face comes after Republicans blasted the Nevada Democrat for unilaterally blocking amendments that could yield $70 billion in taxpayer savings. “I am not surprised that Senator Reid is backtracking,” said David North. The immigration-law expert praised GOP Sen. Kelly Ayotte, R-N.H., for her amendment to halt IRS child tax-credit refunds going to illegal immigrants. “Whether you are a Republican or a Democrat, you could not fail to be impressed by Sen. Ayotte’s move,” North told Watchdog.org. The policy analyst with the Center for Immigration Studies, called Ayotte’s gambit “a stroke of genius.” “It provides money to the unemployed while taking undeserved tax refunds away from illegal aliens,” North said. Ayotte is among a half-dozen Senate Republicans pressuring Reid and majority Democrats to accept cost-cutting reforms in exchange for their votes to extend relief to up to 5.4 million jobless Americans whose benefits are expiring. Turning up the heat, U.S. Rep. Sam Johnson, R-Texas, assailed Reid for flip-flopping on the IRS’ handling of the child tax-credit program. “Why does Reid now support allowing illegal immigrants to receive billions in taxpayer dollars? That’s just wrong,” Johnson said. In 2008, Reid and other Democrats supported H.R. 5140, the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008, which provided IRS tax-credit checks to taxpayers and their children. At that time, all recipients were required to provide Social Security numbers to be eligible. Since then, the IRS has determined that an Individual Taxpayer Identification Number, which can be obtained without proof of legal residency, was sufficient to receive the $1,000 Additional Child Tax Credit. Reid and other Democrats acquiesced in the change, arguing that, otherwise, some children with legal residency would be denied benefits. North, a Democrat, rejected that reasoning. “If you are born in the U.S., you can get a Social Security number, and, under Ayotte’s amendment, the tax credit, too. Republicans are not taking money away from all children of illegal aliens, just those who are either illegal themselves or non-existent,” he said. Watchdog last year reported that the IRS mailed thousands of ACTC refunds, totaling millions of dollars, to single addresses around the country. The nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that restoring the original 2008 citizenship rule would save approximately $24.4 billion annually. U.S. Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., expressed “alarm” about what she called improper payments of the child-tax credit, and vowed to stop them. Whether Reid will join her, and accept Ayotte’s amendment as “reasonable,” will be determined Monday. Republican U.S. Sens. Dan Coats of Indiana and Rob Portman of Ohio have proposed nearly $50 million in additional reforms to offset the cost of extending unemployment benefits. Coats, in a debate on Thursday, assailed Reid for singlehandedly blockading GOP amendments and blocking votes. “Do we have just one person who runs the place?” Coats asked. “I am representing the people of Indiana and their voice is shut out.” Reid’s plan would pay for an 11-month extension of benefits by adding a year of budget sequestration, increasing the deficit by $17 billion through 2023. # # #
01.08.2014	In response to the reported security risks with the ObamaCare federal website, healthcare.gov, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) delivered remarks on two common-sense and effective ways to protect Americans’ private information from identity thieves. Click here to play Congressman Johnson: “This week the House will consider a bill offered by Representative Pitts that would require the Obama administration to notify Americans who had their personal information stolen after signing up for health insurance through ObamaCare. “As someone who has made protecting Social Security numbers a priority, I’m deeply concerned about an increase of identity theft through the flawed ObamaCare website. “You see Social Security numbers are the key to identity theft. Yet CMS, which is the same agency that runs healthcare.gov, has failed to protect seniors’ identity by refusing to remove Social Security numbers from Medicare cards. “That’s why Mr. Pitts’ bill, along with H.R. 781, the Medicare Identity Theft Prevention Act, which I introduced with my Democrat colleague Lloyd Doggett are two simple, yet effective ways we can protect Americans and keep their private information just that - private. I urge my colleagues to join our efforts; we must do what’s right for Americans.” # # #
01.08.2014	Washington, DC - Today, Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX) made the following statement in response to the Social Security Disability Insurance fraud in New York City. The investigation resulted in the indictment and arrest of some 102 Social Security Disability Insurance beneficiaries and four facilitators — two recruiters, an attorney and a disability consultant — allegedly involved in the scheme. “Scandal after scandal proves the Social Security Administration is failing to protect precious taxpayer dollars and the public’s confidence in this vital program. It was just six months ago when we learned of the unprecedented and rampant disability fraud in Puerto Rico, which came on the heels of troubling reports about the handling of disability cases in West Virginia. What’s especially disheartening about this latest scandal is that 80 percent of the alleged criminals involved are former New York police officers and firefighters as well as a former F.B.I. agent. These are people we trust and who take oaths to protect us and our country. The bottom line is that this fraud hurts those who are truly deserving of disability benefits. I commend the employees of the Social Security Administration, the Office of Inspector General, the New York County District Attorney’s Office and the New York Police Department for bringing this fraud to light. “At a time when the Disability Insurance program will be unable to pay full benefits beginning in 2016, my number one priority is to make sure we keep this program strong for those who truly need it and protect hard-earned taxpayer dollars. This should be Social Security’s number one priority as well. The Subcommittee will soon have a hearing to learn more about this investigation and the actions Social Security is taking in response. Americans want, need and deserve no less.” In the last two years the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security has held 11 hearings on the Social Security Disability Insurance Program, including hearings on disability fraud. # # #
12.12.2013	Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) released the following statement opposing the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013. “I cannot support a deal that spends more money – money we do not have. To create a better and stronger America for our children and grandchildren we must work to cut spending now, pay down our skyrocketing multi-trillion debt now, and slash our deficits now, not in the future. As a sign in my office sums it up well, ‘it’s the spending, stupid.’ Plain and simple - the American people want Washington to tax less, to spend less and to borrow less. That’s exactly what I intend to continue doing.” # # #
12.12.2013	Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed a common-sense, anti-fraud provision championed by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX). As Chairman of the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee, Johnson has led the effort to protect families and the American taxpayer from identity thieves by restricting access to Social Security’s Death Master File (DMF). “For far too long, identity thieves have been exploiting the DMF to steal Americans’ identities to obtain fraudulent tax refunds. Taxpayers who are victims of such fraud endure the terrible ordeal of proving their real identities. That’s just plain wrong! Worse, these thieves target deceased children, like 4-year-old Alexis Agin, whose family learned of the fraud after the IRS rejected their tax return. Worrying about the stolen identity of a loved one is the last thing a grieving family should do,” said Johnson. The Agin’s tragic experience led Johnson to introduce legislation to better protect families in 2011 and again this year. In July 2013, Johnson introduced the Alexis Agin Identity Theft Protection Act (H.R. 2720) – along with Democrat colleague and ranking-member on Social Security, Congressman Xavier Becerra (D-CA). As included in the budget agreement, the provision would require that only death information older than three years would be publicly available through the DMF – except for certified entities. The provision would prevent the disclosure of recent death information and help reduce incidents of identity theft and tax fraud. It is estimated to generate nearly $800 million in savings. Background on the Death Master File The Social Security Administration collects death information so it can stop benefits to those who have died and start benefits for their survivors. As a result of a 1978 Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) court-mandated settlement, Social Security has been required to make public the Social Security numbers and other personal information of those who have died. Unfortunately, this file has turned into a resource for criminals who file fraudulent tax returns based on identities of the deceased, particularly children. In 2011, the Internal Revenue Service rejected the Agin’s tax return advising the family that an identity thief had already filed a tax return for 2010 claiming their child as a dependent. The Agin’s reached out to the cancer community, which they had come to know since April 2008 when their daughter was diagnosed with a terminal brain tumor, to share their experience. In less than an hour, 14 other families whose children had died said they had also experienced the additional travesty of their child’s Social Security number being stolen. “I salute the Agins for their tireless advocacy on behalf of their daughter and other grieving families,” added Johnson. # # #
11.19.2013	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) recognized Baylor Regional Medical Center at Plano for their latest accolade, the 2013 Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award, the nation’s highest Presidential honor for performance excellence through innovation, improvement and visionary leadership. Click Here to Play “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Baylor Regional Medical Center at Plano on their latest accolade, the 2013 Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award, the nation's highest Presidential honor for performance excellence through innovative practices and visionary leadership. “For nearly a decade, Baylor Plano has provided North Texas with high quality and compassionate care. Their superior patient satisfaction rate and dedication to training the best and the brightest go unmatched. Baylor Plano’s success and patient-centered care is a testament to the endless possibilities when you have choice and freedom on your side. “It’s an honor to congratulate Baylor Plano's employees, medical staff and volunteers for doing their part to keep Texas’ bigger and better reputation intact. I wish them continued success. God bless you, and I salute you.” About Baldrige Award: Established by Congress in 1987, the Baldrige Award is managed by the Baldrige Performance Excellence Program (BPEP) of the U.S. Commerce Department’s National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) in cooperation with the private sector. It also is a partner in the Baldrige Enterprise, which includes the private-sector Baldrige Foundation, the Alliance for Performance Excellence—a body made up of more than 30 state, local, regional and sector-specific Baldrige-based programs serving nearly all of the United States; and ASQ, an international organization promoting quality. The program raises awareness about the importance of performance excellence in driving the U.S. and global economy; provides organizational assessment tools and criteria; educates leaders in businesses, schools, health care organizations, and government and nonprofit organizations about the practices of national role models; and recognizes them with the Baldrige Award. The Baldrige Award is not given for specific products or services. Since the first group was recognized in 1988, 102 awards have been presented to 96 organizations (including six repeat winners). Note: Information about the Baldrige Award has been obtained from the National Institute of Standards and Technology’s news release, click here to learn more. # # #
11.18.2013	Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) introduced common-sense legislation, H.R. 3498, so seniors can have the freedom to make their own healthcare decisions and to opt-out of the government-run health program for seniors, Medicare. Johnson joined by original co-sponsor Congressman Scott Perry (R-PA) released the following statement: “As folks continue to see their healthcare options diminished by ObamaCare, it’s critical to find ways that allow a return to choice and freedom in health care. This common-sense bill does just that, it truly tells seniors, ‘if you like your current coverage, you can keep it’ without risk of losing other important benefits like social security. If folks like Warren Buffett or Ross Perot want to opt-out of Medicare Part A because they don’t want or need a government entitlement paying for their health care, we should let him! Seniors should have the freedom to say ‘thanks, but no thanks’ if they want to keep their current coverage,” said Johnson. “Americans should have the right to choose a healthcare plan that fits their needs, rather than be tied to a government-run system that doesn’t meet their unique medical requirements. American seniors should have the choice to decide what plan works best for their family. Medicare also desperately needs to be reformed in order to ensure this program is viable for current and future generations. This bill takes off some of the budgetary pressure from Medicare to help ensure its long-term sustainability for all seniors,” said Perry. H.R. 3498 will help reduce burdensome regulations in the Medicare program that restricts America’s seniors from truly being able to keep their current health coverage. This bill allows individuals to voluntarily opt-out of Medicare Part A when they become eligible for the benefit. Today, you can choose not to enroll in Medicare Part B or Part D, but not for Part A unless you give up your Social Security benefits too. “A free society is based on individual choice and personal responsibility. Medicare Part A makes it illegal for seniors to have a choice. Our bill changes that,” concluded Johnson. Additionally, the bill will allow seniors with a Health Savings Account (HSA) and qualified High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP) to continue contributing to their HSA with pre-tax dollars after they turn 65. Under current law, seniors who have an HSA and turn 65 are no longer eligible to contribute pre-tax dollars to their HSA. Johnson serves on the Ways and Means Committee, where he chairs the Social Security Subcommittee. Johnson represents a significant portion of Collin County. Perry represents the 4th District of Pennsylvania. He serves on the Transportation & Infrastructure, Homeland Security and Foreign Affairs Committees. # # #
11.12.2013	Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) presents Vietnam veteran and hometown hero, Lance Corporal Michael P. Carey from Collin County with the Bronze Star Medal with Valor during the annual McKinney Veterans Day event. Congressman Sam Johnson presents Bronze Star Medal to Michael Care McKinney Mayor Brian Loughmiller, Congressman Sam Johnson, and Bronze Star Medal recipient Michael Carey “Michael Carey is the definition of an American patriot. Serving as a Rifleman in the 1st Marine Division during Vietnam, he never failed to uphold the highest traditions of the Marine Corp, to place service over self,” said Johnson as he presented Michael with the Bronze Star Medal with Valor. While patrolling, south of Danang, on March 26, 1970, Carey tripped an enemy surprise firing device and without hesitation or concern for his own safety, he alerted the patrol to take cover, saving his fellow Marines from deadly shrapnel. Again in September, he maneuvered his squad during combat with the North Vietnamese Army Battalion to direct fire on hostile targets, helping force the enemy into retreat. “In both instances, the Marine Corp Motto, ‘Semper Fidelis’ meaning ‘Always Faithful’ couldn’t define Carey better. Because of his undaunted courage, bold leadership, and dedication to duty, he honored himself, his battalion, and his country. Michael Carey is beloved by his family, friends, and neighbors and his courage and sacrifice leaves a legacy to be remembered,” concluded Johnson. Many times, Veterans of all eras are unaware that they may be eligible for the honors they earned. Johnson’s office helps veterans or their family members initiate a request and navigate through the bureaucracy to obtain the official documents required to prove medal eligibility. The office works with the National Personnel Records Center. Anyone needing assistance should contact the Congressman’s Plano office at 469-304-0382 to begin the process. Johnson is a 29-year Air Force veteran and a former Prisoner of War for nearly seven years, spending more than half of that time in solitary confinement. A decorated combat veteran and war hero, Johnson received two Silver Stars, two Legions of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross, one Bronze Star with Valor, two Purple Hearts, four Air Medals, and three Outstanding Unit Awards. Johnson represents the southwestern part of Collin County. # # #
11.04.2013	In response to the U.S. Air Force Academy’s unilateral decision to make the phrase, ‘so help me God’ of the Cadet Honor Oath optional, Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) introduced H.R. 3416, a bill that would require congressional approval prior to any change to Oaths of Office. Johnson joined by original co-sponsor Congressman Pete Olson (TX-22) released the following statement: “Our Founding Fathers declared we are, ‘One nation under God,’ and you better believe I’ll fight like mad to keep it that way,” said Johnson. “I can tell you from experience, there are no atheists in foxholes. We are the land of the free because of the brave. Many people don’t know this but when you survive a near-death experience you realize that the only thing you had to hold on to was your faith in God.” Johnson spent nearly 7 years as a Prisoner of War (POW) in Vietnam – more than half of that time in solitary confinement. Remembering his time in captivity, Johnson said, “Our captors tried to break our spirits daily. One year, a group of POWs in the prison we dubbed the Hanoi Hilton decided to defy our captors and hold a church service. They hated that we found unity and strength in God and one another. As armed guards surrounded us, a fellow POW pounced onto the poor excuse for a bed and belted out the national anthem and ‘God Bless America.’ I remember how the magnitude of the moment and the magic of the music overpowered any illness or ache. For a fleeting time, we felt strong and faithful. It was truly the greatest gift each of us had during those endless days of torture, isolation, and starvation. It’s not only my experience, but that of my fellow POWs, veterans, and those currently in harm’s way that make ‘so help me God’ vital to the oath. I urge my colleagues to join this effort to protect the legacy of freedom of religion.” "It was disheartening to see the Air Force Academy succumb to anti-religious zealotry from the Military Religious Freedom Foundation (MRFF)," Olson said. "As a former Navy pilot, I can speak to the value of allowing God to be present for our military men and women. The military personnel being trained to defend the rights of Americans should be able to exercise their religious convictions by affirming their oath with so help me God. What troubles me even more is that the original complaint was not made by a cadet, but a local newspaper that brought the oath to the attention of an organization hostile to freedom of faith. I urge my colleagues to join me in preserving a crucial tenet in our Constitution, the First Amendment freedom to practice religion," Olson concluded. Background on H.R. 3416 This legislation would require congressional approval before any change may be made to the Oaths of Office for the following: - Enlisting in the Armed Forces; - Appointment to an office in the civil service or uniformed services; or - Appointment as a cadet or midshipman at a military service academy. # # #
10.29.2013	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) delivered the following remarks during the House Ways and Means Committee hearing on the significant challenges Americans have faced with the implementation and enrollment process of the Affordable Care Act – commonly known as ObamaCare. Johnson provides first-hand experiences from constituents across Texas’ Third Congressional District. Earlier this year, Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius testified in front of the Ways and Means Committee stating confidently and repeatedly that the exchanges were ‘on track’ and would be ready for business starting October 1. Today, it is clear the exchanges were not ready despite having three years to get the system ready. Remarks as Prepared “Ms. Tavenner, thank you for being here today to help us address this crisis. I’ve been hearing from folks back home who, rightfully so, have very serious concerns and fears about their health care. “Stephen from Plano tried to purchase insurance through the exchange; but ended up more confused and frustrated. Operators on the 1-800 line didn’t have answers to his specific questions – they simply reiterated that anyone could sign up for the exchange but he should wait until later that evening or the next day to apply since the systems were having technical difficulties. “Worse, a single father and police officer in Plano went to renew his 11 year-old daughter’s insurance plan. She has no medical problems, yet her premiums doubled. Doubled! These are real stories of fathers, mothers, sons and daughters who have to live with a law that up to now has completely failed them. “Ms. Tavenner, the Administration delayed the employer mandate for one-year. The Treasury witness before the Committee testified the reason the Administration granted big businesses a one year delay is, ‘employers and their representatives have requested transition relief for 2014 because of concerns about the difficulty or costs of complying with the employer mandate.’ “Secretary Sebelius has appeared before this Committee and repeatedly said that ObamaCare, ‘was ready.’ It clearly wasn’t ready. “Doesn’t the failed launch indicate many individuals are going to have at least as much difficulty complying with the individual mandate as big businesses would’ve had with the employer mandate? Yet from the announcement last night, you’ve only given individuals a 6-week delay? “CMS announced 700,000 people had submitted applications for exchange coverage nationwide. But with all the challenges, there are some serious questions about what these applicants know. “CBS news reported ‘the shop and browse’ feature is not giving consumers the real picture. In some cases, people could end up paying double what they see on the website. So how many applicants applied based on the wrong premium information? “But now that this problem has been identified, what specific steps are you taking today to identify who received faulty price information, apologize, and provide the right information? “I want to bring your attention to a story which ran last week in Mother Jones with the headline: ‘How Healthcare dot gov Could Be Hacked’. “Let me just quote from the article: ‘Security experts say the federal health insurance website is vulnerable to a common technique that hackers use to steal personal information.’ “Ms. Tavenner, as you may know I’m chairman of the Social Security subcommittee and one of my longstanding priorities has been to protect Americans’ Social Security Numbers. “So for the record, is the Obamacare website 100% safe from hackers who could steal Americans’ personal information, including their Social Security Numbers? Yes or No? “Folks are confused and scared. They’ve heard the horror stories and are now experiencing them first-hand. How can they trust the federal government to not only fix the website but more importantly give them the assurance that their personal information will be safe, that their health care will be affordable, that if they want to keep their current plan they can do so? “The problems do not stop at the technical failures of a website. The real problem stems from the colossal failure to deliver what this law promised the American people: affordable health care – not just for people at a certain income level or for people purchasing insurance for the first time, but for ALL.” # # #
10.23.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) released the following statement prior to voting in support of H.R. 3080, Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA). Through WRRDA, Congress authorizes the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to carry out its mission to investigate, develop and maintain the nation’s water and related environmental resources. “This bill provides much needed reforms to water projects across the country. It not only cuts bureaucratic red tape, limits studies to 3 years, but also gives cities, states and private entities more flexibility to expedite permits and push projects their community needs,” said Johnson. “These commonsense reforms are a step in the right direction for states like Texas who continue to endure the ongoing effects of a multi-year drought. We have a dire need for new sources of water in the Lone Star State and this bill provides a faster and more cost-effective way forward for these projects.” Additionally, the bill adds a new section clarifying that preventing the spread of aquatic invasive species is a qualifying category for federal water projects. “North Texas has dealt with the invasive species known as zebra mussels for far too long, and while significant steps have been taken to combat the problem this bill takes another stab at limiting their spread.” Johnson represents the southwestern part of Collin County. ###
10.17.2013	On Wednesday, October 23, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) will host their monthly “Mobile Office Hours” in Plano, Richardson, and Murphy. Times and locations are listed below. On this day, Johnson’s staff will visit different communities across North Texas to assist Third District constituents with federal issues or government agencies - such as Medicare, Veterans Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security, or the Internal Revenue Service – in an area most convenient for them. Johnson encourages constituents to visit one of the locations below on Wednesday, October 23 at the designated time. Appointments are not necessary. “Given the recent government shutdown and the disastrous government-run healthcare launch, folks across the Third District have a lot of questions,” said Johnson. “These monthly mobile office hours serve as an opportunity to address those concerns at a more convenient location for Third District residents. I encourage folks to take advantage of this valuable and convenient resource, particularly those who live far from the permanent office in Plano.” Johnson’s staff can also help facilitate overseas adoptions, provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C., applying to a U.S. Service Academy and process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Anyone requesting assistance with a federal agency should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. Constituents who cannot attend the scheduled “Mobile Office Hours” are welcome to contact the Congressman’s Plano office at 469-304-0382. For more information, please visit www.samjohnson.house.gov and click “Get Help with a Federal Agency. Plano West Christopher A. Parr Library 600 Windhaven Pkwy Plano, TX 75093 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. Richardson Richardson Civic Center 411 West Arapaho Road Richardson, TX 75080 9:00 a.m.– 11:00 a.m. Plano East Plano Municipal Center 1520 Avenue K Plano, TX 75074 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. Murphy Murphy City Hall 206 North Murphy Road Murphy, TX 75094 9:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. # # #
10.16.2013	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) released the following statement after the House passed a bill to fund the entire government through January 15, 2014 and increase the country’s borrowing limit through February 7, 2014. “Once again President Obama and the Democrat-led Senate want to just kick the can down the road when it comes to getting our fiscal house in order. That’s exactly what happened tonight. Make no mistake, I do not want the government shutdown to continue – in fact, I voted four times to keep the government open - nor do I want our country to default. However, I cannot support a bill that does nothing about our $17 trillion debt or help American families and small businesses suffering from the ill effects of Obamacare,” said Johnson after opposing a ‘clean’ increase in the nation’s borrowing limit. A recent poll released by Bloomberg shows that the majority of Americans oppose President Obama’s demand that Congress raise the debt ceiling without any spending cuts — 61 percent of Americans surveyed said that it is ‘right to require spending cuts when the debt ceiling is raised.’ “It’s time for the President and Democrats to listen to the American people and work with Republicans on common-sense fiscal solutions,” Johnson concluded. # # #
10.15.2013	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) congratulated 52 newly selected members of the 2013-2014 Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC). Members serving on the prestigious Council range from freshman to seniors from 19 different high schools across the Third District; 15 students are returning CYAC members. The complete list of the names, grade and schools represented follows. “It’s imperative, now more than ever, to get our young people involved in the inner workings of our government,” Johnson said. “This group represents a stand-out mix of excellent schools and high caliber, well-rounded students. My hope is that our CYAC meetings will encourage students to stay informed on today’s policy decisions and raise their voices on issues that matter most to them and their peers.” Johnson created the Congressional Youth Advisory Council in 2004 to inspire students all across Texas’ Third District to learn more about how the government functions on a local, state, and federal level and in turn, become informed and actively engaged citizens now and into the future. The CYAC meets four times during the school year where students have the opportunity to hear from elected officials and field experts about how they can make a difference through public service. Students also provide Johnson greater perspective and insight on issues important to our younger generation. “I consider these students to be my young ambassadors to Congress,” said Johnson. “Knowing that these bright, talented, and highly driven young people already seek to engage the world around them and make their communities a better place gives me great hope for the future of North Texas and the future of America.” “Young people maybe a fraction of today’s society, but they are 100% of its future. It will be their voices that shape our country and lead us into the decades to come.” 2013-2014 CYAC Roster: NAME SCHOOL GRADE Banerjee, Amit Heritage (Frisco) 10 Bergstein, Andre Plano East 12 Bresnahan, Connor Jasper (Plano) 10 Bristol, Julia Prosper 11 Chen, Richard Plano West 11 Chhabra, Ria Plano Senior High 11 Colliton, Bridget The Hockaday School 11 Cook, Andrew * Cistercian Prep. 12 Copley, John Plano West 11 Crawford, Brock Legacy Christian 12 Douglass, Mark * Plano West 11 D’Souza, Alicia Plano East 11 Elliot, William * Home School 11 Fisher, Audrey Plano East 11 Gillespie, Connor Frisco High 12 Govindarajan, Rakshana * Plano East 12 Goyal, Aayush Plano East 10 Han, Grace * Plano West 12 Harvey, Matthew Plano West 11 Hawley, Katheryn Lovejoy 11 He, Brent Williams 10 Hebig, Lauren Ursuline 11 Hossain, Sarah Allen High School 12 House, Sydney Anna High School 10 Humphrey, Spencer Williams High School 10 Jenkins, Mackenzie * Canyon Creek Christian 12 Kim, Thomas Allen High School 11 Kong, Justin * Allen High School 12 Lee, Candice * Prestonwood Christian 12 Lim, Paul Prestonwood Christian 12 Madden, Connor * Plano West 12 Madden, Daniel Shepton High School 10 Mandava, Soumya * Texas Academy of Math and Science 11 Meachum, Hollis McKinney High School 11 Meeks, Taylor Trinity Christian 12 Niedzielski, Anthony Lucas Christian 10 Przada, Jacob * Jesuit College Prep. 12 Railey, Regan Frisco High School 11 Randoing, Jason * Plano East 12 Schell, Sam * Plano West 12 Snitzer, Ryan * Plano East 12 Spencer, Connor John Paul III 10 Sridharan, Anjali Heritage (Frisco) 10 Stewart, Brennan McKinney High 11 Stuard, Makenzie Plano West 11 Su, William St. Marks Prep. 11 Todd, Jessica Plano Senior 11 Trotter, Amelia Plano West 11 Tuan, Simic * Plano East 12 Van de Kop, Victoria Shepton (Plano) 9 Wada, Faith Prestonwood Christian 11 Wicker, Andrew Prestonwood Christian 12 * Denotes returning Student # # #
10.15.2013	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) will host a free information session on Medicare for seniors on Wednesday, October 23. The event will take place at the Allen Senior Recreation Center. The event is free and open to the public. The information session features the North Central Texas Area Agency on Aging (NCTAA) and the Wellness Center for Older Adults. The session will provide an overview of the 2014 Medicare program. Additionally, the event coincides with the annual open enrollment period, which runs between October 15 and December 7. During this enrollment period, seniors can make changes to their Medicare Advantage or Medicare prescription drug coverage for the following year. Benefits counselors with the NCTAA will be on hand to discuss the 2014 Medicare program and the annual enrollment period. These experts will be able to provide one-on-one assistance to help individuals sign up or change their Medicare plan before the enrollment period ends. For more information, please contact Congressman Johnson’s Office at 469-304-0382. WHAT: FREE Information Session on Medicare for Seniors WHERE: Allen Senior Recreation Center 451 East St. Mary Drive Allen, Texas 75002 WHEN: Wednesday, October 23 at 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. # # #
10.08.2013	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) recognized Jessie and Kayci Prince as “Angels in Adoption” for their unwavering commitment and contribution to making a lifelong impact in the lives of children. Johnson officially recognized the Princes as Angels following the award ceremony in Washington, D.C. “I am both proud and inspired by Kayci and Jessie’s dedication to give children here and across the globe a loving home,” said Johnson after meeting with Kayci and Jessie. “The title Angel couldn’t be more fitting.” In July 2012, Jessie, a local pastor, and Kayci, a marketing manager, decided to adopt a one-year old boy from the Democratic Republic of Congo, named Ezekiel - Zeke for short. In order to integrate Zeke into their family, the Princes searched for a book which depicted families of multiple ethnicities and explained adoption at an elementary level. After unsuccessful findings, the Prince family together wrote and illustrated a children’s book to celebrate transracial adoption called That’s a Yummy Color. That’s a Yummy Color uses ice cream flavors to help kids understand that even if they have a different skin tone than their parents or friends, they mix together to make something “yummy.” Following the meeting with Congressman Johnson, Kayci said, “It’s an honor to receive this award. We hope this experience will encourage other families to adopt and help more children find their forever family.” Since 1999, the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute has named nearly 2,000 individuals, couples, and organization the distinction of Angels in Adoption, and this year, Jessie and Kayci Prince, a couple from Plano, Texas, received this worthy accolade. Johnson represents the southwestern part of Collin County. # # #
09.29.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) released the following statement on the funding measure H.J.Res. 59, dubbed the ‘continuing resolution’ or ‘CR’ for short, to prevent a government shutdown. Johnson also voted in favor of H.R. 3210, Pay Our Military Act, which ensures troops get paid in the event of a government shutdown. “Once again, the Senate fails to listen to the American people. They placed the unworkable health care law – that has been amended, repealed, or delayed at least 19 times - above a functioning government. That’s why today, the House voted yet again to keep the government open, delay ObamaCare for one full year, and eliminate a tax on medical devices – a gimmick used to pay for ObamaCare – that hurts job creation. “More importantly, I voted to ensure our troops get paid, no matter what. The brave men and women who put their lives on the line for our great country deserve our 110% support. “It’s past time Mr. Reid and company compromise to do what is right for the American people. Pass this bill and stop a government shutdown.” Johnson serves on the Ways and Means Committee, where he chairs the Social Security Subcommittee. Johnson represents a significant portion of Collin County. # # #
09.20.2013	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) released the following statement commemorating the 2013 National Prisoner of War (POW) and Missing in Action (MIA) Recognition Day. Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran, spent nearly 7 years as a POW in Vietnam, nearly half of that time in solitary confinement. “As a former Prisoner of War, having endured endless torture and ongoing starvation for nearly seven years – in an odd way - I consider myself lucky. I came home. In fact, this year I am blessed to celebrate 40 years of freedom. I wish that I could say that about each of our brave men and women classified as a prisoner of war or missing in action. Continuing the search is the least we could do for the loved ones of those missing. Recognizing National POW/ MIA day is one more way to always have their memory live on. Our missing country men want, need, and deserve their freedom and your prayers. We will never forget them. We will find them and bring them home.” Johnson is a decorated combat veteran and war hero awarded two Silver Stars, two Legions of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross, one Bronze Star with Valor, two Purple Hearts, four Air Medals, and three Outstanding Unit Awards. Johnson chronicles his POW experience in solitary confinement in his autobiography, Captive Warriors. The book details the stories of the self-named "Alcatraz Gang," including great American patriots, such as Jeremiah Denton and Jim Stockdale. In 2011, Johnson accepted the Freedom of Flight Award at the Living Legends of Aviation Awards, dubbed the Oscars of aviation, from renowned air show pilot Bob Hoover. On the 66th Anniversary of the U.S. Air Force - Wednesday, September 18, 2013 – Johnson received the Air Force Association’s Lifetime Achievement Award that recognizes not a single achievement but a lifetime of work in the advancement of aerospace. # # #
09.20.2013	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) released the following statement on the funding measure for the beginning of FY 2014, dubbed the ‘continuing resolution’ or ‘CR’ for short. Johnson serves on the Ways and Means Committee, where he chairs the Social Security Subcommittee. “Today, House Republicans did what’s best for the American people – prevent a government-shutdown and defund ObamaCare fully and permanently. American taxpayers voted for a Republican majority in the U.S. House of Representative to roll back the unworkable and unaffordable healthcare law. As a fiscal hawk, I know we must maintain spending cuts and defund ObamaCare to get our fiscal house in order. That’s exactly what this bill does,” said Johnson. “Folks back home have said loud and clear – they’ve had enough of Washington’s out-of-control spending and want ObamaCare scraped from the books. I urge our friends in the Senate to act and use all of the tools at their disposal to protect hardworking Americans from this terrible law.” # # #
09.20.2013	WASHINGTON D.C. - U.S. Congressman John Carter (R-TX31) and Sam Johnson (R-TX03) released the following statement on their decision to depart from the House immigration working group, citing a lack of faith in President Obama to enforce current and new laws necessary to solve the immigration problem. “For nearly four years, we have been committed to finding a real solution to the serious immigration problem that plagues America. We have been working diligently and in good faith with our Democratic colleagues in a serious effort to fix our broken immigration system and secure our borders once and for all. “From the beginning, we knew that solving the immigration problem wouldn’t be easy, but we owe it to the American people to come up with a real, long-term solution that instills accountability into the system and rewards personal responsibility. So we rolled up our sleeves and set aside partisan politics to do what is right for our country. “After years of hard work and countless meetings, we have reached a tipping point and can no longer continue working on a broad approach to immigration. We want to be clear. The problem is politics. Instead of doing what’s right for America, President Obama time and again has unilaterally disregarded the U.S. Constitution, the letter of the law and bypassed the Congress – the body most representative of the people - in order to advance his political agenda. We will not tolerate it. Laws passed by Congress are not merely suggestions, regardless of the current atmosphere in Washington. Laws are to be respected and followed by all – particularly by the Commander-in-Chief. “Starting off with the President’s hallmark legislation – the Affordable Care Act (ACA) - ObamaCare. The Obama administration has changed, waived or delayed key provisions with a single stroke of a pen. Congress opposed new laws that would infringe on Americans’ Constitutional right to keep and bear arms, but the President resorted to executive fiat to curtail those rights. Congress rejected the President’s cap and trade bill, yet he issued rules to reduce Americans’ access to our own energy resources that would help make us energy independent. The administration’s practice of hand-picking what parts of laws they wish to enforce has irrevocably damaged our efforts of fixing our broken immigration system. “If past actions are the best indicators of future behavior; we know that any measure depending on the president’s enforcement will not be faithfully executed. It would be gravely irresponsible to further empower this administration by granting them additional authority or discretion with a new immigration system. The bottom line is – the American people do not trust the President to enforce laws, and we don’t either. “We have not given up and are committed to getting this right. That’s why we will continue to support efforts from our Republican colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives. That means immigration reform that starts with a genuinely secure border, full implementation of E-verify, effective enforcement of current and future laws, and a commitment that any proposal contributes to a healthy economy. There is a way to fix this problem that will instill the authentic accountability that has been missing in immigration for the past 25 years. The American people deserve no less. “We are proud of the bipartisan team that worked with us on the immigration reform effort. We are honored to have worked closely with Democrat Representative Zoe Lofgren, Luis Gutierrez, John Yarmuth, and Xavier Becerra. We are also proud of our Republican colleagues Representative Mario Diaz-Balart and Raul Labrador.” ###
09.19.2013	WASHINGTON D.C. – The Air Force Association presented U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) with the prestigious Lifetime Achievement Award that recognizes not a single achievement but a lifetime of work in the advancement of aerospace. Johnson received the award at the Air Force Anniversary Dinner highlighting the extraordinary achievements of the men and women throughout the United States Air Force. “It is an honor to receive this award. It is by the grace of God that I stand before you this evening and join you in celebrating the achievements of so many patriots. As I receive this award, I’d like to share with you that this year is extra special to me as it marks my 40th year of freedom – from what can only be called Hell on Earth. It’s been 40 years since Operation Homecoming - the release and return of the longest-held American POWs,” said Johnson. Johnson is a 29-year Air Force Veteran, former Thunderbird, former director of the Fighter Weapons School at Nellis, and former Prisoner of War for nearly 7 years – more than half of that time in solitary confinement. “It was during my time in captivity in a dank, dark prison cell where I truly learned the meaning of freedom. Our freedom is a gift that many so often take for granted – but those very rights, outlined in the Constitution were denied to us – including freedom of speech. We had no choice but to communicate by tapping on the walls in a language created out of necessity. I can tell you when you don’t have freedom – you don’t have much.” For his service and bravery to this country, the military awarded Johnson two Silver Stars, two Legions of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross, one Bronze Star with Valor, two Purple Hearts, four Air Medals, and three Outstanding Unit Awards. For more information, click here. ###
09.17.2013	On this Constitution Day, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) takes the opportunity to remind Third District residents to nominate a local veteran for the 2013 Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC). The CVC is a program created to recognize the wartime sacrifices and peacetime community involvement of North Texas’ hometown heroes. Application deadline is Friday, October 4, 2013. The CVC, in conjunction with the Veterans History Project sponsored by the Library of Congress, is a nomination-based program designed to formally honor the distinguished veterans of Texas’ Third District and to preserve their stories for future generations of Americans. “As we commemorate our many freedoms, it’s important to thank those who have sacrificed so much to give these words life. The CVC gives us an opportunity to do just that by honoring brave men and women across our community for their selfless service to our country. North Texas is home to fine Americans and exceptional veterans, I encourage you to nominate one so we can say thank you,” said Johnson. In order to be considered for the prestigious award, veterans must currently reside in the Third Congressional District. Nominees must have served as active duty military personnel or been reservists called to active duty. They also must be retired or honorably discharged from a branch of the United States Armed Forces. Anyone may serve as a nominator and may nominate as many veterans as desired. Complete nomination packets should be mailed, hand-delivered or e-mailed to Johnson’s Plano office. Those interested in nominating a deserving veteran for this honor should visit Johnson’s website, to download a nomination form found under “Action Center” then “Veteran Commendation.” For additional information regarding the CVC, please call (469) 304-0382. CVC recipients are selected by a board and are publicly honored during a special ceremony to take place in early December. In addition, an in-depth interview of each honoree may be conducted and forwarded to the Veterans History Project to be added to the Library of Congress collection should the veteran choose to participate. For more information regarding this project, click here. Congressman Sam Johnson’s Military Involvement Congressman Sam Johnson served in the United States Air Force for 29 years as a highly decorated fighter pilot. On April 16, 1966, enemy fire shot down his F-4 Phantom in North Vietnam. He was then held as a P.O.W. for nearly seven years, over half that time in solitary confinement. In 2009 the prestigious Congressional Medal of Honor Society bestowed Johnson their highest civilian accolade, the National Patriot Award, for his tireless work on behalf of the troops, veterans, and freedom. Johnson chronicles his P.O.W. experience in solitary confinement in his autobiography, Captive Warriors. The book details the stories of the self-named “Alcatraz Gang,” including great American patriots such as Jim Stockdale and Jeremiah Denton, who blinked the letters of the word “torture” in Morse Code to alert Americans of their inhumane treatment. To learn more about the war heroes Johnson detailed in “Room 7” who emerged captivity alive, click here. A decorated combat veteran and war hero, Johnson was awarded two Silver Stars, two Legions of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross, one Bronze Star with Valor, two Purple Hearts, four Air Medals, and three Outstanding Unit Awards. As a federal lawmaker, Johnson works tirelessly on behalf of U.S. military personnel and veterans. Johnson represents a majority of Collin County. # # #
09.16.2013	PLANO, TX – On Thursday, September 19, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) will host their monthly Mobile Office Hours in Allen, McKinney, Lucas and Prosper. Times and locations are listed below. On this day, Johnson’s staff visits four different communities across North Texas to assist Third District constituents with federal issues or government agencies – such as Medicare, Veterans Affairs (VA), U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security, or the Internal Revenue Service – in an area most convenient for them. Johnson encourages constituents to visit one of the locations below on Thursday, September 19 at the designated time. Appointments are not necessary. “Assisting folks with federal problems is one of the most important things I do,” said Johnson. “These mobile office hours serve as a chance for Third District residents to get their federal issues recognized and hopefully resolved. I encourage folks to take advantage of this valuable and convenient resource, particularly those who live far from the permanent office in Plano.” Johnson’s staff can also help facilitate overseas adoptions, provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C., applying to a U.S. Service Academy, and process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Anyone requesting assistance with a federal agency should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. Constituents who cannot attend the scheduled “Mobile Office Hours” are welcome to contact the Congressman’s Plano office at 469-304-0382. For more information, please visit www.samjohnson.house.gov and click “Get Help with a Federal Agency.” Allen Senior Recreation Center 451 St. Mary Drive Allen, TX 75002 2:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. McKinney Collin College 3452 Spur 399 McKinney, TX 75069 2:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. Lucas City Hall 665 Country Club Road Lucas, TX 75002 9:00 a.m. - 11:00 a.m Prosper City Hall 1500 E. 1st Street Prosper, TX 75078 9:00 a.m. - 11:00 a.m # # #
09.09.2013	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) reminds Third Congressional District high school students to apply for the 2013-2014 Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC). The CYAC is open for students enrolled in public, private and home schools. Completed applications must be submitted to Johnson’s Plano office by Friday, September 13. “Each year, I look forward to hearing and learning from bright young leaders on issues that matter the most to them and their peers. The Congressional Youth Advisory Council gives students the opportunity to learn about all levels of government –from federal, state and local – while also giving back to our community through a service project of their choice,” said Johnson. Johnson created the Council in 2004 to gain insight from students in his district and to inspire civic-minded young adults to achieve their full potential. The Council meets approximately twice each school semester with Congressman Johnson and a distinguished guest speaker. During the CYAC activities, high-achieving students explore the role citizens, lawmakers, and experts play in a thriving democracy. Students must apply for the CYAC and may only serve on the CYAC two of four years between grades 9 – 12 to ensure as many students as possible participate. For applicants to be considered they must submit a complete application form, a letter of parental permission, current photo for identification purposes only, a short personal essay and two letters of recommendation to Johnson’s Plano office by Friday, September 13. The Council will be composed of high school freshmen, sophomores, juniors and seniors selected based on leadership ability, academic performance, extra-curricular activities and community service. Click here to print the 2013-2014 CYAC application or call (469) 304-0382 for more information. # # #
09.09.2013	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) released the following statement after attending a classified briefing on Syria. "As I said before, the Obama administration has failed to articulate a clear mission and path to victory. I also have heard loud and clear from folks back home, and agree, that intervening in Syria’s civil war is not in the best interest of the United States. I know war, and having experienced all of its horrors first-hand, believe it should be used as a last resort. I am confident in our military’s readiness to execute any mission, but it’s our duty to put forth a bold strategy where our goal is to win. I cannot count on the administration to do that, therefore, I cannot vote to put our brave men and women in uniform in harm’s way." Click here to read more on Johnson’s view on Syria. Johnson is a decorated combat veteran and has earned two Silver Stars, two Legions of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross, one Bronze Star with Valor, two Purple Hearts, four Air Medals, and three Outstanding Unit Awards. The former Director of the Air Force school similar to Top Gun, Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam - more than half of that time in solitary confinement. Johnson represents a majority of Collin County. # # #
09.03.2013	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) issued the following statement in light of current events on Syria. A decorated combat veteran, Johnson earned two Silver Stars, two Legions of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross, one Bronze Star with Valor, two Purple Hearts, four Air Medals, and three Outstanding Unit Awards. The former Director of the Air Force school similar to Top Gun, Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam - more than half of that time in solitary confinement. "Like many Americans, I feel deeply concerned about the use of chemical weapons against innocent people - especially women and children - it is wrong. PERIOD. That said, I view this upcoming debate not only as an elected U.S. Congressman but as a life-long fighter pilot, student of war, a combat veteran, and a Prisoner of War. I strongly believe the Obama administration has failed to articulate a clear mission and path to victory. Can they answer the simple question - What are our CLEAR objectives? "As a military man, I follow the 'five paragraph order' of SMEAC - Situation, Mission, Execution, Administration and Logistics, and Command and Signal. “I want to know what is the situation, including who are our friends and who are our foes. “I want to know the mission. Who will go in? What would they do? When would they go? And most importantly WHY would we send them? “In execution, I want to know - what is our Commander in Chief's intent and what is his concept of operations? “Under administration and logistics - commonly called beans, bullets and band aids - how will we supply our forces and give them the tools for victory to win this war? “Under command and signal - how are we going to ensure our forces can successfully execute this mission and how will the President empower the commanders on the ground to do the right thing? “The reality is that China and Russia will block us at every turn. Americans have battle fatigue from Iraq and Afghanistan. While some may consider this a simple case of a classic civil war, it is much more complex. It's too hard to separate friend from foe and this will not turn out the way we want it to. “The Administration has to answer some tough and gripping questions before I will vote to put our military men and women in harms' way." # # #
08.02.2013	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) delivered the following remarks on the U.S. House floor in support of H.R. 2009, Keep the IRS Off Your Health Care Act. Click here to play “Mr. Speaker, in May the IRS proved to the American people that it cannot be trusted to fairly enforce laws. As if the intentional targeting of Americans was not troubling enough, ObamaCare will give the IRS even more power in just a few short months. “That’s right, the agency that bullied Americans for exercising their right of free speech will be the very same agency involved in enforcing health care. Patients and their doctor should make the decisions that work best for them - NOT Washington, much less the IRS. “Allowing the IRS to enforce ObamaCare opens the door to more abuse, targeting and intimidation of Americans. That’s why I join my colleagues in support of a common-sense bill, H.R. 2009 “Keep the IRS Off Your Health Care Act” that will stop the IRS from enforcing or implementing any part of ObamaCare. “It’s time for our friends across the aisle to listen to the American people and keep the IRS out of our lives and out of our health care.” # # #
08.01.2013	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) questions IRS Chief Daniel Werfel on the National Treasury Employees Union’s (NTEU) - which represents IRS employees who targeted Americans based on their beliefs and will soon be responsible for implementing and enforcing key parts of the health care law - opposition to ObamaCare’s exchange-based health insurance. Click here to play Congressman Johnson: Mr. Werfel, last week, your employees who are a member of the NTEU sent a form letter for union members to send in to ask that they be exempt from the exchanges. Why are your employees trying to exempt themselves from the very law they are tasked with enforcing? Mr. Werfel: I can speak for myself – I prefer to stay with the current policy that I’m pleased with, rather than go through a change... # # #
07.29.2013	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) released the following statement on the passing of an American hero, retired Colonel George “Bud” Day. "What a great American! Shirley and I will miss Bud tremendously. He will always hold a special place in my heart for inspiring the POWs by bursting into patriotic song when our captors tried to squelch our fire and scare us to death. Literally. He jumped on his bed and sang out God Bless America and other songs from home in defiance as the camp guards led out our fellow POWs for another round of torture. As only Bud could do, Bud got the entire camp to sing along. Hundreds of American POWs filled the town of Hanoi with our loud and off-key voices all because of Bud. That memory will forever remind me of invigorating strength and a taste of freedom when we had nothing. "Bud, when it comes to bravery, valor and service - especially to our nation's veterans - there is no one like you. A tough-as-nails officer who never minced words, Bud will go down in history as one of the finest Americans of this century. GBU Bud Day." Meaning of GBU In a dank, dark prison cell in Hanoi, many rights including freedom of speech were denied to all Prisoners of War leaving us no choice but to communicate by tapping on the walls in a language created out of necessity. Known as the tap code, we placed each letter in the alphabet in five rows with five letters each; eliminating K and using C for K. The first taps represent the letter in the horizontal row – then a pause – then the second series of taps represents the position of the letter in the vertical row. Like tap (pause) tap, tap for “B.” Each night we would sign off by tapping GBU and that stood for God Bless You. # # #
07.26.2013	Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) released the following statement following President Obama’s comment stating the ruthless dictator, Ho Chi Minh was inspired by the U.S. Declaration of Independence and Constitution: “Sadly, when it comes to individual liberty, the President doesn't have a clue. “What an insult to the POWs brutally tortured at the merciless hands - and rifle butts - of our captors. This is a slap in the face to those who served - and especially those who paid the ultimate price for freedom during that dark time in history. Let me tell you - there was nothing ‘free’ about my seven years in captivity in Hanoi - more than half of that time in solitary confinement. As a fellow POW etched on a prison cell wall, ‘Freedom has a taste to those who fight and almost die that the protected will never know.’” # # #
07.18.2013	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) delivered the following remarks on the House floor as he introduced, the Alexis Agin Identity Theft Protection Act of 2013, to protect American families and taxpayer dollars from identity theft. Click Here to Play Remarks as prepared for delivery: “Mr. Speaker, for the last thirty years, Social Security has been required to make personal information of deceased Americans public through the so-called Death Master File. “Unfortunately, identity thieves use this file to steal Americans’ identities to obtain fraudulent tax refunds. “Worse, these criminals target deceased children, like 4-year-old Alexis Agin, whose family joins us today. “Worrying about the stolen identity of a loved one is the last thing a grieving family should do. I salute the Agins for their tireless advocacy. “Today, I humbly join their efforts by introducing - the Alexis Agin Identity Theft Protection Act - with my Democrat colleague and ranking-member on Social Security, Xavier Becerra. “This common-sense, bipartisan bill will protect families and prevent further abuse of taxpayer dollars. It’s time to stop the public sale of the Death Master File. “Mr. Speaker, in honor of Alexis Agin, I urge my colleagues to join us and get this bill signed into law.’ Background: (provided by Ways and Means Committee) The legislation seeks to stop the identity theft and tax fraud associated with the Death Master File (DMF) by better protecting the privacy of deceased individuals. The bill would mandate that, starting January 2014, only death information older than three years would be made publicly available through the DMF, which will prevent criminals from filing fraudulent tax returns before the legitimate family files its return. The DMF would continue to be available to entities who need the information to administer benefits or prevent fraud, so long as they have safeguards in place to protect the data. The bill would end all public release of the DMF by the SSA on January 1, 2019. As a result of a 1978 Freedom of Information Act court settlement, the SSA has been required to make the DMF publicly available. As of March 2013, the DMF contains the personal information of 87 million individuals who have died since 1936. Over time the DMF has become a go-to source for fraudsters who have used it to financially capitalize on the identities of the deceased, including children, by fraudulently obtaining tax refunds based on the deceased’s identity. # # #
07.18.2013	Today, Committee on Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX) and Ranking Member Xavier Becerra (D-CA) introduced H.R. 2720, the Alexis Agin Identity Theft Protection Act of 2013. Named after a deceased child victim of identity fraud, the legislation would end the required publication of the Social Security Administration’s (SSA) Death Master File (DMF). The DMF is a publicly-available extract of certain death information in the SSA’s records, including the deceased individual’s Social Security number, first name, last name, date of birth and date of death. On the introduction of the legislation, Johnson stated, “For some time now, thieves have been exploiting the Death Master File in order to cash in on deceased Americans’ identities. That’s just wrong. Worse, these criminals are deliberately targeting deceased children, like Alexis Agin. I was heartbroken when I learned about this crime. Worrying about a deceased loved one’s identity is the very last thing a grieving family should have to do. Congressman Becerra and I have been working hard to ensure that vulnerable families get protection they want, need and deserve, and at the same time help safeguard taxpayer dollars.” “I am pleased to join with my friend and colleague, Sam Johnson, to introduce this bipartisan legislation to protect Americans from identity theft. I have long been concerned about the problem of identity theft, where all too often the Social Security number (SSN), which is assigned to make sure Americans get their earned Social Security benefits, is the key to committing fraud. For a number of years, Chairman Johnson and I have worked together on a bipartisan basis with other members of our Social Security Subcommittee to find ways to better protect Americans from identity theft,” Becerra said. “I applaud the bipartisan approach we took to resolving this problem for the American people. I hope we can learn from the Agin family’s tragic experience and move swiftly to enact this bipartisan, common-sense measure to reduce the harm of identity theft.” Background: The legislation seeks to stop identity theft and tax fraud associated with the Death Master File (DMF) by better protecting the privacy of deceased individuals. The bill would mandate that, starting January 2014, only death information older than three years would be made publicly available by the Social Security Administration through the DMF, which will prevent criminals from filing fraudulent tax returns before the legitimate family files its return. The DMF would continue to be available to entities who need the information to administer benefits or prevent fraud, so long as they have safeguards in place to protect the data. The bill would end all public release of the DMF by the SSA on January 1, 2019. As a result of a 1978 Freedom of Information Act court settlement, the SSA has been required to make the DMF publicly available. As of March 2013, the DMF contains the personal information of 87 million individuals who have died since 1936. Over time the DMF has become a go-to source for fraudsters who have used it to financially capitalize on the identities of the deceased, including children, by fraudulently obtaining tax refunds based on the deceased’s identity. Additional information about the bill may be found here. ###
07.17.2013	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) released the following statement as the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2668, “The Fairness for American Families Act,” and H.R. 2667, “The Authority for Mandate Delay Act.” “If ObamaCare is not ready for businesses, it’s not ready for American families or individuals either,” said Congressman Johnson as he voted in support of two bills to legally delay ObamaCare’s employer and individual mandate. “As businesses get off the hook, individuals and families deserve the same relief but doing it responsibly and lawfully. Not only is the administration’s disregard for the letter of law outrageous, the law continues to fail the American people and businesses. Taking two hits at this job-killing, unaffordable and unworkable law is the right thing to do, but I’m hardly done fighting for the care Americans deserve. Rest assured that my ongoing effort to repeal the law and make way for real patient-centered reforms will not cease. ” On June 7, President Obama claimed ObamaCare is ‘working the way it’s supposed to,’ and that everything was on schedule. However, the rhetoric and actions coming from this administration don’t match up. Since the law was passed, without a single Republican vote, numerous actions have been taken to repeal, delay, or postpone certain portions. The CLASS Act: repealed 1099 business reporting requirement: repealed Small Business Exchanges: delayed Mandate on Employers: delayed The Data Hub: behind schedule Income verification: postponed Employer insurance verification: delayed The latest and arguably most worrisome action was taken on July 2, when the administration unilaterally decided to delay ObamaCare’s employer mandate for an entire year because of the burden it places on businesses. In fact, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce recently released a small business survey that reinforces this daunting reality. The survey found 71 percent of small businesses say the health care law makes it harder to hire, and that only 30 percent are prepared for the requirements of the law. No matter how many times the administration delays or postpones certain parts of ObamaCare, it is clear that a government-knows-best healthcare system is unworkable. Additionally, this terrible law targets high-quality care in Texas as we have the largest collection of physician-owned hospitals. With over two dozen facilities, the Dallas-Fort Worth (DFW) area has more physician-owned hospitals than any other region in the nation. ObamaCare bans further construction or growth of physician-owned hospitals, “I think that’s just wrong,” said Congressman Johnson. “That’s why, I recently introduced, H.R. 2027, the ‘Expanding Patients’ Access to Quality Care Act.’ This bill allows folks to choose the doctor they want, the hospital they want, and the care that they want - from the medical experts whom they know and trust. It’s a real breakthrough for freedom and free-enterprise.” # # #
07.03.2013	Ahead of America’s 237th birthday, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) takes the opportunity to launch the 2013 Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC) program created to recognize the wartime sacrifices and peacetime community involvement of veterans across the Third Congressional District of Texas. The CVC, in conjunction with the Veterans History Project sponsored by the Library of Congress, is a nomination-based program designed to formally honor distinguished veterans of Texas’ Third District and to preserve their stories for future generations of Americans. “As we prepare to celebrate our independence, our freedoms, it’s important to recognize the service and sacrifice that continue to give these words life. Each year the CVC gives us an opportunity to honor the brave men and women across our community for their selfless service to our country. North Texas is home to fine Americans and exceptional veterans, I encourage you to nominate one so we can say thank you,” said Johnson. In order to be considered for the prestigious award, veterans must currently reside in the Third Congressional District. Nominees must have served as active duty military personnel or been reservists called to active duty. They also must be retired or honorably discharged from a branch of the United States Armed Forces. Anyone may serve as a nominator and may nominate as many veterans as desired. Complete nomination packets should be mailed or hand-delivered to Johnson’s local office no later than Friday, September 20, 2013. Those interested in nominating a deserving veteran for this honor should visit Johnson’s website, a nomination form can be found under “Action Center” then “Veteran Commendation.” For additional information regarding the CVC, please call (469) 304-0382. CVC recipients are selected by a board and are publicly honored during a special ceremony to take place in early December. In addition, an in-depth interview of each honoree may be conducted and forwarded to the Veterans History Project to be added to the Library of Congress collection should the veteran choose to participate. For more information regarding this project, click here. America’s 237th birthday coincides with Johnson celebrating his 40 years of freedom from being a Prisoner of War (POW) in Vietnam – where he spent almost 2,500 days in captivity. As a POW and veteran, Johnson is committed to preserving and showcasing the stories of our warriors. U.S. Rep. Sam Johnson’s Military Involvement Congressman Sam Johnson served in the United States Air Force for 29 years as a highly decorated fighter pilot. On April 16, 1966, enemy fire shot down his F-4 Phantom in North Vietnam. He was then held as a P.O.W. for nearly seven years, over half that time in solitary confinement. In 2009 the prestigious Congressional Medal of Honor Society bestowed Johnson their highest civilian accolade, the National Patriot Award, for his tireless work on behalf of the troops, veterans, and freedom. Johnson chronicles his P.O.W. experience in solitary confinement in his autobiography, Captive Warriors. The book details the stories of the self-named “Alcatraz Gang,” including great American patriots such as Jim Stockdale and Jeremiah Denton, who blinked the letters of the word “torture” in Morse Code to alert Americans of their inhumane treatment. To learn more about the war heroes Johnson detailed in “Room 7” who emerged captivity alive, click here. A decorated combat veteran and war hero, Johnson was awarded two Silver Stars, two Legions of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross, one Bronze Star with Valor, two Purple Hearts, four Air Medals, and three Outstanding Unit Awards. As a federal legislator, Johnson works tirelessly on behalf of U.S. military personnel and veterans. Johnson represents a significant portion of Collin County. # # #
06.28.2013	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) introduced H.R. 2557, the “Imprisonment for Tax Targeting of American Act of 2013,” to prevent future targeting of Americans. Currently, the tax code includes a number of criminal offenses such as the unauthorized release and inspection of tax returns as well as political targeting. However, jail time for such offenses is optional. In response to the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) blatant abuse of power by targeting Americans based on their beliefs, Congressman Johnson has introduced legislation that makes jail time mandatory for political targeting as well as other offenses such as the unauthorized disclosure of a tax return. Congressman Johnson is committed to making sure that Americans are never targeted again. Click here to play Remarks as prepared for delivery “Mr. Speaker, I rise today on behalf of my constituents of the Third Congressional District of Texas to introduce the “Imprisonment for Tax Targeting of Americans Act of 2013.” “On May 10th, the IRS admitted to targeting conservative groups. Worse, our broken tax code does not make jail time mandatory for criminal offenses such as political targeting. “Mr. Speaker, Americans deserve better. “The bottom-line is that the use of the IRS as a political weapon is outrageous and unacceptable. What’s worse this is the same agency that will be enforcing Obamacare. “As this blatant abuse of power continues to be fully investigated, this commonsense bill sends a loud and clear message to the IRS: If you do the crime, you will do the time. No exceptions, no excuses. “The American people want, need, and deserve to know the truth and have the assurance this never happens again. This bill is a step in that direction. I urge my colleagues to join my efforts.” Click here for full bill text. # # #
06.27.2013	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) demanded acting chief of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), Daniel Werfel, to stop targeting Americans, and instead start targeting fraud and abuse that cost hardworking American taxpayers billions of dollars. Since June 2011, the Committee on Ways and Means has been investigating whether the IRS discriminated against taxpayers based on their personal beliefs. Additionally, back in April 2012, Congressman Johnson along with other House members sent a letter to then-IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman to express deep concern regarding conservative non-profit organizations experiencing extensive delays and burdensome information requests throughout their application process. The IRS responded by saying that nothing was amiss. Over a year later, May 10, 2013, the IRS acknowledged that the agency had indeed been targeting conservative-leaning political organizations. Congressman Johnson, along with his colleagues in the Ways and Means Committee, continue to demand answers from the IRS to ensure political targeting of Americans never happens again. Today Congressman Johnson demanded Mr. Werfel to stop the IRS’s practice of targeting Americans, and instead start targeting fraud and abuse that cost hardworking American taxpayers billions of dollars. The Inspector General (IG) has over the years reported significant fraud and abuse with the $1,000 refundable child tax credit, yet the IRS has consistently failed to adequately do its job to protect taxpayer dollars. Moreover, the IRS has been doling out the refundable credit to tax filers claiming children who do not even live in the country. Congressman Johnson’s effort to stamp out waste, fraud and abuse led him to re-introduce H.R. 556, “the Refundable Child Tax Credit Eligibility Verification Reform Act.” The commonsense, cost-saving bill would require tax filers to provide their Social Security numbers to claim the $1,000 refundable child tax credit. The House passed a version of Johnson’s bill three times in the last Congress. According to the Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT), the official non-partisan Congressional tax scorekeeper, Johnson’s commonsense bill will save American taxpayers an estimated $24.4 billion over the next ten years. NOTE: Video clip and transcript of hearing to be released shortly. # # #
06.27.2013	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) demanded acting chief of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), Daniel Werfel, to stop targeting Americans, and instead start targeting fraud and abuse that cost hardworking American taxpayers billions of dollars. Johnson specifically mentions the refundable child tax credit and the Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN) program as major problems. Today at a Ways and Means Committee hearing, Mr. Werfel admittedly said the ITIN program continues to be a problem costing taxpayers because they can be used to fraudulently get tax refunds. Worse, last month the Inspector General issued a new report stating the IRS could be doing a better job to protect taxpayer dollars, yet the IRS targeted Americans based on their beliefs instead of targeting waste, fraud, and abuse. Click here to play Remarks as prepared for delivery “Mr. Werfel, The American people want, need, and deserve to know the truth. I hope we get it. “Mr. Werfel back in my district, it appears the Allen Area Patriots have also been a target of the IRS. “The bottom-line is that the IRS has been used as a political weapon. “That is simply outrageous. “Mr. Werfel, instead of targeting Americans because of their beliefs, why doesn’t the IRS target fraud and abuse that is costing hardworking law-abiding American taxpayers billions of dollars? “Mr. Werfel, I’d like to play a short video clip on an issue that I’ve been working on for some time now. The clip is from a WTHR TV investigative report. “Mr. Werfel, this isn’t a single case. “Over the years, the IG has sounded the alarm about fraud and abuse with the $1,000 refundable child tax credit. “Do you agree that this is a problem? “Isn’t it true that one of the rules to claim the child tax credit is that the child has to live with the tax filer for more than half of the year? “Why then isn’t the IRS enforcing this residency rule? “Mr. Werfel, I hope you will work with us to address this. “I’ve got a bill that would help put a stop to this. In fact my bill would save taxpayers $24 billion. “Mr. Werfel, I want to also ask you about another scandal and that is the IRS’s management of the Individual taxpayer identification number program or ITIN program. “Again, why doesn’t the IRS target fraud and abuse instead of Americans for their beliefs? “Last summer the IG issued a damning report in which it found that IRS management ‘discouraged’ IRS workers from ‘detecting fraudulent applications.’ “The IG’s report led me to call on then-Commissioner Shulman to resign. “On the screen, I’ve got figure 6 from the 2012 IG report showing most frequently used addresses for ITIN tax refunds. “As you can see, nearly 24,000 tax refunds totaling $46.4 million were issued to the same address in Atlanta. “Bottom-line these ITINs are costing taxpayers dearly because they can be used to fraudulently get tax refunds. “Last month the IG issued another report that makes it clear that the IRS could be doing a better job protecting taxpayer dollars. “Look at figure 3 on the screen. Over 1,000 ITINs were assigned to individuals using the same address in Atlanta. “You agree that there’s still a problem? “Also the IG found that IRS workers handling ITIN applications ‘remain concerned’ that management will basically pressure them to rubberstamp applications instead of ensuring that ‘only qualified individuals receive an ITIN.’ “Can you give us the assurance that IRS management will not do this? “Mr. Werfel, let me just say in closing that your own report acknowledges that the tax code is nearly impossible to administer because it is so complex. And based on the billions in improper payments being made with refundable credits, I’ll just say that your agency is proving you right every day. “It’s time for the IRS to stop targeting Americans and start targeting fraud. “I yield back.” # # #
06.18.2013	On Wednesday, June 26, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) will host their monthly “Mobile Office Hours” in Frisco, Murphy, Princeton, and Richardson. Times and locations are listed below. Constituents of the Third Congressional District of Texas needing assistance with a federal issue or agency, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration, or the Internal Revenue Service, are encouraged to visit one of the locations below on Wednesday, June 26 at the designated time. Appointments are not necessary. “Assisting folks with federal problems is one of the most important things I do,” said Johnson. “These mobile office hours serve as a chance for Third District residents to get their federal issues recognized and hopefully resolved. I encourage folks to take advantage of this valuable and convenient resource.” The Congressman’s staff can also help facilitate overseas adoptions, provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C., and process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Anyone requesting assistance with a federal agency should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. Constituents who cannot attend the scheduled “Mobile Office Hours” are welcome to contact the Congressman’s Plano office at 469-304-0382. For more information, visit www.samjohnson.house.gov and select “Get Help with a Federal Agency.” Frisco George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Entrance/Lobby Area 6101 Frisco Square Boulevard Frisco, Texas 75034 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. Princeton Princeton Chamber of Commerce Lobby Area 275 W. Princeton Drive (Hwy 380), Suite #105 Princeton, Texas 75407 9:00 a.m. - 11:00 a.m. Murphy Murphy City Hall Front Conference Room 206 Murphy Road Murphy, Texas 75094 9:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. Richardson Richardson Civic Center West Alcove Room 411 West Arapaho Road Richardson, Texas 75080 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. # # #
06.18.2013	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) delivered the following remarks on the U.S. House Floor urging his colleagues to support H.R. 1797, “The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act.” Click Here to Play Remarks as prepared for delivery: “Today we will move one step closer to banning late-term abortions by supporting H.R. 1797, ‘The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act.’ “You know, late-term abortion is not rare. “I was dismayed and disheartened to hear of the horrors from the Kermit Gosnell trial. Worse, this past month in my homestate of Texas, formed employees of abortionist Douglas Karpen alleged he killed babies born alive. “These acts are inexcusable, immoral and unjustifiable. “It’s time we got rid of this gruesome and barbaric procedure to prevent future cases like Gosnell and Karpens once and for all. “The procedure is not only unethical, but also unessential. “There is extensive evidence that the unborn babies aborted in this manner are alive until the end of the procedure and fully experience the pain associated with the procedure. “We must to the right thing today. We must ban late-term abortion. I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1797 and protect the value of life, women and unborn babies.” # # #
06.11.2013	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) announced 21 students from the Third Congressional District of Texas have received appointments from the U.S. Air Force, Naval, Military, and Merchant Marine Academies. Johnson will host a reception this Saturday, June 15, in Plano to personally congratulate each student on their outstanding achievement. “As a 29-year Air Force veteran serving in the Korean and Vietnam War, I know the hard-work, dedication, and commitment necessary to take on the challenge of preparing to join the strongest and most powerful military force in the world,” said Johnson. “Service Academies are not for the faint of heart, but I have no doubt that these students will rise to the occasion. Each student exhibits courage, tenacity, and a deep sense of duty to serve and protect the freedoms we enjoy each and every day. I am proud to have them represent the Third District of Texas.” At the reception on Saturday, Johnson will personally commend each student and their families on their accomplishment and wish them all the best on their future endeavor. He will also present each student with a Congressional Record heralding their achievement. Admission to U.S. service academies is extremely competitive, and a Congressional nomination is generally required to receive an appointment. Ultimately, each institution makes their own selections from the students nominated. Students are evaluated based on academic performance, exhibited by class rank, SAT or ACT scores, and grade point average as well as extracurricular activities, civic involvement, and physical fitness. Prospective students can learn more about the service academies on Johnson’s website or contact the Plano district office at 469-304-0382. Additionally, on Saturday, September 28, 2013 Johnson will host a free Service Academy Information Session with all branches represented (details to be released as date approaches). The information session is a great opportunity for students and parents to ask questions regarding the application process. The seminar is open for all students enrolled in 9-11 grades. Students seeking acceptance to the Fall 2014 class should have all information completed by Fall 2013. Appointments for Class of 2017 U.S. Air Force Academy 1. Bryan Lawrence Driskell, from McKinney, graduate of McKinney Boyd High School 2. Hunter Logan Hill, from Richardson, graduate of Jesuit College Preparatory School 3. Benjamin Darrell Legband, from Dallas, graduate of Trinity Christian Academy 4. Zachary David Missimo, from Dallas, graduate of Prestonwood Christian Academy 5. Candler Avery Myers, from Garland, graduate of Naaman Forest High School 6. Darrius Anthonye Parker, from Allen, graduate of Allen High School in 2012 and the U.S. Air Force Academy Preparatory School in 2013 7. Cortland Shonell Tolbert, from McKinney, graduate of Allen High School in 2012 and the U.S. Air Force Academy Preparatory School in 2013 8. Russell Howard Williams, from McKinney¸ graduate of McKinney Boyd High School U.S. Naval Academy 1. John-Charles Cheng Arion, from Plano, graduate of Coram Deo Academy 2. Kim Anh Do, from Murphy, graduate of Plano East Senior High School 3. Phillip Thomas Metcalfe, from Plano, graduate of Plano East Senior High School 4. Victor Vinh Truong, from Garland, graduate of Garland High School U.S. Military Academy 1. Aaron Michael Anderson, from Frisco, graduate of Frisco High School in 2012 and the U.S. Military Academy’s Preparatory School in 2013 2. Nicholas Martin Bergstein, from Parker, graduate of Plano East Senior High School 3. Kaleb Samuel Fields, from Plano, graduate of Trinity Christian Academy 4. Frank Yilong Lin, from Plano, graduate of Centennial High School 5. Anthony Park, from Plano, graduate of Plano Senior High School 6. Matthew Daniel Salazar, from Plano, graduate of Plano Senor High School 7. Blair Dillon Swanner, from Frisco, graduate of Centennial High School 8. Samantha Lee Todd, from Plano, graduate of Plano Senior High School U.S. Merchant Marine Academy 1. Ha-Young Daniel Rhee, from Plano, graduate of Plano East Senior High School # # #
05.17.2013	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) issued the following statement for today’s Ways and Means Committee hearing on the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) targeting of conservative groups. Statement: Mr. Chairman, Thank you for holding this hearing. The American people deserve to know the truth so that those in the IRS who are responsible will be held fully accountable. I would also like to thank the Inspector General for its important work. The bottom-line is that the IRS has been used as a political weapon. Folks and groups back home seeking to express their support for our hard-fought freedoms and liberties … for limited government … for a better America … should never be subjected to intimidation because of their political beliefs. Never! By way of example, back home, the Allen Area Patriots seem to me to have been a target of the IRS. Back in July 2010, the group applied for 501(c)(4) status. As of today, the group has not had a response. That’s nearly three years ago. In February 2012, the IRS sent the Allen Area Patriots a set of 19 questions including such onerous and irrelevant questions such as those relating to the employment of the group’s key officials. And I would like to point out that in the letter accompanying the 19 questions, the IRS asks applicants to declare that the information they provide is “true, correct, and complete.” Unfortunately, the IRS has failed time and again to hold itself to this standard. The actions of the IRS are simply outrageous and unacceptable. We must make sure this never happens again. Note: Congressman Johnson also delivered remarks on the House Floor in response to the issue, click here to play. # # #
05.17.2013	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) introduced H.R. 2027, the “Expanding Patients’ Access to Quality Care Act” to improve access to higher-quality care, rekindle choice and the vital doctor-patient relationship and, as a result, protect much needed jobs. Buried inside the 2,801 page Affordable Care Act (ACA) - known as ObamaCare - is a provision that permanently bans further construction of physician-owned hospitals (POH) and prevents existing ones from expanding – to the point where not a single hospital bed can be added. H.R. 2027 repeals the ban on the development of physician-owned hospitals that had a provider agreement, but missed the one-size-fits-all, arbitrary deadline for Medicare certification to proceed with physician’s investment. Additionally, Johnson’s bill removes the onerous requirements for expansion that only applies to POHs and not to non-physician-owned hospitals. Lastly, the bill would reinstate the ability of physicians to risk their own money in a financially distressed hospital to continue providing quality care and maintain jobs in their community. Ironically, ObamaCare created a new Hospital Value-Based Purchasing Program that financially rewards hospitals that meet certain quality measures including reduced readmission rates or patient satisfaction measures. The Center for Medicare and Medicaid (CMS) manages such rewards and reported the #1 hospital on the list for providing high-quality care was in fact a physician-owned hospital, Treasure Valley Hospital, in Boise, Idaho. In addition, the list stated 9 out of 10 performing hospitals were physician-owned, as were 53 of the top 100. Physician-owned hospitals improve the quality of life, the quality of care and the cost of care. “Government-controlled healthcare jeopardizes the doctor-patient relationship on so many levels. One example is how ObamaCare banned the expansion of hospitals where doctors, not bureaucrats, make key medical decisions. My bill would abolish this absurd idea so patients can choose the doctor they want, the hospital they want, and the care that they want - from the medical experts whom they know and trust,” said Johnson, who serves on the Ways and Means Health Subcommittee. “Doctors and nurses who practice in physician-owned hospitals usually boast the best credentials and the most experience in their field of medicine. CMS releases national data, which shows significantly better outcomes for patients at hospitals owned and operated by physicians,” continued Johnson. Johnson’s bill receives bipartisan support in the U.S. House of Representatives with the following members as original co-sponsors: Michael Burgess (R-TX), André Carson (D-IN), Ruben Hinojosa (D-TX), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Lynn Jenkins (R-KS), Kenny Marchant (R-TX), Kevin Yoder (R-KS) and Todd Young (R-IN). Background: Prior to ObamaCare, the "Stark Law" allowed physicians to hold investment ownership in hospitals under the "whole hospital" exception. Throughout history physicians have driven innovation in healthcare. Physician ownership and management of hospitals has a distinguished track record in the United States starting with some of the earliest hospitals, built and managed by renowned physicians, like the Mayo Brothers. Physician-owned hospitals come in a variety of forms: children’s hospitals, traditional general care hospitals, hospitals specializing in and excelling in certain specialties, and joint ventures partnering with traditional non-profit hospitals. In many areas, POHs are the sole provider of care. Over time physicians lost some of their leadership role to hospital administrators and corporate organizations who took control of hospitals – and care – to allegedly control costs. The common thread that unites physician-owned hospitals is that doctors govern and control the decisions made. As an added benefit, doctors can bypass bureaucracy and eliminate red tape often created by administrators and corporate bottom lines. Today, there are approximately 235 physician-owned hospitals across 33 states. CMS ranks POHs amongst the highest hospitals for providing high-quality care. ObamaCare, however, established a permanent ban on the expansion or creation of any new POHs. Additionally, approximately 100 hospitals that were under construction at the time the 2010 healthcare law was enacted were unable to meet an arbitrary deadline, December 31, 2010, for Medicare certification - forcing some to divest, while others continue to remain in limbo today. While POHs can apply for an expansion exception once every two years, ObamaCare demands onerous requirements that do not apply to non-physician owned hospitals. As a result, not a single physician owned hospital has been able to expand. Specifically, when ObamaCare was enacted there were 265 POHs, now there are only 235. This dramatically impacts patients and hospitals across the country, especially in state of Texas. State Specific: According to the Physician Hospitals of America, patients access quality care in roughly 70 physician-owned hospitals, which employ over 21,000 people and added $2.3 billion to the Texas economy. Texas boasts the largest collection of physician-owned hospitals. With over two dozen facilities, the Dallas-Fort Worth (DFW) area has more physician-owned hospitals than any other region in the nation; these hospitals in the DFW area employ over 5,000 Texans, have over 4,700 credentialed physicians, and have over 570 beds. The Third Congressional District is home to many award winning facilities: Baylor Medical Center at Frisco; The Hospital at Craig Ranch – McKinney; Methodist McKinney Hospital; Texas Health Center for Diagnostics & Surgery; and The Heart Hospital Baylor Plano. “Ask yourself this. Would you rather have a doctor help you make medical decisions or would you rather have a hospital administrator tell you what you can or can’t do? This is about returning freedom, choice, and free enterprise to the American healthcare system,” concluded Johnson, who supports defunding and repealing ObamaCare. Johnson represents portions of Collin County. # # #
05.15.2013	On Thursday, May 23, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) will host their monthly “Mobile Office Hours” in Allen, Melissa, Plano and Prosper. Times and locations are listed below. Constituents of the Third Congressional District of Texas needing assistance with a federal issue or agency, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration, or the Internal Revenue Service, are encouraged to visit one of the locations below on Thursday, May 23 at the designated time. Appointments are not necessary. “Assisting folks with federal problems is one of the most important things I do,” said Johnson. “These mobile office hours serve as a chance for Third District residents to get their federal issues recognized and hopefully resolved. I encourage folks to take advantage of this valuable and convenient resource.” The Congressman’s staff can also help facilitate overseas adoptions, provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C., and process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Anyone requesting assistance with a federal agency should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. Constituents who cannot attend the scheduled “Mobile Office Hours” are welcome to contact the Congressman’s Plano office at 469-304-0382. For more information, please visit www.samjohnson.house.gov and select “Get Help with a Federal Agency.” Allen Allen City Hall Entrance/Lobby Area 305 Century Pkwy 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Plano Collin County Spring Creek Campus Lobby Area 2800 E. Spring Creek Pkwy 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Melissa Melissa City Hall Community Room 3411 Barker Avenue 1:00 p.m. -3:00 p.m. Prosper Municipal Chambers Entrance/Lobby Area 108 W. Broadway Street 1:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. # # #
05.15.2013	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) delivered the following remarks on the House Floor in response to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) recent admission of targeting conservative groups. Click Here to Play​ Remarks as prepared for delivery: “Mr. Speaker, during a commencement address in 2009 President Obama “joked” about the IRS auditing university officials for failing to award him an honorary degree. “Now fast forward to last Friday when we learned that the IRS has been targeting conservative groups. “Mr. Speaker, the misuse of the IRS’ power is no laughing matter. As Chief Justice John Marshal once said, “The power to tax is the power to destroy.” “Folks and groups back home seeking to express their support for our hard-fought freedoms and liberties … for limited government … for a better America … should never be subjected to intimidation because of their political beliefs. Never! “The use of the IRS as a political weapon is unacceptable. What’s worse this is the same agency that will be enforcing Obamacare. “We must hold those responsible accountable, that’s why the Ways and Means Committee will hold a hearing this Friday. “The American people deserve the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth. “If you are as outraged as I am, call the White House at 202-456-1414. “We must make sure this never happens again.” # # #
05.08.2013	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) commemorates Children’s Medical Center Dallas for 100 years of service. “I am pleased to extend my congratulations to Children’s Medical Center on their 100 years of exceptional service to children and their families. Dallas and North Texas are fortunate to have a hospital which strives every day to be among the best medical centers in the nation. Children are our greatest gift from God and Children’s extraordinary work has helped save and improve the lives of hundreds of thousands of our kids across the country, and for that, I salute you,” said Johnson. “I wish Children’s Medical Center continued success in providing superior, top-quality healthcare to children for many more years to come.” # # #
05.03.2013	Plano, TX – Last night, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-R) announced that “Stardust,” an oil painting by Allen High School junior, Siri Anderson, won the grand prize of the 32nd Annual “An Artistic Discovery” Congressional Art Competition for the Third District of Texas. 1st Place, Siri Anderson, "Stardust" To a full house at the McKinney Performing Arts Center, Johnson presented the top three award winners with a certificate and a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol. He also presented six students with Honorable Mention certificates and announced the 2013 People’s Choice Award winner. Anderson’s work will be shipped to Washington, D.C., to be displayed in the corridor leading to the U.S. Capitol for a period of one year. In addition, Southwest Airlines will fly Anderson and one guest to Washington in June to attend the official Congressional unveiling celebration. Second and third place winners and the 2013 People’s Choice Award: 2nd Place - Abigail Lam - “Texas Summer,” Plano Senior High School 3rd Place – Kendall Rhodes - “Admiration,” McKinney Boyd High School 2013 People’s Choice Award - Danish Tejani, “Jellyfish,” Plano West Senior High School Honorable mention awards went to the following: Annie McRae - “Cable View,” Fairhill School Jessica Doelling - “Self-Portrait,” McKinney Boyd High School Faith Wada - “Alter-Ego,” Prestonwood Christian Academy Hayley Rothballer - “Zipline,” Prestonwood Christian Academy Allison Vincent - “Rooster,” Prosper High School Hannah Johnston - “Prosper Texas Perspective,” Prosper High School All of the pieces listed above may be viewed on Johnson’s Facebook and website until June 1. Earlier this year, Johnson invited high schools students residing in the Third Congressional District to submit original artwork for the annual Congressional Art Competition. This contest was open to students enrolled in public, private or home schools. # # #
05.02.2013	Today, Thursday, May 2, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host a special art exhibit and awards ceremony, showcasing the talent and creativity of all the Third District high school students participating in the 2013 Congressional Art Competition – An Artistic Discovery. The event is free and open to the general public. “I’d love to see our community come out and support the hard work and dedication of our North Texas high school students,” said Johnson. “I guarantee it will be worthwhile, you will be amazed at the creativity displayed.” The art exhibition and awards ceremony will begin at 6:30 p.m. in the McKinney Performing Arts Center located at 111 N. Tennessee Street. At the event, all artwork submissions will be on display, and Johnson will announce the award winning pieces: first through third place and a number of honorable mentions, including the 2013 People’s Choice Award. The winning piece will then travel to Washington, D.C., to hang in a corridor of the United States Capitol for one entire year. Those unable to attend the event may view the winning pieces on Johnson’s website following the event. Additional information regarding the annual Congressional Art Competition can also be found on Johnson’s website in the “Info for Students” section. WHEN: Today, Thursday, May 2 from 6:30 p.m. – 7:30 p.m. WHAT: 2013 Congressional Art Competition Awards Ceremony & Exhibit WHO: Congressman Sam Johnson Third District High School Artists WHERE: McKinney Performing Arts Center, Gallery 111 N. Tennessee Street McKinney, Texas 75069 # # #
04.29.2013	On Thursday, May 2, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host a special art exhibit and awards ceremony, showcasing the talent and creativity of all the Third District high school students participating in the 2013 Congressional Art Competition – An Artistic Discovery. The event is free and open to the general public. “I’d love to see our community come out and support the hard work and dedication of our North Texas high school students,” said Johnson. “I guarantee it will be worthwhile, you will be amazed at the creativity displayed.” The art exhibition and awards ceremony will begin at 6:30 p.m. in the McKinney Performing Arts Center located at 111 N. Tennessee Street. At the event, all artwork submissions will be on display, and Johnson will announce the award winning pieces: first through third place and a number of honorable mentions, including the 2013 People’s Choice Award. The winning piece will then travel to Washington, D.C., to hang in a corridor of the United States Capitol for one entire year. Those unable to attend the event may view the winning pieces on Johnson’s website following the event. Additional information regarding the annual Congressional Art Competition can also be found on Johnson’s website in the “Info for Students” section. WHEN: Thursday, May 2 from 6:30 p.m. – 7:30 p.m. WHAT: 2013 Congressional Art Competition Awards Ceremony & Exhibit WHO: Congressman Sam Johnson Third District High School Artists WHERE: McKinney Performing Arts Center, Gallery 111 N. Tennessee Street McKinney, Texas 75069 # # #
04.16.2013	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) invited constituents to cast their vote online for the People’s Choice Award in the 2013 Congressional Art Competition. The deadline for constituents to submit their selection via Johnson’s website is Monday, April 29 at 12:00 p.m. CST. People may view all artwork submitted at SamJohnson.house.gov by clicking “Vote Now” under the 2013 People’s Choice Award section on the homepage. Constituents may vote by choosing their favorite piece of artwork after providing their first and last name, and email address. The Congressional Art Competition was established in 1982 to recognize and encourage the artistic talent of high school students across the nation. Since the Congressional Art Competition began, more than 650,000 students have participated. “Each year, I look forward to seeing what these bright, young students create,” says Johnson. “Their talent never ceases to amaze me.” All submitted pieces will be showcased on Johnson’s website and at a public art show on Thursday, May 2, from 7:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m., in the McKinney Performing Arts Center located at 111 N. Tennessee Street. In an exciting awards ceremony, Johnson will announce first through sixth place and a number of honorable mentions, including the People’s Choice Award. The event is free and open to the public. The winning entry from the Third Congressional District of Texas will be displayed in the corridor of the U.S. Capitol for one full year as part of an exhibition comprised of artwork from across the country. The first-place winner will also win a free trip to Washington, D.C. where the student will meet with Congressman Johnson and attend an awards’ reception for all the art competition winners nationwide. # # #
04.16.2013	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) delivered the following remarks on the House Floor to urge his colleagues to support his common sense bill, H.R. 1502, “The Social Security Disability Insurance and Unemployment Benefits Double Dip Elimination Act of 2013.” The legislation would keep people from receiving both Social Security disability and unemployment benefits at the same time. A similar proposal was included in the President’s FY2014 budget with estimated savings of $1 billion over 10 years. Click Here to Play​ Remarks as prepared for delivery: “As part of my on-going efforts to protect precious hard-earned taxpayer dollars by going after waste, fraud and abuse, I’ve introduced a common sense bill, H.R. 1502, “The Social Security Disability Insurance and Unemployment Benefits Double Dip Elimination Act of 2013.” This bill would stop people from receiving disability insurance benefits at the same time they are receiving unemployment benefits. “Under current law, a person can receive both disability insurance and unemployment benefits at the same time. “This isn’t right and it just doesn’t make sense. “I don’t know how someone can be ‘able and available’ to work and also be unable to work due to a disability. “I urge my colleagues to support this common sense bill in order to help make sure that the disability program is there for those who truly cannot work. President Obama also included a similar proposal in his budget and I look forward to working with the administration to get this bill signed into law.” # # #
04.12.2013	Yesterday, Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX) introduced H.R. 1502, “The Social Security Disability Insurance and Unemployment Benefits Double Dip Elimination Act of 2013.” The legislation would keep people from receiving both Social Security disability benefits and unemployment benefits at the same time. A similar proposal was included in the President’s FY2014 budget with estimated savings of $1 billion over 10 years. “Even though disability benefits are for those who can’t work and unemployment benefits are for those who can work, under current law someone can receive both benefits at the same time. That just doesn’t make sense. This commonsense legislation ends this double dipping and preserves Social Security benefits for only those who truly cannot work. President Obama agrees and in his budget, he included his own proposal to stop the double dipping. When we agree, we should act.” Subcommittee on Human Resources Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Committee Members, Pat Tiberi (R-OH), Charles Boustany Jr., MD (R-LA), Adrian Smith (R-NE), Aaron Schock (R-IL), Diane Black (R-TN), Tom Reed (R-NY), Mike Kelly (R-PA), Tim Griffin (R-AR) and Jim Renacci (R-OH) are original cosponsors of the legislation.
04.11.2013	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX), Chairman of the House Committee on Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security, today announced the first in a series of hearings on the President’s and other bipartisan entitlement reform proposals. This hearing will focus on using the Chained Consumer Price Index to determine the Social Security cost-of-living adjustment. This proposal was included in the President’s Fiscal Year 2014 Budget, the report by the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, and the report of the Bipartisan Policy Center’s Debt Reduction Task Force. The hearing will take place on Thursday, April 18, 2013, in B-318 Rayburn House Office Building, beginning at 9:30 a.m. In announcing the hearing, Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX) said, “Americans deserve action to protect and preserve Social Security, and the inclusion of Chained CPI in the President’s budget is a welcome acknowledgement that we must take action to shore up the program for future generations. Since 2010, Social Security has been paying more in benefits than it receives in revenue. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the cash flow deficit for the 10-year period ending 2023 is projected to reach $1.3 trillion. Beginning in 2033, Social Security will be unable to pay full benefits, according to the Social Security Board of Trustees. In other words, when today’s 47-year-old workers reach their full retirement age in 2033, they and everyone else already receiving benefits face a 25 percent benefit cut unless Congress does its job and steps in to fix this problem. The President likes to say that if we agree on a policy, then we should act and not let our differences hold us up, and I agree. This hearing will include a full discussion of a policy with bipartisan support – more accurately measuring inflation in order to strengthen the Social Security program.” BACKGROUND Social Security beneficiaries receive an increase in their benefits, known as the cost-of- living adjustment (COLA), each year there is inflation. Prior to 1972, Congress enacted increases in Social Security benefits on an ad hoc basis. The Social Security Amendments of 1972 (P.L. 92-603) established an automatic process for determining whether a COLA would be provided beginning in 1975. The Social Security COLA is based on the percentage change in a measure of inflation known as the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W). The percentage change is measured by comparing the highest third calendar quarter average CPI-W previously recorded to the average CPI-W for the third calendar quarter of the current year. The COLA becomes effective in December of the current year and is payable in January of the following year. If there is no percentage increase in the CPI-W between the measuring periods, no COLA is payable, as happened in 2009 and 2010. In 1975, the CPI-W was the only inflation measure produced by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). Since then, other indices have been developed by the BLS. In December 1996, a Senate-appointed commission to study the CPI, chaired by Michael J. Boskin, Ph.D. (the Boskin Commission) found that both the CPI-W and the later developed Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) overstated inflation in a number of ways. The BLS modified the indices to respond to a number of the Commission’s recommendations regarding how these two indices were measured, but did not address their inability to account for the fact that as prices change, consumers will adjust their spending habits across categories of goods (e.g., if the price of beef goes up, consumers might buy pork instead). In 2002, BLS introduced the Chained Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (C-CPI-U), which accounts for consumer substitution between CPI item categories, as well. According to the 2003 BLS report, Introducing the Chained Consumer Price Index, the C-CPI-U is “designed to be a closer approximation to a ‘cost of living’ index than existing BLS measures.” This index cannot be used to determine Federal program adjustments unless Congress passes, and the President signs, legislation permitting the change. ###
04.10.2013	Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s fiscal year 2014 budget proposal: “Better late than never, but getting a recycled budget that asks more from hardworking Americans strikes me as less than satisfactory. President Obama took two extra months to finish his budget, yet much of what we see is the same – let’s spend more, tax more, and borrow more. These policies haven’t worked for American families and small businesses during the past four years; it’s time for real solutions that will get our fiscal house in order and grow our economy. “Americans want, need and deserve better,” concluded Johnson. ###
03.20.2013	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) invites high school students residing in the Third Congressional District of Texas to participate in the 2013 Congressional Art Competition – An Artistic Discovery. Teachers must inform Johnson’s Plano office of student participation by Monday, April 1. The winning piece will be sent to Washington, D.C. to hang on display in the corridor of the United States Capitol for one full year. “The creativity, originality, and talent of our 3rd District high school students never cease to amaze me,” said Johnson, “and I can’t wait to see what the students have in store for us this year.” To participate, students - whether enrolled in public, private or home schools – should obtain and submit a release form and application to Johnson’s district office. Students must then submit their original artwork by Friday, April 12. All artwork must be original in concept, design, and execution, not reproduced from any existing work. Pieces must be two-dimensional, no larger than 28” by 28” including the frame, and no more than 4” in depth. Students may take their pieces directly to Johnson’s Plano office or teachers may contact Lauren Johnston at lauren.johnston@mail.house.gov or (469) 304-0382 to schedule an artwork pick-up date and time. SAVE THE DATE On Thursday, May 2, Johnson will host an art exhibition open to the general public to showcase the creativity and talent of all the participants residing in the Third District. At the event, all the submitted artwork will be on display, the finalists will be announced, and prizes will be awarded. Johnson will release more information regarding this event as the date approaches. Additionally, towards the end of April, entries will be displayed on Johnson’s website for the community to participate in the annual People’s Choice Award competition. The public will be able to view the artwork online and vote on their favorite work to receive the People’s Choice Award. UPCOMING DEADLINES April 1: Schools must inform Johnson’s local office of student participation. April 12: Students must submit artwork by close of business. May 2: Johnson hosts local art exhibition, where winner is announced and prizes awarded. Additional information can be found in the “Info for Students” section on Johnson’s website: samjohnson.house.gov. Johnson represents the majority of Collin County. # # #
03.14.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) visits the Collin County Adult Health Clinic facility and meets with staff and board members. The Collin County Adult Health Clinic plays a crucial role during tough economic times, providing affordable health services to thousands of uninsured and newly jobless Americans. The clinic serves the primary health care needs of qualified adults and senior citizens in the community. In addition, it provides a unique and comprehensive approach to health care that saves money, improves patient health, and creates good local jobs. There are currently two Clinics serving Plano residents one located on the east side and one on the west side. Please call (972) 423-4891 for more information or to schedule an appointment. Additionally, Johnson’s district office continues to offer constituents of the 3rd Congressional District assistance with federal benefits, including Social Security and Medicare. Please contact Johnson’s office at (469) 304-0382 or email: samjohnsoncasework@mail.house.gov. Back row, left to right: Jerry Weis, CCAC Board Audrey Taylor, CCAC Operations Director James Youngblood, CCAC Board, LGT CPA Partners Randy Routon, LifePath Systems, CCAC Partner Congressman Sam Johnson Dale McEowen, Health Services of North Texas, CCAC Partner Lourdes Ignacio, CCAC Board John Ernst, CCAC Executive Director Danelle Parker, CCAC Board Chair, TH Presbyterian Plano Hospital, CCAC Partner Front Row, left to right: Corey Davison, Tenet, Centennial Hospital, CCAC Partner Dr. Ron Taylor, Psychologist, CCAC Partner Sandy Horwitz, FNP, CCAC Medical Provider Kathy Hinds, CCAC Board Sharda Gupta, G-DAS Cancer Treatment Center, CCAC Partner # # #
03.13.2013	Washington, DC - Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) delivered the following remarks on the House Floor stating his recently re-introduced bill, H.R. 556, the Refundable Child Tax Credit Eligibility Verification Reform Act, will protect and save precious taxpayer dollars. The Joint Committee on Taxation – the non-partisan tax scorekeeper – announced this common-sense legislation will save hardworking Americans an estimated $24.4 billion over the next ten years. Click Here to Play Remarks as prepared for delivery: “Each year billions of U.S. taxpayer dollars are wasted due to abuse of the $1,000 refundable child tax credit. Instead of hitting up taxpayers for even more taxes, Washington needs to go after these billions of dollars that are fraudulently wasted. “It’s time to end this sham! “That’s why I have re-introduced common-sense legislation, H.R. 556 that stops this abuse by requiring tax filers to provide their Social Security number in order to receive this tax credit, just like we do for the Earned income tax credit. “Congress’ non-partisan tax scorekeeper – the Joint Committee on Taxation – has found that my bill would save taxpayers an estimated $24.4 billion over the next ten years. “With the dire need to get our fiscal house in order, this simple, and common-sense fix can go a long way toward protecting precious taxpayer’s dollars by stamping out waste, fraud and abuse. “Let’s get it done now.” # # #
03.12.2013	Today Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) released the following statement in support of the House GOP Fiscal Year 2014 budget blueprint, titled, “The Path to Prosperity: A Responsible, Balanced Budget.” This plan seeks to balance the budget by ending Washington’s out-of-control, wasteful spending, repealing Obamacare, reforming our broken tax code, providing for a strong defense and ensuring the future of Medicare and Social Security. “Budgeting isn’t easy, but with over $16 trillion in debt, it is necessary to make the tough choices now to ensure a bright future for our children and grandchildren. A plan that balances the budget without asking hardworking Americans to pay more in taxes is the right and responsible approach. “American families know they can’t spend money they do not have, and Washington must learn to do the same. It is time for Washington to give the American people what they want, need and deserve: a responsible, balanced budget.” To read the plan, click here. # # #
02.28.2013	Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) released the following statement on President Obama’s devised plan of across-the-board spending cuts – known as sequester – set to kick in March 1. “In spite of his rhetoric, President Obama is unwilling to work with us to really get our fiscal house in order. Instead, he continues pushing the same failed policies of his first four years as he campaigns for raising taxes on hard-working Americans. It’s time to lead Mr. President, your campaign is long over.” Johnson also addressed the issue on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. Click here to play Remarks as prepared for delivery on 2/27/2013: “In just two days, President Obama’s devised plan of across-the-board spending cuts – known as sequester – will kick in. I voted for House legislation to replace the President’s plan with smarter and more responsible cuts. Unfortunately, the President and his friends in the Senate ignored it. “Right now, America is over $16 trillion in debt. That means every American owes more than $52,000. “Taxpayers all across this country know that Washington has a spending problem, not a revenue problem. Enough is enough. “Now is the time to work together to stop spending money we do not have. We need to give the American people what they want, need and deserve. We must get our fiscal house in order by balancing our budget. “It’s almost too late, let’s act now.” # # #
02.26.2013	The U.S. House of Representatives commemorated the 40 year anniversary of “Operation Homecoming,” which released the longest held Prisoners of War (POWs) as well as those needing urgent medical attention from Vietnam. The House marked the occasion by dedicating a special order to all POWs and Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03), the only POW in the House of Representatives in the 113th Congress. Click Here to Watch Video Johnson’s colleagues honoring his release and service included: House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (VA-07) Congressman Michael Burgess (TX-26) John Carter (TX-31) Michael Conaway (TX-11) Blake Farenthold (TX-27) Bill Flores (TX-17) Louie Gohmert (TX-01) Kay Granger (TX-12) Ralph Hall (TX-04) Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) Randy Neugebauer (TX-19) Pete Olson (TX-22) Ted Poe (TX- 02) Lamar Smith (TX-21) Pete Sessions (TX-32) Steve Stockman (TX-36) Roger Williams (TX-25) # # #
02.26.2013	The Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) – the official non-partisan Congressional tax scorekeeper – notified Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) that his recently re-introduced legislation, H.R. 556, the Refundable Child Tax Credit Eligibility Verification Reform Act of 2013, will save American taxpayers an estimated $24.4 billion over the next ten years. Johnson’s common-sense bill seeks to prevent abuse of the $1,000 refundable child tax credit by requiring tax filers to provide their Social Security numbers for the credit. “This is great news for hard-working taxpayers. My bill is just one example of the billions of dollars in waste, fraud and abuse. Instead of hitting up taxpayers for even more taxes, Washington needs to go after these billions of dollars. We must take action now to protect these precious taxpayer dollars,” said Johnson. For more information, click here to read Johnson’s release on the re-introduction of the bill. # # #
02.25.2013	Washington, DC – Tonight, the U.S. House of Representatives commemorates the 40 year anniversary of “Operation Homecoming,” which released the longest held Prisoners of War (POWs) as well as those needing urgent medical attention from Vietnam. The House marked the occasion by dedicating a special order to all POWs and Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03), the only POW in the House of Representatives in the 113th Congress. Johnson’s colleagues honoring his release and service included House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (VA-07), Congressman Michael Burgess (TX-26), John Carter (TX-31), Michael Conaway (TX-11), Blake Farenthold (TX-27), Bill Flores (TX-17), Louie Gohmert (TX-01), Kay Granger (TX-12), Ralph Hall (TX-04), Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Randy Neugebauer (TX-19), Pete Olson (TX-22), Ted Poe (TX- 02), Lamar Smith (TX-21), Pete Sessions (TX-32), Steve Stockman (TX-36), and Roger Williams (TX-25). “It is an honor and privilege to continue serving our country, and particularly the great state of Texas. I truly appreciate the kind words expressed by each of my colleagues tonight. I still think about my days in Vietnam, and pray for those who currently find themselves in harm’s way to protect our freedoms,” said Johnson. On February 12, 1973, POWs were released to U.S. officials near Hanoi, North Vietnam under the terms of the cease-fire agreement. This taste of freedom was a long time coming for Johnson who was captured during his second tour in Vietnam and spent nearly seven years as a POW. Shot down at dusk over North Vietnam during his 25th combat mission on April 16, 1966, Johnson suffered a broken right arm, dislocated left shoulder and a broken back. It was these injuries that the enemy captors would use in their fruitless efforts to glean information from Johnson. Forced into solitary confinement for 42 months, labeled as a “die-hard” resister and subjected to tremendous suffering, Johnson consistently demonstrated a relentless devotion to duty, honor and country. “The one thing I want to remind everyone is that freedom isn’t free,” concluded Johnson. Johnson urges States and localities to honor the courage and sacrifice of men and women in uniform. Johnson takes this opportunity to encourage all veterans of all wars to share their stories. In particular, Johnson advocates that veterans or children of veterans participate in the nationwide Library of Congress program, The Veterans History Project. To learn more about this important initiative, go to www.loc.gov/folklife/vets/ # # #
02.22.2013	As the recently named Chairman of the Tax Reform Working Group on Real Estate, Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) encourages constituents and stakeholders to share their comments about the tax laws affecting real estate. The Tax Reform Working Group on Real Estate is one of eleven bipartisan groups that will review current law as well as identify and compile feedback as part of the committee’s tax reform effort. Congressman Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) is serving as Vice-Chairman. “I am pleased to be working with colleagues from both sides of the aisle as part of the committee’s effort to reform our broken and complicated tax code once and for all. I look forward to hearing directly from experts, stakeholders and constituents about their views on the tax treatment of this important sector of our economy,” said Johnson. The input is intended to help the Ways and Means Committee put together the best reform bill possible. “It is important that those who have a stake in this issue have a say in the process,” concluded Johnson. Johnson is also a member of the Pensions/Retirement working group. To submit comments or request a meeting with Congressman Johnson on the Tax Reform Working Group on Real Estate or Pensions/Retirement, please email: JohnsonTX03@mail.house.gov . For more information, click here to view the release from the Ways and Means Committee. # # #
02.19.2013	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced that he re-introduced legislation to protect seniors from identity theft by demanding that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) remove Social Security numbers (SSNs) from Medicare cards. Criminals use Social Security numbers to steal identities, enabling them to wreak havoc on the financial lives of innocent Americans. According to the Congressional Research Service, in 2011 ID theft claimed over 11 million victims. Johnson, Chairman of the Social Security Subcommittee on Ways and Means, authored H.R. 781, the Medicare Identity Theft Prevention Act, with fellow Texan U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (35th Dist.-Texas). “It’s absurd that Social Security tells Americans not to carry around their Social Security card and yet seniors are told they must carry their Medicare cards which displays their Social Security numbers,” stated Johnson. The legislation mandates the removal of Social Security numbers from Medicare cards. Recently, in an effort to protect the troops, veterans and their families, the Department of Defense stopped issuing ID cards with SSNs and started using personal identifying numbers for the purposes of “name, rank and serial number,” i.e. Geneva Convention ID number. To make it easier, DoD phased out the SSN as cards expired and needed to be replaced. “If the Department of Defense can do it to protect the troops, then we can do it to protect our seniors,” continued Johnson. “The time is now – while we are still on the cusp of the Baby Boomers retiring. “Our seniors want, need and deserve this common-sense consumer protection.” Johnson represents portions of Collin County. # # #
01.16.2013	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) released the following statement responding to President Obama’s proposed executive orders and legislation on gun control: “The President needs to focus on the real problem in our country – the exploding debt that is putting our children and grandchildren’s future at risk. The debt limit debate needs our President’s undivided attention. Instead, he is focusing on punishing law-abiding citizens who value the legacy of protected freedoms enshrined in our Constitution. I am a firm believer in our right to bear arms, and I will strongly oppose any efforts by this President to try to erode our Constitutional Freedoms - especially by undermining our Founding Fathers and impressing his will by Executive Order.” # # #
01.15.2013	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) announced he will serve his second term as Chairman of the influential Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security. The Subcommittee on Social Security has jurisdiction over Social Security retirement, survivors and disability programs and oversees the operations of the Social Security Administration. “Securing the future of Social Security is vital for America’s retirees and individuals with disabilities who count on the benefits they paid for through their hard-earned wages. Since 2010 the government has paid out more in benefits than it has received in tax revenues – leaving current and future beneficiaries at risk. As Chair I look forward to working with my colleagues to address Social Security’s financial challenges.” The jurisdiction of the Ways and Means Committee includes: taxes, healthcare, Social Security, Medicare, welfare, trade, and the national debt. Johnson also will serve on the Health Subcommittee. Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI) made the following remarks today after announcing the Subcommittee chairmanships. “I congratulate the new and returning Chairmen of each of the subcommittees,” said Camp. “The Committee faces a very busy Congress as we work to make our economy stronger and healthier. Achieving that goal includes making the tax code simpler and fairer; aggressively pursuing new opportunities in the global marketplace while holding our trading partners accountable; and protecting, preserving and prolonging the life of our entitlement programs while reducing their costs to hardworking taxpayers. These Chairmen will be instrumental in accomplishing these objectives and creating an environment where America’s families and businesses can thrive once again. I look forward to working with all of them in the 113th Congress.” # # #
01.15.2013	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) announced the new locations for the Third District offices in Texas, as well as new office phone and fax numbers. Effective immediately, Texas constituents may contact Congressman Johnson at the following location: 1255 W. 15th Street Suite 170 Plano, Texas 75075 Phone: (469) 304-0382 Fax: (469) 304-0392 People may still visit the website and email Johnson by visiting www.SamJohnson.house.gov. As a result of lower-rent rates in the North Texas region, Johnson’s new office saves taxpayers thousands of dollars annually. Johnson represents portions of Collin County. # # #
01.02.2013	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) released the following statement after voting against H.R. 8, the American Taxpayer Relief Act. "I voted against a bad bill that raises taxes on families and small businesses. I never have, and never will, support legislation that digs deeper into the pockets of hard-working taxpayers of the 3rd district to foot the bill for Washington’s spending. The President must work with Congress to address the real problem hurting our economy – spending. Americans want, need and deserve better protection of their taxpayer dollars.” # # #
01.01.2013	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) released the following statement regarding the so-called fiscal cliff. “With time running out to avert the fiscal cliff, we have not yet seen a realistic deal that I can support. The President insists on higher taxes on small businesses and hard-working families as the answer to getting our fiscal house in order. This is outrageous. Washington has a spending problem, not a revenue problem. I have heard from many of my constituents in the Third District of Texas, and they are fed up with Uncle Sam reaching deeper into their pockets to fund the government’s out-of-control spending. We will not get our country back on track without spending cuts, and I remain committed to not raise taxes on Americans.” # # #
12.19.2012	Last night, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill, with the support of Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03), including a provision to secure the water supply for North Texas. The House’s passage represents the last hurdle for the bill to become law. “This is great news for North Texas,” said Johnson. “This bill will ensure a full water supply for more than 1.5 million Texans who have had to endure drought conditions for several summers. I’m pleased that Congress acted quickly to move this important legislation forward.” The provision would exempt the North Texas Municipal Water District (NTMWD) and the Greater Texoma Utility Authority (GTUA) from being held in violation of the Lacey Act for transporting water from Lake Texoma to treatment plants servicing North Texas. For more than three years, the presence of zebra mussels, an invasive species, in the lake has prevented the transporting of water via pipeline to the treatment facility in Wylie, Texas. Under the Lacey Act, transporting water over state lines with an invasive species is considered a criminal offense with penalties up to $500,000 for each violation. The mussels do not harm water quality, but they clog water intake pipes by attaching to anything underwater. The water can be cleaned in Wylie without violating the Lacy Act. The bill (S.6387) contained provisions from H.R. 6007 sponsored by Rep. Ralph Hall (R-TX) and passed by unanimous consent. # # #
11.28.2012	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) participated in the sixth annual “Holiday Mail for Heroes” by sending words of encouragement and gratitude to American military troops and encouraged Texans to join in by the December 7th deadline. Created by the Red Cross, Holiday Mail for Heroes allows people to mail Christmas cards and personal greetings to soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines overseas and at home as well as veterans and family members of deployed active-duty military members. The Red Cross will work with Pitney Bowes to screen all mail for security purposes and then deliver the greetings to over 300 locations worldwide. “Our troops are willing to sacrifice everything while protecting our freedom, and we owe them our full support and deepest gratitude,” said Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran and former Prisoner of War in Vietnam for nearly seven years. “What better way to lift their spirits this holiday season than by sending Christmas greetings letting our troops knows we are praying for them and their families?” People may send cards to Holiday Mail for Heroes, P.O. Box 5456, Capitol Heights, MD 20791-5456. Greetings must have adequate postage. Cards received after December 7th will be returned. In December 2007, Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, D.C. approached the Red Cross to distribute thousands of holiday cards coming to the facility for wounded troops. The Red Cross reached out to Pitney Bowes to turn the project into a larger opportunity that could reach members of the military at other facilities. Now in its third year, the Holiday Mail for Heroes program provides Americans with the opportunity to extend holiday greetings and thanks to service members, veterans and their families worldwide. Last year the program received more than 1.4 million cards for service members, their families, and veterans, in communities around the world. The Red Cross asks that people follow several guidelines while preparing holiday greetings: Do: sign all cards; entitle cards “Dear Service Member, Family or Veteran;” limit cards to 15 per person or 50 for school class or business group; and bundle groups of cards in single, large envelopes. Do not: send letters; include personal information such as home or email addresses to request contact or reciprocity; use glitter as excessive amounts can aggravate health issues of wounded recipients; or include inserts of any kind as they must be removed in the screening process. Learn more at http://www.redcross.org/holidaymail. # # #
10.23.2012	This weekend, U.S. Congressman congratulated the students selected to participate in the 2012-2013 Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC). This year 50 students ranging from freshman to seniors were chosen to serve as members of the prestigious Council; 12 students are returning members. The complete list of names and schools represented follows. “It has become more apparent than ever that young people have a deep desire to get involved in the civic process and want to make their voices heard,” Johnson said during the Council’s October 20th meeting. “I consider the CYAC members my young ambassadors to Congress, and you help keep me updated on issues that are important for your generation.” Johnson created the Council with two goals in mind. First, the group provides Johnson with greater student perspective and insight on issues that directly affect them. Second, Council activities educate students on government policies relevant to young people. Students learn from elected officials on the local, state, and national level, as well as field experts, during the Council’s four meetings throughout the school year. “I am impressed by the high-caliber students who serve on the Council this year,” said Johnson. “These driven high school students willingly spend several Saturdays to learn from each other, as well as from our distinguished guest speakers. They give me hope for a bright future for North Texas and America.” The 2012-2013 CYAC roster follows. 2012-2013 CONGRESSIONAL YOUTH ADVISORY COUNCIL Name High School Grade Anderson, Arthur Berkner High School 11 Blaskovich, Natasha McKinney North High School 11 Burnham, Rhian Plano West Senior High 11 Clark, Bryce McKinney North High School 12 Cook, Andrew Cistercian Prep. School 11 Douglas, Mark Shepton High School 10 Eakin, Megan Home School 12 Eldridge, Noah Liberty High School 12 Elliot, William Home School 10 Govinadarajan, Rakshana Plano East High School 11 Gupta, Shivan Frisco Liberty High School 12 Han, Grace Plano West Senior High 11 Hebig, Lauren Ursuline Academy of Dallas 10 Hertiage, Hogan Trinity Christian Academy 12 Hossain, Sarah Nabila Allen High School 11 Huang, Aileen Plano Senior High School 12 Huang, Samuel Plano East Senior High 11 Jenkins, MacKenzie Canyon Creek Christian 11 Johnson, Lane Jesuit College Preparatory School of Dallas 12 Kay, James Heritage High School (Frisco) 11 Killian, Sarah Plano West High 11 Kok, Shane Plano East Senior High 12 Kong, Justin Allen High School 11 Lara, Jonathon Plano Senior High 11 Lee, Candice Prestonwood Christian Academy 11 Lightfoot, Jessica Plano East Senior High 11 Madden, Connor Plano West Senior High 11 Maheshwary, Malika Liberty High School 11 Mandava, Soumya Allen High School 10 Martinez, Jessica Ursuline Academy of Dallas 11 Means, Emily Jasper High School 9 Michaels, Sarah Plano West Senior High 12 Michaels, Lisa Shepton High School 11 Patterson, Sydney McKinney Boyd 12 Paxman, McKay Plano Senior High 12 Przada, Jacob Jesuit College Preparatory School of Dallas 11 Randoing, Jason Plano East Senior High 11 Rosenfield, Daniel Plano West High School 12 Ruikar, Kinnarj Texas Academy of Math and Science 11 Saiyid, Daniel Dallas International School 12 Schell, Sam Plano West Senior High 11 Simpson, Brian Liberty High School 11 Smith, Travis McKinney North High School 12 Snitzer, Ryan Plano East Senior High 11 Stanley, Sarah McKinney Boyd High School 10 Stevens, Hunter Allen High School 11 Tuan, Simic Plano East Senior High 11 Todd, Jessica Clark High School 10 Waller, Matt John Paul II High School 12 Wood, Hannah Frisco High School 12 Woodard, Carlie Trinity Christian Academy 9 # # #
10.22.2012	On Monday, October 29th from 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. in Plano, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host a free information session on Medicare for seniors that is open to the public. There will also be flu shots available for $25, unless covered by Original Medicare or Railroad Retirement Medicare, while supplies last. Individuals can pay with cash or check. Held in conjunction with the North Central Texas Area Agency on Aging (NCTAA) and the Wellness Center for Older Adults (formerly the Geriatric Wellness Center of Collin County), the seminar will provide an overview of the 2013 Medicare program. The event coincides with the annual enrollment period of the Medicare Prescription Drug Program, which runs between October 15 and December 7. During this annual enrollment period, seniors may switch their current Part D prescription plan to another plan if they so choose. Benefits counselors with the NCTAA will be on hand to discuss the 2013 Medicare program and the annual enrollment period. These experts will be on hand to answer general questions regarding the process. The NCTAA can take down individual’s information in order to complete drug comparison plans in their office and then mail the information to the client. For questions regarding services provided by the NCTAA, please call Mary Jane Douglas at 1-800-272-3921, ext. 7166. Monday, October 29th 9:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. Plano Senior Recreation Center 401 West 16th Street Plano Those with questions about the events should contact Johnson’s office at 972-470-0892. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
10.20.2012	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) recognized the service and sacrifice of eleven local veterans at a public ceremony for his second annual Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC). Johnson launched CVC in 2011 as a way to formally recognize the wartime sacrifices and peacetime community involvement of residents of the Third District of Texas. The CVC, in conjunction with the Veterans History Project sponsored by the Library of Congress, is a nominations-based program that preserves the personal accounts of veterans for future generations. “North Texas has a tremendous legacy of patriotism and service,” said Johnson, a 29-year Air Force Veteran, “and I am proud to know these admirable men and women. We owe it to future generations to spotlight their service and preserve their stories.” An eight-member selection board comprised of local individuals dedicated to serving as leaders in their community advised and assisted in the nominations and selection process. Congressman Johnson, along with the selection board, recognized the group of recipients at the October 20th event in Plano. Johnson also presented a Congressional Record chronicling the veterans’ military service. Information on each honoree follows: John Franklin Bagwell of Dallas served in the U.S. Army where he faced treacherous combat in Vietnam during the Tet Offensive. For his years of service and heroic actions, Bagwell was awarded the Purple Heart, Bronze Star with “V” Device, Army Commendation Medal, Vietnam Campaign Medal, Sharpshooter Badge, and Presidential Citation. Bagwell continues to serve his local community through volunteering at the Canyon Creek Baptist Church Prayer Ministry, Interfaith Housing Coalition for the homeless, and his position on numerous boards and PTA President for Forest Ridge Elementary School in Richardson. Major Scott Edward Barnett of Frisco has served in the U.S. Army Reserve for over 21 years. Barnett has mobilized for active duty deployment twice to Iraq, and recently to Afghanistan. Currently specializing as a Civil Affairs Officer, Barnett is highly decorated for his years of outstanding service. He has been awarded the Bronze Star Medal, Meritorious Service Medal, four Army Commendation Medals, the Army Achievement Medal, Army Reserve Components Achievement Medal, Department of State Meritorious Honor, Humanitarian Service Medal, and numerous campaign awards. Barnett is currently a firefighter and paramedic for the McKinney Fire Department. John Joseph Bick of Allen served in the U.S. Army during Vietnam as a combat reporter with the 9th Division Public Information Office. On numerous occasions, he doubled as an infantryman when his unit came under fire. For his heroic combat actions, Bick was awarded the Army Commendation Medal with “V” Device, Air Medal, Vietnam campaign medal with two service stars, and the Army Good Conduct medal. Bick went on to lead a distinguished career in journalism and publishing, including his creation of Inside Collin County Business. He volunteers for the Career Alliance Ministry of St. Jude’s parish, March of Dimes, the Plano Chamber of Commerce, the Collin County Christian Prayer Breakfast, and the Plano and Richardson Symphony Orchestras. Lt. General Richard E. Carey of Allen, a graduate of the Naval war College, served in the U.S. Marine Corps from 1945 to 1983, where he retired from his post as Commanding General, Marine Corps Development and Education Command in Quanitco, VA. Through his career as a Naval Aviator and Assistant Wing Commander, Carey served in combat operations in Vietnam and Japan. Upon his retirement, General Carey had accrued the Distinguished Service Medal, Defense Superior Service Medal, Silver Star Medal, Legion of Merit with gold star, Distinguished Flying Cross, Bronze Star Medal with Combat “V” and gold star, Air Medal with numeral 15, Joint Services Commendation Medal, Purple Heart Medal, Presidential Unit Citation with three bronze stars, Navy United Commendation Medal with bronze star, and the Meritorious Unit Commendation. He was also well-known for strengthening the famous Marine Corps Marathon. Now a resident of Plano, Texas, General Carey continues to serve his local community and is very involved with the VA North Texas System. Joseph Louis Cordina of Parker, an Air Force Academy graduate, served in the U.S. Air Force for 31 years, retiring at the rank of Colonel. On a mission in 1972, Cordina’s heroic actions that saved 15 lives earned him the Distinguished Flying Cross. In 1979, Cordina became an Air Force Liaison Officer, overseeing more than 40 appointments for cadets to the Air Force. He has also served his community as the Mayor of the City of Parker, Vice President of the North Texas Association of Mayors, and President of the Texas Small Cities Advisory Council. In addition, Joe has been a leader in multiple homeowners associations and served as Scoutmaster for Boy Scout Troop 1191 in Richardson, Texas. Timothy Dowd Allen served in the U.S. Marine Corps for23 years as a senior drill instructor, water survival instructor, interrogator/translator, customs inspector, recruiter, and sniper team platoon commander. He also served deployments in Kuwait and Iraq. During his career, Down earned the Purple Heart Medal for injuries sustained on deployment in Iraq, as well as the Navy and Marine Corps Commendation with “V” device, four Navy Achievement medals, the Southwest Asia Service Medal, Kuwait Liberation Medal, Iraq Campaign Medal, and Combat Action Ribbon. Dowd now serves his community as a police officer for the City of Allen. Anna Janis of Plano joined the WAVES, Women Accepted for Volunteer Emergency Service, after the U.S. entered World War II. Janis received training in naval accounting, Morse Code, and flag signaling before her unit, Company D, Platoon 4, was transported from San Francisco to Pearl Harbor. Janis now serves her community through donation drives for military chaplains and VA Hospital patients, and she works with the Cell Phones for Soldiers program and assists with mission projects through Christ Church in Plano. Joseph Martin Graves of Plano joined the U.S. Army in 1944 at the age of 16, though he had to lie about his age in order to serve his country during World War II. During Graves’s military career, he earned a Purple Heart Medal for injuries sustained in the Philippine Islands, as well as the Combat Infantryman Badge, Asiatic-Pacific Ribbon with Bronze Star, Philippine Liberation Medal with Bronze Star, and the Army Good Conduct Medal. Graves is known for his patriotism, as he displays a 25-foot flagpole in front of is Plano home. JD Gresham of Plano served in the U.S. Army for 23 years. Drafted into World War II after his junior year of high school, Gresham was sent to New Guinea, where he encountered combat on multiple occasions. For heroism in battle and 22 years of distinguished service, Gresham earned the Bronze Star Medal, Army Commendation Medal, Philippine Liberation Ribbon, Asiatic-Pacific Campaign Medal, American Campaign Medal, World War II Victory Medal, Korean Service Medal, National Defense Service Medal, United Nations Service Medal, Presidential Unit Citation, and numerous other decorations. David Hollands of Plano served in the U.S. Army for 30 years, retiring with the rank of Colonel. Hollands participated in several combat missions, including a combat parachute assault into Panama during Operation Just Cause and the “Hail Mary” attack against the Iraqi Republican Guards during Operation Desert Storm. Hollands gives back to veterans and wounded warriors through his involvement in the Casey Joyce VFW Post 4380 in Plano and connects wounded veterans with trusted financial planners through a Financial Planning Association initiative. Gary Dean Sheets of Plano received his commission as a U.S. Air Force officer upon his graduation from the Academy in 1960. Sheets because a forward air controller and flew numerous missions over Laos and completed 80 missions over North Vietnam. For his exemplary leadership and heroism during his lengthy career, Gary was awarded two Legions of Merit, two Distinguished Flying Crosses, five Defense Meritorious Service Medals, ten Air Medals, two Air Force Commendation Medals, a Presidential Unit Citation, Combat Readiness Medal, Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal and other accolades. Sheets served 16 years as a deacon with Prestonwood Baptist Church, making hundreds of hospital visits and participating in dozens of community service projects. Following Sheets’s passing in September, his wife Sylvia stood in for him at the ceremony. For more information about the Congressional Veteran Commendation, contact Johnson’s Richardson office at (972)470-0892. # # #
10.15.2012	On Saturday, November 3rd at 2:00 p.m., in conjunction with the Sallie Mae Fund, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will hold a free workshop on saving, planning and paying for college. The informational program is free and open to the public. The Saving, Planning and Paying for College program is sponsored by The Sallie Mae Fund. A Sallie Mae Fund expert will lead the presentation for parents, students and counselors and then answer questions. Families will learn about saving, planning and paying for college and will receive free resources to guide them through the process. The seminar will run from 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. in the Conference Room at Collin College’s Preston Ridge Campus located at 9700 Wade Boulevard in Frisco. One eligible high school senior at the seminar will leave with a $500 scholarship via random drawing courtesy of the Sallie Mae Fund. The student or parent of the student must be present to win. “In this down economy, families across the country have tightened their family’s budget due to financial fears. Many parents of college bound students, along with the students, worry how they will pay for everything in pursuit of a college education. This Paying for College seminar should help a lot of folks learn more about their financial options,” said Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. To learn more about this event, contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. Saturday, November 3 2:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. FREE Saving, Planning and Paying for College Workshop Collin College - Preston Ridge Campus Conference Room 9700 Wade Boulevard Frisco, Texas # # #
10.10.2012	On Thursday, October 25th the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host Mobile Office Hours in Allen, Frisco and Plano. No advance appointments are necessary. Times and locations are listed below. Staff from the Congressman’s office host regular Mobile Office Hours throughout the Third Congressional District to meet with constituents. During the Mobile Office Hours, Johnson’s staff gladly offers assistance with problems regarding federal issues or agencies, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration or the Internal Revenue Service. They also may help facilitate overseas adoptions. Constituents are invited to stop by and share their comments about federal issues in Congress. Anyone requesting assistance with a federal agency should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. Constituents who cannot attend the scheduled Mobil Office Hours are welcome to contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at (972)470-0892. For more information, visit www.samjohnson.house.gov and select “Get Help With a Federal Agency.” Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Thursday, September 13th ALLEN City Hall Entrance/Lobby Area 305 Century Parkway 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. MCKINNEY McKinney Performing Arts Center Historic Collin County Courthouse Outer Entrance Area 111 North Tennessee 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. RICHARDSON Richardson Civic Center West Alcove Area 411 West Arapaho Road 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. # # #
10.03.2012	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) announced he will hold a public ceremony to honor local veterans selected for his second annual Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC), a nominations-based program designed to formally recognize the wartime sacrifices and peacetime community involvement of Third District residents. The CVC runs in conjunction with the Veterans History Project sponsored by the Library of Congress. When: Saturday, October 20, 2012 - 2:00 p.m. - 3:15 p.m. Where: Collin College Spring Creek Campus John Anthony Theatre 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway Plano, TX 75074 Who: U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson State Senator Brian Birdwell Congressional Veteran Commendation Selection Board Why: The Congressional Veteran Commendation, in conjunction with the Veterans History Project sponsored by the Library of Congress, is a nominations-based program designed to formally recognize the wartime sacrifices and peacetime community involvement of residents of the Third Congressional District and to preserve their stories for future generations of Americans. State Senator Brian Birdwell will deliver the keynote address, honoring 10 outstanding military veterans and community servants. Senator Birdwell, of Granbury, is a decorated military veteran and survivor of the September 11th attacks when American Airlines flight 77 crashed just yards away from his Pentagon office. As a federal legislator, Johnson works tirelessly on behalf of U.S. military personnel and veterans. This program is one way to highlight and bring honor to those who have faithfully served our nation. An eight-member selection board serves as a group of advisors to assist with nominations and the selection of commendation recipients. The board is comprised of impressive individuals dedicated to serving as leaders in their communities and country. The names of each member, who are serving a four-year term on the selection board, follow: Tracey Cline, Jim Dolan, Chad Hennings, Karen Marks, Jason Morgan, Frisco City Council member Tim Nelson, Collin County Judge Keith Self, and Patrick Sowers. Board members will be present at the October 20th ceremony to assist in announcing the commendation recipients. More information on each board member can be found here. For more information about the program, contact Johnson’s Richardson office at (972) 470-0892. # # #
09.27.2012	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) congratulated Methodist Richardson on its Bush/Renner expansion during today’s groundbreaking ceremony. Methodist Richardson’s Bush/Renner expansion will extend the facility’s current service area to better serve the communities of Richardson, Wylie, Sachse, Murphy, Plano and Garland. This new acute care hospital is scheduled to open in the fall of 2014. “Our ever-growing community is fortunate to have such a terrific facility like Methodist Richardson,” said Johnson, who attended the groundbreaking ceremony. “I admire this level of vision, commitment and dedication to enhancing the lives of so many.” # # #
09.25.2012	This weekend, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) recognized Drs. Scott and Cindy Briggs of Allen, Texas, as the 2012 Angels in Adoption™ for their outstanding advocacy of adoption and foster care issues. After deciding that adoption was the path they would take to start and raise a family, Scott and Cindy began the long journey to foster care and adoption. The Briggs spent 15 months in classroom trainings, in-home visits and observation hours to receive the foster license that eventually brought Jordan, 3 ½ years old, and Reagan, 2 ½ years old, to live with them as foster children. Scott and Cindy immediately knew they wanted to adopt the girls and expand their family. After more than a year as a foster family, the Briggs will finalize the adoption this week. “Scott and Cindy are truly an inspiration for their dedication to their children and their love for the Lord,” said Johnson, who presented the Briggs family with their Angels award during Sunday’s service at Cottonwood Creek Baptist Church. “I am grateful for families like theirs for giving children the blessing of a loving home.” The Angels in Adoption™ program is the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute’s (CCAI) signature public awareness campaign and provides an opportunity for all members of Congress to honor the good work of constituents who have enriched the lives of foster children and orphans in the United States and abroad. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
09.21.2012	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) introduced the ITIN (Individual Taxpayer Identification Number) Reform Act in light of shocking findings from a recent Tax Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA) report. This follows Johnson’s call in August for the resignation of IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman after the report revealed IRS actions that put billions of taxpayer dollars at risk. The IRS issues ITINs to individuals ineligible for Social Security numbers. The IG report exposed deplorable management of the IRS’s ITIN application process in which IRS managers were encouraging employees to ignore questionable applications and blatant fraud for the sake of fast-tracking ITIN approvals. Originally put in place to allow undocumented workers to claim income and pay taxes in the U.S., the ITIN process has become a ticket for illegal immigrants to get cash benefits from the federal government through, such as through the $1000 refundable child tax credit. “It’s time to hold the IRS’s feet to the fire when it comes to protecting taxpayer dollars,” said Johnson. “The IRS should be rooting out waste, fraud and abuse – not encouraging it.” The ITIN Reform Act would put safeguards in place to prevent fraud in the ITIN application process and require the TIGTA to conduct an audit every two years to ensure the IRS is protecting tax dollars. The Act would require ITIN applicants to provide original documentation establishing their identity and foreign status. In addition, ITIN applicants would be required to appear in-person at an IRS office for initial on-site verification. Currently, applicants can submit their applications by mail or through a third party. “The IG’s report makes clear that the IRS simply cannot be trusted to protect taxpayer dollars,” said Johnson. “This bill will go a long way towards putting in place the necessary safeguards that Americans want, need and deserve.” Johnson’s floor remarks can be viewed here. Remarks as prepared: “Mr. Speaker, it’s time for Americans to know the truth about the abuse of their hard-earned taxpayer dollars… Especially at a time when the President is calling for tax increases. The issue I’m talking about is IRS’s actions that put billions of taxpayer dollars at risk. Currently, the IRS allows individuals without a social security number to get cash benefits – like the $1000 refundable child tax credit, which is costing American taxpayers billions of dollars – by obtaining an Individual Taxpayer Identification Number, or an ITIN. A recent government report revealed a shocking scandal within the IRS that encouraged employees to fast-track ITIN approval without regard to preventing fraud. The ITIN has become a ticket to getting cash from Uncle Sam, and the IRS is aiding and abetting this fraud. This is wrong! That’s why I’m introducing the ITIN Reform Act – to hold the IRS’s feet to the fire with common-sense safeguards to better protect the American taxpayer. I urge my colleagues to pass this bill now.” # # #
09.12.2012	On Monday, the House of Representatives voted to pass H.R. 6007, the North Texas Zebra Mussel Barrier Act of 2012, with the support of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03). Sponsored by Rep. Ralph Hall (R-TX), this bill would allow the North Texas Municipal Water District (NTMWD) and the Greater Texoma Utility Authority (GTUA) to pump water from Lake Texoma to the treatment facility in Wylie without suffering penalties under the Lacey Act. The presence of the zebra mussel, an invasive aquatic species, has prevented the NTMWD and GTUA from pumping water from the lake – a primary source of water for North Texas – for 3 years. The Lacey Act prohibits the transfer of water containing such species over state lines. Due to a variation in the Texas-Oklahoma border in 2000, the Lake Texoma Pump Station ended up straddling both states, rendering water transport in violation of the Lacey Act. Each violation can carry a penalty up to $500,000. This bill would allow the water district to resume pumping water from Lake Texoma to the Wylie Water Treatment Plant, where it can be treated and cleaned of zebra mussels. “I hope this simple fix quickly becomes law,” said Johnson. “This bill is crucial in providing North Texans with much-needed relief after suffering through several consecutive dry summers.” # # #
09.11.2012	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) released the following statement in memory of those who lost their lives in the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks: ‘Today, let us remember the thousands of innocent lives lost eleven years ago in the heinous 9/11 terrorist attacks on America. My thoughts and prayers are with their loved ones who have mourned their loss for more than a decade. May we all remember that feeling of unity in the days following the attacks – we grieved together and came together as one united nation. We saw bravery at its finest when many first responders risked their lives to help others. We saw compassion at its greatest with an unprecedented outpouring of support to victims and their families. And though nothing can make right the wrongs of this tragedy, we have seen glimpses of justice when SEAL Team 6 killed Osama bin Laden last year. As a result of the attacks, a new generation of brave men and women has stood up to defend our country. Americans stand by our unwavering belief in freedom, and we will prevail against any enemy. We owe a debt of gratitude to our armed forces who have been serving on the front lines for eleven years. Please say a prayer of protection for them. We remain the land of the free because of the brave.” # # #
09.05.2012	On Thursday, September 13th the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host Mobile Office Hours in Allen, McKinney and Richardson. No advance appointments are necessary. Times and locations are listed below. Staff from the Congressman’s office host regular “mobile office hours” throughout the Third Congressional District to meet with constituents. During the “mobile office hours” the Third District staff gladly will offer assistance with problems regarding federal issues or agencies, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration or the Internal Revenue Service. They also may help facilitate overseas adoptions. Constituents are invited to stop by and share their comments about federal issues in Congress. No advance appointments are necessary. Anyone requesting assistance with a federal agency should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. Constituents who cannot attend the scheduled Mobil Office Hours are welcome to contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at (972)470-0892. For more information, visit www.samjohnson.house.gov and select “Get Help With a Federal Agency.” Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Thursday, September 13th ALLEN City Hall Entrance/Lobby Area 305 Century Parkway 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. MCKINNEY McKinney Performing Arts Center Historic Collin County Courthouse Outer Entrance Area 111 North Tennessee 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. RICHARDSON Richardson Civic Center West Alcove Area 411 West Arapaho Road 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. # # #
09.04.2012	On Saturday, September 15th at 2:00 p.m., U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host his annual Service Academy Forum for young people and their families interested in pursuing an education at one of the nation’s prestigious service academies. The free informational event will take place in the Conference Center of the Collin College Spring Creek Campus located at 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway in Plano. Students interested in seeking a nomination to the U.S. Military, Naval, Air Force, or Merchant Marine Academies are strongly encouraged to attend. No R.S.V.P. is required. “I have the distinct privilege to inform these young men and women on the rewarding career choices available through an education at the nation’s top-notch service academies,” said Johnson, a 29-year Air Force Veteran. “These students have grown up in the wake of the fateful attack on 9/11 and know what it means to serve their country. It is an honor to help them pursue their calling.” Academy cadets receive free tuition, room and board, as well as a monthly stipend. Upon graduation, they are commissioned as officers in their branch of service, where they must complete a multi-year obligation. At the event, representatives will present highlights of each service academy and provide details on student evaluation, nomination and appointment procedures. Following this overview, attendees will break into groups, allowing students and parents to speak directly with the representatives from each academy. Students who attend the forum are under no obligation to apply for or enroll in an academy. Students must be nominated for the U.S. Air Force Academy (Colorado Springs, CO), the U.S. Military Academy (West Point, NY), the U.S. Naval Academy (Annapolis, MD), and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (Kings Point, NY). For more information, or to have an application sent by mail, contact Johnson’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. Applications will be available at the forum. # # #
08.06.2012	On Thursday, August 16th, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host Mobile Office Hours in Frisco, Plano and Richardson. No advance appointments are necessary. Times and locations are listed below. If you, or someone you know, would like assistance with problems regarding federal issues or agencies, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration, or the Internal Revenue Service, please visit one of these locations. The Congressman’s staff also can help facilitate overseas adoptions, provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C., and process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Anyone requesting assistance with a federal agency should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. Constituents who cannot attend the scheduled Mobile Office Hours are welcome to contact the Congressman’s Richardson office at (972) 470-0892. For more information, visit www.samjohnson.house.gov and select “Get Help with a Federal Agency.” Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. FRISCO George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Entrance/Lobby Area, First Floor 6101 Frisco Square Boulevard 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. PLANO Christopher A. Parr Library Inside the Library 2600 Windhaven Parkway 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. RICHARDSON Richardson Senior Center Lobby Area 820 West Arapaho Road 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. # # #
07.11.2012	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) released the following remarks following his vote to fully repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, referred to as Obamacare. “Last month, the Supreme Court made its regrettable ruling to uphold the President’s job-killing tax program known as Obamacare. While the high court may have deemed it constitutional as a tax, Americans deem it burdensome and unaffordable. Obamacare boasts $500 billion in tax hikes, 150 new federal bureaucracies, and $1.76 trillion added to the growing national debt. Not to mention the massive amounts of red tape and legalese that get in the way of patients and their doctors. Before we know it, going to the doctor will feel more like a trip to the DMV. Our tax-and-spender–in-chief needs to stop throwing more hard-earned tax dollars at a broken healthcare system and start working with Congress to implement common-sense reforms. We can make coverage more accessible, more affordable, and give Americans the freedom to choose their health plan. Our first step towards real reform is to repeal Obamacare today.” Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
06.28.2012	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) responded to the Supreme Court’s ruling to uphold the individual mandate, a controversial provision of President Obama’s health care law. “I find today’s ruling disappointing and disastrous. We need to put the power back into the hands of the people. Americans deserve a patient-centered approach to healthcare that allows them to make their own choices and receive the healthcare they and their doctor feel is best. The government must get out of the way of determining what doctors we can see, what treatments we can receive and what coverage we should have. “The President’s health care law is not what Americans asked for, and it’s not difficult to understand why – over $500 billion in tax hikes, the creation of more than 150 new federal bureaucracies, $1.76 trillion added to the growing national deficit – and the list goes on. “This healthcare law is unaffordable for our country, forces Americans into government exchanges to buy their healthcare coverage, and vastly increases the government’s involvement in our lives. “I have voted time and again to repeal Obamacare, and I remain committed to fully repealing this law in its entirety. With common-sense reforms, we can make health insurance more affordable, more accessible and more available without further harming the economy. America is a government by the people, for the people and of the people – and I hope that they vote down ObamaCare in November.” # # #
06.15.2012	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) hosted Frisco Flag Day in conjunction with the Frisco Heritage Museum where he kicked off his second annual Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC). “Preserving these patriots’ stories for our children and grandchildren is a gift that will keep on giving,” said Johnson. “I look forward to hearing these stories of courage and valor from our hometown veterans.” Sponsored by the Library of Congress, the CVC was created to honor the distinguished veterans of the Third District of Texas and to share their stories with the community and future generations. At today’s Frisco Flag Day patriotic celebration, Johnson presented the Frisco Heritage Museum with a piece of his own history – a Prisoner of War bracelet with his name etched in it. These bracelets, bearing the names of American POWs, were worn by countless Americans all across the country as a symbol of hope that the captured or lost soldiers would return home to their families. Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran, endured nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam, including 42 months in solitary confinement. Johnson also presented Frisco resident Lee Myrben, a U.S. Navy veteran, with a host of long overdue service medals, including the Navy Commendation Medal. “I can think of no better way to observe Flag Day than to pay tribute to one of our own who fought to protect the freedoms and blessings that our flag represents,” said Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin County. Photos available upon request. # # #
06.08.2012	On Thursday, June 14th at 10:00 a.m., U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host a Flag Day celebration in conjunction with the Frisco Heritage Museum. This event is free and open to the public. Press is invited to attend. At this ceremony featuring the Frisco Fire Department Honor Guard and additional special guests, the Frisco Heritage Museum will open its new Military History Exhibit. Johnson will contribute to the Military History Exhibit collection by offering a Prisoner of War bracelet to be displayed. The Frisco Heritage Museum participates in the National Endowment for the Arts’ Blue Star Museums program, which offers free admission to all active duty U.S. military personnel, veterans and their families between Memorial Day and Labor Day. In addition, Johnson will present a number of overdue service medals to a local U.S. Navy veteran during the festivities. Frisco Flag Day information WHEN: Thursday, June 14, 2012 at 10:00 a.m. WHO: U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson and the Frisco Heritage Museum WHERE: Frisco Heritage Center Depot 6455 Page Road in Frisco # # #
05.31.2012	On Saturday, June 2nd at 10:00 a.m., U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will congratulate local service academy bound students at a gathering with their families in the Sunnyslope Room at the Plano Centre, located at 2000 East Spring Creek Parkway in Plano. While this event will be closed to the public, credentialed members of the news media are welcome to attend. “Each year I have the privilege of nominating a limited number of people to four of the five service academies. The honor of attending a service academy comes with an obligation and commitment to serve in the military for a minimum of five years upon graduation,” said Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran and a former Prisoner of War in Vietnam for nearly seven years, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. News advisory information Saturday, June 2, 2012 at 10:00 a.m. U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson Third District service academy bound student send-off Sunnyslope Room Plano Centre 2000 E. Spring Creek Parkway Plano The names of the students, their hometowns and high schools follow. United States Military Academy Cody Christopher Guerry – Garland, Texas Naaman Forest High School Austin Yupyo Kong – Allen, Texas – Allen High School Shannon Elizabeth Rogers – Plano, Texas – Plano Senior High School United States Naval Academy William Benac Allred – Richardson, Texas – Plano East Senior High School Travis Ross Beach – Garland, Texas – Trinity Christian Academy Nicholas Gregory Cerf – McKinney, Texas – Liberty High School Mitchell Martin Larios – Frisco, Texas – Frisco High School Kamron Alexander Murrell – Allen, Texas – Allen High School United States Air Force Academy Allie Nicole Baumgarten – Plano, Texas – Plano Senior High School Constance Ruth Gabel – Plano, Texas – Canyon Creek Christian Academy Cameron Kistler – Plano, Texas – Plano Senior High School Joseph Paul Lamb – Plano, Texas – Plano East Senior High School Melissa Lynn Leonhardt – Plano, Texas – Plano Senior High School *Adam Ayelle Melaku – Garland, Texas – Garland High School Andrew Stephen Parks – McKinney, Texas – Austin Tennis Academy College Preparatory School Adam Joseph Wilkins – McKinney, Texas – McKinney North High School United States Merchant Marine Academy Colin Spencer Carr – Plano, Texas – Plano West Senior High School Kinser Dean Newkirk – Plano, Texas – Prince of Peace Christian School Jack Andrew Westrich – McKinney, Texas – McKinney Boyd High School *Adam Melaku will attend the U.S. Air Force Academy Preparatory School. # # #
05.24.2012	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) has announced the following schedule for Memorial Day 2012. Highlights of the day include presenting a posthumous Prisoner of War Medal in McKinney and bestowing a Purple Heart to a young wounded warrior in Plano. On Monday, May 28th at 9:30 a.m., U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson will attend the Pecan Grove Memorial Day ceremony in McKinney. A former Prisoner of War for nearly seven years in Vietnam, more than half of that time in solitary confinement, Johnson will present a posthumous Prisoner of War Medal to the family of Lt. Robert B. Fleming, a courageous veteran who served in World War II and endured captivity as a Prisoner of War after his plane went down in Germany. Fleming’s son will accept the medal on his father’s behalf. Later that day at 7:00 p.m., Johnson will attend the Memorial at Sunset in Plano. During the ceremony, Johnson will present David “Cody” Morton a Purple Heart for his service in Afghanistan. The Blue Star Mothers of America - Lone Star Chapter 6, Casey Joyce All-America VFW Post 4380 and American Legion Harding-Blaine Post 321 will host the Sunset at Memorial Park. This community remembrance begins at 7 p.m. at the Plano Veterans Memorial in Memorial Park, 2101 Bay Hill Drive. More details for the event are available at www.planosunsetmemorial.webs.com “Freedom is not free and showcasing the valor and sacrifice of two war heroes will be an excellent way to pay tribute to those who have paid the ultimate price for freedom,” said Johnson. A decorated fighter pilot and American war hero, Johnson earned two Silver Stars, two Legions of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross, one Bronze Star with Valor, two Purple Hearts, four Air Medals, and three Outstanding Unit Awards. Monday, May 28, 2012 Memorial Day Schedule 9:30 a.m. Pecan Grove Cemetery Memorial Day Service Posthumous POW Medal Presentation to the family of Lt. Robert B. Fleming 1701 S McDonald Street McKinney 7:00 p.m. Sunset at Memorial Park Purple Heart presentation to young wounded warrior David “Cody” Morton Plano Veterans Memorial Memorial Park 2101 Bayhill Drive Plano # # #
05.10.2012	Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill (H.R. 5652) to replace dangerous defense cuts with common-sense spending reductions containing a provision authored by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) that would save $7.6 billion in taxpayer dollars. The issue at hand is rampant abuse of the popular refundable child tax credit by illegal immigrants. As IRS rules currently stand, this refundable tax credit can be provided to an illegal immigrant so long as the immigrant is able to obtain an Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN) from the IRS. A recent investigative report by NBC’s Indianapolis WTHR uncovered a slew of illegal immigrants who claimed the tax credit for children living in Mexico. To watch the report, click here. Johnson’s provision comes from his Refundable Child Tax Credit Eligibility Verification Reform Act, H.R. 1956, which would require tax filers to provide their Social Security numbers to claim the credit. Today, Johnson spoke on the House floor during debate urging Congress to take action today by closing this tax loophole in order to better protect American taxpayer dollars. To view Johnson’s remarks, click here. Remarks as prepared: “I thank the gentleman for yielding. Mr. Speaker, due to a loophole in the tax code, the IRS is shoveling out billions of American taxpayer dollars to those who are here illegally. The good news is this Reconciliation measure includes a common-sense solution based on legislation I’ve authored that would save $7.6 billion by putting a stop to this. The provision would stop illegal immigrants from getting the $1,000 refundable child tax credit by simply requiring tax filers to provide their Social Security Numbers. Right now those who are here illegally can get cash from Uncle Sam by providing an IRS-provided tax payer ID number to claim this refundable credit. Illegal immigrants have gone so far as to file tax returns claiming children who do not live in America according to a recent report by NBC Indianapolis’ WTHR. Mr. Speaker, there really shouldn’t be any controversy over this. The American people are speaking out against this. The Treasury’s Tax IG has spoken out against this. Democratic Senator Claire McCaskill has spoken out against this. Even the Administration supports the idea of preventing illegal immigrants from receiving public benefits through funding of a verification program. Mr. Speaker this is a simple fix that by just requiring a Social Security Number will put a stop to the abuse of precious taxpayer dollars. Americans want, need and deserve better protection of their hard-earned money and we owe it to the United States of America to take action today. I yield back.” # # #
04.18.2012	Today, the House Ways and Means Committee passed by a vote of 22-12 a measure based on legislation authored by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) to prevent illegal immigrants from getting the refundable child tax credit. “This is a common-sense, bipartisan measure to close a loophole that is costing American taxpayers billions of dollars,” Johnson said during today’s mark-up. “This rampant abuse of hardworking taxpayer dollars is just wrong.” The IRS currently awards the refundable child tax credit to those who are here illegally. Because this credit is refundable, as it stands parents who owe no taxes can receive cash back from the government through the tax code. In a report issued last year by the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration entitled, Individuals Who Are Not Authorized to Work in the United States Were Paid $4.2 Billion in Refundable Credits, the IG said, “Although the law prohibits aliens residing without authorization in the United States from receiving most Federal public benefits, an increasing number of these individuals are filing tax returns claiming the Additional Child Tax Credit (ACTC).” “I’m glad the Committee took this important step to better protect precious taxpayer dollars. It’s time we close this tax loophole and put a stop to the child tax credit sham,” concluded Johnson. # # #
04.13.2012	Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) presented the Congressional Award Silver Medal to Drew Barry of McKinney. “Drew has demonstrated an enormous commitment to improving his community, and this award is well deserved,” said Johnson. Congress established the Congressional Award in 1979 to recognize initiative, achievement and service in young people. The non-partisan, voluntary and non-competitive program is open to all 14- to 23- year olds. Participants earn Bronze, Silver and Gold Congressional Award Medals. Each level involves setting goals in four program areas: Volunteer Public Service, Personal Development, Physical Fitness, and Expedition/Exploration. “I appreciate the Congressional Award Program for challenging me in all areas, but especially volunteerism,” said Barry, an Allen High School student, who achieved the Silver Medal by completing 200 hours of community service. In earning the award, Barry focused his efforts on his passion for lacrosse. Barry volunteered his time as an assistant to youth lacrosse coaches and players and organized an equipment drive for BRIDGE lacrosse to benefit less fortunate students in his area.
04.13.2012	On Thursday, April 19th the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host Mobile Office Hours in Allen, Frisco, McKinney and Plano. No advance appointments are necessary. Times and locations are listed below. If you, or someone you know, would like assistance with problems regarding federal issues or agencies, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration, or the Internal Revenue Service, please visit one of these locations. No advance appointments necessary. The Congressman’s staff also can help facilitate overseas adoptions, provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C., and process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Anyone requesting assistance with a federal agency should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. Constituents who cannot attend the scheduled Mobile Office Hours are welcome to contact the Congressman’s Richardson office at (972) 470-0892. For more information, visit www.samjohnson.house.gov and select “Get Help with a Federal Agency.” Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. ALLEN Senior Recreation Center Front Conference Room 451 East Street 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. FRISCO George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Front Lobby 6101 Frisco Square Boulevard 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. MCKINNEY Collin College Park Central Campus Entrance Lobby Area 2200 W. University 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. PLANO Parr Library Front Lobby 6200 Windhaven Parkway 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. # # #
03.22.2012	Today Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) and Congressman John Larson (D-CT) introduced legislation that would prohibit the IRS from taxing compensation awarded to people who have been wrongfully convicted of a crime and subsequently exonerated. “As a former Prisoner of War in Vietnam for nearly 7 years, I know what it is like to have years of your life robbed,” said Johnson, who spent nearly half of his captivity in solitary confinement. “While we can’t return the years lost as a result of wrongful imprisonment, we can make sure that those individuals don’t suffer the additional injustice of being persecuted by the IRS for taxes they shouldn’t have to pay.” Dallas County, which includes portions of Johnson’s district, is a leader in exonerations. Since the first DNA exoneration in 1989, the wrongfully convicted have served more than 3,809 years in prisons across 35 states before being exonerated. The nearly 300 DNA exonerees served an average of 13.5 years in prison, ranging from less than one to 35 years. Johnson and Larson believe this bill represents a bipartisan effort in Washington to ensure that the federal government does its part for those who have been wronged by the justice system. “In Connecticut, with the exoneration of James Tillman, we’ve seen firsthand that wrongful convictions are an unfortunate reality,” Congressman Larson added. “Though we can never give the wrongfully convicted the time back that they’ve had taken from them, they certainly shouldn’t have to pay Uncle Sam a share of any compensation they’re awarded. This bill will make sure they don’t have to suffer that insult on top of their injury.” Specifically, the Wrongful Convictions Tax Relief Act proposes to allow exonerees to keep their awards free of tax. Compensation awards are meant to provide exonerated prisoners with much-needed economic support. Many exonerated individuals experience severe hardship acclimating to society, finding jobs and housing and reconnecting with family. With no money, housing, transportation, health services or insurance, the punishment lingers long after the exoneration. # # #
03.07.2012	On Thursday, March 22nd the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host Mobile Office Hours in Frisco, McKinney and Richardson. No advance appointments are necessary. Times and locations are listed below. Staff from the Congressman’s office regularly host Mobile Office Hours throughout the Third District to meet with constituents close to home at their convenience. During Mobile Office Hours, Johnson’s aides gladly assist individuals facing problems with federal programs or agencies such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, the Social Security Administration, or the Internal Revenue Service. The Congressman’s staff also can help facilitate overseas adoptions, provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C., and process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Anyone requesting assistance with a federal agency should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. Constituents who cannot attend the scheduled Mobile Office Hours are welcome to contact the Congressman’s Richardson office at (972) 470-0892. For more information, visit www.samjohnson.house.gov and select “Get Help with a Federal Agency.” Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. FRISCO George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Front Lobby 6101 Frisco Square Boulevard 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. MCKINNEY Collin College Central Park Campus Entrance Lobby Area 2200 W. University 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. RICHARDSON Senior Center Lobby Area 820 W. Arapaho Road 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. # # #
03.06.2012	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) invited high school students residing in the Third Congressional District to submit original artwork for the 2012 Congressional Art Competition. This contest is open to students enrolled in public, private or home schools, and the deadline to submit artwork is March 29th. The winning piece will be sent to Washington, D.C., to hang in the United States Capitol for one year. “Each year I am impressed with the wealth of artistic talent these students bring, and I look forward to seeing this year’s submissions” said Johnson. Artwork must be submitted by March 29th. Students may take their piece directly to the Congressman’s local office or teachers may contact Michael Wassel in the Richardson office at Michael.wassel@mail.house.gov or at 972-470-0892 to arrange for a pick-up date and time from individual schools. In addition, the public will be invited to view all Third District artwork submissions at the Congressional Art Contest Exhibit and award ceremony in McKinney on Thursday, May 3rd. Johnson will release more information about this event at a later date. Beginning in April, entries will be displayed on Johnson’s website for the community to participate in the annual People’s Choice award competition. The public can view and vote on their favorite piece, and the winning artist will receive the People’s Choice award. Additional information can be found in the “Info for Students” section of the Congressman’s website at samjohnson.house.gov. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
03.05.2012	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) along with Congressman Richard Neal (D-MA) reintroduced legislation, the Employee Educational Assistance Act of 2012, to empower workers with employer-provided education benefits “Given today’s global competitiveness, it is vital for employers to invest in their employees with tuition assistance. They want to attract the best and brightest workforce,” said Johnson. “It’s great to know companies want to offer these benefits – it’s a win-win situation.” Currently workers may access up to $5,250 in tax-free educational assistance from their employers for various expenses, like tuition, fees, and books. Employers do not have to provide this benefit. If they do, then they must make it available to all workers. Created in 1978, this tax benefit expires at the end of the year. Johnson’s bill would permanently extend the benefit. According to the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities (NAICU), almost one in five individuals using this education expense benefit is pursuing a degree in the sciences, technology, engineering, and mathematics, the so called “STEM” degrees. Approximately 913,100 students received employer-provided benefits, compared to 431,500 in 1992 – showing a promising 112% increase. Thirty-six percent of these recipients are pursuing a master’s degree, as compared to 21% in 1992. The military provides the largest amount ($2,547) of average assistance to undergraduates. Colleges and universities offer the largest average assistance ($3,277) to graduate students. During the 2007 – 2008 school year, those earning $42,711 represent the average person accepting the employer-provided assistance. The average employer-provided education benefits received was $4,563. A 2011 Society for Human Resources Management poll reveals that 58% of companies offered undergraduate educational assistance, and 54% offered graduate educational assistance. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
02.28.2012	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) took to the floor of the U.S. House to call on the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to increase the 2012 standard mileage gas rates in the event gas prices hit expected all-time record highs. Johnson also advocated for a comprehensive all-of-the-above strategy that includes the Keystone XL Pipeline. Johnson sent a letter to IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman this week with the mileage increase request. Last year, Johnson hounded the IRS for months before the rates were raised, providing much needed relief for businesses. Currently the IRS mileage rate is 55.5 cents for business travel and 23 cents for medical and moving purposes. The charitable rate of 14 cents is set by law. The IRS increased the optional mileage rates due to spiking gas prices in 2005 after Hurricane Katrina, and again in 2008 and 2011 to combat soaring gas prices. To read a copy of Johnson’s letter to IRS Commissioner Shulman, visit his website at samjohnson.house.gov. To watch Johnson’s floor speech, visit his official You Tube channel here. Johnson’s remarks follow: “For 21 days in a row, gas prices have risen to average $3.70 per gallon – a 30-cent increase in only one month! At this rate, Americans could be forking over four bucks for a gallon of gas in no time. That’s insane. American families and businesses are already struggling in this economy, so I’m calling on the IRS to provide relief for businesses by increasing the standard mileage rates, like it did after Hurricane Katrina, and again in 2008 and 2011. With gas prices rising higher and faster than ever, the Administration and Congress need to take action now – beginning with the Keystone XL Pipeline estimated to bring 830,000 barrels of oil every day to U.S. refineries – and Keystone would create nearly 20,000 new American jobs. Let’s pursue a real ‘all-of-the-above’ energy strategy and give Americans the security and relief they want, need and deserve.” # # #
02.16.2012	Today U.S. Congressman announced the names of the forty students he nominated to the U.S. Service Academies for the Class of 2016. The academies will make formal offers of appointment this spring. If selected, the students will start classes in July. A 29-year Air Force veteran and former Prisoner of War in Vietnam for nearly seven years, Johnson nominated the best and brightest students from all across the Third District. Nominating Third District students for the nation’s service academies means a great deal to Johnson, a decorated combat veteran. “Nominating the future leaders of our armed forces is one of the most rewarding things I do in Congress,” said Johnson. “It’s the hard work and dedication of these smart and courageous students that makes the United States military the best in the world.” Third District residents between the ages of 17 and 23 were eligible to apply to service academies if they met eligibility requirements in leadership, physical aptitude, scholarship and character. The selection of nominees was based on academic performance, exhibited by class rank, SAT or ACT scores and grade point average. Other important factors evaluated by the board included participation in extracurricular and civic activities as well as athletic aptitude. Students interested in learning more about the service academies for the class starting in July 2016 or beyond should contact Lori McMahon in the Congressman’s office at 972-470-0892. In addition, every fall the Congressman hosts a free Academy Information Session with all branches represented. The Third Congressional District includes portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Class of 2016 Nominations for U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson United States Air Force Academy *1. Allie Baumgarten – From Plano, Texas, and graduated from Plano Senior High School 2. Vergel Burress – From Sachse, Texas, and attends Sachse High School 3. Constance Gabel – From Plano, Texas, and attends Canyon Creek Christian Academy 4. Joseph Lamb – From Plano, Texas, and attends Plano East Senior High School 5. Melissa Leonhardt – From Plano, Texas, and attends Plano Senior High School 6. Adam Melaku – From Garland, Texas, and attends Garland High School 7. Andrew Parks – From McKinney, Texas, and attends Austin Tennis Academy College Prep. 8. Zachary Stevens – From Plano, Texas, and attends McKinney Boyd High School 9. Sean Whitney – From Frisco, Texas, and attends Legacy Christian Academy *10. Adam Wilkins – From McKinney Texas, and graduated from McKinney North High School *Allie Baumgarten and Adam Wilkins currently attend the USAFA Preparatory School United States Military Academy – West Point 1. Casey Carringer – From Plano, Texas, and attends Jesuit College Preparatory School 2. Cody Guerry – From Garland, Texas, and attends Naaman Forest High School 3. Harrison Halbach –From Plano, Texas, and attends Plano West Senior High School 4. Austin Kong – From Allen, Texas, and attends Allen High School 5. Philip Morton – From Dallas, Texas, and attends Jesuit College Preparatory School 6. Kristine Nagy – From McKinney, Texas, and attends McKinney Boyd High School 7. Ryan Patterson – From McKinney, Texas, and attends McKinney Boyd High School 8. Joel Pogue – From McKinney, Texas, and attends McKinney Boyd High School 9. Shannon Rogers – From Plano, Texas, and attends Plano Senior High School 10. Matthew Shao – From Plano, Texas, and attends Plano West Senior High School United States Merchant Marine Academy 1. Aaron Albright – From Frisco, Texas, and attends Frisco High School 2. Colin Carr – From Plano, Texas, and attends Plano West Senior High School 3. Ryan Costas – From McKinney, Texas, and attends McKinney Boyd High School *4. Gabriel Devoto – From Plano, Texas, and graduated from Calvary Chapel High School in Santa Ana, CA 5. Xing “Bliss” Liu – From Plano, Texas, and attends Plano West Senior High School 6. Jacob Lofman – From Plano, Texas, and attends Plano Senior High School 7. Kristine Nagy – From McKinney, Texas, and attends McKinney Boyd High School 8. Kinser Newkirk – From Plano, Texas, and attends Prince of Peace Christian School 9. Ryan Rigsby – From Plano, Texas, and attends Plano East Senior High School 10. Jake Westrich – From McKinney, Texas, and attends McKinney Boyd High School *Gabriel Devoto currently attends the University of Texas at Dallas. United States Naval Academy 1. William Allred – From Richardson, Texas, and attends Plano East High School 2. Travis Beach – From Garland, Texas, and attends Trinity Christian Academy *3. Nicholas Cerf – From McKinney, Texas, and graduated from Liberty High School 4. Aaron Issac – From Plano, Texas, and attends Plano Senior High School 5. Mitchell Larios – From Frisco, Texas, and attends Frisco High School 6. Lauren Manley – From Plano, Texas, and attends Plano East High School *7. Kamron Murrell – From Allen, Texas, and graduated from Allen High School 8. Dallas Rodriguez – From McKinney, Texas, and attends McKinney High School 9. Dylan Stone – From Allen, Texas, and attends Jesuit College Preparatory School 10. Jake Westrich – From McKinney, Texas, and attends McKinney Boyd High School *Nicholas Cerf currently attends the University of Texas at Austin *Kamron Murrell currently attends Schreiner University and is co-enrolled at Greystone Preparatory School # # #
02.14.2012	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03), a 29-year Air Force veteran and former Prisoner of War in Vietnam for nearly 7 years, delivered Valentines to veterans at the Dallas Veterans Affairs Medical Center yesterday as part of the annual “Valentines for Veterans” program. This event coincides with National Salute to Hospitalized Veterans Week. Johnson encouraged local schools to participate in the Valentines for Vets program as a creative way to say “thank you” for the service and sacrifice of those who wear the uniform. On Friday, February 10th, Johnson visited Kerr Elementary in Allen (Allen ISD) to pick up students’ Valentines and to participate in a patriotic school assembly. Johnson spent time visiting with hospitalized veterans at the Dallas VA while delivering the students’ valentines. Leading up to the visit, Johnson also met with and welcomed Jeffrey Milligan, Director of the North Texas Health Care System, to North Texas. At the meeting Johnson discussed issues important to North Texas veterans and their families. Every February, Americans open their hearts to the country’s hospitalized veterans by sending cards and letters to veterans in the medical centers across the country though the Valentines for Vets program. America observes the National Salute to Hospitalized Veterans week during the week of Valentine’s Day. This year, 40 area schools and area businesses participated in this year’s Valentines for Veterans program. The Congressman wants to thank the following school districts, schools and companies for participating this year: Allen ISD Frisco ISD Garland ISD McKinney ISD Plano ISD Richardson ISD All Saints Catholic School in Dallas Canyon Creek Christian Academy in Richardson St. Elizabeth Ann Seton Catholic Church in Plano Provident Living Center of McKinney Time Warner Cable This weekend, Johnson marked 39 years of freedom – the 39 year anniversary of Operation Homecoming, the day the longest held POWs departed Vietnam. In 2009 the prestigious Congressional Medal of Honor Society bestowed Johnson their highest civilian accolade, the National Patriot Award, for his tireless work on behalf of the troops, veterans, and freedom. In 2011, Johnson accepted the “Freedom of Flight” award at the Living Legends of Aviation Awards, dubbed the Oscars of aviation, from renowned air show pilot Bob Hoover. Johnson serves as a Regent for the world famous Smithsonian Institution, where he represents the Board of Regents on the Advisory Board of the National Air and Space Museum.
02.13.2012	On Thursday, February 16th, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host Mobile Office Hours in Frisco, McKinney and Plano. No advance appointments are necessary. Times and locations are listed below. Staff from the Congressman’s office regularly host Mobile Office Hours throughout the Third District to meet with constituents close to home at their convenience. During Mobile Office Hours, Johnson’s aides gladly assist individuals facing problems with federal programs or agencies such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, the Social Security Administration, or the Internal Revenue Service. The Congressman’s staff also can help facilitate overseas adoptions, provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C., and process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Anyone requesting assistance with a federal agency should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. Constituents who cannot attend the scheduled Mobile Office Hours are welcome to contact the Congressman’s Richardson office at (972) 470-0892. For more information, visit www.samjohnson.house.gov and select “Get Help with a Federal Agency.” Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. ALLEN City Hall Front Entrance 305 Century Parkway 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. FRISCO George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Front Lobby 6101 Frisco Square Boulevard 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. MCKINNEY Collin College Central Park Campus Entrance Area 2200 West University 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. PLANO Parr Library Front Lobby 6200 Windhaven Parkway 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. # # #
01.24.2012	Good morning and welcome to our second hearing in our hearing series on Securing the Future of the Social Security Disability Insurance Program. Today our focus is on combating waste, fraud and abuse. In our first hearing we talked about the important milestone set in 1956 by the creation of this cash benefit program for those who could no longer work due to a disability. From the beginning, there was a great deal of concern about the high risk for fraud, waste, and abuse because of the changing nature of disability and the inherent subjectivity of determining whether a person was truly disabled. Today, the disability insurance program pays benefits to individuals with disabilities that meet certain medical criteria, as long as they worked long enough and paid Social Security taxes. Over the past four decades, disability program costs have soared from $18 billion to $124 billion as the number of those receiving benefits has more than tripled from 2.7 to 9.7 million. The size of the overall workforce, more women in the workforce, the aging of the baby boomers into their disability-prone years, and relaxed eligibility requirements have all contributed to this growth. That continued growth is putting a massive strain on the program. According to the 2011 Trustees’ Report, without Congressional action, the Disability Insurance program will be unable to pay full benefits beginning in 2018, only a few years from now. And as the size, cost and complexity of the disability insurance program have increased, so has the program’s exposure to waste, fraud, and abuse. In fiscal year 2011, Social Security paid $130 billion in disability benefits. That’s about what it costs to run three Federal agencies, the Department of Homeland Security, NASA, and the Department of Housing and Urban Development. In that same year Social Security’s disability overpayments were 1.4 percent of total benefits paid. That percentage may sound small, but 1.4 percent of benefits equals $1.8 billion in overpayments. In fact, according to Social Security, each tenth of a percentage point in payment accuracy represents about $706 million in outlays for the retirement and disability program. Said another way, for every one tenth of one percent Social Security improves its payment accuracy, it can pay disability benefits for a full year to close to 5,300 people. That’s real money for those who can’t work and who count on these benefits to keep a roof over their head and food on the table. Finally, while Social Security collected $839 million in overpayments in FY 2010, cumulative overpayment debt still reached $5.4 billion that same year. Continuing disability reviews also protect the disability program by making sure those receiving disability benefits are still disabled. Every $1 spent on the reviews results in at least $10 of program savings, including both Medicare and Medicaid. There is a growing backlog of medical continuing disability reviews, and in the Budget Control Act, Congress authorized $13 billion in additional funding over the next ten years exclusively for these and other reviews. The best way to protect the disability program is to prevent fraud before it occurs. The Cooperative Disability Investigation program does just that. This program is a joint effort between Social Security and the Office of Inspector General, working with the State Disability Determination Services and State or local law enforcement. Since 1998, efforts by these units nationwide have resulted in $3.1 billion in disability program savings. As impressive as some of these anti-fraud efforts appear, their very success raises questions about how many other examples of abuse are yet undetected. The disability program is of vital importance to millions of Americans whose lives are changed forever by the onset of a disability. We need to protect that program for those who truly need its benefits. Waste, fraud, and abuse in the disability insurance program cheat honest, hardworking American taxpayers. As we work to secure the future of this program, we need to protect taxpayers from con artists who are stealing from the system by making sure benefits are paid only to those who deserve them -- an undertaking I know all of us on the Subcommittee stand firmly behind. ###
01.17.2012	On Thursday, January 19th the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host Mobile Office Hours in Frisco, McKinney, Plano and Richardson. No advance appointments are necessary. Times and locations are listed below. Staff from the Congressman’s office regularly host Mobile Office Hours throughout the Third District to meet with constituents close to home. During Mobile Office Hours, Johnson’s aides gladly assist individuals facing problems with federal programs or agencies such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, the Social Security Administration, or the Internal Revenue Service. “Dealing with the red-tape and regulations in the federal agencies can be confusing,” says Johnson. “It’s my job and my privilege to help Third District constituents navigate the bureaucracy and get their questions answered.” The Congressman’s staff also can help facilitate overseas adoptions, provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C., and process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Anyone requesting assistance with a federal agency should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. Constituents who cannot attend the scheduled Mobile Office Hours are welcome to contact the Congressman’s Richardson office at (972) 470-0892. For more information, visitwww.samjohnson.house.gov and select “Get Help with a Federal Agency.” Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. FRISCO George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Front Lobby 6101 Frisco Square Boulevard 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. MCKINNEY McKinney Performing Arts Center at the Historic Collin County Courthouse Outer Entrance Area 111 North Tennessee 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. PLANO Collin College Spring Creek Campus Lobby Area 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. RICHARDSON Civic Center West Alcove Area 411 West Arapaho Road 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m.
12.13.2011	Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed three provisions authored by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) in the latest Republican Jobs bill. The Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act, H.R. 3630, includes Johnson’s measures to prevent illegal immigrants from claiming the refundable child tax credit, to provide relief for physician owned hospitals, and to encourage business investment and job growth. “It’s a great honor to have my legislation included in the Republican’s Jobs bill today,” said Johnson. “More importantly, it’s a great day for America when the House recognizes the importance of protecting taxpayer dollars, protecting our small businesses, and protecting citizens from the overreaching arms of the federal government. I hope the President and Senate recognize the significance of this legislation and pass it right away.” Information on each of Johnson’s House-passed provisions follows. Johnson’s Refundable Child Tax Credit Eligibility Verification Reform Act, H.R. 1956, is a common-sense bill that would require tax filers to provide their Social Security numbers to claim the popular refundable child tax credit. Unfortunately, this refundable tax credit can be provided to an illegal immigrant so long as the immigrant is able to obtain an Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN) from the IRS. Johnson’s provision will save the American taxpayer $9.4 billion and root out the rampant fraud and abuse of this credit. In addition, Johnson has been a long time champion for physician owned hospitals, and has legislation, H.R. 1186, to protect patients and hospitals from government-controlled healthcare. These hospitals were given much needed relief in the House-passed bill with a Johnson-supported provision that would improve the process for physician owned hospitals to apply for expansion in order to meet the growing demands in the community. It also allows those hospitals that were under construction at the time the health care law was passed to move forward with physician ownership. According to the Texas Physicians Hospitals Advocacy Center, patients access quality care in roughly 80 physician-owned hospitals, which employ over 22,000 people and added $2.3 billion to the Texas economy. Texas boasts the largest collection of physician-owned hospitals. The Third Congressional District is home to many award winning facilities: Baylor Frisco Medical Center; Baylor Surgicare of Garland; Baylor Surgicare of Plano; North Garland Surgery Center; Forest Park Medical Center – Dallas; The Hospital at Craig Ranch – McKinney; Integra Rehab Hospital – Plano; McKinney 24 Hour Hospital; Methodist McKinney Hospital; Texas Health Plano Presbyterian Center for Diagnostics & Surgery; Reliant Rehab – North Texas (Richardson); The Heart HOSPITAL Baylor Plano; and Vista Hospital of Dallas. Johnson’s third provision, H.R. 3366, is a bipartisan bill to help America’s business owners by ensuring companies can use bonus depreciation, a tax incentive designed to encourage investment and job growth, especially in the manufacturing sector. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
12.06.2011	On Thursday, December 15th the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host Mobile Office Hours in Frisco, McKinney and Plano. No advance appointments are necessary. Times and locations are listed below. Staff from the Congressman’s office regularly host Mobile Office Hours throughout the Third District to meet with constituents close to home at their convenience. During Mobile Office Hours, Johnson’s aides gladly assist individuals facing problems with federal programs or agencies such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, the Social Security Administration, or the Internal Revenue Service. The Congressman’s staff also can help facilitate overseas adoptions, provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C., and process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Anyone requesting assistance with a federal agency should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. Constituents who cannot attend the scheduled Mobile Office Hours are welcome to contact the Congressman’s Richardson office at (972) 470-0892. For more information, visit www.samjohnson.house.gov and select “Get Help with a Federal Agency.” Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. FRISCO George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Front Lobby 6101 Frisco Square Boulevard 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. MCKINNEY Collin College Central Park Campus Front Lobby 2200 W. University 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. PLANO Collin College Spring Creek Campus Lobby Area 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. # # #
12.03.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) recognized the service and sacrifice of eleven local veterans at a public ceremony for his first annual Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC). Johnson launched CVC in April 2011 as a way to formally recognize the wartime sacrifices and peacetime community involvement of residents of the Third District of Texas. The CVC, in conjunction with the Veterans History Project sponsored by the Library of Congress, is a nominations-based program that preserves the personal accounts of veterans for future generations. “I am proud to know great patriots like these veterans here in our own community,” said Johnson. “It is an honor to recognize their service to America. The Congressional Veteran Commendation is a wonderful way to ensure that their stories are passed down to our children and grandchildren as shining examples of patriotism and duty.” An eight-member selection board comprised of local individuals dedicated to serving as leaders in their community advised and assisted in the nominations and selection process. Congressman Johnson, along with the selection board, recognized the inaugural group of recipients at the December 3rd event in Plano. Johnson also presented a Congressional Record chronicling the veterans’ military service. Information on each honoree follows: U.S. Army Sergeant First Class (ret.) Scott Bradley of Murphy served our country for 23 years. During Bradley’s deployment in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom, his task was to secure and detail all insurgents coming through the hospital. For this, among many other heroic efforts, Bradley has been awarded t he Meritorious Service Medal, three Army Commendation Medals, and two Army Achievement Medals. He also received the Army Good Conduct Medal, National Defense Service Medal, two Overseas Service Ribbons, the Armed Forces Reserve Medal with “M” Device, the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, and the Iraq Campaign Medal. Bradley now serves his community as a City Councilman in Murphy. Thomas Garner of Plano joined the U.S. Army during World War II as part of the Air Corps. At the end of WWII, Garner entered the U.S. Air Force, where he deployed to Japan, Wake Island, Bermuda, Bangkok and Thailan during his 27 years of active duty service. Garner has also served with the Texas State Guard, receiving numerous awards and citations and achieving the rank of Colonel. Garner remains an active community servant with the Plan oCFW and Air Force Sergeant’s Association. U.S. Army Staff Sergeant Allen Goehring, Jr. of Richardson has honorably served our country since 1986. Most recently, Goehring deployed to Iraq as a Criminal Investigations Division Special Agent with the 1149th Military Police Detachment of the Texas Army National Guard. When home, Goehring works for the Richardson Police Department where he has received forty-two citizen and Departmental commendations – one including the Master Peace Officer, the highest certification available to an officer. U.S. Air Force Lieutenant Colonel (ret.) Robert Kinne of McKinney served an impressive 21-year career as a distinguished fighter pilot. Kinne flew numerous combat missions over Vietnam and received three Distinguished Flying Crosses, eight Air Medals, a Bronze Star, and two Meritorious Service Medals. Kinne remains closely involved with the community as a member of the Red River Valley Fighter Association, National Air and Space Society, and Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association. Colonel Peter Malik of McKinney serves in the U.S. Army Reserve as Commander of the 90th Sustainment Brigade in Little Rock, Arkansas. Malik has deployed for both Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom. Malik’s brave efforts during combat have undoubtedly saved lives during enemy attacks. When stateside, Malik serves as an officer with the Dallas Police Department and a volunteer for the Dallas Military Ball, Assist the Officer Foundation, Texas Special Olympics, and Fisher House. Chief Warrant Officer Elizabeth McCormick of Dallas served in the U.S. Army where she was quickly promoted to Chief Warrant Officer 2 and served as Rear Detachment C Company Commander during peacekeeping operations in Kosovo. For her excellent service, McCormick was awarded the Army Commendation Medal, Army Achievement Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Humanitarian Service Medal, Army Service Ribbon, and Army Aviator Badge. McCormick is now a Longaberger Consultant and President of the Firewheel Chapter of Women of Visionary influence. Specialist Richard Oliver of Sachse served in the United States Army where he trained to perform decontamination of field units in the event of a combat nuclear exchange. Having served with great distinction, Oliver was awarded the Army Service Ribbon, Overseas Ribbon, Army Achievement Medal, Good Conduct Medal, and Drivers Badge. Oliver now serves Sachse as a Police Officer, through the Sachse Shares project, and as the driving force behind the annual Christmas food and toy drive for needy families. Jim Reed of Plano served as a rifleman in the U.S. Marine Corps where he fought in World War II at the Battle of the Marshall Islands, the Battle of Saipan, the Battle of Tinian and the taking of Iwo Jima. Reed was severely wounded twice during combat, earning him two Purple Heart medals. A favorite speaker at Veterans Day events, Reed selflessly shares his story with all generations of Americans and serves veterans-support organizations around North Texas, including Daughters of WWII. Captain George Robinson of Plano served 20 years in the U.S. Navy after graduating from the NROTC program at Princeton University and obtaining a Ph.D. in civil engineering through a four-year Marshall Scholarship in the United Kingdom. In 1974, Robinson became the third Naval Officer ever to be named a White House Fellow and was honored with the Legion of Merit upon retirement. Robinson remains active in many civic, professional and religious organizations. U.S. Marine Corps Sergeant Paul Simeon of Frisco is a veteran of Operation Enduring Freedom. Simeon earned a Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, Navy Meritorious Unit Commendation, Certificate of Commendation, Sea Service Deployment Ribbon, National Defense Service Medal, and Meritorious Mast and Marine Corps Good Conduct Medals. Simeon serves as president of the Collin College chapter of Student Veterans of America in efforts to ease the transition for returning warriors from military service to academic life. Sergeant Leni Mark Williams of McKinney served our country from 1942 to 1972 as part of three foreign wars: World War II, the Korean War and the Vietnam War. For his exceptionally heroic efforts, Williams has received the Silver Star, Bronze Star with Valor Device and two Oak Leaf Clusters, Army Commendation Medal, Purple Heart with Oak Leaf Cluster, Good Conduct Medal, and Parachute Badge. Williams is an active member of the Veterans of Foreign Wars Lone Star Post 2150 in McKinney. For more information about the Congressional Veteran Commendation, contact Johnson’s Richardson office at (972)470-0892. # # #
11.22.2011	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) announced he will hold a public ceremony to honor local veterans selected for his first annual Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC), a nominations-based program designed to formally recognize the wartime sacrifices and peacetime community involvement of Third District residents. The CVC runs in conjunction with the Veterans History Project sponsored by the Library of Congress. When: Saturday, December 3, 2011 – 3:00 – 4:00 p.m. Where: Collin College Spring Creek Campus John Anthony Theatre 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway Plano, TX 75074 Who: U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson Dr. Cary Israel, President of Collin College Congressional Veteran Commendation Selection Board Why: The Congressional Veteran Commendation, in conjunction with the Veterans History Project sponsored by the Library of Congress, is a nominations-based program designed to formally recognize the wartime sacrifices and peacetime community involvement of residents of the Third Congressional District and to preserve their stories for future generations of Americans. As a federal legislator, Johnson works tirelessly on behalf of U.S. military personnel and veterans. This program is just one way to highlight and bring honor to those who have faithfully served our nation. An eight-member selection board serves as a group of advisors to assist with nominations and the selection of commendation recipients. The board is comprised of impressive individuals dedicated to serving as leaders in their communities and country. Information on each member, who will serve on the selection board for a four-year term, follows: Tracey Cline of the Allen Economic Development Corporation is an avid community servant and local leader. Cline received the Spirit of Allen Award in 2009, naming her the city’s standout resident of the year. Cline lives in Allen with her husband Larry and daughter Jenney. Their son Jonathan recently graduated from Baylor University and joined the United States Army. Jim Dolan is founder and president of Heroes on the Water, an Allen-based non-profit organization that leads kayak and fishing excursions for wounded warriors. After graduating from the U.S. Air Force Academy in 1976, Dolan served as a pilot in the Air Force for 13 years including 8 years stationed abroad. Dolan now flies for American Airlines. Chad Hennings, also a U.S. Air Force Academy graduate, is a decorated military and football veteran. Drafted by the Dallas Cowboys in 1988, Hennings postponed entering the NFL to fulfill his commitment to the Air Force. During his four-year stint as an Air Force pilot, Hennings flew 45 missions in support of Operation Provide Comfort in northern Iraq. Hennings then spent his entire nine-year NFL career with Dallas, retiring in 2001 after playing on three Super Bowl championship teams. Hennings is the founder of Wingman Ministries. Karen Marks is a Plano resident and proud U.S. Marine Corps Mom. A leader within the Plano West Rotary and Blue Star Mothers Lone Star Chapter 6, Karen heads up the organizations’ joint “Battle of the Branches” blood drive each year just before Veterans Day. Marks also plays an integral role in Plano’s annual Sunset at Memorial Park ceremony. Jason Morgan of McKinney is former U.S. Air Force Special Ops and a wounded warrior. Morgan lost the use of both legs when his team was ambushed during a counter-narcotics action in Ecuador in 2000. Thanks to Canine Companions for Independence, an organization he proudly promotes, Morgan now travels the country with his service dog, Nepal, winning countless medals for Team Air Force in the Wounded Warrior games and encouraging others to overcome adversity. Tim Nelson is a businessman and community leader in Frisco. He serves on the Frisco City Council, Place 5. A Captain in the U.S. Army Reserve, Nelson recently deployed to Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring Freedom. With past deployments to Iraq and Kuwait among others, Nelson is the recipient of such accolades as the Bronze Star and two Meritorious Service Medals. Nelson, Cubmaster of Frisco’s Cub Scout Pack 282 and active member of VFW Post 8273, lives with his wife Candice and their children in Frisco. Collin County Judge Keith Self is a graduate of the U.S. Military Academy at West Point with over 25 years of distinguished military service. Self spent nine of those years in the 82nd Airborne Division and Green Berets, first retiring from active duty in 1999. He was recalled to active duty from 2002-2003 to serve at U.S. Central Command in Afghanistan and Qatar during preparations for the Iraq invasion. Self lives in McKinney with his wife Tracy and serves on the boards of The Samaritan Inn and Prestonwood Pregnancy Center. Patrick Sowers is the founder of Operation Once in a Lifetime, a Plano-based non-profit which raises funds for specific projects to make the dreams of soldiers and their families reality. Just this month, the organization granted the dream of Jeffrey and John Adams, two sons of Army Master Seargeant Daniel Adams who recently lost his life in Afghanistan. The boys were honored by the Pittsburgh Steelers during their favorite football team’s nationally televised game. Sowers is a former U.S. Army Sergeant, proud father, and Allen resident. Board members will be present at the December 3rd ceremony to assist in announcing the commendation recipients. In addition, an in-depth interview of each honoree may be conducted and forwarded to the Veterans History Project to be added to the Library of Congress collection. For more information about the program, contact Johnson’s Richardson office at (972) 470-0892. # # #
11.18.2011	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) introduced the Keeping IDs Safe Act to better protect Americans’ Social Security numbers. Since 1980, the Social Security Administration (SSA) has been required to make publically available the Death Master File – a file containing the personal information of Americans who have died. Recently, the Death Master File has recently become a resource for criminals seeking to capitalize on Americans’ identities – specifically the identities of deceased children. “That’s just wrong,” stated Johnson, who serves as Chairman of the Social Security Subcommittee. “Worrying about a loved one’s Social Security number is the last thing a grieving family should have to do.” To make matters worse, each year approximately 14,000 individuals are incorrectly listed as deceased on the Death Master File, according to SSA. Mistakenly being placed on this list can cause severe financial hardship, such as the loss of benefits. Despite the SSA Inspector General’s recommendation that the Death Master File should limit personal information to the absolute minimum and consider alternatives to displaying Social Security numbers, recent news reports reveal that the IRS flagged 350,000 potentially fraudulent 2010 returns requesting $1.25 billion in refunds using deceased Americans’ information. “We need to stop making it so easy for criminals to gain access to our personal information. This bill will stop the sale of the Death Master File immediately, better protecting Americans against fraud,” said Johnson. In a related matter, Johnson took to the House floor to introduce the Keeping IDs Safe Act. Remarks follow: “Since 1980, Social Security has been required to publically put deceased Americans’ personal information into a so-called Death Master File which was meant to help prevent payment and benefit fraud. Nearly anyone can get this information – including identity thieves. Identity theft affects not only swindled businesses and American taxpayers, but grieving families whose suffering is made worse when they learn that someone has been preying on the death of their loved ones. Criminals are exploiting this information in order to profit off of deceased children by applying for tax refunds. That’s plain wrong. Every year, Social Security puts about 14,000 Americans in this death file who aren’t dead. Any of us could be put on that list by mistake- a mistake that can result in severe financial hardship and emotional heartache. Americans deserve better. So today I am introducing the Keeping IDs Safe Act to stop the sale of the Death Master File immediately. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.” # # #
11.17.2011	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) took to the House floor to call for immediate passage of a balanced budget amendment. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Remarks follow. “This month, America’s national debt will reach the unprecedented level of 15 trillion dollars. That comes out to nearly $48,000 for every American. Under President Obama, the national debt has increased faster than under any other U.S. President in history! Now more than ever, it is time to get our nation’s fiscal house in order to prevent another big fat Greek catastrophe. The American people have made it abundantly clear that Congress should balance the federal budget, just like families and business owners across the country have to do every single day. A balanced budget amendment is the solution we need to break Washington’s over spending habit. I encourage the President and my colleagues in the Senate to pass the balanced budget amendment and send it to the states. Americans want, need and deserve to know that we will be as careful with our national budget as they are with their household budget.” # # #
11.15.2011	On Thursday, November 17th the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host Mobile Office Hours in Allen, Plano and Richardson. No advance appointments are necessary. Times and locations are listed below. Staff from the Congressman’s office host regular “mobile office hours” throughout the Third Congressional District to meet with constituents. During the “mobile office hours” the Third District staff gladly will offer assistance with problems regarding federal issues or agencies, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration or the Internal Revenue Service. They also may help facilitate overseas adoptions. Constituents are invited to stop by and share their comments about federal issues in Congress. No advance appointments are necessary. Anyone requesting assistance with a federal agency should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. Constituents who cannot attend the scheduled Mobil Office Hours are welcome to contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at (972)470-0892. For more information, visit www.samjohnson.house.gov and select “Get Help With a Federal Agency.” Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Thursday, November 17th ALLEN City Hall Lobby Area 305 Century Parkway 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. PLANO Parr Library Lobby Area 6200 Windhaven Parkway 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. RICHARDSON Richardson Civic Center West Alcove Area 411 West Arapaho Road 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. # # #
11.02.2011	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) along with Congressman Richard Neal (D-MA) introduced legislation to protect 401(k) retirement savings by better preventing retirement leakage. “More and more people are tapping into their retirement funds during challenging economic times, putting their financial security at risk,” said Johnson. “Rather than unnecessarily penalizing folks who take out 401(k) loans, we should help make it easier for them to protect their savings.” The Savings Enhancement by Alleviating Leakage in 401(k) Savings Act, or the SEAL Act, would help protect Americans’ retirement savings by providing an extended repayment period for those who have taken out such loans. Currently, laid-off employees need to quickly repay the outstanding loan balance to avoid default and avoid a big tax bill. “I don’t think the IRS should profit off of a worker’s job loss,” said Johnson. “Paying these loans back after losing a job is already hard enough. Owing the IRS money for not paying them quickly enough is just wrong.” Currently, workers who are unable to pay back their loans on time face ordinary income taxes plus a 10 percent early withdrawal penalty on their loans if they are younger than 59 ½ years old. The SEAL Act would also allow workers who have taken out a hardship distribution to continue contributing to their 401(k) accounts. Right now participants are prohibited from contributing to their retirement accounts for the first six months. The bill would remove this obstacle that prevents greater retirement savings by individuals. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
11.02.2011	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) participated in the fifth annual “Holiday Mail for Heroes” by sending words of encouragement and gratitude to American military troops and encouraged Texans to join in by the December 7th deadline. Created by the Red Cross, Holiday Mail for Heroes allows people to mail Christmas cards and personal greetings to soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines overseas and at home as well as veterans and family members of deployed active-duty military members. The Red Cross will work with Pitney Bowes to screen all mail for security purposes and then deliver the greetings to over 300 locations worldwide. “I know what it’s like to be a world away from loved ones during the holidays. Sending our brave men and women in uniform words of encouragement, support and prayer can make a big difference. It’s important to honor, remember and recognize their sacrifice, and Holiday Mail for Heroes is a terrific way to do that,” said Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran and former Prisoner of War in Vietnam for nearly seven years. People may send cards to Holiday Mail for Heroes, P.O. Box 5456, Capitol Heights, MD 20791-5456. Greetings must have adequate postage. Cards received after December 7th will be returned. In December 2007, Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, D.C. approached the Red Cross to distribute thousands of holiday cards coming to the facility for wounded troops. The Red Cross reached out to Pitney Bowes to turn the project into a larger opportunity that could reach members of the military at other facilities. Now in its third year, the Holiday Mail for Heroes program provides Americans with the opportunity to extend holiday greetings and thanks to service members, veterans and their families worldwide. Last year the program received more than 1.4 million cards for service members, their families, and veterans, in communities around the world. The Red Cross asks that people follow several guidelines while preparing holiday greetings: Do: sign all cards; entitle cards “Dear Service Member, Family or Veteran;” limit cards to 15 per person or 50 for school class or business group; and bundle groups of cards in single, large envelopes. Do not: send letters; include personal information such as home or email addresses to request contact or reciprocity; use glitter as excessive amounts can aggravate health issues of wounded recipients; or include inserts of any kind as they must be removed in the screening process. Learn more at http://www.redcross.org/holidaymail # # #
10.31.2011	This past weekend, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson congratulated the students selected to participate in the 2011-2012 Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC). This year 50 students ranging from freshmen to seniors were chosen to serve as members of the prestigious Council; 13 students are returning members. The complete list of names, schools and hometowns follows. “For years, I have enjoyed meeting with the outstanding group of high school students serving as my youth advisory council,” said Johnson. “This council is comprised of exceptional, well-rounded students with diverse interests and stellar accomplishments. I am constantly impressed and encouraged by their commitment to making a difference in their community and in their generation. I look forward to learning from this year’s group.” To engage Third District students in civic-minded discussions and activities, Johnson created the Congressional Youth Advisory Committee to meet approximately four times throughout the school year. CYAC students learn about government and the processes involved with shaping public policy as well as advise Congressman Johnson on issues important to young people. “I believe it is crucial to raise young people’s interest and participation in civic matters – whether it’s encouraging them to make their voices heard or to actively participate in their community. This generation will pay the price for today’s decisions in Washington, and they need to be a part of the conversation,” concluded Johnson, who represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. 2011 – 2012 CONGRESSIONAL YOUTH ADVISORY COUNCIL Name School School District Grade City of Residence Adeyemi Adewuyi Plano East Senior High School PISD 12 Murphy Rachel Brasier Plano East Senior High School PISD 12 Plano Rhian Burnham Plano West Senior High School PISD 11 Plano Arjun Chintapalli Plano West Senior High School PISD 12 Plano Benjamin Chou* Shepton High School PISD 10 Dallas Matthew Connelly Plano East Senior High School PISD 12 Murphy Paul Copley Plano West Senior High School PISD 12 Plano Nicholas Corti* Centennial High School FISD 12 Frisco Ryan Costas McKinney Boyd High School MISD 12 McKinney Chase Davis Garland Christian Academy n/a 11 Richardson Kim Do Plano East Senior High School PISD 11 Murphy Nathaniel English Allen High School AISD 12 Allen Harrison Halbach* Plano West Senior High School PISD 12 Plano Kaitlyn Hebig* Ursaline Academy n/a 12 Plano Hogan Herritage Trinity Christian Academy n/a 11 Frisco Allie Heselton Plano West Senior High School PISD 11 Plano Andrew Highlander Jesuit College Prep n/a 11 Plano Lacyn Hill Centennial High School FISD 11 Frisco Alyxandria Hoge Centennial High School FISD 12 Frisco Aileen Huang Plano Senior High School PISD 11 Plano Samuel Huang Williams High School PISD 10 Richardson Alyssa Johnston * McKinney Boyd MISD 11 McKinney Sarah Killian Shepton High School PISD 10 Plano Shane Kok Plano East Senior High School PISD 11 Richardson Ashlyn Lafferty McKinney Boyd High School MISD 10 McKinney Jonathan Lara Jasper High School PISD 10 Plano Jessica Lightfoot Williams High School PISD 10 Richardson I-Chun Lin Clark High School PISD 9 Plano Mallika Maheshwary Liberty High School FISD 10 Frisco Owen Meachum McKinney High School MISD 11 McKinney Lisa Michaels Shepton High School PISD 10 Plano Sarah Michaels Plano West Senior High School PISD 11 Plano Madeline Minchillo* Plano West Senior High School PISD 12 Plano Sina Mosadegh Centennial High School FISD 12 Frisco Joshua Mott* Mott Academy-Homeschool n/a 12 McKinney Precious Osuchukwu Richardson High School RISD 11 Dallas Andrea Overton Plano West Senior High School PISD 12 Plano McKay Paxman Plano Senior High School PISD 11 Richardson Grant Powell* Texas Academy of Math &Science n/a 11 Plano Zach Ralstin* Plano West Senior High School PISD 12 Dallas Kinnari Ruikar Clark High School PISD 10 Plano Lauren Sandstedt Parish Episcopal School n/a 11 Dallas Anna Shapovalova* Plano East Senior High School PISD 12 Murphy Tina Sharma* Plano Senior High School PISD 12 Plano Zachary Sumner Centennial High School FISD 11 Frisco Gregory Tabanian Plano Senior High School PISD 12 Plano Jill Waller* Bishop Lynch High School n/a 12 Plano Matt Waller John Paul II High School n/a 11 Plano Sean Gabriel Whitney* Legacy Christian Academy n/a 12 Frisco Jae Ha Yoon Plano West Senior High School PISD 12 Plano * Denotes returning student ###
10.21.2011	On Thursday, October 27th the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host mobile office hours in Allen, Frisco, McKinney and Plano. No advance appointments are necessary. Times and locations are listed below. Staff from the Congressman’s office host regular mobile office hours throughout the Third Congressional District to meet with constituents. During the mobile office hours the Third District staff gladly will offer assistance with problems regarding federal issues or agencies, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration or the Internal Revenue Service. They also may help facilitate overseas adoptions. Constituents are invited to stop by and share their comments about federal issues in Congress. If a person would like assistance with a federal agency, he or she should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. In the event people cannot attend the mobile office hours in their city, residents are encouraged to contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Allen Senior Recreation Center Front Conference Room 451 East St. Mary 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Frisco George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Front Lobby 6101 Frisco Square Boulevard 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. McKinney John & Judy Gay Library Front Lobby 6861 W. Eldorado Parkway 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. Plano Parr Library Front Lobby 6200 Windhaven Parkway 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. # # #
10.17.2011	On Saturday, October 22 at 3:00 p.m., in conjunction with the University of Texas at Dallas (UT Dallas) and the Sallie Mae Fund, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will hold a free workshop on saving, planning and paying for college. The informational program is free and open to the public. The Saving, Planning and Paying for College program is sponsored by The Sallie Mae Fund. A Sallie Mae Fund expert will lead the presentation for parents, students and counselors and then answer questions. Families will learn about saving, planning and paying for college and will receive free resources to guide them through the process. The seminar will run from 3:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. in the Clark Center at the UT Dallas Campus, located at 800 W. Campbell Road in Richardson. One eligible high school senior at the seminar will leave with a $500 scholarship via random drawing courtesy of the Sallie Mae Fund. The student or parent of the student must be present to win. “Now more than ever, it is critical for kids and parents to learn about the ways they can pay for college. I hope that the Saving, Planning and Paying for College Workshop helps folks better understand their financial options and plan for the future with college in mind,” said Johnson. Representatives from seven Texas higher education schools will be in attendance to provide financial aid information and other assistance. These schools include Collin College, Southern Methodist University, Texas A&M University, Texas Women’s University, The University of North Texas, The University of Texas at Dallas and The University of Texas at Austin. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. To learn more about this event, contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. Saturday, October 22 3:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. FREE Saving, Planning and Paying for College Workshop University of Texas at Dallas Clark Center 800 W. Campbell Rd. Richardson, Texas # # #
10.11.2011	On Tuesday, October 25th from 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. in Plano, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) will host a free information on Medicare for seniors that is open to the public. Held in conjunction with the North Central Texas Area Agency on Aging (NCTAA) and the Wellness Center for Older Adults (formerly the Geriatric Wellness Center of Collin County), the seminar will provide an overview of the 2012 Medicare program. The event coincides with the annual enrollment period of the Medicare Prescription Drug Program, which runs between October 15 and December 7. During this annual enrollment period, seniors may switch their current Part D prescription plan to another plan if they so choose. Benefits counselors with the NCTAA will be on hand to discuss the 2012 Medicare program and the annual enrollment period. These experts will be available to answer general questions regarding the process. For more targeted requests, the Wellness Center for Older Adults will be offering individual, confidential Medicare enrollment assistance on November 8, 15, 22, and 29 at the Plano Senior Center. Individuals must sign up for the one-on-one, interactive counseling due to limited spaces. Please call 972-941-7335 to make arrangements and find out what items you will need to bring for counseling (list of medications, etc.). Likewise, at the event, the NCTAA can take down individual’s information in order to complete drug comparison plans in their office and then mail the information to the client. For questions regarding services provided by the NCTAA, please call Mary Jane Douglas at 1-800-272-3921, ext. 7166. Tuesday, October 25th 9:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. Plano Senior Recreation Center 401 West 16th Street Plano Those with questions about the events should contact my office at 972-470-0892. There will also be flu shots available for $25, unless covered by Original Medicare or Railroad Retirement Medicare, while supplies last. Individuals may also pay with cash or check. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
10.06.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) took to the floor of the U.S. House to reject President Obama’s recent jobs proposal. A long-time fiscal conservative, Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. To view video of Johnson’s remarks click here. Remarks as prepared for delivery: The President wants Congress to pass his $447 billion dollar Jobs plan – which should really be called “Son of Stimulus.” Yet more spending and higher taxes as the President’s Jobs plan proposes will not get our economy moving in the right direction. This is just the same act, different day. It is time for our tax-and-spender-in-chief to stop pushing these failed policies and start listening to the American people. With unemployment above 9%, we need to get Americans back to work by stopping out-of-control spending, reforming our tax code, and putting an end to the senseless job-killing regulations of this Administration. Jobs are there for example if we drill for domestic oil and gas. But we simply cannot tax, spend and borrow our way to prosperity. # # #
10.05.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) introduced legislation to halt the implementation of President Obama’s Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, often referred to as Obamacare. Johnson introduced the Freeze and Investigate Affordable Care Act, H.R. 3095, which would freeze the provisions of the health reform law that are not yet in effect until its full impact has been studied. “This law is not what Americans asked for,” said Johnson. “Already, insurance premiums have skyrocketed, forcing employers to pass on the financial burden to their employees. Continuing to implement this ill-advised policy is harmful to the economic recovery of our nation.” Consequentially, there are no real provisions in the law to decrease the cost of healthcare services. A recent study from the Kaiser Family Foundation shows employer-provided health insurance premiums have risen 8-9 percent in 2011 alone, yet many of the law’s more onerous provisions have not yet taken effect. Without a freeze, businesses, states and individuals will have to prepare for the coming onslaught of costly requirements and taxes. In 2012 and 2013 several provisions are set to take place, including tax hikes totaling $50 billion, $15 billion of cuts to Medicare Advantage plans, and $19 billion of new spending within new entitlement programs. The 2,000 pages of legalese, loopholes and massive liabilities also creates 159 new boards, commissions, bureaus, and programs; nearly 500 implementation deadlines; and 1,968 new and expanded secretarial powers- a recipe for bureaucratic disaster. Last Congress, Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) stated, “We have to pass the bill so that you can find out what is in it,” before forcing the vote on this government-takeover of our healthcare system. The Freeze and Investigate Affordable Care Act will allow time for an independent commission, appointed by Congress and the President, to investigate the impact of the law on patients and the economy - time that wasn’t granted last Congress when the 2,000-page bill was rushed through Congress and the White House. “We can make health insurance more affordable, more accessible and more available without increasing government dependence and further harming the economy,” said Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
10.04.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) was named a taxpayer super hero by the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste (CCAGW). CCAGW awarded Johnson a perfect score for his dedication to protecting taxpayer money through his steadfast commitment to fiscal responsibility. “The American people want Washington to tax less, to spend less and to borrow less,” said Johnson. “The great people of the Third Congressional District have made it clear that they want a better and stronger America for our children and grandchildren. It is an honor to be named a taxpayer super hero for my commitment to fiscal responsibility.” CCAGW compiled Members’ scores for 2010 by reviewing 46 votes in the House of Representatives relating to tax, debt, spending, transparency, and regulatory issues. Johnson is one of ten Members to receive a perfect score. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. ###
09.26.2011	On Saturday, October 22 at 3:00 p.m., in conjunction with the University of Texas at Dallas (UT Dallas) and the Sallie Mae Fund, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will hold a free workshop on saving, planning and paying for college. The informational program is free and open to the public. The Saving, Planning and Paying for College program is sponsored by The Sallie Mae Fund. A Sallie Mae Fund expert will lead the presentation for parents, students and counselors and then answer questions. Families will learn about saving, planning and paying for college and will receive free resources to guide them through the process. The seminar will run from 3:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. in the Clark Center at the UT Dallas Campus, located at 800 W. Campbell Road in Richardson. One eligible high school senior at the seminar will leave with a $500 scholarship via random drawing courtesy of the Sallie Mae Fund. The student or parent of the student must be present to win. “Now more than ever, it is critical for kids and parents to learn about the ways they can pay for college. I hope that the Saving, Planning and Paying for College Workshop helps folks better understand their financial options and plan for the future with college in mind,” said Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. To learn more about this event, contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. Saturday, October 22 3:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. FREE Saving, Planning and Paying for College Workshop University of Texas at Dallas Clark Center 800 W. Campbell Rd. Richardson, Texas
09.16.2011	At the Richardson New Teacher Luncheon hosted by the Richardson Chamber of Commerce, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) officially launched the 2011-2012 Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) when he invited students in the Third District to apply for the high caliber group. The CYAC is open to Third District high school freshmen, sophomores, juniors and seniors enrolled in public, private and home schools. Applications for the CYAC can be found in the “INFO FOR STUDENTS” section on www.samjohnson.house.gov. Students have until Friday, September 23rd to apply and must live in the Third District to be considered. “As a former Prisoner of War in Vietnam for nearly seven years, more than half of that time in solitary confinement, I take the bounty of America and service to this country very seriously. America’s democracy and liberty – and the many blessings that come with them – like freedom of speech and the freedom to vote – were bought with a price. People all over the world do not enjoy these same blessings. I encourage young people to cherish them and thrive by loving and serving your country and your community. Making your voice heard on the CYAC is one way to do that,” said Johnson. Johnson created the Council in 2004 to gain insight from students in his district and to inspire civic-minded young adults to achieve their full potential. The Council meets approximately twice each school semester in the Third District. During the CYAC activities, high-achieving students explore the role citizens, lawmakers, and experts play in a thriving democracy. To apply for the CYAC, students must submit the completed application form, a current photo for identification purposes only, a short personal essay and two letters of recommendation. Selections are based on leadership ability, academic performance, extra-curricular activities and community service. Students must apply for the CYAC each year and may only serve on the Council two of four years between grades 9 -12 to ensure as many students may participate as possible. Students must submit the completed application to Johnson’s office no later than Friday, September 23rd.
09.15.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took to the floor of the U.S. House to promote his legislation that would save billions by stopping the refundable child tax credit for illegal immigrants, H.R. 1956. In late May Johnson re-introduced the Refundable Child Tax Credit Eligibility Verification Reform Act, H.R. 1956. Because this credit is refundable, as it stands parents who owe no taxes can receive cash back from the government for their children through the tax code. The Joint Committee on Taxation studied Johnson’s legislation and determined that it would save at least $10 billion if the temporary tax benefit expires in 2012 or $24 billion if current law is extended as the Administration has proposed. In recent years, the number and dollar amount of improper payments arising from refundable tax credits has been increasing at an alarming pace. Over the last few years, the rampant abuse and misapplication of these credits has cost taxpayers billions. Unfortunately, this refundable tax credit can be provided to an illegal immigrant so long as the immigrant is able to obtain an Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN) from the IRS. The Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration recently concluded in a report that illegal immigrants improperly received billions in taxpayer dollars due to an easy-to-fix loophole in the tax code and that the tax credit provides “an additional incentive for aliens to enter, reside and work in the United States without authorization, which contradicts federal law and policy to remove such incentives.” Johnson serves on the Ways and Means Committee, where he Chairs the Social Security Subcommittee, and accepted an appointment to the Joint Committee on Taxation earlier this year. View the floor speech here: http://www.youtube.com/user/RepSamJohnson. Remarks by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson “Last year illegal immigrants bilked $4.2 billion from U.S. taxpayers due to a loophole with the refundable child tax credit. According to a new report, this rampant abuse has cost American taxpayers billions. That’s just wrong. “It’s time to close this loophole. That’s why I have re-introduced common-sense legislation, H.R. 1956, that stops the child tax credit sham. The bill requires tax filers to provide their Social Security number to receive this benefit. “With the dire need to cut government spending, I hope this simple fix gets a serious look as a way to stamp out waste, fraud and abuse. If you want to stop illegal immigrants from duping taxpayers for billions of dollars every year by fraudulently claiming this credit, call the White House at 202-456-1414. Tell them that H.R. 1956 should be a top priority.
09.09.2011	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement on the ten year anniversary of September 11, 2001. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam – more than half of that time in solitary confinement. “Today, we remember the thousands of innocent Americans who lost their lives in the fateful September 11th terrorist attacks that forever changed our nation. On this tenth anniversary of 9/11, we must remember the innocent victims – as well as their loved ones, the heroic first responders who made the ultimate sacrifice in order to help others, and those in uniform who risk their lives every day for our freedom. We owe a debt of gratitude to our military men and women who worked for more than a decade to capture or kill Osama bin Laden and succeeded in their mission on May 1st, when the Al Qaeda leader was killed in a firefight with U.S. forces. “The United States stands as a beacon of freedom and democracy for the entire world to see. Americans have shown time and again that we are willing to defend our freedom when it is threatened. We will prevail in the war against terror, showing the world that our love of freedom is stronger than our enemy’s desire for bloodshed and tyranny. “My thoughts and prayers go out to the families of those who lost loved ones and our nation as a whole. May God bless our men and women in uniform and may He continue to bless the United States of America.” # # #
09.08.2011	On Thursday, September 22nd the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will host Mobile Office Hours in Frisco, McKinney, Plano and Richardson. No advance appointments are necessary. Times and locations are listed below. Staff from the Congressman’s office regularly host Mobile Office Hours throughout the Third District to meet with constituents close to home. During Mobile Office Hours, Johnson’s aides gladly assist individuals facing problems with federal programs or agencies such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, the Social Security Administration, or the Internal Revenue Service. “Dealing with the red-tape and regulations in the federal agencies can be confusing,” says Johnson. “It’s my job and my privilege to help Third District constituents navigate the bureaucracy and get their questions answered.” The Congressman’s staff also can help facilitate overseas adoptions, provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C., and process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Anyone requesting assistance with a federal agency should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. Constituents who cannot attend the scheduled Mobile Office Hours are welcome to contact the Congressman’s Richardson office at (972) 470-0892. For more information, visit www.samjohnson.house.gov and select “Get Help with a Federal Agency.” Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. FRISCO George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Front Lobby 6101 Frisco Square Boulevard 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. MCKINNEY Collin College - Central Park Campus Lobby Area 2200 W. University Drive 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. PLANO Collin College - Spring Creek Campus Lobby Area 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. RICHARDSON Civic Center West Alcove Area 411 West Arapaho Road 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m.
09.01.2011	Opening Statement Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX) Subcommittee on Social Security Field Hearing on Social Security Numbers and Child Identity Theft September 1, 2011 (Remarks as Prepared) Back in November 1936, the U.S. Postal Service first began issuing Social Security cards to workers. Even though Social Security numbers were created to track earnings for determining Social Security benefits, today these numbers are widely used as personal identifiers. Some uses of Social Security numbers are mandated, for example for income and tax-related reporting to the IRS by employers, banks and insurance companies. Countless other businesses use this 9-digit number as a default identifier to facilitate the matching of consumer information. Also, many businesses wrongly use Social Security numbers to prove an individual is who they say they are. Once an identity thief has someone’s Social Security number, they are often able to open new accounts, access existing accounts, or obtain other benefits in their victim’s name. In fact, in their April 2007 report, the Identity Theft Task Force created by President George W. Bush identified the Social Security number as the “most valuable commodity for an identity thief.” Months or even years later victims first learn about the crime, often after being denied credit or employment or being contacted by a debt collector. As we will hear from two of our witnesses today, learning your private personal and financial information has been compromised is devastating. Even worse -- victims must take the lead in repairing and restoring their records. For years victims may have to prove who they are while monitoring credit reports, arguing with collection agencies and dealing with the IRS and Social Security about wages they didn’t earn and taxes they don’t owe. Some may learn they have a criminal record which could disqualify them for a job. Americans are right to be concerned. According to Department of Justice, in 2009 ID theft claimed over 11 million victims, that’s five percent of all adults. The Privacy Rights Clearinghouse reports the total number of known records that have been compromised since January 2005 through last week topped 535 million. Increasingly, identity thieves are aiming their sights on children. There were 19,000 cases of child identity theft reported to the Federal Trade Commission, known as the FTC in 2009, a 192 percent increase since 2003 when 6,500 cases were reported. From the criminal’s view point, children provide easy targets since they have no debt history and no reason to check their credit records. Child ID thieves may operate undetected for years until the child applies for a driver’s license, credit card or job and learns their ID has been compromised. In some very sad cases, the child is the victim of a relative. In the meantime, children of all ages whose Social Security number has been compromised may have a record of credit card debt, mortgage default or falsified employment data. As we will hear from the Director of the Federal Trade Commission Southwest region today, the FTC has recently intensified its work regarding the growing problem of child identity theft, gathering experts and law enforcement officials last month for the first ever conference on child identity theft. We will also gain insights into identity thieves themselves based on the research of one of our own University of Texas at Dallas professors who will share the results of her interviews conducted with ID thieves serving time in prison. Lastly we will hear from local agents from the Social Security Administration Office of Inspector General about their successes and challenges as they work to apprehend ID thieves. Congress must finish its work on identity theft. Previously, bipartisan legislation has been passed by the Ways and Means Committee to protect the privacy of Social Security numbers and prevent identity theft. While progress has been made, because Social Security number use is so widespread the Committees of jurisdiction have yet to reach agreement on the right approach to limiting their use. In the meantime this Committee can make progress by removing SSNs from Medicare cards. To that end I have reintroduced with my Texas colleague, Lloyd Doggett, the Medicare Identity Theft Prevention Act. The risk of ID theft goes far beyond the card being stolen. Every medical record at doctor offices, hospitals and nursing homes has a Social Security number written on it. The fact that millions of Social Security numbers are readily available to identity thieves for the taking is unbelievable and completely unnecessary. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services have refused to act. If they won’t do what’s right for America’s seniors, we will. With the help of the information gathered from our witnesses today, we can also do what’s right for children and help protect them from ID theft. ### Ways and Means Republican Press Office www.WaysandMeans.House.Gov 202.226.4774
08.10.2011	WSJ on debt-ceiling debate: “No wonder liberals are howling.” By U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson August 2011 Contact: McCall Avery / Haley Creel 202-225-4201 The Wall Street Journal recently summed it up best. “If a good political compromise is one that has something for everyone to hate, then [the] bipartisan debt-ceiling deal is a triumph. The bargain is nonetheless better than what seemed achievable in recent days, especially given the revolt of some GOP conservatives that gave the White House and Democrats more political leverage. “The big picture is that the deal is a victory for the cause of smaller government, arguably the biggest since welfare reform in 1996. Most bipartisan budget deals trade tax increases that are immediate for spending cuts that turn out to be fictional. This one includes no immediate tax increases, despite President Obama's demand as recently as [several days ago]. The immediate spending cuts are real, if smaller than we'd prefer, and the longer-term cuts could be real if Republicans hold Congress and continue to enforce the deal's spending caps. “The framework …is no small achievement considering that Republicans control neither the Senate nor the White House, and it underscores how much the GOP victory in November has reshaped the U.S. fiscal debate. “No wonder liberals are howling. They have come to believe in the upward spending ratchet, under which all spending increases are permanent. Not any more.” While the debt-ceiling agreement, the Budget Control Act of 2011, was by no means a perfect bill, it is a win for America and a win for Republicans. The President wanted tax hikes in a struggling economy. Instead we cut spending and forced Congress to take a vote by year’s end on a balanced budget amendment. What were yearly deficits when Republicans were in charge have become monthly deficits under President Obama. When Republicans controlled the House from 1995 through 2006, the average annual deficit was $96 billion. While Democrats controlled the House from 2007 through 2010, average monthly deficits were $75 billion and since President Obama took office the average monthly deficit has been $111 billion. When the Democrats controlled the House, the Senate and the White House, their unchecked, out-of-control ways gave our children the bill for the failed stimulus, the bailout of Fannie and Freddie, TARP II, Cash for Clunkers, Government Motors and ObamaCare. As the sign in my office reads, “It's the spending stupid.” As you know, there are only a handful of ways to deal with our debt. Raising taxes and cutting spending usually receive the most attention. Economic growth would certainly help reduce annual deficits. Creating inflation or simply defaulting would also reduce the debt, but would create many more problems than would be solved. I believe that there are four things we should do to get our debt under control. First, we should pass a balanced budget amendment. We’ve had deficits even in good economic times. We don’t need a balanced approach – we need a balanced budget! Second, we need tough annual spending caps to help get our fiscal house in order. Third, we need to reform entitlement spending, especially Medicare and Medicaid. President Obama agrees, stating that: “Put simply, our health care problem is our deficit problem. Nothing else even comes close. Nothing else.” Finally, we need pro-growth tax reform. We need to eliminate special interest provisions and lower rates so that once again America is a welcome home for business. What you pay in taxes shouldn’t be determined by how much you spend lobbying in D.C. In closing, the American people have had enough. Enough reckless, wasteful Washington spending. Enough piling more and more debt on to our children. American families have done their part over the last few years. They have tightened their belts to live within their means. It’s time Washington did the same by showing respect to hard-working taxpayers.
08.10.2011	WSJ on debt-ceiling debate: “No wonder liberals are howling.” By U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson August 2011 Contact: McCall Avery / Haley Creel 202-225-4201 The Wall Street Journal recently summed it up best. “If a good political compromise is one that has something for everyone to hate, then [the] bipartisan debt-ceiling deal is a triumph. The bargain is nonetheless better than what seemed achievable in recent days, especially given the revolt of some GOP conservatives that gave the White House and Democrats more political leverage. “The big picture is that the deal is a victory for the cause of smaller government, arguably the biggest since welfare reform in 1996. Most bipartisan budget deals trade tax increases that are immediate for spending cuts that turn out to be fictional. This one includes no immediate tax increases, despite President Obama's demand as recently as [several days ago]. The immediate spending cuts are real, if smaller than we'd prefer, and the longer-term cuts could be real if Republicans hold Congress and continue to enforce the deal's spending caps. “The framework …is no small achievement considering that Republicans control neither the Senate nor the White House, and it underscores how much the GOP victory in November has reshaped the U.S. fiscal debate. “No wonder liberals are howling. They have come to believe in the upward spending ratchet, under which all spending increases are permanent. Not any more.” While the debt-ceiling agreement, the Budget Control Act of 2011, was by no means a perfect bill, it is a win for America and a win for Republicans. The President wanted tax hikes in a struggling economy. Instead we cut spending and forced Congress to take a vote by year’s end on a balanced budget amendment. What were yearly deficits when Republicans were in charge have become monthly deficits under President Obama. When Republicans controlled the House from 1995 through 2006, the average annual deficit was $96 billion. While Democrats controlled the House from 2007 through 2010, average monthly deficits were $75 billion and since President Obama took office the average monthly deficit has been $111 billion. When the Democrats controlled the House, the Senate and the White House, their unchecked, out-of-control ways gave our children the bill for the failed stimulus, the bailout of Fannie and Freddie, TARP II, Cash for Clunkers, Government Motors and ObamaCare. As the sign in my office reads, “It's the spending stupid.” As you know, there are only a handful of ways to deal with our debt. Raising taxes and cutting spending usually receive the most attention. Economic growth would certainly help reduce annual deficits. Creating inflation or simply defaulting would also reduce the debt, but would create many more problems than would be solved. I believe that there are four things we should do to get our debt under control. First, we should pass a balanced budget amendment. We’ve had deficits even in good economic times. We don’t need a balanced approach – we need a balanced budget! Second, we need tough annual spending caps to help get our fiscal house in order. Third, we need to reform entitlement spending, especially Medicare and Medicaid. President Obama agrees, stating that: “Put simply, our health care problem is our deficit problem. Nothing else even comes close. Nothing else.” Finally, we need pro-growth tax reform. We need to eliminate special interest provisions and lower rates so that once again America is a welcome home for business. What you pay in taxes shouldn’t be determined by how much you spend lobbying in D.C. In closing, the American people have had enough. Enough reckless, wasteful Washington spending. Enough piling more and more debt on to our children. American families have done their part over the last few years. They have tightened their belts to live within their means. It’s time Washington did the same by showing respect to hard-working taxpayers.
07.14.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas), a member of the Ways and Means Committee, introduced important legislation to prohibit the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) from getting into the business of preparing tax returns. “Allowing the IRS to file your tax return is like asking the fox to guard the hen house,” said Johnson. Johnson introduced the Taxpayer Freedom to File Protection Act, H.R. 2528, to ensure that the IRS does not start filing taxes for people in the name of “customer service.” Johnson crafted the Act in response to new legislation. Earlier this year a Democrat lawmaker from Tennessee unveiled a bill to allow taxpayers who do not itemize to have the IRS file taxes for them. Johnson feels that creating a return-free tax system could very well stack the deck against taxpayers. Under such a system, the IRS will face a conflict of interest between collecting the most taxpayer dollars possible and fairly filling out tax returns. Much like with property tax bills, it will be up to the taxpayer to challenge the IRS if they disagree with the IRS’ prepared tax return, unlike today where it is up to the IRS to challenge a taxpayer’s return. Former Commissioner Mark W. Everson said it best in 2006: “the IRS believes that private industry, given its established expertise and experience in the field of electronic tax preparation, has a proven track record in providing the best technology and services available. Rather than entering the tax software business, IRS’ partnership with private industry: (1) provides taxpayers with high quality services by using the existing private sector expertise; (2) maximizes consumer choice; (3) promotes competition within the marketplace; and (4) meets these objectives at the least cost to taxpayers.” “Until there is fundamental tax reform, the answer to easing the compliance burden for taxpayers isn’t for the IRS to have more control and power. This is about protecting the taxpayer’s fundamental right to legally pay the smallest tax bill possible,” concluded Johnson, who represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
07.12.2011	On Thursday, July 28th the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will host Mobile Office Hours in Allen, Frisco, McKinney, and Plano. No advance appointments are necessary. Times and locations are listed below. Staff from the Congressman’s office regularly host Mobile Office Hours throughout the Third District to meet with constituents close to home at their convenience. During Mobile Office Hours, Johnson’s aides gladly assist individuals facing problems with federal programs or agencies such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, the Social Security Administration, or the Internal Revenue Service. The Congressman’s staff also can help facilitate overseas adoptions, provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C., and process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Anyone requesting assistance with a federal agency should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. Constituents who cannot attend the scheduled Mobile Office Hours are welcome to contact the Congressman’s Richardson office at (972) 470-0892. For more information, visit www.samjohnson.house.gov and select “Get Help with a Federal Agency.” Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Thursday, July 28th ALLEN City Hall Front Entrance 305 Century Parkway 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. FRISCO George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Front Lobby 6101 Frisco Square Boulevard 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. MCKINNEY Market Street South Entrance 6100 West Eldorado Parkway 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. PLANO Parr Library Front Lobby 6200 Windhaven Parkway 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m.
07.11.2011	Today, Congressmen Erik Paulsen (3rd Dist.-Minnesota) and Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) introduced common-sense legislation to give seniors the freedom to make their own healthcare decisions and to opt-out of the government-run health program for seniors, Medicare. The Retirement Freedom Act, H.R. 2435, will help reduce burdensome regulations in the Medicare program that restricts America’s seniors from truly being able to keep what health coverage they have. This bill allows individuals to voluntarily opt out of Medicare Part A when they become eligible for the benefit. Today, you can choose not to enroll in Medicare Part B or Part D, but not for Part A unless you give up your social security benefits too. Seniors with a Health Savings Account (HSA) and qualified High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP) are also able to continue to contribute to their HSA with pre-tax dollars after they turn 65 under this legislation. Currently, once seniors who have an HSA turn 65, they are no longer eligible to contribute pre-tax dollars to their HSA. “The choice to participate in Medicare Part A should be just that—a choice,” said Paulsen. “Seniors in Minnesota and across America should be able to maintain control of their own healthcare plans so that they receive the care they need. This common-sense legislation gives seniors the freedom to opt out of Medicare Part A, if it best suits them, without risk of losing other important benefits like Social Security.” “If Warren Buffett wants to opt out of Part A because he doesn’t need a government entitlement paying for his health care we should let him! We should give seniors a choice to say ‘thanks, but no thanks’ if they decide they like their current coverage and they want to keep it,” said Johnson. “A free society is based on personal choice and individual responsibility. Medicare makes it illegal for seniors to have a choice. Our bill changes that,” continued Johnson, who represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Paulsen and Johnson serve on the Ways and Means Committee. U.S. Senator Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) joined 12 of his Republican colleagues in introducing similar legislation in the Senate last week.
07.11.2011	Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX) Subcommittee on Social Security July 11, 2011 (Remarks as Prepared) I am pleased to be co-chairing this hearing with my colleague Chairman Howard Coble and his Subcommittee colleagues and thank them for hosting this important hearing. The Social Security and Supplemental Security Income disability programs are the largest of Federal programs that provide assistance to people with disabilities. Both are administered by the Social Security Administration and only individuals who have a disability may qualify for benefits under either program. Social Security Disability Insurance pays benefits to workers and their families if they worked long enough and recent enough (generally 10 years, 5 of which were in the last 10 years) and paid Social Security taxes. Supplemental Security Income or SSI pays benefits based on financial need and is funded by general revenues. According to CBO, over $123 billion in disability insurance benefits were paid to 10.2 million disabled workers and their families in 2010 – though the current system makes it difficult if not impossible to know if that is the accurate number of Americans who are truly disabled and truly deserving of these benefits. Nonetheless, these are the numbers we have and CBO projects that by 2021, the number of beneficiaries will increase by close to 20 percent to 12.1 million and benefits paid will increase 57 percent to $193 billion. In 2010, 6.5 million disabled SSI recipients received $41.8 billion in SSI benefits. By 2021 CBO projects 7.1 million disabled SSI recipients will receive $56 billion in SSI benefits. Requests for benefits have increased with the aging of the baby boomers and the recession, the latter suggesting that people – in some cases – file for disability not because they are unable to work, but because they are unable to find work. Since 2007, disability insurance awards have increased 18 percent to 1.1 million people in 2010, while SSI disability awards have increased 28 percent to 938,000 in 2010. According to the 2011 Trustees Report, disability program revenue will cover only 86 percent of benefits in 2018, a few short years from now. The path we are on is unsustainable. At the center of Social Security’s disability programs is the disability process that determines whether claimants are entitled to benefits. Pivotal to that process is the hearing before an Administrative Law Judge or ALJ at which many of the difficult cases denied at earlier stages in the process are newly reconsidered and awarded benefits. The Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security has long focused on ALJ and hearing office performance on a bipartisan basis. A September 2008 Subcommittee hearing highlighted the Agency’s and the Agency’s Inspector General’s work to address hearing office and ALJ performance. A good deal of progress has been made. Commissioner Astrue has implemented close to 40 initiatives to boost adjudication capacity, improve performance, and increase efficiency through automation and process changes. Also Agency hiring efforts have focused on increasing the number of ALJs and their support staff. The average waiting time for a hearing decision has been reduced from a high of 505 days in August 2008 to 353 days in June 2011. Now, 74 percent of ALJs are meeting the requested threshold of 500 decisions, up from 47 percent when the request was first made in October 2007. Appeals processing statistics are posted online. Now the public is rightly paying attention and raising questions about the integrity of the ALJ hearing process. Recent press articles have highlighted: Judges awarding benefits 90 percent or more of the time, in comparison to a national average that hovers around 60 percent; Judges who decide extremely high numbers of cases in comparison to their colleagues, in some cases thousands more; Awards that are made without a hearing, based on whatever medical evidence may be in the file; Disparities from office to office and state to state, where an outcome can be predicted based on the ALJ assigned the case; and Assignment of cases outside of random rotation, raising the specter of inappropriate relationships with counsel. At the bipartisan request of this Subcommittee, the Agency’s Inspector General is investigating the most egregious of these examples now. At a minimum, these articles raise serious questions about the fundamental fairness of this appeals system, and whether it operates as the public has a right to expect. So why do these Judges get away with this? Under the law, ALJs have judicial independence, which seems to mean they operate with little or no accountability. Simply put, the Agency can’t question their decisions, even if they grant approvals in most of their cases or deny most of their cases. ALJs who produce extraordinary numbers of decisions or who do very little are hard to hold accountable as well, since their productivity seems to be related to their independence. Their collective bargaining agreement affords ALJs additional layers of protection, and the ALJ union has fought long and hard to keep those protections in place. And while the laws that protect ALJs give the Agency the ability to pursue the most egregious cases of conduct, it’s a costly and time-consuming process. No one should have to wait months or even years longer for their hearing decision because of the office or the ALJ their appeal is assigned to, nor should the taxpayer have to foot the bill for a national hearings process that can, in effect, allow judges to rubberstamp awards. That’s just plain wrong. Those who aren’t performing up to expectations must be held accountable. Social Security must work fairly for all Americans and protect their hard-earned taxpayer dollars. We need to find out what is going on in this program and fix it. And if current law allows this to happen, we need to change the law. Preserving the public trust demands no less.
07.08.2011	As we heard a few weeks ago from the Public Trustees, unless Congress acts, in 2036 Social Security revenues will only cover 77 percent of promised benefits. Congress must act and the sooner we do so, the sooner we can protect those who are most vulnerable. Republicans and Democrats agree on this much: current benefits should not change for those in or near retirement. All their lives they have worked hard and played by the rules. They deserve the peace of mind knowing that Social Security will be there for them. But young people deserve peace of mind too. At our last hearing the Subcommittee looked at options to raise payroll taxes to address these challenges and heard that these options do not promote savings, reward work, or permanently fix Social Security’s shortfall. With chronic unemployment, falling incomes and so many young people unable to find work, nothing we do should make it harder for Americans to find good paying jobs. Today we will learn more about Social Security’s benefits, proposed changes to benefits and their impacts on future beneficiaries, workers, Social Security’s finances and economic growth. Since the beginning of the program, benefits have been based on workers’ lifetime earnings. The formula that determines benefits is designed to replace a higher percentage of career earnings for low earners. Benefits are increased almost every year, to keep pace with inflation, through cost of living adjustments. Social Security first paid monthly benefits in 1940 to Ida May Fuller, who worked for just three years under the Social Security program and paid taxes on her salary totaling $24.75. Her first monthly check was for $22.54, but her check was not indexed for inflation and her lifetime benefits for her and her age group were soon supported by a surge of young workers. During her lifetime she collected almost $23,000 in Social Security benefits. Today, nearly 55 million Americans receive benefits averaging $1,078 per month. By 2035, over 90 million will receive benefits. Benefits are more generous, but the number of beneficiaries will rise much more rapidly than the number of workers, now struggling in today’s economy, who will need to support them. The reality is that there are simply not enough young workers to support the Baby Boomers who are retiring at a rate 10,000 a day for the next 19 years. Social Security also provides essential income to workers’ families. Spouses, children and survivors are all eligible for benefits. In fact, 1 out of every 13 beneficiaries receives family benefits. Many of our witnesses will review how America and Social Security have changed over the past 76 years. Today, people are just living longer. When Social Security was created Americans lived on average until 64 and Social Security’s retirement age was 65. According to the Social Security actuaries, had Congress tied Social Security’s full retirement age to increases in life expectancy from the beginning, instead of being 66 today, it would be close to 71. It’s no wonder Members on both sides of the aisle have expressed support for raising the retirement age. In 1935, Social Security was born amidst that last great economic crisis this country faced: the Great Depression. Then none other than FDR said that “… Social Security can furnish only a base upon which each one of our citizens may build his individual security through his own individual efforts." In other words, Social Security’s benefits were intended to provide a modest income safety net. In these challenging economic times, FDR’s statement still rings true. While everyone who pays into Social Security long enough should receive a benefit, not everyone relies on Social Security the same way in retirement. Whatever solutions Congress may ultimately consider, we must protect those who depend on Social Security the most. In the meantime, until Congress acts, workers and their families are challenged to plan for their retirement. An important tool in their planning is the Social Security Statement, which includes a worker’s earnings history and estimated future Social Security benefit. It is the main document Social Security uses to communicate with over 150 million workers about their future benefits. Earlier this year the Agency suspended the statement. Given the importance of this planning tool, I asked the Government Accountability Office or GAO to examine Social Security’s plans for making the statement available electronically and the steps they have taken to improve the usefulness of the statement. Today we will hear from the GAO regarding the results of their review. Americans want, need, and deserve the certainty that Social Security will be there for them. I’m confident that by working together, we can provide that certainty. I thank all our witnesses for joining us today and look forward to hearing their expert advice on ways to move forward to make sure that Social Security is safe, secure and sustainable.
07.07.2011	Today the Chairman of the Social Security Subcommittee on the Ways and Means Committee, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas), released the following statement. “Here are the facts. First, according to the experts, in 2036 Social Security revenues will only cover 77 percent of promised benefits. Congress and the President must come together to find common-sense solutions to make Social Security safe, secure and sustainable - and the sooner we do so, the sooner we can protect those who are most vulnerable. “Second, Republicans and Democrats agree on this much: current benefits should not change for those in or near retirement. But our children and grandchildren want, need, and deserve the certainty that Social Security will be there for them. “Third, the reality is that America and Social Security have changed over the past 76 years. Today, people live longer, healthier lives. When Social Security was created, Americans lived on average until age 64 and Social Security’s retirement age was 65. According to the Social Security actuaries, had Congress tied Social Security’s full retirement age to increases in life expectancy from the beginning, instead of being 66 today, it would be close to 71. It’s no wonder Members on both sides of the aisle have expressed support for slowly raising the retirement age over time for younger workers. “Fourth, with chronic unemployment, falling incomes and so many young people unable to find work, nothing we do should make it harder for Americans to find good paying jobs. Congress has raised the payroll tax rate 14 times since 1935 when the tax rate for employees and employers was just one percent on earnings up to $3,000 a year. Clearly history proves that we can’t tax our way to solvency. “Fifth, today, nearly 55 million Americans receive benefits averaging $1,078 per month. By 2035, over 90 million will receive benefits. There are simply not enough young workers to support the Baby Boomers who are retiring at a rate 10,000 a day for the next 19 years. In 1950 for instance there were 16.5 workers for each beneficiary. Today there are just 2.9 workers and in 14 years there will only be 2.3 workers per beneficiary. “I’m holding a series of hearings on Social Security as part of my effort to lead a fact-based conversation about how we can make Social Security safe, secure and sustainable. That said, Republicans only make up one-half of one-third of the government. The President and Democrats will need to be part of the effort to fix Social Security for good.”
06.28.2011	Recently the successful “Welcome Home a Hero” program marked seven years at Dallas- Fort Worth (DFW) International Airport. To commemorate the occasion, I called on the U.S. House of Representatives to join me in congratulating them in a job well done. You may read a copy of the Congressional Record below. As we pause to mark Independence Day, I hope you’ll consider finding time to volunteer once this summer at DFW Airport with Welcome Home a Hero. For the month of July, on even days, flights will arrive at 8 a.m. at Terminal D, Gate 22. On odd days, flights will arrive at 12:15pm at Terminal B, Gate 37. To confirm or learn of flight arrival changes, call 972-574-0392 after 8 p.m. the night before for a recorded message for details for the following day. To learn more, go to www.dfwairport.com/heroes. Celebrating America’s birthday by supporting our guardians of freedom some time this summer is an excellent way to pay tribute to our independence. God bless you and God bless America. Saluting “Welcome Home a Hero” “Mr. Speaker, as a 29-year Air Force veteran and a former Prisoner of War for nearly 7 years, more than half of that time in solitary confinement, it gives me great joy to request that the U.S. House of Representatives formally recognize and commemorate the 7th anniversary of the ‘Welcome Home a Hero Program’ at Dallas-Fort Worth (DFW) International Airport. I especially want to thank the kind folks at DFW, the North Texas Commission, and the USO for their efforts to recognize and show their appreciation to the brave men and women who serve our country. ‘Welcome Home a Hero’ is a volunteer program to encourage and support our deployed military and greet troops at DFW International Airport as they return home for two weeks of R&R. Anywhere from 150 to 275 troops come through DFW each day, with one flight arriving daily and one flight departing daily. Volunteers gather each day to welcome these troops off their flight, thanking and encouraging them for their service to our great nation. “This wonderful program started in the summer of 2004 when the U.S. military selected DFW to begin receiving the daily 20-hour flights from Kuwait. Once the flights began, grassroots groups, schools, churches, scouts and veterans organizations began to greet the troops on a daily basis. DFW fire trucks welcome every military charter on the runway with a ‘shower of affection’ to begin the celebration. “In fact, ‘Welcome Home a Hero’ has greeted more than 1 million troops during the course of the program by dedicated volunteers who greet troops daily. I had the privilege of attending the one millionth warrior ceremony at DFW and let’s just say that there wasn’t a dry eye in the place. “If you want to experience the best America has to offer – respect for freedom, gratitude for service and sacrifice and a deep, deep love of country - just head on down to Terminal D or Terminal B depending on the day. You’ll witness the show of support from volunteers from across North Texas and the unbridled joy and emotional high of a family embracing a returning warrior. Cheerful and faithful patriots of all ages and stages wearing their finest red, white and blue attire show up so that they can let complete strangers who dedicate their lives to our armed forces know that we love them, we care about them, we pray for them and we appreciate them. “You’ll see humble veterans from wars gone by who know that freedom is not free. You’ll meet Vietnam veteran Bert Brady who makes a point of ensuring that this generation of soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines returns with honor and a warm welcome – unlike the men who came home from Vietnam. You’ll feel a sweet embrace from the ‘huggin’ and kissin’ grandmas’ who make it a habit of planting a big one on digi-cammie clad warriors. Each volunteer offers a sweet smile, a love of country and respect for service that truly welcomes home our troops with the way they deserve to be treated. “As a combat veteran who witnessed the ultimate low for returning warriors from Vietnam, I made a promise to myself that when, not if, I escaped my captivity in Vietnam, I would do anything and everything in my power to treat our men and women of the United States Armed Forces with the respect and honor that they deserve. “Welcome Home a Hero” is a shining example of that golden homecoming and showcases how much North Texans – and Americans – support our troops. “If people across America find themselves travelling through DFW, I encourage them to call the R&R update line 972-574-0392 to learn of the next arrival ceremony and to see if they may participate in a truly heartwarming and uplifting welcome home celebration for our armed forces. They also may go to www.dfwairport.com/heroes. “On this day, I respectfully request that the United States House of Representatives reaffirms our unwavering commitment to actively promote and support the “Welcome Home a Hero Program” and its invaluable importance to the morale and welfare of those men and women who serve our country. Make no mistake -- America remains the land of the free because of the brave. God bless America.”
06.24.2011	Angela Romney, Principal, Dana Reid, Assistant Principal, and Richard Manuel, Assistant Principal, of Wester Middle School in Frisco travelled to Washington, D.C. to accept the “Schools to Watch” award from the National Forum for Middle School Reform. During their stay in the nation’s capital city, they paid a visit to U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas).
06.24.2011	Autry “Trey” Warren, of Murphy, Texas, took time out from his trip to Washington, D.C. to visit with U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas). In town for the National Youth Leadership Conference (NYLC), Warren asked the Congressman about illegal immigration and the President’s plan for Afghanistan. Warren is a rising sophomore at Prestonwood Christian Academy where he plays basketball and football. He aspires to become a sports agent and attorney. Johnson encouraged Warren to apply for the Congressional Youth Advisory Council, a group of Third District high school students who serve as Johnson’s “young ambassadors to Congress.” Applications for this popular program will become available in August on SamJohnson.house.gov.
06.23.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) claimed victory for struggling small-business owners upon the news that the IRS has upped the mileage rate for the last six months of the year. Johnson has been hounding the IRS since March to increase the reimbursement rate in light of sky-high gas prices hurting the bottom-line of the nation’s employers in today’s sluggish economy. “This is a great victory for small-business owners. The mid-year correction has been a long time coming. Given the high price of gas impacting business costs on so many levels, I’m glad that IRS Commissioner Douglas H. Shulman made this decision that is fair for taxpayers,” said Johnson. On March 8th Johnson sent a letter to IRS Commissioner Shulman requesting the IRS up the reimbursement rate. Back then, the national average of a gallon of gas cost $3.50. The price tipped $4.00 and now hovers around $3.66. When the IRS announced the 2011 rate last fall, a gallon of gas cost $2.75. The IRS increased the optional mileage rates due to spiking gas prices in 2005 after Hurricane Katrina and in 2008. Since March, Johnson has continued to call the IRS, make numerous floor speeches and used social media sites Facebook and Twitter to make the case for the IRS to boost the mileage deduction. In fact, minutes before the IRS made today’s announcement, Johnson let his Facebook followers know “If the Admin. really wants to help, it should provide mileage rate relief to hurting small businesses,” with a link to the news story about the U.S. releasing 30 million barrels of oil from the strategic petroleum reserve. Johnson quickly updated his page, “BREAKING NEWS! Victory! Glad the IRS decided to stop being a pain in the gas,” with a link to a news article announcing the mileage boost. To read a copy of Johnson’s March, letter to IRS Commissioner Shulman, go to SamJohnson.house.gov. New rates effective July 1, 2011. Note: charitable miles are fixed by law, hence no increase. Current New Business Miles 51 cents 55.5 Medical or Moving Miles 19 cents 23.5 Charitable Miles 14 cents 14 Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
06.23.2011	As we heard from the Public Trustees at our June 3rd hearing, Social Security revenues will cover only 77 percent of benefits by 2036. Congress must act and the sooner we do so, the sooner we can protect those who are most vulnerable, along with current retirees and those nearing retirement. And for younger workers and families, we have a responsibility to provide certainty about the future of their Social Security. To that end, I was heartened to learn of the deliberations of AARP’s volunteer board and welcome their acknowledgment that Social Security will be unable to pay benefits promised in the future and how the program must be strengthened for generations to come. Today we will learn more about Social Security’s current revenue sources, proposed changes to those sources and their impact on Social Security, workers, beneficiaries and economic growth. Since its beginning, Social Security has been a program primarily financed by workers for workers. Workers hard earned payroll taxes fund the majority of the benefits Social Security pays each year. It’s important to point out as well that the number of workers paying into Social Security has been steadily declining over the years. In 1950 for instance there were 16.5 workers for each beneficiary. Today there are just 2.9 workers and in 14 years there will only be 2.3 workers per beneficiary. In 1935, the tax rate for employers and employees each was just 1 percent on earnings up to $3,000 a year. Congress has raised the payroll tax rate 14 times since then. Today, the tax rate is 6.2 percent for employees and employers for a combined rate of 12.4 percent. The amount of earnings subject to payroll taxes, known as the taxable wage base, has also grown over time. In 1935, the taxable wage base was $3,000. Over the lifetime of the program, the taxable wage base has been statutorily increased by Congress 10 times. In 1972, Congress passed legislation that increased the base automatically to reflect the growth in average wages. However, soon afterwards Congress increased the wage base even further over a number of years. Annual tax increases have generally been on autopilot since 1982. Since then the wage base has increased 26 times, from $32,400 to its current level of $106,800. But despite these tax increases, Social Security is still in trouble. Not enough young workers will pay this tax to sustain the Baby Boomer wave of retirees leaving the workforce and drawing benefits at the rate of 10,000 a day for the next 19 years. Clearly, we cannot tax our way to sustainable solvency. And as we consider the program’s financial state we cannot lose sight of the fact that throughout the history of the program Congress has also increased benefits beyond the ability of the program to pay them over the long run. The challenge Congress now faces goes beyond just re-balancing Social Security’s finances. With chronic unemployment, falling incomes and so many young workers unable to start their careers, nothing we do should make it harder for Americans to find good paying jobs. I am sure that if you asked any ordinary citizen what is vitally important to them, you will likely hear “good-paying jobs.” They worry America is falling behind and that their children’s futures will be dictated by foreign creditors. Americans want and expect a balance between creating a new and better economy for their children and caring for their elders. That is why as we look ahead Social Security must be what its’ founders intended: a program that lives within its means. Americans want, need and deserve nothing less. We must do this for the American people and I’m confident that by working together we will.
06.23.2011	Today Daniel Goss, a 2010 McKinney Boyd graduate, finished off his ten month stint in Germany with the Congress-Bundestag Youth Exchange program by thanking U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) for his support of the program. Goss returned the Texas the following day to see his family for a long-awaited reunion. Goss starts at the University of Texas at Austin in the fall. He took a “gap year” for the cultural exchange program. This year 250 students from across America participated in the popular civic-exchange program. Carinne Maravilla, of the Colony, will return to Texas for her senior year at the Colony High School and plans to attend Collin College. The two detailed their experiences in Germany and shared stories of life abroad the Congressman.
06.15.2011	On Saturday, June 18th at 2:00 p.m., U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will salute the future of our armed forces when he congratulates service-academy bound students and their families at a private meeting in Plano. While this event is closed to the public, it is open to the press. A complete list of students accepting appointments to the academies follows. “These students represent the future of our armed forces. Each one is a leader and will do a superb job serving in the finest military in the world. My thoughts and prayers are with each student as they pursue their dreams and serve their country,” said Johnson. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War (P.O.W.), more than half of that time in solitary confinement, during the Vietnam War. Saturday’s gathering is the last formal event with the Congressman for the students and their families before classes begin. All Third District residents interested in seeking nominations to a service academy for the class entering in the summer of 2012 should contact Lori McMahon in the Congressman’s Texas office at 972-470-0892. This fall the Congressman will host a free information session on the service academies and the application process. Who: U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson Service academy appointees and their families What: Sam Johnson salutes the armed forces of tomorrow Service academy appointees – Class of 2015 When: Saturday, June 18th at 2:00 p.m. Where: Plano Centre 2000 E. Spring Creek Parkway Sunny Slope Room Plano THIRD CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT SERVICE ACADEMY BOUND STUDENTS CLASS OF 2015 United States Air Force Academy 1. Carpenter, Elizabeth - From Murphy, Texas - Plano East Senior High School. 2. Dridge, Emma - From Allen, Texas - Allen High School. 3. Hays, Joseph - From Plano, Texas - Plano West Senior High School. 4. Herrera, Jeffrey - From Murphy, Texas - Wylie High School. 5. Palmer, Corbin - From Frisco, Texas - Centennial High School. *Attended the U.S. Air Force Academy Preparatory School. United States Military Academy – West Point 1. Burnstad, Brianna - From Plano, Texas - Plano Senior High School. 2. Carringer, Kevin - From Plano, Texas - Plano West Senior High School. 3. Crossley, David – From Plano, Texas – Plano Senior High School Class of 2007. * Prior active duty service in the U.S. Army as an E-4. 4. Gordon, Christopher - From Plano, Texas - Plano West Senior High School. *Attended Boston University. 5. Ridder, Benjamin – From Allen, Texas – Allen High School Class of 2007. * Prior active duty service in the U.S. Army as an E-4. 6. Roberto, Michael - From Plano, Texas - Cistercian Preparatory School. United States Merchant Marine Academy 1. Boyson, Emily - From Garland, Texas - Bishop Lynch High School. 2. Rezaie, Kioumars - From Plano, Texas - Plano West Senior High School. 3. Rigsby, Amanda - From Plano, Texas - Plano East Senior High School. 4. Willcox, Connor - From McKinney, Texas - McKinney Boyd High School. United States Naval Academy - Annapolis 1. Kennington, James - From Plano, Texas - Plano West Senior High School. 2. Lowman, Amber - From McKinney, Texas - McKinney High School. 3. Martinez, Ryan - From Plano, Texas - Cistercian Preparatory School.
06.15.2011	To reduce the foreign-debt threat, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) re-introduced his legislation to require a better accounting of debt held by foreign countries and more importantly, require the President to submit a plan to cut spending should either a particular foreign creditor or the overall debt pose a risk to the security interests of America. The national debt of the United States is now over $14 trillion or $128,000 for every taxpayer. “We must not let any other countries hold our national and economic interests hostage,” said Johnson. “Imagine how much better off America will be if we act responsibly and don’t continue to tax, borrow and spend. We’ve got to pay down the debt, shrink the deficit, cut spending and balance the budget – for our children and our grandchildren,” said Johnson, rated the number one most conservative Member of Congress in the last Congress. Johnson reintroduced the Foreign Held Debt Transparency and Threat Assessment Act, H.R. 2166 yesterday. While Johnson believes foreign investment in America shows that outsiders view our country as a safe and solid investment, Johnson has serious concerns about the full implications of overleveraging our debt to outside forces. Johnson also feels that the current level of transparency regarding China’s holdings of U.S. Government debt is inadequate. Johnson proposes cutting spending as the first common-sense step to control the debt so America doesn’t have to sell our debt to foreign interests. “We’ve relied on China to help finance the failed stimulus, TARP, TARP II, the housing bailout, Government Motors, all the Obama Czars, and ObamaCare. Enough is enough. This is America. We should not be captive to the Chinese government to finance our out-of-control spending. It’s got to stop and it’s got to stop now,” said Johnson. In a related matter, Johnson feels that Congress has to use the leverage associated with the pending debt ceiling vote to put the country on a path that makes sense, one that is actually sustainable – not one that will lead to a debt crisis. “If the White House wants to just kick the can down the road, you’re going to see a lot of conservative members not support increasing the debt ceiling. We have to do bold, dramatic things – cut spending, cap spending, and balance the budget,” said Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
06.14.2011	Today the Dallas Mavericks received special recognition on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives from U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) for capturing their first-ever NBA Championship. The long-time Dallas-area resident and basketball fan took to the floor of the U.S. House to salute the Dallas Mavericks for defeating the Miami Heat with a patriotic twist, common for the decorated Air Force veteran and former Prisoner of War. As a result of the Dallas victory, Johnson will enjoy the winnings of a friendly wager between the Miami Delegation and the Dallas Delegation in Congress. In the coming days, the Miami Delegation will provide a Florida-themed meal of the traditional roasted pig (lechon asado), key lime pie, and a case of Florida orange juice. The Dallas Delegation offered to provide a BBQ meal for the Miami-Dade Members of Congress in the event the Heat captured the title. Johnson’s commendation of the Dallas Mavericks will be preserved for antiquity in the Congressional Record for fans to download a copy as a keepsake. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Prepared remarks follow: “I rise to celebrate the newly crowned NBA Champions, the Dallas Mavericks. They came together, persevered and played exceptionally well as a team. The MVP of the series, Dirk Nowitzki, will go down in history as a tireless worker and humble team player who shined both on and off the court. “I am proud of the Mavs first-ever NBA championship title and hope there are many more to come. On Flag Day, I think it’s noteworthy that this team is emblematic of the American spirit – as individuals they are good – but when they come together as a team – they are great. “God bless Texas and God bless the Mavs. I salute you.”
06.14.2011	The American people have just been told by the Trustees for Social Security and Medicare that these programs are headed towards insolvency. So when they hear Social Security is owed billions due to wrongful payments, Americans want, need, and deserve answers. In FY 2009, overpayments totaled $6.5 billion for the retirement, disability, and Supplemental Security Income or SSI program, with most in the SSI program. Worse, these numbers do not reflect lost savings resulting from Social Security falling behind on eligibility reviews. These reviews fall into three broad categories. First, so-called SSI redeterminations are a periodic review of non-disability eligibility factors such as income and assets. Social Security reduced the number of redeterminations by more than 60 percent between FY 2003 and FY 2008, resulting in $3.3 billion in lost program savings in FYs 2008 and 2009, according to Social Security’s Inspector General. The second category is work continuing disability reviews, known as work CDRs, where Social Security checks to see if one is making too much to remain on disability. Should someone receiving disability benefits make over $1000 per month, referred to as substantial gainful activity, they may no longer qualify. For the five-year period ending FY2009, wage errors in the Social Security Disability Insurance program accounted for nearly $1 billion annually, or about a third of total retirement and disability program overpayment error dollars. Of these errors, two thirds resulted from beneficiaries’ failure to report their work activity. The other third were associated with Social Security’s failure to timely complete a work CDR after they were told by beneficiaries that they had returned to work. As a result it can take months or years before Social Security sends a notice demanding repayment of sometimes tens of thousands of dollars of accrued overpayments. That’s maddening! As we will hear today, if Social Security had better data matching capability and completed more reviews of earnings sooner, payment errors could be resolved more quickly or never happen in the first place. Lastly, Social Security has fallen behind reviewing the medical status of those receiving disability benefits. In FY2010, Social Security had a backlog of 1.4 million medical CDRs. When these reviews aren’t done on time, people who no longer qualify will continue to receive benefits they don’t deserve. Also these reviews not only provide savings to Social Security, they also provide savings to Medicare and Medicaid. In fact, here’s how much we stand to save if they’re done on time. For every dollar invested in a medical CDR, twelve dollars in savings is returned to these programs. The return on each dollar invested in a work CDR is fifteen dollars. Reviewing the asset and income levels of SSI recipients returns seven dollars for each dollar spent. In the name of fiscal responsibility that’s time and money well spent. However these savings won’t be achieved if Social Security isn’t committed, as it should be, to protecting precious taxpayer dollars. Recently, the President, and the Congress were able to reach a bipartisan agreement on this year’s funding for Social Security’s operations. I hope as we seek to achieve a similar bipartisan result we will also work together to ensure that Social Security does all it can to fight waste, fraud, and abuse. The American taxpayers who foot the bill deserve nothing less. Our witnesses today include those on the front lines of case processing, who represent managers of the State Disability Determination Services and managers of local Social Security offices. We will also hear from the Social Security Inspector General about important work they do in their special investigative units fighting fraud. We need answers and I’m counting on all our witnesses to provide them.
06.09.2011	On Thursday, June 23rd the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will host Mobile Office Hours in Frisco, McKinney, Plano and Richardson. No advance appointments are necessary. Times and locations are listed below. Staff from the Congressman’s office regularly host Mobile Office Hours throughout the Third District to meet with constituents close to home. During Mobile Office Hours, Johnson’s aides gladly assist individuals facing problems with federal programs or agencies such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, the Social Security Administration, or the Internal Revenue Service. “Frustrated by federal bureaucracy in times of personal, family or business crisis, people turn to their Member of Congress,” says Johnson. “My staff and I work with federal government agencies on a daily basis. In many cases, we are able to cut through some of the red tape, expedite certain processes, and resolve problems with the federal government. While we can’t fix every problem my constituents have with the government, we can help folks explore all their options and provide assistance through reliable and timely information.” The Congressman’s staff also can help facilitate overseas adoptions, provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C., and process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Anyone seeking assistance with a federal agency should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. Constituents who cannot attend the scheduled Mobile Office Hours are welcome to contact the Congressman’s Richardson office at (972) 470-0892. For more information, visit www.samjohnson.house.gov and select “Get Help with a Federal Agency.” Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. FRISCO George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Front Lobby 6101 Frisco Square Boulevard 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. MCKINNEY Market Street South Entrance 6100 West Eldorado Parkway 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. PLANO Collin College Spring Creek Campus Lobby Area 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. RICHARDSON Civic Center West Alcove Area 411 West Arapaho Road 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m.
06.08.2011	Last week on Capitol Hill, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) congratulated national spelling bee star, Narahari Bharadwaj, an 8th grader at Harmony Science Academy for his outstanding performance at the Gaylord National Hotel. Bharadwaj placed 14th out of 11 million contestants in the Scripps National Spelling Bee in Washington, D.C. The super speller told the Congressman about the spelling bee experience. He also introduced his family and teacher. Vybhavi Bharadwaj, his sister, a senior at Plano West, graduated on Tuesday as the Salutatorian. Vyjayanthi Bharadwaj, his mother, and Bharadwaj Heragu, his father, have lived in Plano for the past 8 1/2 years. Joanna Bromfield, Narahari’s instructor at Harmony, joined the group as well. Bromfield teaches English 7/Pre-AP English 8/Pre-AP English 9. Johnson hopes that Narahari applies to serve on the Congressional Youth Advisory Council in the fall. Comprised of 9th – 12th grade students who reside in the Third District, the members of the CYAC serve as Johnson’s Young Ambassadors to Congress. Applications for the 2011-2012 CYAC will be available on Johnson’s website, www.samjohnson.house.gov, in early August. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
06.03.2011	For over 75 years Social Security has relied on the strong work ethic of Americans. Workers pay part of their hard-earned wages for the promise of future benefits should they retire, become disabled or die. Seniors, those with disabilities, widows, and their families count on these benefits to be there for them. Yet according to the recently released Annual Report of the Social Security Board of Trustees, unless we act, Social Security will not be able to keep its promises. For example, Social Security’s Disability Insurance program will be unable to pay full benefits in 2018. In addition by 2036 tax income will be cover only 77 percent of benefits. The average monthly benefit for a retired worker today is only $1,175, so that’s a potential cut of about $270. That’s real money, especially for those who are getting by on a fixed income. According to the Trustees, Social Security is already running permanent cash flow deficits. As a result Social Security must rely on general revenues to pay back with interest the Social Security surpluses Washington spent in years past. Over the next 10 years, Social Security’s cash shortfall will reach $416 billion. To pay its debt to Social Security in these times of record deficits and debt, Treasury will need to borrow more, according to CBO. We do so at our own economic peril. Today the U.S. borrows 40 cents for every dollar it spends, a good amount of which comes from the Chinese, and sends the bill to our children and grandchildren. The bottom-line is that China and other foreign governments are also financing Social Security. Families are right to be worried about this country’s economic future. We face great challenges, but I believe in the greatness of this country we call America. We need to make sure this program is safe, secure and sustainable. And let’s be clear: current and near retirees deserve the peace of mind of knowing that they will get their promised retirement benefits. At the same time though we have a responsibility to ensure that Social Security will be there for younger workers. At the end of the day, Americans want, need and deserve a Social Security program they can count on and a fact-based conversation about how to get there. I look forward to beginning that conversation today and thank our two witnesses for their testimony, which we are about to hear.
05.26.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement in recognition of Memorial Day 2011. A former Prisoner of War in Vietnam for nearly seven years, more than half of that time in solitary confinement, Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. *For a photo of Johnson stuffing a care package for the troops overseas with the USO in advance of Memorial Day, contact McCall Avery or Haley Creel. “This Memorial Day we not only look back on those who have served and sacrificed in past battles, we also honor our armed forces still in Iraq and Afghanistan, and around the world. “Our nation is free today because of the selfless sacrifices that thousands of Americans have made in the line of duty – many right here in our community. These men and women are shining examples of the will, determination and spirit of the American people. “This Memorial Day, to preserve the legacy of freedom for generations to come, I encourage people to nominate Third District veterans for the Congressional Veteran Commendation. This accolade is one more way for our community to pay tribute and recognize the valor and service of our hometown heroes and combat veterans. If we want to remain the land of the free and the home of the brave, then we must always remember that freedom is not free.” The Congressional Veteran Commendation The Congressional Veteran Commendation, in conjunction with the Veterans History Project sponsored by the Library of Congress, is a nominations-based program designed to formally recognize the wartime sacrifices and peacetime community involvement of residents of the Third Congressional District. Anyone interested in nominating a deserving veteran for this honor should visit Johnson’s website, www.samjohnson.house.gov, to download a nomination form found under “Issues,” then “Veterans.” To be eligible, veterans must currently reside in the Third Congressional District. Nominees must have served as active duty military personnel or been reservists called to active duty. They also must be retired or honorably discharged from a branch of the United States Armed Forces. Anyone may serve as a nominator and may nominate as many veterans as desired. Complete nomination packets should be mailed, faxed, or hand-delivered to Johnson’s local office no later than Friday, September 16, 2011. Please see the nomination form or call (972) 470-0892 for additional details. Johnson publicly will recognize CVC recipients during a special ceremony in November.
05.25.2011	This week while visiting Washington, D.C., Marisol Trevizo, Funeral Director/ Owner, Pilar Funeral Homes, and Karina Olivares, President of Garland Chamber of Commerce, paid their elected U.S. Representative, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) a visit on Capitol Hill. Marisol, a Garland resident, told Johnson of her experience as a female-business owner in a male-dominated industry. She started her family-owned and operated business in the economic downturn 2 ½ years ago. She literally built the building and company from scratch. Karina told the Congressman about the three-day U.S. Chamber of Commerce Small Business Summit as well as business development in Garland.
05.23.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) invited constituents to attend a free foreclosure prevention workshop in Dallas. The event takes place on Friday, June 10th from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. in Dallas at the Texas Agrilife Research and Extension Center located at 17360 Coit Road. The DFW Home Ownership Preservation Enterprise (DFW HOPE Partnership) will host the free foreclosure prevention seminar. Housing experts and credit counselors will join Johnson at the informative session. This is a come-and-go event for the purpose of allowing people to sit down with qualified counselors for one-on-one discussions. This event is free and open to the public and the press. “If you are in a situation where you are facing foreclosure or having difficulty making your mortgage payment, I encourage you attend this event,” said Johnson. If possible, please bring the following documents: latest mortgage statement, 2 most recent months of paystubs (tax returns and W-2 forms if self-employed), hardship letter explaining reason for default, 1 month of most recent bank statement, and a budget break-down explaining monthly expenses. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. To learn more about this event, contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. Friday, June 10 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. FREE foreclosure prevention seminar U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson The Texas Agrilife Research and Extension Center 17360 Coit Road Dallas
05.20.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement in response to the President’s betrayal of Israel in a policy speech. “As the Middle East continues to change daily, I believe that we must continue to work to protect Israel and her interests. For a long time, Israel has served as a beacon of liberty in the region. We need to stand up and help them. “America has no business abandoning Israel and America has no business sending large sums of money to volatile nations in the Middle East that may end up with Radical Islamists at the helm. With America’s financial quagmire, the taxpayers and I think that the President’s one billion dollar donation to Egypt defies comprehension. “Just like how his military action in Libya has gone unchecked, the President needs to answer some tough questions on why he is doing what he is doing to dismantle our foreign policy and to leave Israel out to dry.”
05.16.2011	On Thursday, May 26th, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host “mobile office hours” to visit with constituents. The current cities hosting “mobile office hours” include: Allen, McKinney, Murphy, Plano and Rowlett. Staff from the Congressman’s office host regular “mobile office hours” throughout the Third Congressional District to meet with constituents. During the “mobile office hours” the Third District staff gladly will offer assistance with problems regarding federal issues or agencies, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration or the Internal Revenue Service. They also may help facilitate overseas adoptions. Constituents are invited to stop by and share their comments about federal issues in Congress. No advance appointments are necessary. If a person would like assistance with a federal agency, he or she should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. In the event people cannot attend the “mobile office hours” in their city, residents are encouraged to contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Thursday, May 26 ALLEN One Allen Center Lobby Area 700 Central Expressway 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. MCKINNEY Collin College Atrium Area Central Park Campus 2200 W. University Drive 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. MURPHY City Hall Conference Room 206 North Murphy Road 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. PLANO Parr Library Front Lobby 6200 Windhaven Parkway 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. ROWLETT Community Centre Front Entrance Area 5300 Main Street 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m.
05.13.2011	Yesterday U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-Texas) and U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) introduced the Wounded Warrior Tax Equity Act of 2011, to coincide with Military Appreciation Month during the month of May. Their legislation will extend to hospitalized combat troops the same IRS collection protections that civilian taxpayers currently enjoy. “After sacrificing so much in defense of our nation’s freedom, the least we can do for our men and women in uniform is guarantee a level playing field when dealing with the federal government. Our bill will help ensure they receive equitable treatment from the IRS,” said Sen. Cornyn, a member of the Senate Finance Committee which has jurisdiction over the IRS. “Our brave men and women who put their lives on the line defending our cherished freedoms should not be treated worse than ordinary Americans when it comes to their taxes. Our bill rights an outrageous wrong. This is about fairness for our wounded warriors when it comes to the IRS,” said Rep. Johnson, who represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. A 29-year Air Force veteran and former Prisoner of War in Vietnam for nearly 7 years, Johnson serves on the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee and a Joint Committee on Taxation. Background: Wounded Warrior Tax Equity Act of 2011 (S.993 / H.R.1871) · The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) generally has ten years from the date of assessment to collect a tax liability from taxpayers. · This ten-year collection period is suspended for combat troops and during any period, plus 180 days, they are hospitalized because of combat injuries. · Under current law, the IRS has more time to collect from hospitalized troops who have served in combat than it would have to collect against similarly situated civilians. · The legislation would treat the statutory collection period for injured troops consistent with similarly situated civilian taxpayers, protecting combat troops from an unnecessary extension of IRS collection activity if they are hospitalized. · This legislation is based on a recommendation made by the National Taxpayer Advocate (NTA), an independent organization within the IRS created to help taxpayers resolve problems with the IRS and recommend changes that will prevent the problems. http://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-utl/2_09_tas_arc_vol_1_lr.pdf
05.13.2011	Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI), Health Subcommittee Chairman Wally Herger (R-CA) and Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX) made the following statement after the release of the Social Security and Medicare Trustees Report. "Today's report makes it clearer than ever that doing nothing is not an option. The failure to act means current, as well as future beneficiaries, will face significant cuts even sooner than previously estimated. We call on the President and all of our colleagues in the House and Senate to act now and take the long overdue steps to strengthen these vital programs. It's what Americans expect of us, it's what taxpayers demand and it's what our children deserve."
05.10.2011	On Saturday afternoon in Plano, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) thanked the 46 students from public, private and home schools for a job well done on the Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC). Johnson also praised them for volunteering over 500 hours on behalf of the high-caliber group for Third District high school students. Named “CYAC in the Community,” this philanthropic initiative empowered CYAC members to “pay it forward” and to volunteer on behalf of the group. CYAC students volunteered their time and talents with over 30 organizations including Adopt-A-Highway, Habitat for Humanity, Meals on Wheels, Teen Court, and the USO, to name a few. Johnson refers to the members as “Student ambassadors to Congress.” In addition to the project and home-based assignments, the group meets four times a year (two times a semester). For the fourth and final meeting Johnson invited the parents to watch their students in action. At the meeting Johnson asked the students for their take on the recent and historic news - the end of bin Laden. “I for one felt very proud to be an American upon learning that the Navy SEALs got him. I think we all owe our men and women in uniform a debt of gratitude – and I’m thankful that justice was served. I think that this is one more opportunity for America to learn about the valor of our Navy SEALs. If you do a little research, you’ll see amazing stories about those who have trained and served on Seal Team Six. It will truly take your breath away,” said Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran and former Prisoner of War in Vietnam for nearly seven years. The last meeting featured keynote speaker Air Force veteran Jason Morgan and his dog, Nepal, of McKinney. Morgan was a member of the Air Force's Special Operations unit before he was injured during a counter narcotics mission in Ecuador in 1999. While the mission was a success, Morgan was attacked while driving away. Miraculously, a highly skilled American Missionary found Morgan just five minutes later. He saved Morgan’s life, but the crash left Morgan paralyzed from the waist down. Ten years after the accident, the nonprofit Canine Companions for Independence gave Morgan a black Labrador retriever named Nepal. Jason shared his personal stories and experiences with the group. In closing, Johnson also presented a Congressional Record chronicling the students’ work on “CYAC in the Community.” The project summary written by students followed the prepared remarks offered by Johnson. As one student wrote in the brief essay, “CYAC in the Community has allowed me to realize my calling to serve those in the U.S. Armed Forces.” “I am beyond thrilled that CYAC has helped students unleash their full potential and chase their dreams,” stated Johnson who created the group in 2004 to give high school students a voice in Congress. Open to Third District residents enrolled in 9th – 12th grades in public, private and home schools, CYAC promotes civic activism and encourages young adults to study public policy, world events, and community news to make informed decisions about their future. Applications for the 2011-2012 school year will be available online in mid-August at SamJohnson.house.gov. To ensure as many people as possible may serve on the CYAC, students may serve two of the four years between freshman and senior year. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Official Congressional Record Text: Recognizing the 2010-2011 Congressional Youth Advisory Council for 500 hours of outstanding service to the community By U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson April 2011 Mr. Speaker, it is my pleasure and privilege to inform the Members of the United States House of Representatives that the students of the 2010 – 2011 Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) from the Third District of Texas have completed a total of 500 community service hours, fulfilling and far-surpassing the requirements of their assigned CYAC in the Community service project. This year 46 students from public, private, and home schools in grades 10 through 12 made their voices heard by joining CYAC. As the Third District’s young ambassadors to Congress, these bright high school students met with me on a quarterly basis to discuss current events and public policy. These impressive young people recognize an important truth: the heart of public service is found when giving back to the community. CYAC students volunteered their time and talents with over 30 organizations including Adopt-A-Highway, Habitat for Humanity, Meals on Wheels, Teen Court, and the USO, to name a few. As one student shared, “CYAC in the Community has allowed me to realize my calling to serve those in the U.S. Armed Forces.” I am beyond thrilled that CYAC has helped students unleash their full potential and chase their dreams. President George H.W. Bush once said, “A volunteer is a person who can see what others cannot see; who can feel what most do not feel. Often, such gifted persons do not think of themselves as volunteers, but as citizens - citizens in the fullest sense: partners in civilization.” With this statement as a benchmark, I am proud to congratulate the members of the 2010 – 2011 Congressional Youth Advisory Council for showing themselves to be outstanding young citizens of this nation. It is my privilege to submit summaries of their work to the Congressional Record to be preserved for posterity and antiquity. To these young public servants, thank you, and keep up the great work! I salute you! (Individual project summary follows with student’s name.) 2010 – 2011 CONGRESSIONAL YOUTH ADVISORY COUNCIL Name School City of Residence Niki Akhaveissy Frisco High School Frisco Blake Balda* Jesuit Prep Plano Andrew Baldwin Allen High School Allen Brianna Burnstad Plano Senior High School Plano Sheila Chandrahas Clark High School Plano Benjamin Chou Shepton High School Dallas Nicholas Corti Centennial High School Frisco Luke Emigh Rowlett High School Rowlett Kai Fujisaka* Richland Collegiate Parker Harrison Halbach Plano West Senior High School Plano Kaitlyn Hebig Ursuline Academy Plano Garrett Herington Plano West Senior High School Plano Rebecca James* Allen High School Allen Michael Jarvie Trinity Christian Academy Plano Alyssa Johnston McKinney Boyd High School McKinney Danielle Kasper Liberty High School McKinney Joyce Kim Allen High School Allen Nathan Lee* Prestonwood Christian Plano Jake Lofman Plano Senior High School Plano Arin McGovern Parish Episopal School Plano Tess Michaels Plano West Senior High School Plano Madeline Minchillo Plano West Senior High School Plano Joshua Mott Home school McKinney Tara O’Reilly* John Paul II Plano Zach Palisch Plano East Senior High School Richardson Eric S. Parker* Plano East Senior High School Murphy Grant Powell Jasper High School Plano Mitchell Powell* TX Academy of Math & Science Plano Zachary Ralstin Plano West Senior High School Plano Michael Roberto* Cistercian Prep School Plano Alexander Robinson Plano West Senior High School Plano Dallas Rodriquez McKinney High School McKinney Brandon Ross Carrollton Christian Plano Ginu Scaria* Naaman Forest High School Garland Anna Shapovalova Plano East Senior High School Murphy Tina Sharma Plano Senior High School Plano Katya Sousa* Centennial High School Frisco Zachary Stubblefield Plano East Senior High School Plano Samantha Todd* Jasper High School Plano Grant Tollette Plano Senior High School Plano Calvin Tsay Plano West Senior High School Plano Ross Van De Kop* Plano West Senior High School Dallas Jill Waller Bishop Lynch High School Plano Stephanie Wang Liberty High School Plano Sean Whitney Legacy Christian Frisco Caitlyn Woolum* Plano Senior High School Plano * Denotes returning student
05.02.2011	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement on the death of terrorist leader Osama bin Laden: “Way to go troops! Thank you for your tireless courage and deep resolve. We are proud of you. God bless you and I salute you. “Whether it’s shooting Somali pirates from a heaving ship at sea to rescue innocent Americans or finding and killing Osama bin Laden, the nation owes a debt of gratitude to the Navy SEALS – and all men and women who wear the uniform. This is a victory for freedom and justice.” A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam, more than half of that time in solitary confinement.
04.18.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) formally launched the inaugural Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC) program for the Third District of Texas during A Celebration of Freedom at Canyon Creek Baptist Church in Richardson. The Congressional Veteran Commendation, in conjunction with the Veterans History Project sponsored by the Library of Congress, is a nominations-based program designed to formally recognize the wartime sacrifices and peacetime community involvement of residents of the Third Congressional District and to preserve their stories for future generations of Americans. Anyone interested in nominating a deserving veteran for this honor should visit Johnson’s website, www.samjohnson.house.gov, to download a nomination form found under “Issues,” then “Veterans.” To be eligible, veterans must currently reside in the Third Congressional District. Nominees must have served as active duty military personnel or been reservists called to active duty. They also must be retired or honorably discharged from a branch of the United States Armed Forces. Anyone may serve as a nominator and may nominate as many veterans as desired. Complete nomination packets should be mailed, faxed, or hand-delivered to Johnson’s local office no later than Friday, September 16, 2011. Please see the nomination form or call (972) 470-0892 for additional details. Johnson publicly will recognize CVC recipients during a special ceremony in November. In addition, an in-depth interview of each honoree may be conducted and forwarded to the Veterans History Project to be added to the Library of Congress collection should the veteran choose to participate. For more information regarding this project, visit http://www.loc.gov/vets/. Today’s special, patriotic event coincided with the 45th anniversary of Johnson’s shoot down that began almost 2,500 days of captivity in Vietnam. To mark the fateful date, Johnson shared his moving P.O.W. story with the crowd. A Celebration of Freedom also featured appearances by two fellow Air Force veterans, former Dallas Cowboys football star Chad Hennings and the City of Parker’s Mayor Joe Cordina. Attendees participated in a patriotic sing-along led by the Canyon Creek choir and orchestra and saluted veterans in the crowd during a rendition of The Armed Forces Medley prior to learning about the new Congressional Veteran Commendation program. Congressman Sam Johnson served in the United States Air Force for 29 years as a highly decorated fighter pilot. On April 16, 1966, enemy fire shot down his F-4 Phantom in North Vietnam. He was then held as a P.O.W. for nearly seven years, over half that time in solitary confinement. In 2009 the prestigious Congressional Medal of Honor Society bestowed Johnson their highest civilian accolade, the National Patriot Award, for his tireless work on behalf of the troops, veterans, and freedom. Johnson chronicles his P.O.W. experience in solitary confinement in his autobiography, Captive Warriors. The book details the stories of the self-named “Alcatraz Gang,” including great American patriots such as Jim Stockdale and Jeremiah Denton, who blinked the letters of the word “torture” in Morse Code to alert Americans of their terrible treatment. To view that, go to http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BgelmcOdS38. To learn more about the war heroes Johnson detailed in “Room 7” who emerged captivity alive, go to http://www.nampows.org/room_7.html. Johnson serves as a Regent for the world famous Smithsonian Institution, where he represents the Board of Regents on the Advisory Board of the National Air and Space Museum. In 2011, he accepted the “Freedom of Flight” award at the Living Legends of Aviation Awards, dubbed the Oscars of aviation, from renowned air show pilot Bob Hoover. A decorated combat veteran and war hero, Sam was awarded two Silver Stars, two Legions of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross, one Bronze Star with Valor, two Purple Hearts, four Air Medals, and three Outstanding Unit Awards. As a federal legislator, Johnson works tirelessly on behalf of U.S. military personnel and veterans. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
04.14.2011	To mark the anniversary of his shoot down that started almost 2,500 days in captivity in Vietnam, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will launch the Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC) program aimed at recognizing Third District military men and women for their outstanding service to our nation. Johnson will make the announcement at A Celebration of Freedom on Sunday, April 17th at 2pm in the sanctuary of Canyon Creek Baptist Church located at 2800 Custer Parkway in Richardson. In addition to providing specific details about the recognition and nomination process, Johnson will share his stories of his time as a Prisoner of War. The event is open to the public and the media. Veterans and families are encouraged to attend this free patriotic program. “We are the land of the free because of the brave. We owe a debt of gratitude to our veterans. I hope folks will come out for this special time when we pay tribute to those who have worn the uniform. It will be fun for the whole family and a true celebration of freedom,” said Johnson. The Congressional Veteran Commendation (CVC), in conjunction with the Veterans History Project sponsored by the Library of Congress, was created to honor the distinguished veterans of the Third District of Texas and to preserve their stories for future generations of Americans. To be considered for this award, the nominee must reside in the Third District. Johnson will publicly recognize those individuals slated to receive the Congressional Veteran Commendation at a later date. If the recipient so desires, an in-depth interview will be conducted with honorees and that interview will be forwarded to the Veterans History Project to be added to the Library of Congress collection. For more information regarding the project, visit http://www.loc.gov/vets/. April 16, 1966, is the day that changed the life of then Lt. Col. Sam Johnson. After talking with his wife, Johnson left for his 25th mission over Vietnam. Within minutes of taking off in his F-4, he encountered enemy fire, ejected from his plane, and was immediately captured in the middle of a rice paddy. On that day Johnson became a Prisoner of War for nearly seven years, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. The details of the program and the nomination form will be announced at this event. For more information, contact the Third District office at 972-470-0892. Sunday, April 17, 2011 2:00 p.m. A Celebration of Freedom – The Congressional Veteran Commendation Kickoff Anniversary of the shoot down of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson Canyon Creek Baptist Church Sanctuary 2800 Custer Parkway Richardson
04.14.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) voted for a bill to cut government spending by $315 billion from the federal budget over the next 10 years — the largest non-defense spending cut in our history - tax-hike and earmark-free. The measure, which funds the government through September, passed by a vote of 260-167. “Refreshingly absent from this budget plan, regardless of your political bent, are all of the stories about special interest spending gems tucked away like boll weevil research, ice skate warming huts and alpine slide funding. This was truly a discussion about how much LESS to spend. It reflects a refreshing change of pace,” said Johnson. “In short, the Washington establishment has been put on notice: the days of outrageous spending are over.” For this budget, House Republicans, who control over one half of one-third of the government – facing a Democratic-controlled Senate and Democratic-controlled White House – forced an agreement that cuts nearly $40 billion, compared with FY 2010 spending levels. This means the federal government will spend $78.5 billion less this year than what President Barack Obama proposed. The total overall spending cut would have been even higher – nearly $45 billion – had Republicans not fought for and secured a $5 billion increase in defense spending to guarantee that our troops on the ground have the support they need to accomplish their multiple missions. The federal budget includes a big win for the Lone Star State; it strikes a provision that would have held back $830 million in education money from the state of Texas, known as the “Doggett Amendment,” named after the Austin Democrat, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett. His measure aimed to withhold an estimated $830 million in education money. “It’s terrific that $830 million for our students, teachers, and local school districts will come to Texas – where it belonged all along,” continued Johnson. In addition, tomorrow Johnson will vote for the “Path to Prosperity,” House GOP 2012 budget blueprint. The plan cuts $6.2 trillion in spending by returning to pre-2008 spending levels, and fostering economic growth by removing debt-fueled uncertainty and advancing pro-growth tax reforms. “Since this President took office, government spending has exploded by 80%. Clearly the budgets of American families haven’t grown by 80%. If the American family can get by with less, Washington should too,” said Johnson. “Washington needs to stop spending money it doesn’t have on programs that do not work,” concluded Johnson, who represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
04.13.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) introduced legislation to protect seniors from identity theft. “It makes no sense that people are told not to carry their Social Security card in order to protect their identity, but then every senior citizen is told they must carry their Medicare card, which displays their Social Security number,” said Johnson, the Chairman of the Social Security Subcommittee on Ways and Means. “The risk of ID theft goes far beyond the card being stolen. Every medical record at nursing homes, hospitals, and doctor offices has a Social Security number written on it. The wholesale amount of Social Security numbers that are available to identity thieves is staggering and completely unnecessary,” continued Johnson. Johnson introduced the Medicare Identity Theft Prevention Act, which would remove Social Security numbers from Medicare cards, with fellow Texan, Democrat Lloyd Doggett (25th Dist.-Texas). “With identity thieves becoming more sophisticated, a little prevention can save a lot of heartache,” said Doggett. “Forty-seven million Americans carry in their wallet or purse something that makes them needlessly more vulnerable to identity theft– their Medicare card. The financial security seniors have spent a lifetime building could be lost to theft in an instant. This legislation would require Medicare to take do what private companies and other government agencies have already done to protect the seniors’ identities.” In a related matter, Johnson chaired the Social Security Subcommittee hearing on “The role of Social Security Numbers in identity theft and options to guard their privacy.” He delivered the following opening statement. Prepared remarks follow: “Identity theft is a lasting and devastating crime. Victims spend years having to prove who they are while monitoring credit reports, fending off collection agencies or the IRS for charges they never made or wages they never earned. Some are picked up by law enforcement for crimes committed by the ID thief using their name. Americans have every reason to be concerned. “According to the Congressional Research Service, in 2009 ID theft claimed over 11 million victims and cost consumers about $50 billion annually. The Privacy Rights Clearinghouse reports the total number of known records that have been compromised due to security breaches beginning in January 2005 through last week topped 500 million. “Just yesterday, in my own State of Texas, the Comptroller’s office announced the largest security breach in State history. Some 3.5 million personal files were mistakenly left on a computer file available to the public, putting current and retired State employees at risk. “Even though Social Security numbers were created to track earnings for determining eligibility and benefit amounts under Social Security, these numbers are widely used as personal identifiers. Some of the uses of these numbers in preventing fraud are vital to many commercial and government operations. Examples include enforcing child support, aiding law enforcement, and compiling information from many sources to help ensure the accuracy of credit reports. “But unfortunately, as pointed out by GAO in testimony before this Subcommittee, Social Security numbers have become the ‘identifier of choice’ and are used for every day business transactions. In fact, in their April 2007 report, the President’s Identity Theft Task Force identified the Social Security number as the “most valuable commodity for an identity thief.” “Even worse, identity theft continues to threaten our national security. As said in the 9/11 Commission Report, ‘Fraud in identification documents is no longer just a problem of theft. At many entry points to vulnerable facilities, including gates for boarding aircraft, sources of identification are the last opportunity to ensure that people are who they say they are and to check whether they are terrorists.’ “Congress must get to work on identity theft, and limiting access to Social Security numbers is an excellent place to start. For years, the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security has been working on this problem in a bipartisan way. We have approved bills to protect the privacy of Social Security numbers and prevent identity theft since the 106th Congress when it first approved the Social Security Number Privacy and Identity Theft Prevention Act. That legislation was introduced on a bipartisan basis by then-Subcommittee Chairman Clay Shaw and then-ranking member, the late Bob Matsui. “Despite numerous attempts, Congress has not been able to close the deal. Sadly, Social Security number use is so widespread across so many industries that the Committees of jurisdiction have yet to reach agreement on the right approach to limiting their use. Still, I believe this Committee can make progress. “To that end, today I am reintroducing with Mr. Doggett the Medicare Identity Theft Prevention Act, a bill to remove the Social Security number from the Medicare card. It makes no sense that people are told not to carry their Social Security card in order to protect their identity, but then every senior citizen is told they must carry their Medicare card, which displays their Social Security number. “The risk of ID theft goes far beyond the card being stolen. Every medical record at nursing homes, hospitals, and doctor offices has a Social Security number written on it. The wholesale amount of Social Security numbers that are available to identity thieves is staggering and completely unnecessary. “The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services have refused to act. If they won’t do what’s right for America’s seniors, we will. I thank my colleague from Texas for his work on this important issue. I urge my colleagues to support this bill as well. “The problem of identity theft is not going to be addressed with one single piece of legislation, but protecting Medicare cards carried by 47 million Americans is an excellent place to start. I will say that if the military can remove SSNs, CMS should be no different. I look forward to hearing from each of our witnesses, and thank them in advance for sharing with us their experiences and their recommendations.”
04.12.2011	On Wednesday, April 13th at 12:00 p.m. EDT, Dr. Jack Graham, pastor of Prestonwood Baptist Church in Plano, Texas, will open the U.S. House of Representatives in prayer when he serves as the Guest Chaplain for the day. U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) nominated Graham to this honorary roll. “I consider it an honor and privilege to deliver the opening prayer for the U.S. House of Representatives. I am humbled to take part in this practice with roots dating back to the early days of the Congress, and I am grateful for the invitation on behalf of my good friend, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson, a true servant and American hero,” stated Graham. Dr. Graham was ordained to the Gospel ministry in 1970, and has a master of divinity degree with honors and a doctor of ministry degree in Church and Proclamation from Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary. Dr. Graham has served two terms as president of the Southern Baptist Convention, the largest American Protestant denomination, with 16 million members and as president of the SBC Pastor’s Conference. He is a noted author of numerous books. His most recent book, Powering Up, was released in Spring 2009. Jack Graham’s passionate, biblical teaching is also seen and heard across the country and throughout the world on PowerPoint Ministries. Through broadcasts, online sermons and e-mail messages, he addresses relevant, everyday issues that are prevalent in our culture and that strike a chord with audiences worldwide. With about 30,000 members, Prestonwood continues to grow. In 2006, the church added a second location—Prestonwood North—in a burgeoning area 20 miles north of Plano. Each Congress every U.S. Representative may nominate up to one guest chaplain. Members of the Clergy interested in this program should visit http://chaplain.house.gov/congressional/sponsor_chaplain.html. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Wednesday, April 13, 2011 12:00 p.m. EDT Opening of the U.S. House of Representatives in prayer Dr. Jack Graham of Prestonwood Baptist Church U.S. House of Representatives *Check local listings for C-SPAN to watch House proceedings
04.07.2011	On Thursday, April 28th the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host “Mobile Office Hours” to visit with constituents. The current cities hosting “Mobile Office Hours” include: Dallas, Frisco, Plano, Richardson, and Sachse. “Third District residents regularly contact the office regarding federal issues and Mobile Office Hours give my staff the opportunity to provide constituents direct access to federal representatives appointed to work their behalf,” said Johnson. Staff from the Congressman’s office host regular “Mobile Office Hours” throughout the Third Congressional District to meet with constituents. During the “Mobile Office Hours” the Third District staff gladly will offer assistance with problems regarding federal issues or agencies, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration or the Internal Revenue Service. They also may help facilitate overseas adoptions. Constituents are invited to stop by and share their comments about federal issues in Congress. No advance appointments are necessary. If a person would like assistance with a federal agency, he or she should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. In the event people cannot attend the “Mobile Office Hours” in their city, residents are encouraged to contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Thursday, April 28 DALLAS Richland College El Paso Hall 12800 Abrams Road 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. FRISCO George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Front Lobby 6101 Frisco Square Boulevard 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. PLANO Collin College Lobby Area Spring Creek Campus 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. RICHARDSON Civic Center West Alcove Area 411 West Arapaho Road 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. SACHSE Senior Activity Center Main Entrance 3815-A Sachse Road 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m.
03.29.2011	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) is proud to invite Third District families to the North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum on Saturday, April 2nd at Gateway Church in North Richland Hills. Johnson is a joint sponsor of the North Texas Service Academies Forum and Information Session which provides interested students in grades eight through twelve an opportunity to learn more about our nations’ service academies, their requirements for admission and the selection process. North Texas students, parents and educators will be able to hear from and meet with representatives from all five academies (U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Coast Guard Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy), as well as current academy cadets and representatives from many North Texas Congressional offices. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Those interested in attending or who have more questions are encouraged to call Congressman Johnson’s office at 972-470-0892. Saturday, April 2, 2011 WHAT: North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum WHEN: 8:00 AM – 12:00 PM (Registration starts at 7:30am) WHERE: Gateway Church – NRH Campus 7501 Davis Blvd. North Richland Hills
03.28.2011	On Wednesday, April 13th at 12:00 p.m. EDT, Dr. Jack Graham, pastor of Prestonwood Baptist Church in Plano, Texas, will open the U.S. House of Representatives in prayer when he serves as the Guest Chaplain for the day. U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) nominated Graham to this honorary roll. “I consider it an honor and privilege to deliver the opening prayer for the U.S. House of Representatives. I am humbled to take part in this practice with roots dating back to the early days of the Congress, and I am grateful for the invitation on behalf of my good friend, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson, a true servant and American hero,” stated Graham. Dr. Graham was ordained to the Gospel ministry in 1970, and has a master of divinity degree with honors and a doctor of ministry degree in Church and Proclamation from Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary. Dr. Graham has served two terms as president of the Southern Baptist Convention, the largest American Protestant denomination, with 16 million members and as president of the SBC Pastor’s Conference. He is a noted author of numerous books. His most recent book, Powering Up, was released in Spring 2009. Jack Graham’s passionate, biblical teaching is also seen and heard across the country and throughout the world on PowerPoint Ministries. Through broadcasts, online sermons and e-mail messages, he addresses relevant, everyday issues that are prevalent in our culture and that strike a chord with audiences worldwide. With about 30,000 members, Prestonwood continues to grow. In 2006, the church added a second location—Prestonwood North—in a burgeoning area 20 miles north of Plano. Each Congress every U.S. Representative may nominate up to one guest chaplain. Members of the Clergy interested in this program should visit http://chaplain.house.gov/congressional/sponsor_chaplain.html. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Wednesday, April 13, 2011 12:00 p.m. EDT Opening of the U.S. House of Representatives in prayer Dr. Jack Graham of Prestonwood Baptist Church U.S. House of Representatives *Check local listings for C-SPAN to watch House proceedings
03.21.2011	To mark the one year anniversary of ObamaCare, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced his new legislation to protect patients and hospitals from government-controlled healthcare by giving patients more choices and more control and rekindling the vital doctor-patient relationship. Johnson’s legislation, H.R. 1186, repeals the ban on the development and expansion of physician-owned hospitals – sometimes called specialty hospitals – going back to March 23, 2010. Physician-owned hospitals improve the quality of life, the quality of care and the cost of care in 285 communities in 34 states. As a result of the law’s restrictions aimed to stifle competition and force people into certain types of care, many physician-owned hospitals had to stop or do away with expansion plans, dramatically impacting patients and hospitals, especially in Texas. According to the Texas Physicians Hospitals Advocacy Center, patients access quality care in roughly 80 physician-owned hospitals, which employ over 22,000 people and added $2.3 billion to the Texas economy. Texas boasts the largest collection of physician-owned hospitals. With over two dozen facilities, the Dallas-Fort Worth (DFW) area has more physician-owned hospitals than any other region in the nation; these hospitals in the DFW area employ over 5,000 Texans, have over 4,765 credentialed physicians, and have over 575 beds. The Third Congressional District is home to many award winning facilities: Baylor Frisco Medical Center; Forest Park Medical Center – Dallas; The Hospital at Craig Ranch – McKinney; Integra Rehab Hospital – Plano; Methodist McKinney Hospital; Texas Health Plano Presbyterian Center for Diagnostics & Surgery; Reliant Rehab – North Texas (Richardson); The Heart HOSPITAL Baylor Plano; and Vista Hospital of Dallas. “Government-run healthcare jeopardizes the doctor-patient relationship on so many levels. One example is how ObamaCare banned the expansion of hospitals where doctors, not bureaucrats, make key medical decisions. My bill would abolish this absurd idea so patients can choose the doctor they want, the hospital they want, and the care that they want - from the medical experts whom they know and trust,” said Johnson, who serves on the Ways and Means Health Subcommittee. “Doctors and nurses who practice in physician-owned hospitals usually boast the best credentials and the most experience in their field of medicine. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid (CMS) released national data, which shows significantly better outcomes for patients at hospitals owned and operated by physicians, rather than those under the control of bureaucrats and corporations,” continued Johnson. Throughout history physicians have driven innovation in healthcare. Physician ownership and management of hospitals has a distinguished track record in the United States starting with some of the earliest hospitals, built and managed by renowned physicians, like the Mayo Brothers. Physician-owned hospitals come in a variety of forms: children’s hospitals, traditional general care hospitals, hospitals specializing in and excelling in certain specialties, and joint ventures partnering with traditional non-profit hospitals. Over time physicians lost some of their leadership role to hospital administrators and corporate organizations who took control of hospitals – and care – to allegedly control costs. The common thread that unites physician-owned hospitals is that doctors govern and control the decisions made. As an added benefit, doctors can bypass bureaucracy and eliminate red tape often created by administrative red tape and corporate bottom lines. “Texas physician hospitals are transforming health care by offering patients high quality and safe health care. Congressman Johnson's bill will ensure that Texas patients continue having access to this innovative model,” said Bobby Hillert, Executive Director for the Texas Physician Hospitals Advocacy Center. “Ask yourself this. Would you rather have a doctor help you make medical decisions or would you rather have a hospital administrator tell you what you can or can’t do? This is about returning freedom, choice, and free enterprise to the American healthcare system,” concluded Johnson, who supports defunding and repealing ObamaCare. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
03.17.2011	This week Plano and Dallas Firefighters visited Capitol Hill and met with U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas). They discussed Social Security and health care, among other things. Johnson thanked them for their service and confided his utmost respect for first responders. “Just like the troops, y’all take care of us every minute of every day. We’re much better off as a country and as a community with the blessing of your protection,” stated Johnson, a 29 year Air Force veteran and former Prisoner of War for nearly seven years. The men were in town for a national legislative conference. Pictured left to right: Chris Owens of McKinney (PFD), Chris Jefferson (PFD), Congressman Johnson, Doug Dickerson (DFD) and D.D. Pierce of Plano (DFD).
03.17.2011	To cut spending and help balance the budget, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) voted to end federal spending on National Public Radio (NPR). The measure passed the House by a vote of 228 to 192 and now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. President Obama’s bipartisan debt commission proposed ending these unnecessary subsidies to public broadcasting. “Americans struggling to make ends meet shouldn’t be forced to fund NPR when there are already countless options for educational and entertainment programming. I believe in freedom and free enterprise. NPR claims that it only gets 2 percent of their funding from taxpayers and so these programs can and will be able to find a way to stand on their own,” said Johnson. The bill, H.R. 1076, would prohibit federal funding of National Public Radio. The initiative also prohibits local public stations from using federal money to pay NPR dues. Last month Johnson voted for sweeping budget cuts for the remainder of this budget year that included taking back some $86 million budgeted for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, the parent organization of NPR. The Senate failed to pass this spending bill. Ranked as the number one most conservative Member of Congress by the nonpartisan National Journal, Johnson wants to cut spending, balance the budget, pay down the debt and reduce the deficit. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
03.16.2011	On Tuesday, March 29th, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host “mobile office hours” to visit with constituents. The current cities hosting “mobile office hours” include: Allen, Garland, McKinney, Plano and Rowlett. Staff from the Congressman’s office host regular “mobile office hours” throughout the Third Congressional District to meet with constituents. During the “mobile office hours” the Third District staff gladly will offer assistance with problems regarding federal issues or agencies, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration or the Internal Revenue Service. They also may help facilitate overseas adoptions. Constituents are invited to stop by and share their comments about federal issues in Congress. No advance appointments are necessary. If a person would like assistance with a federal agency, he or she should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. In the event people cannot attend the “mobile office hours” in their city, residents are encouraged to contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Tuesday, March 29 Allen City Hall Front Entrance 305 Century Parkway 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. Garland Nicholson Memorial Library Front Entrance 625 Austin Street 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. McKinney Collin College Central Park Campus Lobby Area 2200 W. University Drive 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. Plano Christopher A. Parr Library Front Lobby 6200 Windhaven Parkway 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Rowlett Public Library Front Meeting Room 3900 Main Street 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m.
03.15.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took to the floor of the U.S. House to call on the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to increase the 2011 gas mileage rate deduction and to advocate a comprehensive all-of-the-above strategy to reduce the pain at the pump. This marks Johnson’s second floor speech since Johnson sent a letter to IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman earlier this month with the mileage increase request. Currently the IRS mileage rate is 51 cents for business travel; the medical and moving rate is 19 cents. (The charitable rate of 14 cents is set by law.) The IRS increased the optional mileage rates due to spiking gas prices in 2005 after Hurricane Katrina and in 2008. To read a copy of Johnson’s letter to IRS Commissioner Douglas H. Shulman, go to SamJohnson.house.gov. Constituents interested in sharing their story about how a higher mileage rate would improve their quality of life are encouraged to call the District Office at 972-470-0892. To watch Johnson’s floor speech, go to his official You Tube channel at http://www.youtube.com/user/RepSamJohnson#p/u/0/K9BaKomgSfg. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Johnson’s remarks follow: “Soaring gas prices are impacting Americans all over the country. With gas costing nearly four bucks a gallon, drivers are forced to rethink how they get around. “With families and businesses tightening their budgets, rising gas prices are exactly what they don’t need, exactly when they don’t need it. “This is why I’m calling on the IRS to increase the gas mileage deduction, like it did in 2005 and ‘08. “To ease the pain at the pump taxpayers want, need, and deserve this fair, simple, common-sense solution and for us to tap America’s home-grown energy resources right here – right now. “Call the White House at 202-456-1414 and tell them to get with it.”
03.14.2011	On Saturday night U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the winners of the 2011 Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery,” during a free exhibit and awards ceremony held at the McKinney Performing Arts Center. A junior at McKinney Boyd High School, Christa Olbrey, beat out the other 48 participating artists and took home first prize for her acrylic painting Three Pots on a Bench. Olbrey’s piece soon will travel to Washington, D.C., for display in the United States Capitol for one year. Olbrey also won free roundtrip airfare to the nation’s capital, courtesy of Southwest Airlines, to attend the 2011 Congressional Art Competition unveiling ceremony in June. “This year’s art competition participants are a talented bunch,” said Johnson. “It’s my pleasure to congratulate the winners. They stood out from a dynamic and crowded pack. Every student who submitted a piece deserves recognition for their creativity and hard work.” The 2011 Congressional Art Competition honorees are: First Place: Christa Olbrey, McKinney Boyd High School, junior, Three Pots on a Bench Second Place: Zarina Karapetyar, Plano East Senior High School, senior, Still Life Third Place: Taylor Ferch, Prestonwood Christian Academy, sophomore, Untitled Fourth Place: Julia Kerwin, Plano East Senior High School, senior, Dying Fabric Man Fifth Place: Nickolai Lanier, Allen High School, junior, Innocence and Remembrance Sixth Place: Eunice Lim, Liberty High School, sophomore, I am Jubilee People’s Choice Award: Christa Olbrey, Three Pots on a Bench Honorable Mentions: Madison Cowan of Dallas, Carson Davenport of McKinney, Grace Hong of Frisco, Cindy Kuang of McKinney, Ali McGee of McKinney, Katie Mendez of McKinney, Anna Mihaly of Plano, Laura Mikytuck of McKinney, Connor Purnell of McKinney, Marlee Walker of Plano, Regan Weinrich of Plano, and Tiffany Weng of Plano. For members of the community unable to attend Saturday’s exhibit, several opportunities to view the art remain. All eligible entries are displayed via photograph in the “Multimedia” section of Johnson’s website, www.samjohnson.house.gov. These photos were used for online public voting to determine the winner of the 2011 People’s Choice Award. Additionally, over the next six weeks, the winning entries will tour the Third Congressional District in Johnson’s annual traveling art exhibit. Dates and locations are listed below. March 14-28, 2011 Allen Event Center-Concourse 190 Stacy Road Allen March 28-April 11, 2011 Dr. Pepper Arena-Star Stuff display case 2601 Avenue of the Stars Frisco April 11-25, 2011 UTD McDermott Library-Main Entrance 800 W. Campbell Road Richardson April 25-May 9, 2011 Baylor Medical Center-Main Entrance 4700 Alliance Boulevard Plano Additional information regarding the annual Congressional Art Competition can be found in the “Students” section of the Congressman’s website. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
03.10.2011	The National Federation of Independent Business, the nation’s leading small-business association, extended thanks today to Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) for his efforts to increase the Internal Revenue Service 2011 gas mileage rates. In a letter to IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman, Congressman Johnson requested the 2011 mileage rates be increased to reflect increasing transportation costs to small businesses due to rising gasoline prices. “Small businesses are being seriously strained by the rising cost of gas,” said NFIB Senior Vice President of Public Policy Susan Eckerly. “Congressman Johnson’s effort to relieve the burden of rising transportation costs is greatly appreciated by small businesses, and we look forward to working with Congressman Johnson and the IRS to ensure a fair and appropriate mileage reimbursement rate.” Fuel prices have increased by nearly 20 percent since the IRS announced the 2011 rates. Prices are surging today at a historic pace, increasing transportation costs for small businesses in the Dallas area and around the country. Gasoline prices are a top issue of concern for small businesses. According to the most recent survey of NFIB small business membership, the cost of gasoline, diesel, and other sources of energy ranks second of 75 issues of concern.
03.07.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) invited constituents to cast their vote online for the People’s Choice Award in the annual art competition, An Artistic Discovery, when he announced the travelling art exhibit dates and locations. The deadline for constituents to submit their selection via email for the People’s Choice Award is 12:00p.m. CST on Friday, March 12th. The free travelling art exhibit will visit Allen, Frisco, Richardson and Plano over the next few months. (See details below.) People may view all artwork submitted at SamJohnson.house.gov in the multimedia section/ photo library. Only constituents may vote by sending an email to artistic.discovtx03@mail.house.gov that includes the number, name of the artwork and artist as well as the voter’s full name and mailing address to verify residency. People may vote up to ten times per work of art (votes after that will not be counted) and may vote for multiple pieces. In the past, only attendees at the exhibit could vote for the People’s Choice Award. The online voting coupled with the extensive travelling art exhibit (see details below) mark two new ways Johnson has expanded the reach of the extraordinary exhibition into the community in 2011. “These kids pour their hearts and souls into their work. Of course I want to do all that I can to share their art with the community so as many people as possible can enjoy it,” said Johnson. The competition was established in 1982 to recognize and encourage the artistic talent of students across the nation, as well as in each Congressional District; since the Congressional Art Competition began, more than 650,000 students have participated. All submitted pieces will be showcased on Johnson’s website and at a public art show on Saturday, March 12th from 7:00 p.m. to 8:30 p.m., in the McKinney Performing Arts Center located at 111 N. Tennessee Street. In an exciting awards ceremony, Johnson will announce first through sixth place and a number of honorable mentions, including the People’s Choice Award. The event is free and open to the public. The winning entry from the Third Congressional District of Texas will be displayed in the Capitol in Washington, D.C., for one year as part of an exhibition comprised of artwork from across the country. The first place winner will also receive airline tickets to the winners’ reception in Washington, D.C. March 12th 7:00pm to 8:30pm Congressional art competition exhibit and awards ceremony McKinney Performing Arts Center 111 North Tennessee Street McKinney March 14-28, 2011 Allen Event Center-Concourse 190 Stacy Road Allen March 28-April 11, 2011 Dr. Pepper Arena-Star Stuff display case 2601 Avenue of the Stars Frisco April 11-25, 2011 UTD McDermott Library-Main Entrance 800 W. Campbell Road Richardson April 25-May 9, 2011 Baylor Medical Center-Main Entrance 4700 Alliance Boulevard Plano
03.03.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) voted to repeal the job-crushing 1099 regulation imposed on small businesses under ObamaCare. The Small Business Paperwork Mandate Elimination Act of 2011, H.R. 4, passed by a vote of 314 to 112, with the help of 76 Democrats. The measure now heads to the Senate for consideration. Specifically, the House voted to repeal the onerous 1099 information reporting mandate cleverly hidden in the 2,409 page healthcare law. Originally set to begin in 2012, this provision would require businesses to report to the IRS any purchases made over $600 for goods and services from other businesses. “Small businesses should not be forced to sacrifice precious time and money to comply with this unnecessary mandate to pay for healthcare rationing,” said Johnson. In the past, Form 1099 requirements have even been imposed on taxpayers who are not engaged in business activity. Individuals and families who rent property, whether it’s a vacation home, a condo, or a spare bedroom, are subject to complex new filing requirements for everyone they pay more than $600 in a year, such as plumbers, lawn services, or pool cleaners. Unlike the provision in the health bill, this reporting expansion took effect on January 1, 2011. H.R. 4 repeals this measure as well. A recent National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) Small Business Survey found that tax paperwork costs $74 an hour and is the most costly federal burden for small businesses. “As the new House majority continues to bring forth common-sense reforms that will rein in spending and shrink the deficit, Congress must protect the backbone of our economy: small businesses,” concluded Johnson, who represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Johnson is a member of the House Committee on Ways and Means where he serves as the Chairman of the Social Security Subcommittee and sits on the Health Subcommittee. In the 112th Congress, House leaders appointed him to the Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT).
03.01.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) invited area residents to attend a special exhibit showcasing the work of Third District high school students participating in the 2011 Congressional Art Competition – An Artistic Discovery. The event is free and open to the public. “Please plan to come out to support the area’s young artists and congratulate them for their hard work at this free community event,” said Johnson. The exhibit takes place on Saturday, March 12 from 7:00 p.m. – 8:30 p.m. in the McKinney Performing Arts Center located at 111 N. Tennessee Street. All submitted entries will be on display. In an exciting awards ceremony, Johnson will announce first through sixth place and a number of honorable mentions. The winning piece will then travel to Washington, D.C., to hang in the United States Capitol for one year. Those unable to attend this event may view the top entries during a traveling exhibit scheduled to tour the Third District in March and April. Details regarding this traveling art display will be released soon. Additional information regarding the annual Congressional Art Competition can be found in the “Students” section of the Congressman’s website at www.samjohnson.house.gov. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
02.28.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the names of students he has nominated to U.S. Service Academies for the Class of 2015. The academies will make formal offers of appointment this spring. If selected, the students will start classes in July. A 29-year Air Force veteran and former Prisoner of War in Vietnam for nearly seven years, Johnson nominated the best and brightest students from all across the Third District. “Our nation’s first-rate service academies offer students a unique opportunity to obtain an excellent education, serve their country and gain valuable leadership skills that will guide them in their future,” said Johnson. “These service academies are tough but I know that these kids can handle it. They are the cream of the crop.” With the significant number of applicants each year, Congressman Johnson employs the “competitive” method of nomination. An independent selection board, appointed by Congressman Johnson and comprised of Air Force, Naval, Merchant Marine and Military Academy graduates, selects ten candidates for each vacancy. Third District residents between the ages of 17 and 23 were eligible to apply to service academies if they met eligibility requirements in leadership, physical aptitude, scholarship and character. The selection of nominees was based on academic performance, exhibited by class rank, SAT or ACT scores and grade point average. Other important factors evaluated by the board included participation in extracurricular and civic activities as well as athletic aptitude. Students interested in learning more about the service academies for the class starting in July 2016 or beyond should contact Lori McMahon in the Congressman’s office at 972-470-0892. In addition, every fall the Congressman hosts a free Academy Information Session with all branches represented. Nominating Third District students for the nation’s service academies means a great deal to Johnson, a decorated combat veteran. In 2009 the prestigious Congressional Medal of Honor Society bestowed Johnson their highest civilian accolade, the National Patriot Award, for his tireless work on behalf of the troops, veterans, and freedom. In 2011, Johnson accepted the “Freedom of Flight” award at the Living Legends of Aviation Awards, dubbed the Oscars of aviation, from renowned air show pilot Bob Hoover. The Third Congressional District includes portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Class of 2015 Nominations for U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson United States Air Force Academy 1. Carpenter, Elizabeth - From Murphy, Texas, and attends Plano East Senior High School. 2. Dridge, Emma - From Allen, Texas, and attends Allen High School. 3. Hanks, Bradley - From McKinney, Texas, and graduated from McKinney Boyd. Attends the University of Texas at Dallas. 4. Hays, Joseph - From Plano, Texas, and attends Plano West Senior High School. 5. Herrera, Jeffrey - From Murphy, Texas, and attends Wylie High School. 6. Jarvie, Michael - From Plano, Texas, and attends Trinity Christian Academy in Addison, Texas. 7. Latch, Charles - From Plano, Texas, and attends Plano West Senior High School. 8. Palmer, Corbin - From Frisco, Texas, and graduated from Centennial High School. Attends the U.S. Air Force Academy Preparatory School. 9. Russell, Seth - From Plano, Texas, and attends Plano Senior High School. 10. Snowden, Michael - From McKinney, Texas, and attends McKinney High School. United States Military Academy – West Point 1. Balda, Blake - From Plano, Texas, and attends Jesuit College Preparatory School of Dallas. 2. Burnstad, Brianna - From Plano, Texas, and attends Plano Senior High School. 3. Carringer, Kevin - From Plano, Texas, and attends Plano West Senior High School. 4. Gordon, Christopher - From Plano, Texas, and graduated from Plano West Senior High School. Attends Boston University. 5. Roberto, Michael - From Plano, Texas, and attends Cistercian Preparatory School. 6. Smith, Shelbi - From Garland, Texas, and attends Garland High School. 7. Sneed, Andrew - From Plano, Texas, and graduated from Plano Senior High School. Attends Stephen F. Austin State University. 8. Wang, Stephanie - From Plano, Texas, and attends Liberty High School in Frisco. 9. Williams, Riley - From Allen, Texas, and graduated from Allen High School. Attends Austin Community College. 10. Womblt, Eric - From Frisco, Texas, and attends Centennial High School. United States Merchant Marine Academy 1. Boyson, Emily - From Garland, Texas, and attends Bishop Lynch High School. 2. Cummings, Ethan - From Plano, Texas, and is homeschooled. 3. Griggs, Jared - From Plano, Texas, and attends Plano East Senior High School. 4. Hines, Zach - From Allen, Texas, and attends Allen High School. 5. Murzyn, Christopher - From Plano, Texas, and attends Plano West Senior High School. 6. McMenamin, Sean - From Plano, Texas, and attends Liberty High School. 7. Rezaie, Kioumars - From Plano, Texas, and attends Plano West Senior High School. 8. Rigsby, Amanda - From Plano, Texas, and attends Plano East Senior High School. 9. Teachenor, Rex - From Richardson, Texas, and attends Wentworth Military Academy. 10. Willcox, Conner - From McKinney, Texas, and attends McKinney Boyd High School. United States Naval Academy - Annapolis 1. Boyson, Emily - From Garland, Texas, and attends Bishop Lynch High School. 2. Casson, Cameron - From Allen, Texas, and attends Allen High School. 3. Griggs, Jared - From Plano, Texas, and attends Plano East Senior High School. 4. Hebig, Christopher - From Plano, Texas, and attends Jesuit College Prep School. 5. Herrera, Sara - From McKinney, Texas, and attends McKinney High School. 6. Kennington, James - From Plano, Texas, and attends Plano West Senior High School. 7. Lowman, Amber - From McKinney, Texas, and attends McKinney High School. 8. Martinez, Ryan - From Plano, Texas, and attends Cistercian Prep School. 9. Murzyn, Christopher - From Plano, Texas, and attends Plano West Senior High School. 10. Vasquez, Lourdes - From, Plano, Texas, and attends Plano West Senior High School.
02.24.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after the renowned nonpartisan publication, National Journal, named him the most conservative Member of Congress in 2010 purely based on his voting record. During that time Johnson voted against ObamaCare and unbridled government spending, among other things. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. “The great people of the Third Congressional District have spoken loud and clear. They want a smarter and smaller government that spends less, taxes less and borrows less – for our children and grandchildren. It is a deep privilege to serve and represent them. This top conservative ranking reflects that and I consider it a badge of honor.”
02.17.2011	On the 38 year anniversary of his homecoming from Vietnam, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) presided over the House of Representatives to lead a moment of silence to honor the troops. In a special showing of bipartisan support, Johnson received multiple standing ovations from his colleagues. Speaker John Boehner (8th Dist.-Ohio) took to the House and said a few words to celebrate the anniversary. Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran, spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. On this day in 1973, Johnson returned home to Texas after his captivity as part of Operation Homecoming. For a photo of Johnson embracing his wife, Shirley, for the first time on the tarmac at Sheppard Air Force Base, please contact McCall Avery or Haley Creel at 202-225-4201. Johnson recounts the details of his POW experience in his autobiography, Captive Warriors. A decorated war hero, Johnson was awarded two Silver Stars, two Legions of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross, one Bronze Star with Valor, two Purple Hearts, four Air Medals, and three Outstanding Unit Awards. In 2009 the prestigious Congressional Medal of Honor Society bestowed Johnson their highest civilian accolade, the National Patriot Award, for his tireless work on behalf of the troops, veterans, and freedom. In 2011, Johnson accepted the “Freedom of Flight” award at the Living Legends of Aviation Awards, dubbed the Oscars of aviation, from renowned air show pilot Bob Hoover. Johnson serves as a Regent for the world famous Smithsonian Institution, where he represents the Board of Regents on the Advisory Board of the National Air and Space Museum. To watch Johnson presiding over the House, go to his YouTube channel, http://www.youtube.com/user/RepSamJohnson.
02.17.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took two whacks at ObamaCare when he voted to repeal the onerous and unpopular 1099 regulation and to tackle overpayments in the exchange program. Today the Ways and Means Committee voted to abolish the 1099 paperwork requirement and paid for the measure by forcing people to pay back money to the exchange who received the money in error. The bill now heads to the floor of the House for a full vote where it is expected to pass. The Senate has passed similar legislation. “Main Street Mom and Pop shops do not need the added cost of more regulatory requirements at a time when their efforts are rightly focused on staying in business,” said Johnson. Currently, IRS Form 1099 is used by free-lancers and by companies to document income for individual workers other than wages and salaries. Starting in 2012, this tax hike on doing business/ reporting mandate will force all businesses, charities, churches, and state and local governments to file a 1099 tax form with the IRS every single time they purchase $600 or more in goods from other businesses throughout the year. The stealth change radically alters the nature of 1099s and means businesses will have to issue millions and millions of new tax documents each year. Experts predict that as many as 40 million businesses across the country will be forced to comply with this burdensome and time-consuming requirement. The National Association for the Self-Employed reports that the new healthcare law will have a particularly burdensome impact on small business. Specifically, for those companies with 10 or fewer employees, their paperwork burden will jump from an average of two 1099s per year to roughly 27 per year, mostly to large corporations, a 1250% increase. Locally, Highland Fire Protection Company in Anna averages 12 1099s each year. An increase of 1250% translates to 150 1099s per year! As Glenda Pinkston, the owner of Highland Fire Protection Company puts it, the 1099 reporting requirement will “impose undue hardships on already overworked employees and/ or business” and “the gain in taxes would be greatly offset by the cost to businesses and government to implement it.”
02.15.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) delivered the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House. Today debate started on the funding measure for the rest of FY 2011, dubbed the ‘continuing resolution’ or ‘CR’ for short. The vote will take place on Thursday. Johnson serves on the Ways and Means Committee, where he Chairs the Social Security Subcommittee, and recently accepted an appointment to the Joint Committee on Taxation. Remarks by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson “Every Texas family must live within a budget; I don't understand why the federal government cannot do the same. To get our fiscal house in order, we must cut spending, balance the budget, pay down the debt and shrink the deficit. “As a fiscal hawk, I know that in November the American taxpayers voted for Congress to roll back the failed stimulus spending, to stop bailing out Wall Street Rescue, to end government motors, to stop saving Fannie and Freddie, and to defund and repeal Obamacare. Plain and simple – the American people want Washington to tax less, to spend less and to borrow less. “The CR represents some tough choices… but I know that the American public is willing to make some sacrifices now so we can make a brighter and better future for our children and grandchildren tomorrow.”
02.15.2011	On Thursday, February 24th, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host “mobile office hours” to visit with constituents. The current cities hosting “mobile office hours” include: Frisco, Garland, McKinney, Plano, and Richardson. Staff from the Congressman’s office host regular “mobile office hours” throughout the Third Congressional District to meet with constituents. During the “mobile office hours” the Third District staff gladly will offer assistance with problems regarding federal issues or agencies, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration or the Internal Revenue Service. They also may help facilitate overseas adoptions. Constituents are invited to stop by and share their comments about federal issues in Congress. No advance appointments are necessary. If a person would like assistance with a federal agency, he or she should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. In the event people cannot attend the “mobile office hours” in their city, residents are encouraged to contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Thursday, February 24 FRISCO George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Front Lobby 6101 Frisco Square Blvd. (972) 292-5300 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. GARLAND Nicholson Memorial Library Front Entrance 625 Austin Street (972) 205-2500 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. MCKINNEY Collin College Lobby Area Central Park Campus 2200 W. University Drive (972) 548-6790 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. PLANO Collin College Lobby Area Spring Creek Campus 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway (972) 881-5790 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. RICHARDSON Civic Center West Alcove Area 411 West Arapaho Road (972) 744-4090 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m.
02.14.2011	In conjunction with National Salute to Hospitalized Veterans Week, on Monday, February 14th, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) hand delivered Valentines to veterans at the Dallas Veterans Affairs Medical Center as part of the 10th annual “Valentines for Vets” program. Johnson considers Valentines for Vets a hallmark classroom program to foster national pride and teach gratitude for our freedom and the sacrifices of those who wear the uniform. A 29-year Air Force veteran and former Prisoner of War in Vietnam for nearly 7 years, Johnson visited with patients at the medical facility as he personally delivered Valentines hand-crafted by students from Third Districts schools. Every February, Americans open their hearts to the country's hospitalized veterans by sending cards and letters to veterans in the medical centers across the country through the Valentines for Vets program. America observes the National Salute to Hospitalized Veterans the week of Valentine’s Day. The Congressman wants to thank the following schools for participating this year: Allen ISD: Boon Elementary Allen ISD: Kerr Elementary Frisco ISD: Ashley Elementary Frisco ISD: Bledsoe Elementary Frisco ISD: Bright Elementary Frisco ISD: Elliott Elementary in McKinney Frisco ISD: Gun Stream Elementary Frisco ISD: Shawnee Trail Elementary Frisco ISD: Smith Elementary Frisco ISD: Sonntag Elementary Frisco ISD: Taylor Elementary Garland ISD: Armstrong Elementary in Sachse Garland ISD: Back Elementary in Rowlett McKinney ISD: Glen Oaks Elementary School Plano ISD: Andrews Elementary Plano ISD: Sigler Elementary Private school in Richardson: Canyon Creek Christian Academy Richardson ISD Richardson/Dallas: Audelia Creek Elementary *McKinney ISD: McKinney LINC Patriotic assembly Leading up to the holiday, Johnson picked up Valentines for Vets in Plano at Sigler Elementary and at Armstrong Elementary in Sachse (GISD). Johnson marked 38 years of freedom on February 12th – the 38 year anniversary of Operation Homecoming, the day the longest held POWs departed Vietnam. In 2009 the prestigious Congressional Medal of Honor Society bestowed Johnson their highest civilian accolade, the National Patriot Award, for his tireless work on behalf of the troops, veterans, and freedom. In 2011, Johnson accepted the “Freedom of Flight” award at the Living Legends of Aviation Awards, dubbed the Oscars of aviation, from renowned air show pilot Bob Hoover. Johnson serves as a Regent for the world famous Smithsonian Institution, where he represents the Board of Regents on the Advisory Board of the National Air and Space Museum. Due to overwhelming feedback from the schools, Johnson’s staff welcomed returning warriors at DFW International Airport with Third District Valentines as well.
02.14.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement on the FY 2012 budget issued by the President. Johnson serves on the Ways and Means Committee, where he Chairs the Social Security Subcommittee, and recently accepted an appointment to the Joint Committee on Taxation. “Talk about a colossal disappointment. This budget taxes too much, spends too much and borrows too much. “First, his budget does nothing to address entitlement reform. Second, freezing spending at 2011 levels essentially makes the failed-stimulus polices permanent. That’s a financial recipe for disaster. Third, clearly the President failed to grasp the voters’ righteous anger and contempt for his wasteful ways they expressed last November at the ballot box. They want, need and deserve fiscal restraint. We have to get our fiscal house in order. “Every Texas family must live within a budget; I don't understand why the federal government cannot do the same. To get our fiscal house in order, we must cut spending, pay down the debt and shrink the deficit. These are tough choices but I know that the American public is willing to make some sacrifices now so we can make a brighter and better future for our children and grandchildren tomorrow.”
02.10.2011	On Monday, February 14th at 10 a.m., U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will celebrate Valentine’s Day by hand-delivering Valentines at the Dallas Veterans Affairs Medical Center as part of “Valentines for Vets” before he flies to Washington, D.C. Johnson will distribute valentines to hospitalized veterans hand-made by Third Districts students. Members of the press are invited to attend. Every February, Americans open their hearts to our country's hospitalized veterans by sending cards and letters to veterans in the medical centers across the country through the “Valentines for Vets” program. America observes the National Salute to Hospitalized Veterans the week of Valentine's Day. Johnson is proud to announce that 2011 marks the 10th year that Third District students have shown their gratitude for freedom and those who wear the uniform with this popular program. Johnson launched a local campaign of the initiative in the wake of the September 11th attacks. Eighteen schools from Allen, Frisco, Garland, McKinney, Plano and Richardson ISDs as well as one private school participated. “On Valentines Day, we often tell people how much we appreciate them. I can’t think of a better way to say ‘thank you’ to all of those who gave so much for something we truly love and value – our freedom,” said Johnson. “The students also deserve a Lone Star State sized-thank you for their enthusiasm, patriotism and creativity,” continued Johnson. Johnson celebrates 38 years of freedom on February 12th – the 38 year anniversary of Operation Homecoming, the day the longest held POWs departed Vietnam. WHEN: Monday, February 14th at 10:00 a.m. WHAT: Distribution of valentines from Third District students to hospitalized veterans WHO: Former POW and Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) WHERE: Dallas VA Medical Center 4500 S. Lancaster Road Dallas
02.07.2011	Today at Sigler Elementary School in Plano, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) picked up handmade Valentines from the students for the tenth annual Valentines for Veterans Program. This year 18 schools participated in the popular program combining civic activism and national pride. “These students love the opportunity each year to say ‘thank you’ for something we all love and value so much - our freedom. Valentines for Veterans is a creative way to thank these brave men and women. The students’ hard work, enthusiasm and patriotism is greatly appreciated,” said Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran. Every February, Americans show their gratitude to hospitalized veterans by sending Valentines cards and letters to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical centers across the country in conjunction with National Salute to Hospitalized Veterans Week. Johnson and his staff will hand-deliver the Third District cards on Valentine’s Day at the Dallas VA Medical Center as well as to returning American soldiers from the Middle East at Dallas Fort Worth International Airport.
01.26.2011	Tonight U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after the President delivered the State of the Union Address. “The American people made it abundantly clear in November. They were fed up with out-of-control government spending and voted for change. That’s because in the last two years with the Democrats leading the House, the Senate, and the White House, the 111th Congress spent more in its short tenure than the first 100 Congresses combined, adding $10,429 in new debt for every man, woman and child. It is no wonder the debt topped $14 trillion and will soon eclipse the size of our entire economy. “This President gave us the failed stimulus, sky-high unemployment, the auto bailout, the housing bailout and government-run healthcare. If he is truly serious about cutting spending, his record doesn’t show it. He has his work cut out for him. When it comes to fiscal restraint, I fear that he may be all sizzle and no steak. “To get our fiscal house in order, we must balance the budget, pay down the debt and shrink the deficit. We do that by cutting spending. Every Texas family must live within a budget; I don't understand why the federal government cannot do the same.” In a related matter, today the Ways and Means Committee announced that Johnson will serve as one of three Committee Republicans on the Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) in the 112th Congress. Johnson’s statement on the plum appointment follows: “It is an honor and a privilege to serve on the JCT. I can’t think of a better time in history to weigh in on how the government taxes and spends. As a long-time budget hawk, I once got kicked off the Ways and Means Committee in the Texas State House for standing firm in my resolve NOT to raise taxes. It is with the courage of my convictions that I intend to serve on the JCT.”
01.26.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) invited Third District employers to join the congressional debate on the new healthcare law by submitting testimony for the official record for the Ways and Means Committee. Today the Ways and Means Committee will hold a hearing to examine the impact of taxes, regulations, and mandates contained in the healthcare law on economic growth and job creation. People have until the close of business on Tuesday, February 8, 2011, to submit formal remarks for the record. Instructions to do so follow. “The Ways and Means Committee will play a key role in de-funding and replacing Obamacare with common-sense legislation that makes health insurance more affordable, accessible and available. I hope that folks from the Third District take this opportunity to make their voices heard and weigh in on this important debate,” said Johnson. “I hear a lot of complaints about the new 1099 rule as well as the employer mandate, among other things. This is the time for employers to speak up and make Washington pay attention to them and how decisions on Capitol Hill dramatically impact the way employers can grow, hire and expand,” continued Johnson. Starting in 2012, all companies will have to issue 1099 tax forms not just to contract workers but to any individual or corporation from which they buy more than $600 in goods or services in a tax year. The stealth change radically alters the nature of 1099s and means businesses will have to issue millions of new tax documents each year. In addition, the employer mandate forces any employer with 50 or more employees to provide health insurance to every employee or else pay a fine or go to jail. The hearing will examine the economic and regulatory burdens imposed by the enactment and implementation of government-run healthcare. It also will explore the impact on job creation stemming from the new taxes and new federal regulatory requirements. It will also analyze the impact of the employer mandate on job creation. “I tell folks all the time, ‘The huge increases you are paying in your health insurance are concrete evidence of the impact of the mandates in ObamaCare.’ The Congress needs to know just how destructive and costly the new health law is for Main Street. This is your chance,” concluded Johnson. DETAILS FOR SUBMISSION OF WRITTEN COMMENTS: Testimony must be submitted to Caity Post in Johnson’s Texas office by the close of business on Tuesday, February 8, 2011. ATTACH your submission as a Word or WordPerfect document, in compliance with the formatting requirements listed below, by the close of business on Tuesday, February 8, 2011. Please be advised that submissions may be published in the official printed record of the hearing and on the Committee’s website and Johnson’s website. If you have any questions, or encounter technical problems, please call the Johnson office at 972-470-0892. To submit testimony for the record please email Constituentservices.tx03@mail.house.gov and follow up via phone at 972/470-0892. The following information must be included in the body of your email: Name Organization (if applicable), Title Address Phone Number Contact E-mail Address Title of Hearing: Hearing on the Health Care Law’s Impact on Jobs, Employers, and the Economy 2) Please attach your submission as a Word document in order for it to be considered for the record. Include the information of the person(s) and/or organization(s) to whom the statement will be attributed. The names of these person(s) and/or organization(s) will be listed in the Table of Contents and printed in the record. Please also include your name, organization (if applicable), address, contact phone number and email address. If instructions are not followed correctly or pertinent information is not included, the Committee reserves the right to refuse the submission. Normally it takes 3 to 4 weeks for hearing submissions to be posted on the Committee website, however, depending upon the number of submission for hearings, it may take longer. FORMATTING REQUIREMENTS: The Committee relies on electronic submissions for printing the official hearing record. As always, submissions will be included in the record according to the discretion of the Committee. The Committee will not alter the content of your submission, but we reserve the right to format it according to our guidelines. Any submission provided to the Committee by a witness, any supplementary materials submitted for the printed record, and any written comments in response to a request for written comments must conform to the guidelines listed below. Any submission or supplementary item not in compliance with these guidelines will not be printed, but will be maintained in the Committee files for review and use by the Committee. 1. All submissions and supplementary materials must be provided in Word format and MUST NOT exceed a total of 10 pages, including attachments. Witnesses and submitters are advised that the Committee relies on electronic submissions for printing the official hearing record. 2. Copies of whole documents submitted as exhibit material will not be accepted for printing. Instead, exhibit material should be referenced and quoted or paraphrased. All exhibit material not meeting these specifications will be maintained in the Committee files for review and use by the Committee. 3. All submissions must include a list of all clients, persons and/or organizations on whose behalf the witness appears. A supplemental sheet must accompany each submission listing the name, company, address, telephone, and fax numbers of each witness. Johnson, the Chairman of the Social Security Subcommittee on Ways and Means, represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Johnson recently accepted an appointment to the prestigious Joint Committee on Taxation.
01.26.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) congratulated a Finalist in the Intel Science Talent Search 2011 from the Third District of Texas, Rounok Joardar, 17, of Plano. The announcement comes the day after the President drew attention to a 2010 Intel award recipient, Plano East student Amy Chyao, in the State of the Union address. The Intel Science Talent Search, a program of Society for Science & the Public, is America’s oldest and most prestigious pre-college science competition. Over the past 69 years, Science Talent Search participants have gone on to achieve some of the world’s most esteemed academic honors, including Nobel Laureates, Fields Medals, the National Medal of Science and MacArthur Foundation Fellowships. This year’s 40 Finalists were selected from a pool of 1,744 high school seniors that entered the competition. “I would like to congratulate Rounok Joardar, a Finalist in the Intel Science Talent Search 2011,” said Johnson. “Rounok and Amy represent the future of our country, a future which will certainly have its foundations in a passion for math and science and a commitment to innovation. The achievements of these young adults should inspire us all to reflect on the role math and science education play in preparing America for tomorrow.” Rounok, a student at Plano West Senior High School, will join the other Finalists in Washington, D.C. in March where they will undergo a rigorous judging process, interact with leading scientists, display their research at the renowned National Academy of Sciences, and meet with national leaders. Winners will be announced at a black-tie gala award ceremony at the National Building Museum on March 15. For more information about the Intel Science Talent Search and a complete list of finalists, please visit www.societyforscience.org. For more information about Intel’s Education Initiative, please visit www.intel.com/education.
01.25.2011	The American people made it abundantly clear in November; they were fed up with out-of-control government spending and voted for change. Cutting back on wasteful federal government programs is critical to protecting freedom and ensuring national prosperity. In the last two years with Democrats at the helm of the House, Senate and White House, the 111th Congress spent more in its short tenure than the first 100 Congresses combined, adding $10,429 in new debt for every man, woman and child. It’s no wonder that the national debt recently hit $14 trillion and continues to grow at an alarming rate – and will soon eclipse the size of our entire economy. To get our fiscal house in order, we must balance budget, pay down the debt and shrink the deficit. Each week the U.S. House will cast a vote to slash government spending in some form or fashion. In the coming year, the Congress will drastically cut government spending with the goal of returning to 2008 spending levels -- before the bailout culture took hold in Washington. Before the Wall Street rescue. Before the housing bailout. Before Government Motors. Before the so-called stimulus enacted to keep unemployment below 8% …and before budget-busting Obamacare became law. It’s no wonder Americans have what’s been dubbed, “bailout fatigue.” Republicans pledged to cut spending and get our fiscal house in order and we are leading by example. The House has cut the operating budgets of House committees, leadership offices, and lawmakers’ offices by five percent. To resurrect financial sanity, sacrifices will be required throughout the federal government, and the House is leading the charge. While only a first step, these cuts provide real savings for the American people and demonstrate our commitment to ending the culture of spending in Washington. This $35 million serves as just the first installment of savings produced by the new majority, and our work to provide oversight and ferret out waste here in the House will continue throughout the 112th Congress. House Republicans also adopted a “Cut-As-You-Go” plan. Under “Cut-As-You-Go,” if a Member of Congress creates a new government program or advocates new spending, he or she must also terminate or reduce spending on an existing government program of equal or greater size – in the very same bill. Combined with other ideas to break up massive spending bills into smaller, more manageable parts and limit spending on an annual basis, “Cut-As-You-Go” will play an important role in forcing the federal government to cut costs. These are strong first steps – but only first steps – toward making difficult decisions to balance the budget, pay down the debt and shrink the deficit. Together we can get our economy back on track and create the smaller, smarter government that Americans want, need and deserve. Make no mistake – Republicans are sharpening the budget knives and vow to make a cut a week to balance the budget, pay down the debt and reduce the deficit. Everyone knows that when you’re in a hole, stop digging!
01.20.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) encouraged all Third Congressional District students to participate in the annual “Valentines for Veterans” drive by creating hand-made Valentines for former and current members of the armed forces. Last year, 19 area public and private schools, including one home school group, participated in the Valentines for Veterans program. “These students love the opportunity each year to say ‘thank you’ for something we all love and value so much - our freedom. Valentines for Veterans is a creative way to thank these brave men and women. The students’ hard work, enthusiasm and patriotism is greatly appreciated,” said Johnson. Every February, Americans show their gratitude to hospitalized veterans by sending Valentines cards and letters to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical centers across the country in conjunction with National Salute to Hospitalized Veterans Week. Johnson and his staff will hand-deliver the Third District cards on Valentine’s Day at the Dallas VA Medical Center as well as to returning American soldiers from the Middle East at Dallas Fort Worth International Airport. This year, staff and volunteers will pick up Valentines from designated Independent School District (ISD) schools on February 8, 9, and 10. To coordinate a pick-up or to register an ISD, contact the local office by February 4 at Susan.Fischer@mail.house.gov or by phone at 972-470-0892. Members of the public may drop off Valentines at a local school or in the District office. Drop-off schools include: Allen: Kerr Elementary: 1325 Glendover Drive Contact: Jan Bower: 214-495-6765 x 293 Boon Elementary: 1050 Comanche Drive Contact: Jan Wagner: 972-747-3331 Frisco: Smith Elementary: 9800 Sean Drive Contact: Teresa Garcia: 469-633-2200 McKinney (FISD): Elliott Elementary: 3721 Hudson Crossing Contact: Stacy Mills, Principal: 469-633-3750 (MISD) Glen Oaks Elementary School: 6100 Glen Oaks Drive Contact: Sandy Burrell: 469/742-6400 Plano: Andrews Elementary: 2520 Scenic Drive, Plano Contact: Toni Strickland: 469-752-3900 Richardson/Dallas (RISD): Audelia Creek Elementary: 12600 Audelia Road, Dallas Contact: Kim Eacker, Secretary: 469-593-2900 Richardson: Canyon Creek Christian Academy: 2800 Lookout Drive (private school) Contact: Brenda Galimore: 972-231-4890 x 105 Rowlett (GISD): Back Elementary: 7300 Bluebonnet Drive Contact: Debbie Moss: 972-494-8301 Sachse (GISD): Armstrong Elementary: 4750 Ben Davis Road Contact: Becky Ayres, Principal: 972-414-7480 A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson served in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars. He spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
01.19.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) delivered the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House. Johnson supports repealing the government-run healthcare program created by former Speaker Pelosi, Harry Reid and President Obama, sometimes called Obamacare. Tomorrow the House will vote to dispatch each relevant committee to craft new healthcare solutions to make health insurance more affordable, accessible and available – without government mandates. “I rise in support of freedom and free-enterprise. This is America where, the Constitution and freedom and free-enterprise are the hallmarks of this great democracy. I think one of the most compelling reasons people went to the ballot box last fall and cast their vote was that they felt angry that those in power were disregarding personal liberties and trampling the U.S. Constitution. “As you know, under Obamacare the federal government forces freedom-loving Americans to hand over their hard-earned money for a mandatory product, in this case health insurance. That’s just not how it’s done in a democracy. “In a democracy, you have the freedom to choose if you want to buy something. In a democracy, you have the freedom to choose if you want to purchase health insurance. In a democracy, you have the freedom to choose to say no. As a constitutional conservative, this vote is about freedom and free-enterprise and what’s best for the future of America. I say vote for freedom and repeal Obamacare. “I’ll close with some famous words from Patrick Henry. He claimed, ‘The Constitution is not an instrument for the government to restrain the people, it is an instrument for the people to restrain the government -- lest it come to dominate our lives and interests.’ Let’s stand up for freedom and repeal Obamacare.”
01.13.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) invited Third District students to participate in the 2011 Congressional Art Competition – An Artistic Discovery. All high school students residing in the Third Congressional District are eligible to submit their original artwork by March 2nd. The winning piece will be sent to Washington, D.C., to hang in the United States Capitol for one year. “It is a privilege to host this annual competition,” said Johnson, “and I look forward to seeing what the talented young artists of the Third District have in store for us this year.” To participate, students should contact their high school art teachers or Johnson’s district office to obtain an application packet containing contest guidelines. Artwork must be original in concept, not reproduced from an existing photo, painting, or other work. Pieces must be two dimensional and fall into one of the following categories: painting, drawing, collage, print, mixed media, computer graphic, or photography. Once awarded first place, the winning piece must be framed and must not exceed 30” x 30” to the outside dimensions of the frame. Artwork must be submitted by March 2nd. Students may take their pieces directly to the Congressman’s local office. Students also may request that their art teachers contact Deanna Kuykendall of Johnson’s staff at (972) 470-0892 or deanna.kuykendall@mail.house.gov by February 25th to schedule an artwork pick-up date and time. First through sixth place and a number of honorable mentions will be recognized at an awards ceremony and art display on March 12th in McKinney at 7:00 p.m. The winning pieces then will tour the District for public viewing. Details regarding this traveling art exhibit will be released at a later date. Additional information can be found in the “Students” section of the Congressman’s website at www.samjohnson.house.gov. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
01.06.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced he will serve as the Chairman of the influential Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security. The Subcommittee on Social Security has jurisdiction over Social Security retirement, survivors and disability programs and oversees the operations of the Social Security Administration. This fiscal year Social Security will pay $782 billion in benefits to nearly 62 million people. “Americans pay part of their hard-earned wages for the promise of benefits for themselves and their families should they retire, become disabled or die. Today Social Security faces growing cash flow deficits and increasing service demands due to aging baby boomers and the economic downturn. At the first of this year, every day for the next 19 years, 10,000 people will turn 65. I look forward to working with my Subcommittee colleagues to tackle these challenges so that promises made will be kept,” said Johnson. The jurisdiction of the Ways and Means Committee includes: taxes, healthcare, Social Security, Medicare, welfare, trade, and the national debt. Johnson also will serve on the Health Subcommittee which will play a pivotal role in repealing Obamacare. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties in North Texas. # # #
12.08.2010	Seeking to protect the privacy of Americans’ Social Security numbers (SSNs) and combat identity theft, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas), the rising Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee Chairman, voted for S. 3789, the Social Security Number Protection Act. The measure passed by a voice vote. The bill now goes to the President to become law. “Americans are right to worry about the security of their personal information, including their Social Security number, and I don’t blame them. Even though Social Security numbers were created to track wages for determining Social Security benefits, these numbers are widely used as personal identifiers. Protecting this personal information is vital,” said Johnson. Today’s measure protects Social Security numbers by preventing prisoner access to these numbers and by prohibiting Social Security numbers from appearing on government checks. Johnson introduced companion legislation in the House preventing prisoner access to SSNs. Presently prisons in eight states allow prisoners access to SSNs. The Federal Trade Commission reports that identity theft is the fastest-growing type of fraud in the United States. In their April 2007 report, the President’s Identity Theft Task Force identified the Social Security number as the “most valuable commodity for an identity thief.” The Federal Trade Commission estimates identity theft costs consumers about $50 billion each year. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties in North Texas. # # #
11.29.2010	Recently the office of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced a free information session on Medicare for seniors on Friday, December 3rd in Rowlett. The program is free and open to the public. The seminar, featuring the Dallas Area Agency on Aging, the Social Security Administration, and the Texas Department of Aging and Disability Services, will provide an overview of the 2011 Medicare program. The meeting coincides with the annual enrollment period of the Medicare Prescription Drug Program, which runs between November 15th and December 31st. During this annual enrollment period, seniors may switch their current Part D prescription plan to another plan if they so choose. Benefits counselors with the Dallas Area Agency on Aging will be on hand to discuss the 2011 Medicare program and the annual enrollment period. These experts will be able to provide one-on-one assistance to help individuals sign up or change their Medicare prescription drug plans before the enrollment period ends. Those with questions about the events should contact Johnson’s office at 972-470-0892. Friday, December 3rd 9:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Rowlett Community Centre 5300 Main Street Rowlett, Texas # # #
11.19.2010	There is seemingly no off-season from political campaigning in the modern reality of 24-hour news cycles, the Internet, and endless political punditry. America just completed a midterm election cycle that spent vast amounts of money, attracted widespread media coverage, and sent many folks to the ballot box to exercise their right to vote. Elections matter. And as a citizenry we do well to keep up on the issues and inform ourselves about where our leaders stand. But with the Thanksgiving holiday upon us, we have the opportunity to take a brief timeout from the incessant political chatter and remember the countless things we all have to be thankful for as Americans. Without a doubt, free elections and the right to self-rule sit high on the list. While the inundation of campaign phone calls, yard signs, literature, and commercials can be exasperating, they also point to the open, free, and robust political process we enjoy in America. Though the outcome of any given election will always please some and dismay others, ours is a system that truly places the power in voters’ hands. If there’s any doubt about the value of free elections, just look at countries whose citizens are given the right to vote after years of totalitarian rule. Iraq, for example, has experienced tremendous turnout in its post-Saddam elections, despite the violence that has threatened potential voters there. These people, proudly displaying their ink-stained finger, understand that open and fair elections are not free. Another thing we can all be thankful for is America’s deep and abiding belief in individual freedom and our willingness to promote and defend it wherever it is under attack. Despite all of its critics, including some within our own borders, our American democracy is a standard-bearer for individual liberty around the world. One of my top priorities as a Member of Congress is to promote individual liberties and personal responsibility. While I feel that over the last two years our government moved away from these cornerstones of independence we hold dear, I do feel that the voters clamored for a return to personal liberty – and made their voices heard at the ballot box. The nationwide call for fiscal responsibility and smaller government as a result of the unbridled expansion of government and bailout fatigue motivates me for the positive changes I hope to see in the 112th Congress. This boomerang between such vastly different ideals reminds me of how exceptional the American system of freedom and democracy is and how voters can truly send a signal of approval or rejection of their own government in just a matter of months – true luxuries. Our Founding Fathers would be proud. This Thanksgiving, every American can also be thankful for the skill, dedication, and courage of our United States military, and their willingness to defend our nation and our interests in every corner of the globe. We give great thanks for our freedoms, but without our soldiers, Marines, sailors and airmen to defend those freedoms, they would quickly be lost. While we gather with friends and family to celebrate the holidays, there will be thousands of young men and women in uniform standing guard in some of the most far reaching posts on earth. Others are recovering from the physical and mental wounds of war. We owe each of them a debt of gratitude. Would you please consider sending a Christmas card to a wounded warrior at Walter Reed or Bethesda Naval Hospital? Send cards to Holiday Mail for Heroes, PO Box 5456, Capitol Heights, MD 20791-5456. Cards must be postmarked by December 10th. Learn more about the Holiday Mail for Heroes program run by the Red Cross at http://www.redcross.org/holidaymail. In the coming two years, there will be no shortage of time for politicians to debate their competing ideas in the political arena. But, this Thanksgiving, I’m hopeful all Americans can pause to remember those things for which we can all give thanks. The list is long. ###
11.15.2010	Dallas Richland College El Paso Hall 12800 Abrams Road Dallas, TX 75243 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Frisco George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Front Lobby 6101 Frisco Square Blvd. Frisco, TX 75034 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. Plano Collin College Lobby Area Spring Creek Campus 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway Plano, TX 75074 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Rowlett Public Library Front Meeting Room 3900 Main Street Rowlett, TX 75088 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Sachse City Hall Front Lobby 3815 Sachse Road Sachse, TX 75048 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m.
11.10.2010	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) encouraged Texans to send “Holiday Mail for Heroes” by the December 10th deadline. Created by the Red Cross, Holiday Mail for Heroes allows people to mail Christmas cards and personal greetings to soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines overseas and at home as well as veterans and family members of deployed active-duty military members. The Red Cross will work with Pitney Bowes to screen all mail for security purposes and then deliver the greetings to over 300 locations worldwide. “With Americans in combat since October 2001, we have a young generation of warriors who have been in the field for almost ten years. It’s imperative that Americans continue to honor, remember and recognize their sacrifice. The Holiday Mail for Heroes is a terrific way to do that,” said Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran and former Prisoner of War in Vietnam for nearly seven years. People may send cards to Holiday Mail for Heroes, P.O. Box 5456, Capitol Heights, MD 20791-5456. Greetings must have adequate postage. Cards received after December 10th will be returned. In December 2007, Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, D.C. approached the Red Cross to distribute thousands of holiday cards coming to the facility for wounded troops. The Red Cross reached out to Pitney Bowes to turn the project into a larger opportunity that could reach members of the military at other facilities. Now in its third year, the Holiday Mail for Heroes program provides Americans with the opportunity to extend holiday greetings and thanks to service members, veterans and their families worldwide. The Red Cross asks that people follow several guidelines while preparing holiday greetings: Do: sign all cards; entitle cards “Dear Service Member, Family or Veteran;” limit cards to 15 per person or 50 for school class or business group; and bundle groups of cards in single, large envelopes. Do not: send letters; include personal information such as home or email addresses to request contact or reciprocity; use glitter as excessive amounts can aggravate health issues of wounded recipients; or include inserts of any kind as they must be removed in the screening process. Learn more at http://www.redcross.org/holidaymail. # # #
11.03.2010	Today the office of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced free information sessions on Medicare for seniors on Wednesday, November 17th in Richardson and Friday, December 3rd in Rowlett. The programs are free and open to the public. The seminars, featuring the Dallas Area Agency on Aging, the Social Security Administration, and the Texas Department of Aging and Disability Services, will provide an overview of the 2011 Medicare program. These meetings coincide with the annual enrollment period of the Medicare Prescription Drug Program, which runs between November 15th and December 31st. During this annual enrollment period, seniors may switch their current Part D prescription plan to another plan if they so choose. Benefits counselors with the Dallas Area Agency on Aging will be on hand to discuss the 2011 Medicare program and the annual enrollment period. These experts will be able to provide one-on-one assistance to help individuals sign up or change their Medicare prescription drug plans before the enrollment period ends. Those with questions about the event should contact Johnson’s office at 972-470-0892. Wednesday, November 17th 9:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Richardson Senior Center 820 W. Arapaho Road Richardson Friday, December 3rd 9:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Rowlett Community Centre 5300 Main Street Rowlett # # #
10.19.2010	On Thursday, October 28th the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will host Mobile Office Hours in Allen, Frisco, McKinney and Richardson. No advance appointments are necessary. Times and locations are listed below. Staff from the Congressman’s office regularly host Mobile Office Hours throughout the Third District to meet with constituents close to home. During Mobile Office Hours, staff gladly assist individuals facing problems with federal programs or agencies such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, the Social Security Administration, or the Internal Revenue Service. The Congressman’s staff also can help facilitate overseas adoptions, provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C., and process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Anyone seeking assistance with a federal agency should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. Constituents who cannot attend the scheduled Mobile Office Hours are welcome to contact the Congressman’s Richardson office at (972) 470-0892. For more information, visit www.samjohnson.house.gov and click on “24 Hour Online Office.” Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Allen Senior Recreation Center Front Conference Room 451 East St. Mary 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. Frisco George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Front Lobby 6101 Frisco Square Boulevard 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. McKinney Collin Higher Education Center First Floor Atrium 3452 Spur 399 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Richardson Civic Center West Alcove Area 411 West Arapaho Road 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. # # #
09.27.2010	Defying the odds and confounding the critics, today common-sense tax legislation authored by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) became law when the President enacted the Small Business Jobs Act. The Act included Johnson’s cell phone fix, H.R. 690, the MOBILE (Modernize Our Bookkeeping In the Law for Employee’s) Cell Phone Act. Johnson’s provision modernizes the tax treatment of cell phones and Blackberries used for business by repealing the requirement that employers and employees maintain detailed logs of cell phone use. Until now, the law required employers track the personal cell phone use of their employees to receive a tax deduction even though the outdated law did not require employers to track the use of the phone at an employee’s desk for personal purposes. “It is a tremendous honor to have my tax bill become a law. While I had hoped for this day, some naysayers predicted failure because I serve in a Democrat-controlled House, Senate and White House. This just goes to show that if you put your head down, work hard and do what’s right, great things can happen for America,” said Johnson, who attributes this legislative victory to his tenure in Congress as well as his seat on the prestigious tax-writing Ways and Means Committee and role as a Deputy Whip in Republican leadership. A constituent concern brought this absurd tax law to Johnson’s attention in 2008 and sparked Johnson’s action. Johnson’s bipartisan measure garnered 214 co-sponsors. The overwhelming support for the legislation, plus the backing of the Administration, provided the needed momentum to include the no-nonsense Johnson measure in one of the last bills of the waning congressional session. “The fact that a constituent concern generated this legislation makes this accomplishment even more meaningful,” continued Johnson. Johnson takes great pride in the fact that his bill became law with a Democrat-controlled House, Senate and White House. Johnson considers passage of the cell phone fix among his signature legislative achievements. Others include co-authoring the original Wright Amendment repeal, drafting the first pension reform in a generation, securing a federal courthouse in Collin County, and eliminating the earnings penalty seniors paid if they wanted to work in retirement and collect a pension and a paycheck from the same employer. Eliminating the earnings penalty has proved especially helpful to older Americans in the wake of the worst recession since the Great Depression. Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran and former Prisoner of War for nearly seven years in Vietnam, represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
09.16.2010	Today the United States Senate passed a bill that includes a common-sense provision authored by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) demanding that the IRS modernize the record keeping requirement for employee cell phone use. Currently employers are required, for tax purposes, to track the personal cell phone use of their employees to receive a deduction. Right now, the law does not require employers to track use of the phone at an employee’s desk for personal purposes. After a constituent concern brought this absurd inequity to Johnson’s attention in 2008, Johnson quickly introduced the MOBILE (Modernize Our Bookkeeping In the Law for Employee’s) Cell Phone Act, H.R. 690. The bill would update the tax treatment of cell phones and Blackberries used for business and repeal the requirement that employers and employees maintain detailed logs of cell phone use. “I am honored that the Senate passed the cell phone fix. Clearly, time and technology have marched on and companies give their employees cell phones, blackberries and iPhones with unlimited minutes and these communication devices are really just an extension of the business day and place to anywhere and anytime,” said Johnson. The measure heads to the U.S. House of Representatives for a vote – potentially as early as next week. H.R. 690 has 214 co-sponsors. # # #
09.02.2010	On Thursday, September 23rd the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will host Mobile Office Hours in Frisco, Garland, McKinney, Plano and Richardson. No advance appointments are necessary. Times and locations are listed below. Staff from the Congressman’s office regularly host Mobile Office Hours throughout the Third District to meet with constituents close to home. During Mobile Office Hours, staff gladly assist individuals facing problems with federal programs or agencies such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, the Social Security Administration, or the Internal Revenue Service. The Congressman’s staff also can help facilitate overseas adoptions, provide information regarding trips to Washington, D.C., and process requests to have American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol building. Anyone seeking assistance with a federal agency should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. Constituents who cannot attend the scheduled Mobile Office Hours are welcome to contact the Congressman’s Richardson office at (972) 470-0892. For more information, visit www.samjohnson.house.gov and click on “24 Hour Online Office.” Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Frisco George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Front Lobby 6101 Frisco Square Boulevard 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. Garland Nicholson Memorial Library Front Entrance 625 Austin Street 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. McKinney Collin College Central Park Campus Lobby Area 2200 W. University Drive 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Plano Collin College Spring Creek Campus Lobby Area 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Richardson Civic Center West Alcove Area 411 West Arapaho Road 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. # # #
09.01.2010	On Saturday, September 11th at 2:30 p.m., U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will host the annual Service Academies Forum for young people and their families interested in pursuing an education at one of the nation’s prestigious service academies. The free informational event will take place in the Conference Center of the Collin County Community College Spring Creek Campus located at 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway in Plano. No R.S.V.P is needed. “I can’t think of a better way to mark September 11th than to spend time with young adults eager to learn more about serving their country as leaders in the armed forces,” said Johnson. “These kids grew up with America at war in two countries. They know what it means to stand up and wear the uniform. This information session will help students and families decide if the service academy route is right for them.” Cadets receive free tuition, room and board, as well as a monthly stipend. Upon graduation, they are commissioned as second lieutenants or ensigns in their branch of service, where they must complete a multi-year obligation. Students interested in seeking a nomination to the U.S. Military, Naval, Air Force, or Merchant Marine Academies are encouraged to attend. At the event, representatives will present highlights of each Service Academy and provide details on student evaluation, nomination and appointment procedures. Following this overview, people will break into groups. This allows students and parents to speak directly with representatives from each academy. Students who attend the forum are under no obligation to apply or enroll in an Academy. Students must be nominated for the U.S. Air Force Academy (Colorado Springs, CO), the U.S. Military Academy (West Point, NY), the U.S. Naval Academy (Annapolis, MD), and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (Kings Point, NY). Students applying to the U.S. Coast Guard Academy (New London, CT) do not need a congressional nomination. Typically, students in 8th – 11th grade, as well as their families, attend this event. In most cases, seniors have passed the information-gathering process for the service academies and started the application process, if desired. For more information, contact Johnson’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. # # #
08.12.2010	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) officially launched the 2010-2011 Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) when he invited students in the Third District to apply for the distinguished group. The CYAC is open to high school freshmen, sophomores, juniors and seniors who are enrolled in public, private and home schools. Applications for the CYAC can be found in the student section on www.samjohnson.house.gov. Students have until Friday, September 17th to apply. “As a former Prisoner of War in Vietnam for nearly seven years, more than half of that time in solitary confinement, I take the bounty of America and service to this country very seriously. America’s democracy and liberty – and the many blessings that come with them – like freedom of speech and the freedom to vote – were bought with a price. People all over the world do not enjoy these same blessings. I encourage young people to cherish them and thrive by loving and serving America and your community with all of your heart. Making your voice heard on the CYAC is one way to do that,” said Johnson. Johnson created the Council in 2004 to gain insight from students in his district and to inspire civic-minded young adults to achieve their full potential. The Council meets approximately twice each school semester in the Third District. During the CYAC activities, high-achieving students explore the role citizens, lawmakers, experts, and institutions play in a democracy. To apply for the CYAC, students must submit the completed application form, a letter of parental permission, a current photo for identification purposes only, a short personal essay and two letters of recommendation. Selections are based on leadership ability, academic performance, extra-curricular activities and community service. Students must apply (and re-apply) for the CYAC each year and may only serve on the Council two of four years between grades 9-12 to ensure as many students may participate as possible. To be considered, the completed application must be submitted to Johnson’s office no later than September 17th. # # #
07.28.2010	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) introduced bipartisan legislation to ban prisoners from working in programs that give them access to Social Security numbers (SSN), the No Prisoner Access to Social Security Numbers Act of 2010, H.R. 5854. Currently prisoners in eight states – Alabama, Arkansas, Kansas, Nebraska, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Tennessee and West Virginia – have access to SSNs as part of inmate work programs according to the Social Security Administration (SSA). “Giving prisoners access to Social Security numbers defies common sense,” said Johnson, who serves as the Ranking Republican on the Social Security Subcommittee on the Ways and Means Committee. “This insane practice must stop!” The Act would prohibit government entities from employing or entering into or maintaining a contract for the use of employment of prisoners in any capacity that allow access to Social Security numbers of others. ID theft ranks as the number one consumer complaint and affects millions. According to a report, almost 5% of the population was a victim of ID theft in 2009, a 12% jump from 2008. In 2008, compromised SSNs were used in 38% of ID thefts. Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Earl Pomeroy (At large-N.D.) introduced the legislation with Johnson. # # #
07.21.2010	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) spoke out against pending tax hikes slated to take effect next year. Starting January 1, 2011, Washington Democrats will impose a $3.8 trillion tax hike on hard-working Americans, small business owners and retirees. This tax increase will affect every American who pays income taxes through higher tax rates on individuals, families, and small businesses. Married couples and parents will be singled out for even higher taxes, and there will be significant tax hikes on the very investments that grow the economy and create good jobs. Even the death tax – repealed entirely for 2010 – will be resurrected on January 1, 2011. Under the new tax hikes a family of four earning $50,000 per year could pay more than $2,100 in higher taxes; a single mom earning $36,000 per year could pay over $1,100 more in taxes; and married senior citizens earning $40,000 per year could pay more than $1,400 in higher taxes according to the Joint Committee on Taxation. To watch the Congressman’s floor speech, go to his YouTube channel, http://www.youtube.com/user/RepSamJohnson. Prepared remarks follow: “When the clock strikes midnight on December 31, 2010, a $3.8 trillion Democratic tax increase will ring in the New Year. “The Democrats’ ticking tax bomb means that all taxpaying Americans will face higher taxes starting on January 1. For married couples get ready to give up date nights in order to pay the tax penalty for saying ‘I do.’ “For families with children get ready to give up the family summer vacation so that you can fork over to Uncle Sam an extra $500 per kid in taxes. For already struggling small business owners get ready to share more of your hard earned profits with Uncle Sam - hard earned profits that could be used to hire new workers. “The American people want, need and deserve better than the Democrats’ massive tax hikes to pay for their big government agenda.” # # #
07.15.2010	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) delivered the following opening statement at a hearing marking the 75th anniversary of Social Security. Johnson serves as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Social Security and represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Prepared remarks follow: “IN HIS AUGUST 1953 MESSAGE TO CONGRESS, PRESIDENT EISENHOWER REFERRED TO RETIREMENT SYSTEMS AS ‘A REFLECTION OF THE AMERICAN HERITAGE OF STURDY SELF-RELIANCE WHICH HAS MADE OUR COUNTRY STRONG AND KEPT IT FREE; THE SELF-RELIANCE WITHOUT WHICH WE WOULD HAVE HAD NO PILGRIM FATHERS, NO HARDSHIP-DEFYING PIONEERS, AND NO EAGERNESS TODAY TO PUSH TO EVER WIDENING HORIZONS IN EVERY ASPECT OF OUR NATIONAL LIFE.’ “HE WENT ON TO SAY THAT ‘THE SOCIAL SECURITY PROGRAM FURNISHES, ON A NATIONAL SCALE, THE OPPORTUNITY FOR OUR CITIZENS, THROUGH THAT SAME SELF-RELIANCE, TO BUILD THE FOUNDATION FOR THEIR SECURITY.’ “DURING ITS 75 YEARS, SOCIAL SECURITY HAS PROVIDED ESSENTIAL INCOME SUPPORT TO MILLIONS OF AMERICANS. IN MAY OF THIS YEAR 43 MILLION SENIORS AND THEIR FAMILIES RECEIVED $48 BILLION IN BENEFITS, WHILE 10 MILLION WORKERS WITH DISABILITIES AND THEIR FAMILIES RECEIVED $1.5 BILLION. THAT SAID, EVEN IN THESE VERY DIFFICULT ECONOMIC TIMES WE CANNOT LOSE SIGHT OF THE ENDURING IMPORTANCE OF SELF-RELIANCE. “SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS WERE INTENDED TO PROVIDE A MODEST INCOME AND BE SUPPLEMENTED BY OTHER SAVINGS. NONE OTHER THAN FDR SAID THAT … ‘SOCIAL SECURITY CAN FURNISH ONLY A BASE UPON WHICH EACH ONE OF OUR CITIZENS MAY BUILD HIS INDIVIDUAL SECURITY THROUGH HIS OWN INDIVIDUAL EFFORTS.’ “THE 75TH ANNIVERSARY OF SOCIAL SECURITY COMES AT A TIME WHEN THE PROGRAM IS FACING SERIOUS FINANCIAL CHALLENGES. ACCORDING TO THE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE OR CBO, SOCIAL SECURITY WILL BE PAYING OUT MORE IN BENEFITS THAN IT WILL BE COLLECTING IN TAXES THIS YEAR. BY 2016, CBO PROJECTS SOCIAL SECURITY’S SPENDING WILL EXCEED ITS TAX REVENUE EVERY YEAR GOING FORWARD. “IT IS MY HOPE THAT THIS ANNIVERSARY PRESENTS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR US TO WORK ON STRENGTHENING SOCIAL SECURITY’S FUTURE FOR ALL AMERICANS. WHILE CURRENT AND NEAR RETIREES DESERVE THE PEACE OF MIND OF KNOWING THAT THEY WILL GET THEIR PROMISED RETIREMENT BENEFITS, WE HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY TO ENSURE THAT SOCIAL SECURITY WILL BE THERE FOR YOUNGER WORKERS. “THE SIMPLE FACT OF THE MATTER IS THAT THE MONEY TO PAY THESE BENEFITS HAS BEEN COLLECTED FROM WORKERS IN THE FORM OF A PAYROLL TAX. WORKERS WHO, THROUGHOUT THE LIFE OF THE PROGRAM, HAVE BEEN ASKED TO PAY MORE, AND MORE, AND MORE. “IN 1935 WORKERS WERE TOLD THE PAYROLL TAX WOULD NEVER BE GREATER THAN 2 PERCENT ON THE FIRST $3,000 OF EARNINGS. SINCE THEN, CONGRESS PASSED LEGISLATION TO INCREASE THE TAX RATE 14 TIMES. TODAY THE PAYROLL TAX IS 12.4 PERCENT ON THE FIRST $106,800 OF EARNINGS AND THAT AMOUNT INCREASES ALMOST EVERY YEAR. CLEARLY WE HAVE LEARNED THAT RAISING TAXES OR INCREASING THE AMOUNT OF INCOME TAXED DOES NOT ENSURE SOLVENCY FOREVER. WE MUST FIND A BETTER WAY FORWARD. “TODAY 80 PERCENT OF WORKERS PAY MORE IN SOCIAL SECURITY TAXES THAN IN INCOME TAXES. AND FOR TODAY’S YOUNG WORKERS, THEY ARE PAYING THEIR HARD-EARNED PAYROLL TAXES FOR BENEFIT PROMISES THAT CAN’T BE FULLY PAID WHEN THEY WILL BE READY TO COLLECT BENEFITS MANY YEARS FROM NOW. NO WONDER POLLS SHOW THAT ONLY 18 PERCENT OF YOUNG PEOPLE BELIEVE THAT SOCIAL SECURITY WILL BE THERE FOR THEM. “AMERICANS WANT, NEED AND DESERVE BETTER. WE NEED TO LOOK TO FAIR AND COMMON-SENSE SOLUTIONS. AND AS WE DO SO IT IS IMPERATIVE THAT WE RESPECT THE VIRTUE OF SELF-RELIANCE AND HONOR THE LEGACY OF HARD WORK THAT HAS DISTINGUISHED OUR GREAT NATION AS THE LAND OF OPPORTUNITY. “I HAVE LONG BEEN A CHAMPION OF EMPOWERING AMERICANS WITH PRACTICAL RETIREMENT SECURITY SOLUTIONS. WHETHER IT MEANT WORKING WITH THEN PRESIDENT CLINTON TO ELIMINATE THE EARNINGS PENALTY SENIORS PAID IF THEY CHOSE TO WORK IN RETIREMENT OR ADVOCATING PHASED RETIREMENT FOR OLDER EMPLOYEES WHO WANTED TO COLLECT A PENSION AND A PAYCHECK FROM THE SAME EMPLOYER IN THE RECENT PENSION REFORM LAW, I HAVE BEEN WILLING TO ROLL UP MY SLEEVES AND DO WHAT’S RIGHT FOR AMERICA. “CLEARLY, THE TIME IS NOW WHEN LEADERS ON BOTH SIDES HAVE EXPRESSED A SINCERE DESIRE TO WORK TOGETHER TO GET SOMETHING DONE – FOR THE SAKE OF OUR ECONOMY AND AMERICANS’ FINANCIAL SECURITY. “AMERICANS ARE LOOKING TO US TO RISE ABOVE POLITICS AND WORK TOGETHER ON A BIPARTISAN BASIS TO FIND SOLUTIONS FOR SOCIAL SECURITY’S FUTURE. WE SHOULD DO SO WITHOUT RAISING TAXES. WE NEED TO START THAT PROCESS TODAY.” # # #
06.30.2010	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement in the wake of reports that the VA Hospital dental clinic in St. Louis potentially exposed over 1,800 patients to life-threatening diseases, like HIV and Hepatitis B and Hepatitis C, among other things, with dirty equipment. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson served in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars. Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. “This is unacceptable, offensive and objectionable! As a nation we vow to protect those who protect us. I support a full congressional investigation to get to the bottom of this. You’d think the VA folks would have learned their lesson after the Walter Reed fiasco. I urge all Americans to keep these 1,812 patients in their thoughts and prayers as they learn their medical fates.” # # #
06.28.2010	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced new legislation to empower employees with employer-provided education benefits, the Employee Educational Assistance Act of 2010, H.R. 5600. “Employees are asked to do more for their jobs. While companies can’t always pay people a higher salary, they can offer better benefits. It’s exciting to know that companies want to invest in their employees with tuition assistance. It’s a win-win situation. For America to remain competitive with India and China, investing in our future workforce is a must,” said Johnson. Currently workers may access up to $5,250 in tax-free educational assistance from their employers for various expenses, like tuition, fees, and books. Employers do not have to provide this benefit. If they do, then they must make it available to all workers. Created in 1978, this tax benefit expires at the end of the year; Johnson’s bill will permanently extend the benefit. According to the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities (NAICU), almost one in five individuals using this education expense benefit is pursuing a degree in the sciences, technology, engineering, and mathematics, the so called “STEM” degrees. Approximately 913,100 students received employer-provided benefits, compared to 431,500 in 1992 – showing a promising 112% increase. Thirty-six percent of these recipients are pursuing a master’s degree, as compared to 21% in 1992. The military provides the largest amount ($2,547) of average assistance to undergraduates. Colleges and universities offer the largest average assistance ($3,277) to graduate students. During the 2007 – 2008 school year, those earning $42,711 represent the average person accepting the employer-provided assistance. The average employer-provided education benefits received was $2,700, with graduate students accepting more ($3,701) than undergraduate students ($1,849). Of the benefits recipients, a quarter of all undergraduate and more than half of graduate beneficiaries received more than $2,500. Johnson introduced the legislation with Congressman Earl Pomeroy (At Large-N.D.) # # #
06.24.2010	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the names of 13 outstanding young men in the Third Congressional District who accepted appointments from the U.S. Air Force, Naval, Military and Merchant Marine Academies. Johnson congratulated the students personally at a private meeting over the weekend. “Over the next four years, these men will study hard and excel in training. Upon graduation, each will join the premier military in the world, fighting to defend and uphold our nation’s belief in liberty. I am proud of each student’s accomplishments,” said Johnson. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson flew combat missions in Korea and Vietnam before spending nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam. At the personal meeting with the young adults and their families, Johnson commended each student for their accomplishment and wished them well. Johnson also presented each student with a copy of the Congressional Record heralding their achievement. The selection of candidates is based on academic performance, exhibited by class rank, SAT or ACT scores and grade point average. Other important factors evaluated by the board include participation in extracurricular and civic activities as well as athletic aptitude. Ultimately, each institution selects its own students from a pool of nominees submitted by each Member of Congress. Younger students interested in learning more about the service academies should contact the Congressman’s office at 972-470-0892. On Saturday, September 11th the Congressman will host a free Academy Information Session with all branches represented. This seminar will help students presently enrolled in 9th – 11th grades as students seeking acceptance to the Fall 2011 class should have their information completed by November 1st. United States Military Academy Michael Carr – Plano, Texas – Plano West Senior High School Jarvis Coburn – Dallas, Texas – Plano West Senior High School Steven Grim – McKinney, Texas – McKinney Boyd High School Michael Janowski – Murphy, Texas – Plano East Senior High School United States Naval Academy Aaron Dougherty – Garland, Texas – Garland High School Lyndon Moorehead – Murphy, Texas – Naval Academy Preparatory School United States Air Force Academy Hunter Birdsong – Sachse, Texas – Sachse High School Austin Hayes – Garland, Texas – Sachse High School Brandon Ostert – Plano, Texas – Plano Senior High School Daniel Simpson – Plano, Texas – Liberty High School United States Merchant Marine Academy Trevor Ball – Plano, Texas – Plano East Senior High School Matthew Craft – Murphy, Texas – Plano East Senior High School Nathan Ley – Plano, Texas – Plano Senior High School # # #
06.24.2010	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took to the House floor to advocate fiscal restraint instead of hiking taxes to rev up the economy and spur job creation. Recently the House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-Md.) acknowledged that the House Democrats will likely raise taxes on hard-working Americans, despite multiple promises made by President Obama to protect families earning less than $250,000 a year. In addition, Hoyer confirmed that the House will not produce a budget, removing all fiscal accountability and spending restraint. Johnson considers this a serious failure in leadership. Johnson supports balancing the budget, cutting the deficit, paying down the debt and growing the economy by freezing non-defense discretionary spending, reforming entitlement spending, increasing tax incentives for small business and job creation, and lowering taxes for hard-working Americans. Prepared remarks follow: “Madame Speaker, a recent New York Times poll indicates that 54 percent of the public believe that the President does not have a clear plan for creating jobs. Clearly, the failed $ 1 trillion stimulus plan created to keep unemployment below 8% shows the President’s inability to lead. “The dismal numbers come as the Democrats neglected to produce a budget and the Majority Leader announced that the Democrats will raise taxes to pay for more government spending. I say cut government spending so you don’t have to raise taxes. “While they should be focused on creating jobs, the Democrats have proven that the only thing they can do well is tax and spend. Here’s a novel idea that the American people know from personal experience – stop spending money you don’t have!” # # #
06.17.2010	Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation authored by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) to honor the heroic veterans of the Korean War. June 25, 2010 marks 60 years since communist North Korea invaded the Republic of Korea sparking the start of the Korean War. “Today marks a new milestone for those who fought in the Forgotten War. Today the United States Congress recognizes the importance of their service and reaffirms our long-standing commitment to freedom and the future of Korea,” said Johnson during his floor speech. On June 27, 1950, President Harry Truman ordered the United States American troops deployed to the Korean peninsula to fight alongside our ally. Nearly 2 million valiant Americans served during the conflict. Yet, because of its 1953 end in an armistice and historical slot between World War II and Vietnam, many refer to Korea as the Forgotten War. House Joint Resolution 86 recognizes the 60th anniversary of the outbreak of the Korean War and reaffirms the United States-Korea alliance. The bill passed the House with bipartisan support. In addition to honoring those who served, the bill reminds the world that a state of conflict persists on the peninsula and pledges America’s continued support of Korea. “Korea is a strong ally and America remains committed to her safety, survival and success,” stated Johnson. Johnson served 29 years in the United States Air Force as a fighter pilot, flying 62 combat missions in Korea in his F-86, named Shirley’s Texas tornado to express his loyalty to his wife and the Lone Star State. During his 62 missions, Johnson shot down one MiG (known as a kill), one probable and one damaged. Later Johnson spent nearly 7 years as a POW in Vietnam, over half of that time in solitary confinement. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
06.15.2010	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) is pleased to announce that four local students will participate in Education in Action’s Lone Star Leadership Academy this summer. The Houston/Galveston-area program for middle school students teaches the ins and outs of leadership through personal and professional development. Leadership small groups, situational simulations, and career-themed speakers add to this unique academic experience. “Your academic success, community involvement and desire to be a leader are commendable. This week-long, leadership-focused program is an excellent educational opportunity. I trust that you will learn a great deal and use that knowledge to serve,” said Johnson in a congratulatory letter to each of the students. Participants from the Third District include: Darius Hill – Plano, Texas – Prince of Peace Christian School; Jon Conner Knauf – Garland, Texas – The Alexander School; Ashley Semler – Plano, Texas – Bowman Middle School; and Tori Stephens – Frisco, Texas – Clark Middle School. Johnson has a history of championing student activism and civic engagement. In 2002, Johnson hosted the Safe Schools Summit in the wake of numerous national school shootings. Seeking to do more for younger constituents, in 2004, Johnson created the Congressional Youth Advisory Council. Johnson considers the high-caliber students his “young ambassadors to Congress.” This August, Johnson will kick off the 2010-2011 school year by inviting area high school students to apply to serve on the Congressional Youth Advisory Council. The council meets with Johnson on a regular basis to discuss current events, learn about government policy, and share their thoughts on issues before Congress. Applications will be available at www.samjohnson.house.gov in August and are due in September. All 9th – 12th grade students residing in the Third Congressional District are eligible to apply. For more details, visit the “Students” section of the website or call the local office at (972) 470-0892. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
06.09.2010	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) urged fiscal restraint in the wake of unprecedented debt levels sparked by unbridled government spending over the last two years. Last week marked an ominous milestone in our nation’s fiscal history when the Obama Administration announced that the U.S. debt hit a record $13 trillion. By the end of the year the U.S debt is expected to nearly equal the size of the U.S. economy, a level economic experts warn can threaten economic growth. That same day the Administration announced that of the 431,000 jobs created in the last month, only 41,000 were in the private sector, due to massive temporary Census Bureau hiring. Johnson’s prepared statement follows: “A recent Gallup poll showed 79% of Americans now view the federal debt as a serious threat to the ‘future well being’ of the country. “It’s no wonder because the Administration just announced that the nation’s debt will reach 93% of GDP this year – a new high. Economic experts predict that unprecedented debt level could squash at least 1 million jobs. The news came the same day the Labor Department reported that nearly all of the new jobs were temporary hires at the Census – and some re-hires at the bureau. “Make no mistake, the out-of-control government spending coupled with the heavy debt prevent us from creating the quality jobs and the bright future Americans want, need and deserve. It’s time to get our fiscal house in order once and for all. The stimulus. The bailouts. Government run healthcare. Enough is enough. # # #
05.26.2010	On Thursday, June 24th the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host Mobile Office Hours in Frisco, McKinney, Plano, Richardson and Rowlett. No advance appointments are necessary. In an effort to provide better constituent services, Congressman Johnson will offer extended Mobile Office Hours from 5:00 – 7:00 p.m. in Frisco. Johnson hopes the time change will help accommodate the busy lives of constituents in the Third District. Staff from the Congressman’s office regularly host Mobile Office Hours throughout the Third Congressional District to meet with constituents. During the Mobile Office Hours, the Third District staff gladly will offer assistance with problems regarding federal issues or agencies, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration or the Internal Revenue Service. They also may help facilitate overseas adoptions. Constituents are invited to stop by and share their comments about federal issues in Congress. If a person would like assistance with a federal agency, he or she should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. If a person cannot attend the scheduled Mobile Office Hours in the community, he or she is free to contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. For more information, visit www.samjohnson.house.gov and click “24 Hour Online Office.” Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Frisco George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Front Lobby 6101 Frisco Square Blvd. 5:00 – 7:00 p.m. McKinney Collin College Central Park Campus Main Lobby 2200 W. University Drive 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Plano Collin College Spring Creek Campus Main Lobby 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Richardson Civic Center West Alcove 411 West Arapaho Road 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. Rowlett Public Library Front Meeting Room 3900 Main Street 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. ###
05.26.2010	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took to the floor to tout a new poll that reports 63% of Americans seek to repeal the new healthcare law. According to Rasmussen, “Support for repeal of the new national health care plan has jumped to its highest level ever. A new Rasmussen Reports national telephone survey finds that 63% of U.S. voters now favor repeal of the plan passed by congressional Democrats and signed into law by President Obama in March.” Johnson fought against the passage of the health spending bill and helped draft the Republican alternative bill, the only one proven by the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office to lower health care costs for Americans. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. To watch the speech, go to http://www.youtube.com/user/RepSamJohnson. Prepared remarks follow: “A new poll shows that 63% of the American public wants to repeal the expensive government run health spending law. The 63% represents the largest opposition to the law since its enactment. It’s no surprise as the law forces people to hand over their hard earned dollars to a private company to buy health insurance – or else. “As a constitutional conservative, I have to agree with the 63% of the American voters who want this expensive, irresponsible, over-reaching law repealed and replaced. “The Democrats were wrong on the bill's cost, wrong on the effect on jobs and wrong on the issue of taxpayer funding of abortion. We must stand in favor of repealing and replacing the government health spending bill with real reforms that lower health care costs without subjecting us to any nationalized health care plan. America does not want, need or deserve government-run healthcare.” # # #
05.20.2010	Recently U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) introduced legislation to institute a federal hiring freeze. The Gallup's Job Creation Index for April reveals significantly more hiring within the federal government than in the private sector – and categorizes the federal government as a “growth industry.” “It’s been over a year since the Democrats passed the so-called Stimulus promising to keep unemployment below 8%. The unemployment rates hovers just under 10%. It seems that the only sector hiring new people is the ever-expanding federal government. It’s time for a federal hiring freeze,” said Johnson. Johnson supports tough measures to halt government growth and produce a smaller, leaner federal workforce. The Federal Workforce Reduction Act, H.R. 5348, would institute an immediate freeze in non-national security hires for all non-Defense/Homeland Security Agencies. The measure would reduce the size of government by attrition. For every 100 employees who retire or otherwise end their service in non-defense related jobs, the federal government can only hire 50 new employees. The Act would make Agencies compete for new hires by establishing a competitive process under which all agencies must apply for and justify new hires. The legislation also mandates the public disclosure of hires by requiring regular disclosure of all new hires to the public and Congress so America can track an Administration’s hiring priorities. According to Michael Barone, “One-third of last year's $787 billion stimulus package was aid to state and local governments -- an obvious attempt to bolster public-sector unions. And a successful one: While the private sector has lost 7 million jobs, the number of public-sector jobs has risen. The number of federal government jobs has been increasing by 10,000 a month, and the percentage of federal employees earning over $100,000 has jumped to 19 percent during the recession.” “Taxpayers — and the next generation that will be paying the bill for this federal hiring bonanza — must decide for themselves if they're getting their money's worth,” concluded Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
05.19.2010	“We must not let any other countries hold our national and economic interests hostage.” Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) spoke out against the foreign debt threat and announced his solution, the Foreign Held Debt Transparency and Threat Assessment Act, H.R. 5319. While Johnson believes foreign investment in America shows that outsiders view our country as a safe and solid investment, Johnson has serious concerns about the full implications of overleveraging our debt to outside forces. Johnson also feels that the current level of transparency regarding China’s holdings of U.S. Government debt is inadequate. Johnson proposes cutting spending as the first common-sense step to control the debt so America doesn’t have to sell our debt to foreign interests. H.R. 5319 would require a better accounting of debt held by foreign countries and more importantly, require the President to submit a plan to cut spending should either a particular foreign creditor or the overall debt pose a risk to the security interests of America. In a related matter, Johnson co-sponsored legislation to stop U.S. tax dollars from being used by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) for bailouts of European countries. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Watch the speech by clicking here Prepared remarks follow: “Last week we learned that Uncle Sam ran up the largest deficit for April ever. Equally alarming is that our deficit is being financed by countries such as China, our biggest holder of U.S. government debt. Equally important, a former Chinese military official recently suggested the Chinese should consider dumping U.S. treasuries in response to the recent Pentagon decision to sell defensive weapons systems to Taiwan. “To raise awareness of the threat to our economy and national security of our exploding deficit and debt, yesterday I introduced the Foreign Held Debt Transparency and Threat Assessment Act, H.R. 5319. This bill would require a better accounting of debt held by foreign countries and more importantly, require the President to submit a plan to cut spending should either a particular foreign creditor or the overall debt pose a risk to the security interests of America. “We must not let any other countries hold our national and economic interests hostage.” # # #
05.18.2010	Yesterday in Plano at a private ceremony, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) presented a long awaited Congressional Gold Medal to Frankie Bretherick for her service in the Woman Air Force Service Pilots (WASP) program in World War II. The Congressional Gold Medal is the highest and most distinguished award Congress can bestow to a civilian. Since the American Revolution, Congress has commissioned gold medals as its highest expression of national appreciation for distinguished achievements and contributions. The WASP were the first women in history to fly American military aircraft. The groundbreaking steps taken by the WASP paved the way for today's generation of military female aircrew currently engaged in conflicts around the world. The WASP flew more than 60,000,000 miles in every type of aircraft and on every type of assignment flown by their male counterparts except combat missions. Faced with a shortage of U.S. based pilots in 1942, the Air Force recruited 1,100 civilian female pilots and had them fly military aircraft across the country, test newly developed aircraft (including the B-29 Superfortress bomber that dropped the first atomic bomb on Japan) and tow targets for ground and air target practice. Despite serving their country for two years and losing 38 WASP in the line of duty, the WASP program did not earn military status until 1977. The President signed a bill into law on July 2, 2009 to honor all WASP in WWII with the prestigious Congressional Gold Medal to honor them for their service to our country. It took the U.S. Mint several months to produce the coins. The President held an official ceremony in Washington, D.C., on March 9th and WASP who were able travel received their Gold Medals at this event. Of the women who received their wings as Women Air Force Service Pilots, approximately 300 are living today. Johnson visited with Bretherick last summer and presented her with a Congressional Record paying tribute and to her service. During that meeting, Frankie shared her fond memories of her time with the WASP, including meeting her husband while serving and confided how they shared a wonderful long marriage. The obverse (heads side) of the WASP Congressional Gold Medal was designed by United States Mint Artistic Infusion Program Master Designer Joel Iskowitz and sculpted by United States Mint Sculptor-Engraver Phebe Hemphill. The design depicts the portrait of a WASP with three others in the foreground in period uniforms with an airborne AT-6 in the background. Inscriptions on the obverse are WOMEN AIRFORCE SERVICE PILOTS and 1942-1944. “This long overdue recognition celebrates the great patriots, great pioneers and great pilots. The WASP courageously answered their country’s call to action in a time of need while blazing a trail for the brave women who have given and continue to give so much in service to this nation. Every American should be grateful for their service, and I am honored to finally present Frankie the prestigious Congressional Gold Medal,” Johnson said at the ceremony. This is not the first time that the Congress has presented long awaited tributes. In 2000 and 2006, Congress awarded the Gold Medal to the Navajo Code Talkers and the Tuskegee Airmen, respectively.
05.12.2010	Today Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd. Dist-Texas) congratulated the players and coaches of the Allen American Hockey team from the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. Johnson’s official statement will be a part of the Congressional Record so their success will be preserved and remembered for generations to come. Johnson was a special guest of the Americans at the March 5th game against the Mississippi RiverKings. “I had a great time dropping the puck before the game and was thrilled to see the stands so full. It’s been great to see the Allen community rally around the Americans and they sure did make us proud. Dread the Red!” stated Johnson. The Americans made it to the Central Hockey League finals and clinched the title of 2010 Southern Conference Champions. Their final game against the Rapid City Rush ended in double overtime. To watch Johnson’s speech on YouTube click here. Johnson represents potions of Dallas and Collin counties. Remarks as prepared for delivery: “Today I’d like to congratulate the players and coaches of the Allen Americans hockey team for capturing the Southern Conference Championship title. This is the first time a first season team has accomplished this! After a stellar inaugural, winning season, the minor league hockey team earned a slot in the playoffs. They won two playoff series against Laredo and Odessa. Their final post-season game against the Rapid City Rush ended in a double overtime battle. It’s no surprise that they sent four players up to the American Hockey League. “The Allen Americans play at the Allen Event Center and folks should be proud to have such an accomplished, dedicated team representing their community. “I had the privilege of cheering on the Americans last season and I look forward to attending more games in the future. I wish the team and its players all the best. Congratulations. God bless you and I salute you. “As the fans like to cheer - Dread the red!” ###
05.05.2010	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took to the floor of the U.S. House to advocate a return to respect for the United States Constitution as he announced his participation in a new group on Capitol Hill, the Tenth Amendment Task Force. The group strives to decentralize power from Washington back to regions, states, local governments and individuals. The Task Force, a project of the conservative Republican Study Committee, which Johnson co-founded, aims to usher in a “New Era of Federalism” and will work to ensure that the principles within the 10th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution serve as a framework to fundamentally alter the way government interacts with and touches people on a daily basis. Remarks as prepared for delivery: “As a constitutional conservative, I’m outraged at the unbridled, unchecked, unaccountable, and out of control government championed by the Democrats. “The Wall Street rescue. The bailouts of Fannie and Freddie and the auto industry. The Cap and Tax energy bill. The government takeover of healthcare… and court marshalling Navy SEALS while giving terrorists rights – enough already. “The complete lack of respect for the liberties espoused by our Founding Fathers has got to stop. “That’s why I am proud to announce my participation in a new group, the Tenth Amendment Task Force. The sole purpose of the caucus is to rekindle the true foundation of freedom – like promoting personal liberties and responsibility, championing freedom and free enterprise, restoring states rights, and reigning in government spending. “It’s time to roll-back big government and rejuvenate respect for the Constitution. Americans are just fed up and just want to tell the government, ‘Get off my back!’” Watch Congressman Johnson's speech on YouTube here ###
04.30.2010	On Thursday, May 20th the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host Mobile Office Hours in Dallas, Garland, McKinney, Plano and Sachse. The event is free and open to the public. No advance appointments are necessary. Staff from the Congressman’s office regularly host Mobile Office Hours throughout the Third Congressional District to meet with constituents. During the Mobile Office Hours, the Third District staff gladly will offer assistance with problems regarding federal issues or agencies, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration or the Internal Revenue Service. They also may help facilitate overseas adoptions. Constituents are invited to stop by and share their comments about federal issues in Congress. If a person would like assistance with a federal agency, he or she should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. If a person cannot attend the scheduled Mobile Office Hours, he or she is free to contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. For more information, visit www.samjohnson.house.gov and click “24 Hour Online Office.” Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Dallas Richland College El Paso Hall 12800 Abrams Road 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Garland Nicholson Memorial Library Main Entrance Area 625 Austin Street 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. McKinney Collin College Central Park Campus Lobby Area 2200 W. University Drive 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Plano Collin College Spring Creek Campus Lobby Area 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. Sachse City Hall Front Lobby 5560 Highway 78 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m.
04.22.2010	“The Democrats should realize it’s time to stop playing CEO with taxpayer dollars.” As the Democrats in Congress advocate permanent bailouts for Wall Street by institutionalizing “too big to fail,” U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took aim at the bailout culture on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. Under pending financial legislation backed by the Administration, the biggest Wall Street firms would become eligible for preferential treatment, including taxpayer-funded resources unavailable to smaller firms. These special big bank perks include exclusive access to a pre-existing bailout fund, a Treasury-backed line of credit and a government guarantee for any debt, among other things. Remarks as prepared for delivery: “With all this talk about another big bank bailout and protecting companies that are too big to fail, I think we need to bring things back into perspective -- the government should not be in the business of picking winners and losers - especially not at the expense of the American taxpayer. “America was built on freedom and free enterprise. Our Founding Fathers never envisioned a big brother government so entrenched in the private sector that it would prop up companies like Fannie and Freddie, rescue Wall Street, bailout AIG and own car companies. “What incentive does a corporation have to be responsible to its employees, customers, communities and shareholders if it knows Uncle Sam will be there to pick up the pieces when it falls apart? “With unemployment at 10% and companies hesitant to hire new workers, the Democrats should realize it’s time to stop playing CEO with taxpayer dollars.” # # #
04.20.2010	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.—Texas) will host a FREE workshop on recession proofing your finances on Saturday, May 8th at 9:00 a.m. in Plano. He will host the event in conjunction with the Consumer Credit Counseling Service of Greater Dallas (CCCS). The workshop is open to the public and the press. “Unplanned emergencies like job-loss, illness, natural disaster or death can be overwhelming and financially taxing. Financial knowledge and a sound financial contingency plan are vital to ensuring that you and your family come out of a fiscal crisis in the black,” stated Johnson. Fortunately, there are ways to plan for unexpected life changes. An expert from CCCS will be on hand to show people how. He will be available to provide general information on planning and saving as well as individualized advice on how to stretch a budget should a crisis arise. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. To learn more about this event or to RSVP, contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. RSVP is requested, but not required. Saturday, May 8th 9:00 a.m. – 11 a.m. Recession proofing your finances U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson The Consumer Credit Counseling Service of Greater Dallas Plano Centre Sunnyslope Room 2000 E. Spring Creek Parkway Plano, TX 75074
04.14.2010	On Thursday, April 22nd the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host Mobile Office Hours in Allen, Frisco, Parker, Plano and Richardson. The event is free and open to the public. No advance appointments are necessary. Staff from the Congressman’s office regularly host Mobile Office Hours throughout the Third Congressional District to meet with constituents. During the Mobile Office Hours, the Third District staff gladly will offer assistance with problems regarding federal issues or agencies, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration or the Internal Revenue Service. They also may help facilitate overseas adoptions. Constituents are invited to stop by and share their comments about federal issues in Congress. In addition, applications for US Academy Nominations will be available for pick up. If a person would like assistance with a federal agency, he or she should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. If a person cannot attend the scheduled Mobile Office Hours, he or she is free to contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. For more information, visit www.samjohnson.house.gov and click “24 Hour Online Office.” Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Allen Senior Recreation Center Conference Room 451 East St. Mary 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. Frisco George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Front Lobby 6101 Frisco Square Blvd. 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Parker City Council Chambers Council Chambers 5700 E. Parker Road 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Plano Collin College Spring Creek Campus Main Lobby 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. Richardson Civic Center West Alcove Area 411 West Arapaho Road 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. ###
04.14.2010	House passes Sam Johnson cell phone fix Johnson’s measure centerpiece of Tax Day legislation Today the Democrat-led U.S. House of Representatives passed a bipartisan, common-sense measure authored by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) by a vote of 399 to 9. The Democrats made Johnson’s legislation to modernize rules for cell-phone use the cornerstone of their annual Tax Day bill. “As we all know, in today’s 24-7 economy, cell phones and blackberries have become the modern version of landline office phones. And yet, unlike landline phones, workers and their employers must keep detailed call logs or else face the wrath of the IRS. This means a business can lose its deduction while a worker can face taxes for making personal calls. This is just wrong. We don’t nickel and dime workers for making the occasional personal call from a desk and we shouldn’t for cell phones either,” demanded Johnson. The MOBILE (Modernize Our Bookkeeping In the Law for Employee’s) Cell Phone Act, H.R. 690, would change the outdated cell phone tax rules that require employers and employees keep track of all cell phone and Blackberry use. The Act passed as part of H.R. 4994, the Taxpayer Assistance Act. A constituent concern generated the idea for Johnson’s cell phone fix. In February 2008, a lawyer from North Texas contacted the Congressman on behalf of a client. The IRS wanted the client to keep records on employee cell phone and Blackberry use or forfeit the deduction. Given the tremendous advances in this technology, Johnson demanded the IRS and the Congress modernize the tax code as quickly as possible. “Times have changed since Congress passed this rule in 1989, when cell phones came with a suitcase, were used by the likes of high-flying corporate executives, and cost a small fortune,” said Johnson. “Even the IRS gets it that the times have changed. In fact, last June IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman said in a statement ‘the passage of time, advances in technology, and the nature of communication in the modern workplace have rendered this law obsolete.’ There you have it! Even the IRS Commissioner believes that this law needs to be changed,” concluded Johnson. The bill now awaits Senate approval. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
04.14.2010	Think the federal government needs to get its fiscal house in order? Are you tired of out-of-control spending, higher taxes and the gross abuse of the hard-earned taxpayer dollar? The Republicans have unveiled “YouCut” a brand-new website that allows you—the American taxpayer—to decide how the government should prioritize its spending. At the end of each week, the Republicans will offer an up-or-down vote on the spending cut you choose. “This is something we should have been doing all along, and I’m proud of my colleagues for initiating a campaign that finally puts the power of the purse right where it belongs—in the hands of the American people,” stated Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd. Dist.—Texas), an ardent fiscal conservative. YouCut – a first-of-its-kind project - is designed to defeat the permissive culture of runaway spending in Congress. It allows you to vote, both online and on your cell phone, on spending cuts that you want to see the House enact. Vote today for your priorities and together we can begin to change Washington's culture of spending into a culture of savings. “The American people are fed up and disgusted by the Democrats’ frank disregard for the hard-earned dollar. We need to focus on eliminating waste, fraud and abuse in Washington. That starts with spending our money more efficiently,” concluded Johnson. To cast your vote, click here or visit http://republicanwhip.house.gov/ ###
04.13.2010	Sam Johnson calls for tax fairness “Out of fairness, everyone should have to pay some tax – even if it is just one dollar a month – to help pay to live in this great democracy.” Accepts Taxpayers’ Friend Award Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took to the floor to condemn the fact that almost half of all Americans do not have to pay taxes. His prepared remarks follow. In a related matter, the nonpartisan National Taxpayers Union named Johnson as one of only 40 Members of Congress to receive the coveted “Taxpayers’ Friend Award” for his solid voting record to promote lower taxes, smaller government and economic freedom. For a photo of Johnson accepting the award, contact McCall Avery. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Remarks as prepared for delivery: “Tax Day is a dreaded deadline for millions of Americans. But according to the Associated Press, for nearly half of U.S. households -- it's simply somebody else's problem. “This April, 47 percent of Americans will pay no federal income taxes at all. According to a new report, the top 10 percent of earners will pay roughly 73 percent of the income taxes collected by the federal government. That’s just not fair. “Being an American is a privilege, not a right. Out of fairness, everyone should have to pay some tax – even if it is just one dollar a month – to help pay to live in this great democracy. “By pushing more and more people off the tax roles and having just a few foot the bill for the many, we’re punishing hard work, thrift and sacrifice. This is America where prosperity and helping your fellow man should mean more than just paying your neighbors’ taxes. It’s about fairness and freedom.” # # #
03.25.2010	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took to the House floor to support the Lone Star State lawsuit to stop the unprecedented government expansion into healthcare and to advocate personal responsibility and self reliance. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. To watch Congressman Johnson's remarks please visit his YouTube page. Prepared remarks follow: “Texas is one of 14 states filing a lawsuit challenging the federal requirement to purchase health insurance as part of the new healthcare law. This is America! We do not force people to hand over their hard earned money to a private company against their will. That’s the ultimate overreach of federal power and it’s unconstitutional. “I’m also upset by the fact that this healthcare law creates one more government hand out. By pushing more and more people into a government-controlled healthcare plan, we’re going to reach a point where more Americans depend on the government for help than those who get along by themselves. That’s not right. Americans want, need and deserve prosperity and success achieved by sacrifice, hard work, self reliance and personal responsibility. “It’s called the American Dream.”
03.24.2010	On Wednesday, April 21st at 1:00 p.m. in Garland, the office of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will host a FREE workshop on surviving a financial crisis. The office will host the event in conjunction with the Consumer Credit Counseling Service of Greater Dallas (CCCS), the office of State Representative Angie Chen Button, and the Garland Chamber of Commerce at Richland College – Garland Campus. The event is open to the public and the press. “Unfortunately, many people have found themselves enduring financial hardship due to the current economic turmoil. As overwhelming as it may seem, the good news is that there are resources out there and counselors available to help folks turn things around for the better,” stated Johnson. CCCS counselors have the training and experience to provide expert financial counseling in many areas including credit, foreclosure prevention, bankruptcy, banking and saving. Representatives will be on hand to provide general information and to answer individual questions. The program will help people prepare for or overcome many of life's unplanned emergencies. Job-loss, divorce, illness, accident, natural disaster or a death in the family can be overwhelming both personally and financially. Coping with change is never easy, but knowing the numerous resources available will help. How will folks manage the bills in the meantime? CCCS will tell people how. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. To learn more about this event or to RSVP, contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. (RSVP is requested but not required.) Wednesday, April 21 1:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. Surviving a Financial Crisis Office of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson Consumer Credit Counseling Service of Greater Dallas Office of State Representative Angie Chen Button Garland Chamber of Commerce Richland College - Garland Campus Conference Room A 675 W. Walnut Street Garland About Consumer Credit Counseling Service of Greater Dallas (CCCS) The mission of Consumer Credit Counseling Service of Greater Dallas, Inc. is to promote sound financial management among individuals and families. We accomplish this by providing expert financial counseling, comprehensive community education, professional debt management plans, and responsive customer service.
03.23.2010	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after the President signed a $2.6 trillion healthcare bill into law. The $2.6 trillion measure included a $300 million Medicaid payout to Louisiana, designed to secure the vote of Democratic Sen. Mary Landrieu (D-La.), dubbed the ‘Louisiana Purchase.’ In addition, Democrat Senator Ben Nelson received special treatment for his state with the so-called “Cornhusker Kickback” that carved out Nebraska from increased Medicaid costs – charging the taxpayer credit card $100 million. Johnson emphasized that these special deals to garner votes have no business in a healthcare reform bill. To read “Shady Deals and Backroom Bargains in the Senate Takeover of Health Care,” a long list of the special perks for Democrat Senators in the healthcare bill, go to SamJohnson.house.gov. Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott, along with attorneys general from at least 11 other states, plan to file a lawsuit now that the bill has been signed into law. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. “As a constitutional conservative, I am glad to report that Texas will be leading the charge to rein in the size and scope of the federal government. “This is America! The federal government cannot force you to buy anything. The federal government cannot force you to hand over your hard-earned money to a private company selling health insurance. The federal government cannot force you to enter into a contract against your will. “We may have lost the battle, but we will win the war for our precious freedoms and personal liberties!”
03.21.2010	Today on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) voiced his opposition to the $2.6 trillion government takeover of healthcare that forces Americans to buy health insurance, cuts Medicare for seniors, increases healthcare costs, and funds abortion, among other things. A 29-year Air Force veteran and former Prisoner of War for nearly seven years in Vietnam, Johnson will vote against the measure later today. Johnson, the longest serving Republican on the Health Subcommittee on Ways and Means, represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. To watch Congressman Johnson's remarks please visit his YouTube. Prepared remarks follow: “Today each of us will cast one of the most important votes of our careers. A vote that defines what kind of America we want to live in. I, for one, know exactly what that is. It’s the freedom-loving country that I fought and sacrificed everything for. “Freedom from a $2.6 trillion Washington takeover of health care. Freedom from sky-rocketing taxes. Freedom from bureaucrats coming between you and your doctor. Freedom from Medicare cuts to seniors. Freedom from exploding debt. Freedom from the government forcing you to buy health insurance. “I ask my colleagues, what kind of legacy do you want to leave for your children and grandchildren? Will you cave to the demands of Speaker Pelosi? Or will you listen to the pleas of the hardworking American people who elected you? To me, that's no decision at all.” # # #
03.21.2010	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will cast his vote against the final push for a government-takeover of healthcare that costs nearly $2.6 trillion while cutting Medicare, increasing healthcare costs, and funding abortion. “It’s safe to say that this Administration has bitten off more than it can chew. They can’t stop spending! Why on earth would we pass a $2.6 trillion bill that the American people are clearly against? Enough already! For the Democrats who control the White House, the House and the Senate, it seems like $2.6 trillion isn’t a big deal anymore… compared with the purchase of ‘Government Motors’, the Wall Street rescue, the so-called stimulus bill and the unprecedented bailouts of every industry known to man. The only group left out to dry are the hard-working taxpayers.” “The President has taken his eye off the ball and the jobless numbers are proof positive. The Administration and Democrats should be working on creating jobs, reviving the economy, and cutting taxes, not spending another $2.6 trillion for a Washington-takeover of healthcare. It’s time for a smarter, more targeted approach to reform – one that builds on consensus ideas and moves forward with incremental change that garners support from more than just one side of the aisle,” said Johnson. “Landmark legislation that costs $2.6 trillion and will forever change the future direction of our democracy should not be able to pass without support from both parties. It’s just common sense,” continued Johnson. Later today the U.S. House of Representatives will vote on a Senate healthcare bill that costs almost $2.6 trillion. The plan forces Americans to buy health insurance, cuts Medicare for seniors, boosts health costs for everyone, hikes taxes on small businesses, and uses taxpayer dollars to fund abortion, among other flaws. The healthcare scheme also includes numerous shady deals and sneaky give-aways to sway the votes of many Democrats in the Senate. For example, the bill, H.R. 3590, includes a $300 million Medicare payout to Louisiana, designed to secure the vote of Democratic Sen. Mary Landrieu (D-La.), dubbed the ‘Louisiana Purchase.’ In addition, Democrat Senator Ben Nelson received special treatment for his state with the so-called “Cornhusker Kickback” that carves out Nebraska from increased Medicaid costs – charging the taxpayer credit card $100 million. Johnson stresses that these special deals to garner votes have no business in a healthcare reform bill. (To read a full list of the “Shady deals and backroom bargains in the Senate healthcare bill,” click here.) Johnson advocates smarter, more targeted solutions. In fact, the Republican leadership included Johnson’s proposal to allow small businesses to band together to buy health insurance at group rates in their fiscally responsible, patient centered health reform plan. “Our children and grandchildren will be paying for this bill for generations to come. That’s not fair. They want, need and deserve so much better than this. It’s time for the Democrats to abandon their ‘our-way-or-the-highway’ attitude and to build bipartisan consensus to get the job done for the American people. They have a right to leaders in government who are willing to work together to find common-sense solutions,” concluded Johnson. To read Johnson’s remarks on the floor of the House or to read a list of amendments Johnson supported, visit SamJohnson.house.gov. Johnson, the longest serving Republican on the Health Subcommittee on Ways and Means, represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
03.18.2010	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) condemned efforts by Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) to skip an up or down vote in the U.S. House of Representatives to pass the Senate’s version of government controlled healthcare that cuts Medicare, increases healthcare costs and funds abortion with taxpayer dollars. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Prepared remarks follow: “Even while the President tours the country saying it’s time for an up or down vote on healthcare, the Speaker’s attempting to bypass a vote all together. “As Newt Gingrich said, ‘This Congress has gone from voting on bills without reading them to passing bills without voting on them.’ That is unconscionable and unconstitutional. It’s time for an open and honest vote on healthcare. “Let’s vote on how the bill cuts Medicare. Let’s vote on how the bill actually hikes healthcare costs. Let’s vote on how the bill uses taxpayer dollars to fund abortions. “But the Speaker can’t do that just yet. She’s faced with the unfortunate inconvenience that some of her Members actually want to listen to their constituents and vote no. So now she intends to muscle through health reform without an actual vote. That’s just wrong. “I’ll say it again: Congress has gone from voting on bills without reading them to passing bills without voting on them. America wants, needs and deserves better.”
03.18.2010	Travelling art exhibit showcases work of local teens Public invited to view art in Allen, Plano and Frisco for free Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced that the inaugural traveling exhibition of the Third Congressional District 2010 Art Competition will showcase the work of local teens in Allen, Plano and Frisco. Members of the public are invited to view the works on display for free. “It is an honor to have the opportunity to host the annual competition and shine a spotlight on the talented young artists in our community. I hope folks come out to see the outstanding artwork and to support local teens,” said Johnson. This year, “The Dancer,” an oil painting by Liberty High School junior and McKinney resident, Cindy Kuang, won the grand prize of the 2010 Congressional Art Contest for the Third District of Texas. Garland Christian Academy student Aaron Dekle, of Sachse, placed second with “Patriot.” Liberty High School student Ashley Chang, of Plano, took third place with “Chinatown.” Each exhibit will feature these works plus the art submitted from the teens residing or studying in that locale. Johnson announced all of the winners at the Arts in the Square festival in Frisco on March 6, 2010. Students from Frisco, Plano, Allen, Rowlett, Garland, Richardson and Wylie all won prizes in this year’s competition. This year marks the first time that the art will travel around the Third District. The free art display has already visited UTD and Rowlett. The Rowlett exhibit featured artwork from students who reside in Rowlett, Garland, Sachse and Wylie. The local art competition was conducted as part of the nationwide annual Congressional Art Competition. Every year high school students in the Third Congressional District are invited to participate in the competition. The first-place entry is sent to Washington, D.C. to be displayed in the U.S. Capitol tunnel for one year. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. March 22 – March 26, 2010 Allen Event Center Main Corridor 200 E. Stacy Road, Suite 1350 Allen, TX 75002 *On display: 1st-3rd place and select pieces submitted by students from Allen and McKinney March 29 – April 1, 2010 Baylor Regional Medical Center at Plano Main Entrance 4700 Alliance Blvd Plano, TX 75093 *On display: 1st – 3rd place and pieces submitted by students from Plano April 5 – April 9, 2010 George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Main Lobby 6101 Frisco Square Boulevard Frisco, TX 75034 *On display: 1st – 3rd place and pieces submitted by students from Frisco
03.16.2010	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took aim at the possibility of the vote-less passage of healthcare reform and called for an up or down vote on the $875 billion measure that doles out millions of dollars in special favors for Senators. The comprehensive healthcare bill that passed the Senate included a $300 million Medicare payout to Louisiana, designed to secure the vote of Democratic Sen. Mary Landrieu (D-La.), dubbed the ‘Louisiana Purchase.’ In addition, Democrat Senator Ben Nelson received special treatment for his state with the so-called “Cornhusker Kickback” that carves out Nebraska from increased Medicaid costs – charging the taxpayer credit card $100 million. Johnson stresses that these special deals to garner votes have no business in a healthcare reform bill. Today The Washington Post, in an article titled “House may try to pass Senate health-care bill without voting on it” explained the so-called vote-less passage. “After laying the groundwork for a decisive vote this week on the Senate's health-care bill, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi suggested Monday that she might attempt to pass the measure without having members vote on it. (Emphasis added) Instead, Pelosi (D-Calif.) would rely on a procedural sleight of hand: The House would vote on a more popular package of fixes to the Senate bill; under the House rule for that vote, passage would signify that lawmakers ‘deem’ the health-care bill to be passed. The tactic -- known as a ‘self-executing rule’ or a ‘deem and pass’ -- has been commonly used, although never to pass legislation as momentous as the $875 billion health-care bill. It is one of three options that Pelosi said she is considering for a late-week House vote, but she added that she prefers it because it would politically protect lawmakers who are reluctant to publicly support the measure.” To read the full article, visit www.washingtonpost.com. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Prepared remarks follow: “Wake up America! The Speaker is trying to pass the healthcare bill without letting America see it first. In fact, she said, ‘We have to pass the bill so you can find out what’s in it.’ She’s also shooting for a vote-less passage. That is unconstitutional! Well, I can tell my Democratic colleagues what’s in it. The healthcare bill is littered full of one sweetheart deal after another – from the Louisiana Purchase to the Cornhusker Kickback. What’s another term for hustling votes? Buying them! “The American people are fed up with secret backroom deals in smoke-filled rooms. It’s no wonder they are clear in their opposition to what they have seen, read and heard on healthcare reform. Bring the real Senate bill to the floor for an honest up or down vote. These sneaky shenanigans defy common-sense and the American people want, need and deserve better.”
03.16.2010	On Thursday, March 25th at 10 a.m. the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host “mobile office hours” at multiple locations to visit with constituents. The event is free and open to the public. No advance appointments are necessary. Staff from the Congressman’s office regularly host mobile office hours throughout the Third Congressional District to meet with constituents. During the mobile office hours, the Third District staff will gladly offer assistance with problems regarding federal issues or agencies, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration or the Internal Revenue Service. They also may help facilitate overseas adoptions. Constituents are invited to stop by and share their comments about federal issues in Congress. If a person would like assistance with a federal agency, he or she should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. If a person cannot attend the scheduled mobile office hours, he or she is free to contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. For more information, visit www.samjohnson.house.gov and click “24 Hour Online Office.” Garland Nicholson Memorial Library Outer Entrance Area 625 Austin Street Garland, TX 75040 (972) 205-2500 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. McKinney Collin College Central Park Campus Lobby Area 2200 W. University Drive McKinney, TX 75070 (972) 548-6790 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Murphy City Hall Conference Room 206 North Murphy Road Murphy, TX 75094 (972) 424-6021 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. Plano Collin College Spring Creek Campus Lobby Area 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway Plano, TX 75074 (972) 881-5790 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. Rowlett Public Library Lobby Area 3900 Main Street Rowlett, TX 75088 (972) 412-6161 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
03.09.2010	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced that “The Dancer,” an oil painting by Liberty High School junior, Cindy Kuang, won the grand prize of the 2010 Congressional Art Contest for the Third District of Texas. All of the work submitted for the Congressional Art Competition Art Exhibit was displayed last weekend at Arts in the Square in Frisco. Those in attendance cast their vote for the People’s Choice Award which went to Aaron Dekle from Sachse, who is a junior at Garland Christian Academy, for his piece, “Patriot.” Dekle also won second place in the overall Congressional Art Competition. Kuang’s work will be shipped to Washington for display in the United States Capitol. In addition, Southwest Airlines will fly Kuang and a guest to Washington, D.C. in June to attend the official congressional unveiling celebration. The third place prize went to “Chinatown,” an oil painting by Plano resident Ashley Chang, a senior at Liberty High School. Saemi Choi’s “Let’s Go Sailing” took fourth place. Choi is from Frisco and is a senior at Centennial High School. Plano East Senior High School student, Zarina Karapetyan, took home a fifth place ribbon for her drawing, “Grapes and Flowers.” “Texan,” a computer illustration by Kalleigh Bril,l a senior at Allen High School, was awarded sixth place. Honorable mention ribbons went to the following: Miranda Marlow—a sophomore at Allen High School—resides in Allen. Parker Pollard—a sophomore at Garland Christian Academy—resides in Rowlett. Mikayla Snell—a sophomore at Garland Christian Academy—resides in Garland. Julia Kerwin—a junior at Plano East Senior High School—resides in Plano. Chase Davis—a freshman at Garland Christian Academy—resides in Richardson. Amanda Owens—a sophomore at Liberty High School—resides in Wylie. Earlier this year, Johnson invited high school students residing in the Third Congressional District to submit original artwork for the annual Congressional Art Competition. This contest was open to students enrolled in public, private or home schools. # # #
03.04.2010	Today, Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd. Dist.—Texas) called out his Democrat colleagues for refusing to answer to the American people on healthcare reform. While national polls report that 73% of Americans do not want Congress to pass the current bill, Speaker Pelosi, Senator Reid and the President seem as gung-ho as ever to pass a government takeover of healthcare. “Most Americans are happy with their healthcare and they don’t want the government meddling in it. That said, everyone agrees that some changes need to be made. That’s why Republicans are anxious to meet with a blank sheet of paper to come up with a bill that addresses the needs of the American people. Sadly, the Democrats are set in their ways,” stated Johnson. Johnson is upset that Speaker Pelosi has remarked that some of her colleagues may need to sacrifice their jobs to pass healthcare reform. “We were put in Congress to do the will of the American people, not to push an agenda,” said Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin counties. Check out the full floor speech at: http://www.youtube.com/RepSamJohnson Remarks as prepared for delivery: “I think that after yet another healthcare speech by the President, the American people are sick and tired of the democrats’ “I know what’s best for you” attitude. Congress needs to wake up and realize that Americans know more about their healthcare needs than government bureaucrats. They know exactly what a Washington takeover of healthcare means and they’re shouting from the rooftops: no no no! It is time for the president and Speaker Pelosi to realize that this policy debate isn’t between Democrats and Republicans. It is between the Democrats and the American people. And the American people are saying enough is enough. They don’t want a healthcare bill that raises taxes, stifles small businesses, increases insurance premiums and cuts Medicare. If the Democrats insist on ramming this bill through against the will of the American people, then they better be prepared suffer the consequences in November.” ###
03.03.2010	Yesterday, Congressmen Sam Johnson (R-TX) and John Larson (D-CT) introduced legislation that would prohibit the IRS from taxing compensation awarded to people who have been wrongfully convicted of a crime and subsequently exonerated. H.R. 4743 the “Wrongful Convictions Tax Relief Act,” is a common sense bi-partisan solution that will protect the rights of the more than 200 Americans who have been exonerated of crimes they didn’t commit using DNA evidence. The wrongfully convicted have served more than 3,100 years in prison before being exonerated. They have served jail time in more than 30 states across the country. As our ability to identify them with DNA and other technology becomes more advanced, we must have a system in place to ensure the exonerated are treated fairly. We cannot give these Americans the years they’ve lost back, but we can protect their monetary compensation by relieving them of any tax burden. An editorial published last week in the Dallas Morning News called on Congress to “create a fair system of compensation for those wrongfully sent to prison.” Johnson and Larson believe that this bill represents a bipartisan effort in Washington to ensure that the federal government does its part for those who have been wronged by our justice system. “Hundreds of people have been exonerated of crimes that they did not commit using DNA evidence. While nothing can be done to return the many years lost as a result of wrongful imprisonment, this legislation at least redresses in a meaningful manner the terrible miscarriage of justice experienced by exonerees,” stated Johnson, a senior member of the tax writing Ways and Means committee. Dallas County, which includes portions of Johnson’s district, is a leader in exonerations. Congressman Larson, also a member of the Ways and Means Committee and the Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus said, “The wrongfully convicted have lost so much – years of their lives, their careers, even their families. We can’t give them the time back. But, we can make it a priority to protect the financial benefits we provide to them. I am proud to co-sponsor this legislation with my colleague, Sam Johnson, and I look forward to working with him to make this bill law.” Specifically, the Wrongful Convictions Tax Relief Act proposes to allow exonerees to keep their awards free of tax and exempt from federal tax, for up to 15 years, their first $50,000 in earnings. Compensation awards are meant to provide exonerated prisoners with much-needed economic support. Many exonerees experience severe hardship acclimating to society, finding jobs and housing and reconnecting with family. With no money, housing, transportation, health services or insurance and a criminal record that is rarely cleared despite innocence, the punishment lingers long after innocence has been proven. ###
02.26.2010	U.S. REPS. SAM JOHNSON AND GABRIELLE GIFFORDS SAY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS NEED TO OVERHAUL EMPLOYEE VERIFICATION PROGRAM U.S. Reps. Sam Johnson and Gabrielle Giffords today renewed their call for overhauling the federal employee verification program after an independent analysis found it is failing to catch more than half the unauthorized workers it checks. Giffords, an Arizona Democrat, and Johnson, a Texas Republican, say it is very troubling that the online E-Verify program could not confirm whether the information presented to employers by workers was their own. “Businesses owners across Arizona have repeatedly told me that E-Verify is not an accurate or reliable employee screening tool and now we have confirmation from a credible and independent source,” said Giffords. “The program needs to be strengthened and that is exactly what Rep. Johnson and I are proposing to do with our legislation.” “I am pleased to join Rep. Giffords and employers across America in an effort to make our employment verification program as fool-proof as possible. We have known for a long time that E-Verify is prone to errors. We must work toward ensuring a legal workforce, securing workers’ identities and helping keep illegal immigrants from working here without authorization,” stated Johnson. According to the Associated Press, a research company that evaluated E-Verify for the Department of Homeland Security found that the program wrongly clears illegal workers about 54 percent of the time. The company, Westat, determined that “E-Verify missed so many illegal workers mainly because it can't detect identity fraud.” A copy of the story can be found here. In 2008, after first learning of the problems associated with E-Verify, Giffords and Johnson introduced the New Employee Verification Act. Known as NEVA, the bill’s goal is make sure employers do not unknowingly abet the flow of illegal immigrants into the United States by providing them with a place to work. NEVA is intended to prevent unauthorized work in the United States by requiring verification of all new hires through the use of a more reliable, technologically advanced verification system than currently exists. The E-Verify system, which Arizona employers are required to use, only matches names and birthdates with Social Security Numbers or immigration document numbers. If these items match, the system will return the individual as an authorized worker even if those documents don’t belong to the person presenting them. NEVA would create a voluntary biometrics option that employers could choose to use in the verification process. This system would include a standard background check and the collection of a “biometric” characteristic — such as a thumbprint — to secure an employee’s identity and prevent the illegal use of a Social Security number, stolen or fraudulently-obtained drivers’ licenses or altered identification documents. ###
02.24.2010	Today, Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd. Dist.—Texas) took to the House floor to argue that the President’s “new” healthcare proposal is only the same Washington takeover of healthcare that raises taxes, kills jobs and shoves bureaucracy into the patient-doctor relationship. Johnson’s remarks come in the wake of new developments in the healthcare debate. On Thursday, Republicans and Democrats are scheduled to meet at the White House to discuss the future of healthcare reform as well as the President’s 11-page healthcare proposal. “I’m only interested in a ‘bipartisan’ meeting if it means we’re all sitting around a table with a blank sheet of paper. Using the illusion of bipartisanship as a political tool is wrong, and it’s not fooling anyone,” stated Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin counties. Check out the full floor speech at: http://www.youtube.com/RepSamJohnson Remarks as prepared for delivery: “Instead of inviting republicans to a conference table with a blank sheet of paper, the president has decided to introduce the same trillion-dollar Washington takeover of healthcare the public has already rejected. “In Texas, we call that paying for the same real estate twice…..and the American people aren’t buying it! “They have been trying to tell the president in every way possible to stop the backroom decisions and secret deals. “This week’s so-called “bipartisan” summit is just more of the same. “Instead of pressing the reset button, the president is hosting a photo-op. “Using the illusion of bipartisanship as a political tool is wrong, and it’s not fooling anyone. “If the president and democrat leadership are serious about coming together on healthcare reform, then let’s get out of the corral and start from scratch.” ###
02.23.2010	Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.—Texas) took to the House floor to urge his colleagues to vote with the small business owner in mind. His remarks come at a time when a record 16 million Americans are unemployed. Johnson believes that the road to economic recovery depends on giving small businesses owners, the nation’s top job creators, the support they want, need and deserve to keep their companies running. The Democrats seem to think that they can fool the American people into thinking we can tax and spend our way to recovery. Johnson doesn’t assume they can be tricked so easily. “We all know that ultimately it’s the job creators who will foot the bill for the Democrats’ tax and spend agenda,” stated Johnson, an ardent fiscal conservative. “Small businesses will only begin to consider hiring new employees when they believe that the government will not hit them with new taxes and regulations.” Specifically, providing a tax incentive to hire new employees will actually do little to create jobs. Who’s to say that illegal immigrants won’t reap the benefits of this misplaced idea? Johnson argues that employers must verify whether a worker can legally work before qualifying for the tax credit. “Now more than ever, the American worker must be our first priority. But if the Democrat majority insists on moving forward, I will do everything in my power to make sure that any hiring tax credit is not used to hire those here illegally,” Johnson concluded. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin counties. Check out the full floor speech at: http://www.youtube.com/RepSamJohnson Remarks as prepared for delivery: “Small businesses want, need and deserve policies that will encourage, not punish economic growth. And yet due to the democrats’ tax and spend agenda, job creators in my district are either cutting their payrolls or holding back on hiring. That’s why we have a record 16 million Americans unemployed. There’s a better way forward. And that way forward is with pro-growth small business tax cuts that will help get this economy moving again. Madame Speaker, small business owners know how to run their company better than a Washington bureaucrat. It’s time for the government to get out of the business of running small business.” ###
02.12.2010	Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd. Dist—Texas) visited DaVita dialysis in West Plano to visit with patients suffering from chronic kidney disease, talk to local doctors and to hear how delays in the Medicare certification process affect those seeking care. Johnson was able to share the exciting news that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid (CMS) only a few hours before had given the East Plano Dialysis Center, the sister clinic to the West Plano facility, the green light to take the crucial next step in securing their designation as a Medicare provider. "There are over 30,000 patients in the state of Texas that need dialysis and an overwhelming majority of them are Medicare patients. That’s why it is crucial that the government holds up their end of the bargain to ensure patient access to quality care by continuing to work swiftly to get more facilities in North Texas Medicare certified as soon as possible,” stated Johnson. In order to become certified, facilities are required to follow a step by step application process that ends with a survey conducted by the state to ensure quality and safety. The results of these surveys are the crucial evidence relied upon by Regional Offices in the Medicare Provider approval process. CMS' own guidelines state that a survey should be conducted within 90 days of a facility opening its doors. Due to budget constraints, there is a tremendous backlog of dialysis clinics waiting all across Texas to get surveyed. The Plano Dialysis Center has been waiting for over 18 months and is just now getting word that the state will schedule their survey. “These patients need access to this life-saving treatment now, not in 6 months and certainly not in a year and a half. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to make sure that we can cut through the bureaucratic red tape that has stopped these facilities from serving the very patients that need it the most,” concluded Johnson. A picture from Johnson’s visit is attached. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin counties. ###
02.10.2010	On Friday, February 12, 2010 at 1:30 p.m., Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.—Texas) will deliver hand-made valentines and notes to hospitalized veterans at the Dallas Veterans Affairs Medical Center as part of the national “Valentines for Vets” program. Press are encouraged to attend. Students representing Allen ISD, Frisco ISD, Garland ISD, McKinney ISD, Plano ISD and the Home School Co-op donated valentines to this worthy cause. “For years I have had the privilege of delivering hand-made valentines to hospitalized veterans. It’s humbling to see the look on those patriots’ faces when they realize that so many people truly appreciate all that they’ve done to protect our freedom,” stated Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran and Prisoner of War in Vietnam for nearly seven years. Johnson retired from the U.S. Air Force after 29 years. Shot down during his 25th mission in the Vietnam War, Johnson spent seven years as a Prisoner of War (POW) with over three and a half years in solitary confinement. Johnson marks 37 years of freedom on February 12th – the 37th year anniversary of Operation Homecoming, the day the longest held POWs departed Vietnam. WHEN: Friday, February 12th at 1:30 p.m. WHAT: Distribution of valentines by Third District students to hospitalized veterans WHO: Former POW and Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) Congressman Michael Burgess (26th Dist.-Texas) WHERE: Dallas VA Medical Center 4500 S. Lancaster Road Dallas, Texas Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin counties. ###
02.08.2010	Today, 29-year Air Force Veteran Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd. Dist.—Texas) traveled to Boon Elementary in Allen to pick up hand-made valentines and notes students created for hospitalized veterans. The patriots at Boon Elementary have helped Johnson kick-off Valentines for Veterans for the past three years. “On Valentine’s Day, we often tell people how much we appreciate them. I can’t think of a better way to say thank you to all of those who gave so much for something we truly love and value – our freedom,” said Johnson. “The students deserve a Texas sized thank you for their enthusiasm and creativity.” This year, 18 schools from Allen ISD, Frisco ISD, Garland ISD, McKinney ISD, Plano ISD, and two private schools, along with the Home School Co-op helped kick-off this year’s Valentines for Veterans drive. Representatives from Johnson’s office will personally pick-up the hundreds of valentines from each school and deliver them to the Dallas VA hospital and to the deployed troops arriving at DFW Airport for their two weeks of rest and relaxation. Johnson retired from the U.S. Air Force after 29 years. Shot down during his 25th mission in the Vietnam War, Johnson spent seven years as a Prisoner of War (POW) with over three and a half years in solitary confinement. Johnson marks 37 years of freedom on February 12th – the 37 year anniversary of Operation Homecoming, the day the longest held POWs departed Vietnam. About “Valentines for Veterans” Every February, Americans open their hearts to our country's hospitalized veterans by making cards and writing notes to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical centers across the country through the "Valentines for Vets" program. The National Salute to Hospitalized Veterans Week is observed the second week of February, which includes Valentine's Day. Each year, the week of February 14 is an opportunity to say thank you to a special group of men and women, the veterans of the U.S. armed services who are cared for every day in Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical centers, outpatient clinics, and nursing homes. Photos from the event are attached. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin counties. ###
02.08.2010	Today, 29-year Air Force Veteran Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd. Dist.—Texas) travelled to Hamilton Park Pacesetter Magnet in Dallas to pick up hand-made valentines and notes students created for hospitalized veterans and soldiers. Over 700 students listened attentively during an all-school assembly as Johnson thanked them for their patriotism. “On Valentine’s Day, we often tell people how much we appreciate them. I can’t think of a better way to say thank you to all of those who gave so much for something we truly love and value – our freedom,” said Johnson. “The students deserve a Texas sized thank you for their enthusiasm and creativity.” This year, 18 schools from Allen ISD, Frisco ISD, Garland ISD, McKinney ISD, Plano ISD, and two private schools, along with the Home School Co-op helped kick-off this year’s Valentines for Veterans drive. Representatives from Johnson’s office will personally pick-up the hundreds of valentines from each school and deliver them to the Dallas VA hospital and to the deployed troops arriving at DFW Airport for their two weeks of rest and relaxation. Johnson retired from the U.S. Air Force after 29 years. Shot down during his 25th mission in the Vietnam War, Johnson spent seven years as a Prisoner of War (POW) with over three and a half years in solitary confinement. Johnson marks 37 years of freedom on February 12th – the 37 year anniversary of Operation Homecoming, the day the longest held POWs departed Vietnam. About “Valentines for Veterans” Every February, Americans open their hearts to our country's hospitalized veterans by making cards and writing notes to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical centers across the country through the "Valentines for Vets" program. The National Salute to Hospitalized Veterans Week is observed the second week of February, which includes Valentine's Day. Each year, the week of February 14 is an opportunity to say thank you to a special group of men and women, the veterans of the U.S. armed services who are cared for every day in Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical centers, outpatient clinics, and nursing homes. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin counties. ###
02.04.2010	Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd. Dist.—Texas) took to the House floor today to call out the Democrats’ unsustainable spending spree. “The Democrats are spending like there’s no tomorrow with nothing to show for it—unemployment is at 10 percent, small businesses aren’t hiring new workers and the economy continues to struggle” stated Johnson. Johnson’s remarks ring true to many Americans who are outraged over the Democrats’ tax and spend agenda. Unsurprisingly, the President’s $3.8 trillion FY2011 budget released on Monday is full of higher taxes, spending and debt. On Capitol Hill, the Democrats are poised to raise the statutory debt limit by $1.9 trillion to a whopping $14.3 trillion later today. Johnson calls for a new approach to getting our economy back on track. “Let’s focus on balancing the budget and lowering taxes for small businesses,” stated Johnson on the House floor. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin counties. To watch Congressman Johnson’s speech, visit his YouTube page Remarks as prepared for delivery: “The president’s $3.8 trillion dollar budget proposal sets a lot of new records: record spending, record deficits and record debt. “We can’t tax, spend, borrow and bailout our way to recovery. “If we could, we wouldn’t have 10% unemployment after passing a multi-billion-dollar stimulus package and raising the debt limit to $14.3 trillion. “That’s $47,000 for each American! “Americans are sick and tired of the Democrats’ tax and spend agenda. Unfortunately this president’s budget only proposes more of the same. “It’s time for a new approach to fixing our economy. Let’s focus on balancing the budget and lowering taxes for small businesses. “That’s the way to grow the economy and finally create jobs. Congress should never vote for anything less. ###
02.04.2010	Today, the Democrats pulled some procedural shenanigans to raise the national debt ceiling by $1.9 trillion to a record $14.3 trillion. The measure passed the Senate last week by a recorded vote—the way it should happen. “This is the clearest sign yet of the high price this country is paying for the Democrats’ out-of-control spending. Instead of balancing the budget, the Democrats are just piling on debt on future generations. Americans want, need and deserve fiscal responsibility– not spending that is bankrupting this country!” stated Johnson, an ardent fiscal conservative. Failure to address the growing debt can harm our economic and national security interests given that the Democrats’ spending spree is being financed by the likes of China. “It may be only a matter of time before our global lenders start calling the shots. If America wishes to retain its status as the most powerful country in the world, we must immediately work to decrease our debt.” Johnson believes that the Democrats’ tax and spend agenda is the wrong direction for America. Unless the government gets its fiscal house in order, the growing debt will continue to hinder economic recovery. To put things into perspective: It has been seven weeks since Democrats voted to increase the debt limit by $290 billion on December 16, 2009. In that time, House Democrats have: Passed seven resolutions congratulating sports figures or teams Passed 23 resolutions honoring individuals, entities or causes Passed five bills naming post offices Authorized $50 million to construct a new National Park in the Virgin islands Passed 0 bills to reduce spending or lower the deficit. ###
02.03.2010	Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.—Texas) in conjunction with the DFW Home Ownership Preservation Enterprise will host a FREE foreclosure prevention workshop on Saturday, February 27th at 9:00 a.m. in Dallas. The event is open to the public and the press. “Homeownership embodies the American dream. Unfortunately, cities across the country have seen a decline in homeownership and a rise in foreclosures. North Texas is no different, as total home sales dropped 11 percent in 2009,” stated Johnson, a former homebuilder in the area. “This workshop will be beneficial for the current homeowner who may have fallen behind on their mortgage payments, individuals who want to learn more about home retention programs, and those who would like to speak with a Housing and Urban Development (HUD) certified counselor. Given the current economic situation, this is one workshop people cannot afford to miss,” said Johnson. “I want to help educate folks in any of these situations to make sure they are given every opportunity to stay in their home,” concluded Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. To learn more about this event, contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. Press should RSVP to Linda Davis with DFW HOPE at 214-540-6816. Saturday, February 27 9:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. Foreclosure prevention workshop U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson Texas AgriLife Urban Solutions Center at Dallas (Texas A&M Extension Center) 17360 Coit Road Dallas, 75252 ###
02.01.2010	Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd. Dist—Texas) today issued the following statement reacting to the Administration’s proposed FY2011 budget. “The President’s proposed $46 trillion budget (over 10 years) can be summed up as follows: record spending and record deficits. In fact, the proposed $1.6 trillion deficit for next year is 3.5 times larger than the biggest deficit under any other American president. Unfortunately, it’s the small businesses and middle class Americans who will end up footing the bill in the form of dramatically higher taxes. The Democrats’ tax and spend agenda is not the way to combat 10 percent unemployment and a struggling economy. Instead, Congress should get the economy moving again by keeping taxes low and balancing the budget.”
02.01.2010	Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd. Dist—Texas) today issued the following statement in response to the Administration’s inclusion of his bill, H.R. 690, The “MOBILE Cell Phone” Act, in the FY2011 budget: “I applaud President Obama for including in his budget my bill H.R. 690 repealing the outdated and burdensome tax rule requiring employers and their workers to keep detailed call logs of their work cell phones. In today’s 24/7 workplace, cell phones and blackberries have become as essential to conducting everyday business as landline phones, and yet the IRS can go after employers and workers for failing to keep detailed logs. This is wrong and simply does not make sense for these times. It’s my hope that Congress will move quickly to pass my bill into law.” Background Under current law, employers and employees must keep detailed logs of work-provided cell phone usage. Congress passed this law in 1989 in order to ensure that cell phones, which at the time were used by the likes of high flying corporate executives, would truly be used for business.
01.28.2010	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statements in response to the State of the Union address President Barack Obama gave on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Economy “Jumpstarting the economy should be the President’s number one priority. Our economy is still very much in a recession and unemployment has reached double digits. At the same time, Democrats in Congress are looking to raise the debt limit – the clearest sign yet of the Democrat’s overspending ways. So instead of continuing to spend trillions of dollars of taxpayer money—putting us more and more in debt to countries like China—the President should instead focus on balancing the budget and pursuing real pro-growth policies.” Jobs “The number of jobs created by the $787 billion dollar stimulus package still remains a mystery. Recovery.gov has incorrectly included taxpayer dollars going to "phantom" congressional districts and zip codes. Where’s the accountability? Where are the results? In addition, according to figures on Recovery.gov last December, the cost per job created in Texas is well over $500,000! This is grossly inefficient. Unemployment is at 10% and small businesses are still struggling to stay above water, much less think about hiring new people. At a minimum we must prevent taxes from going up on small businesses. Most of all we need to pass policies that will encourage the private sector to create new jobs.” Health Care “President Obama should listen to the American people who have said loud and clear that they don’t want a government takeover of healthcare. Republicans in Congress have repeatedly told the White House that we are ready to work together to come up with a common-sense, patient-centered healthcare reform bill. It should include provisions that members on both sides of the aisle agree with, like allowing small businesses to pool their resources together in order to increase their healthcare purchasing power. Small business should be able to enjoy the same benefits that large businesses and labor unions do. I introduced the Small Business Health Fairness Act to do just that. It has since been included in the Republican alternative plan, the Common Sense Healthcare Reform and Affordability Act, which is a fiscally-responsible and targeted approach to reform that will reduce the cost of healthcare all across the country.” ###
01.27.2010	Today Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd. Dist. –Texas) congratulates six local students on being named semifinalists in the Intel Science Talent Search (Intel STS) 2010. The Intel STS is America's most prestigious science competition for high school seniors. Alumni of the program, now in its 69th year, include seven Nobel Laureates and two Fields Medalists. “To have six students from our district be named semifinalists in the most competitive high school science competition in the country—perhaps even the world—is a testament to the strength of our schools here in North Texas. Congratulations to these fine students who have worked very hard to get this far,” stated Johnson. “It is vital to our economy and our national security that our schools continue to produce the best and brightest students in the world, especially in the areas of math and science,” elaborated Johnson. 300 Semifinalists were selected from more than 1,700 students who entered the competition. Each Semifinalist, and each of their schools, has been awarded $1,000 in recognition of this achievement. The six students listed below are now eligible to be selected as one of 40 Intel STS Finalists. For more information about this prestigious program, visit www.societyforscience.org. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Semifinalists Alexander Mentzelopoulos Texas Academy of Mathematics & Science Smitha Janardan Texas Academy of Mathematics & Science Sahil Khetpal Texas Academy of Mathematics & Science Elisa Lin Plano West Senior High School Wiliam Mahre Plano Senior High School Janice Zhang Plano Senior High School ###
01.27.2010	Today Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.—Texas) introduced H.R. 4528 “The Refundable Child Tax Credit Eligibility Verification Reform Act,” legislation to prevent illegal immigrants from claiming the refundable child tax credit due to a loophole in the tax code. “Those here illegally should not be allowed to claim a check from Uncle Sam. It’s as simple as that,” stated Johnson, ranking member on the Ways and Means subcommittee on Social Security. Practically speaking, this credit functions as a public benefit provided through the tax code to low-income families. According to a March 31, 2009 report by the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration, the refundable child tax credit “appears to provide an additional incentive for aliens to enter, reside, and work in the U.S. without authorization.” “Encouraging individuals to illegally come and stay in America at the expense of hardworking, law abiding taxpayers is simply wrong. Moreover, at a time when millions of Americans have lost their jobs and our economy is in a deep recession, why are we encouraging illegal immigrants to come to America?” asked Johnson. The proposed legislation would require tax filers to provide their Social Security numbers in order to claim the credit. As it currently stands however, illegal immigrants can receive the refundable child tax credit so long as they are able to obtain IRS-provided Individual Tax Identification Numbers (ITIN). For all intents and purposes, this makes it easier for illegal immigrants to get their hands on this credit. Johnson is committed to doing everything he can to make sure illegal immigrants do not take advantage of refundable tax credits. He asks his colleagues in the House to join him in passing this simple, commonsense taxpayer protection bill. Rep. Ginny Brown Waite (R-FL) cointroduced H.R. 4528 with Johnson. Johnson represents the Third Congressional District of Texas. ###
01.21.2010	The House of Representatives today unanimously passed H.R. 4462 in order to encourage Americans to lend a helping hand to Haiti. The legislation allows individuals who make charitable contributions between January 11 and February 28, 2010 to victims of the earthquake in Haiti to claim their contribution as an itemized deduction on their 2009 tax return, instead of having to wait until next year to claim these deductions on their 2010 tax return. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.—Texas) was an original cosponsor of H.R. 4462, introduced by fellow Ways and Means Committee members Chairman Charles B. Rangel (D-NY) and Ranking Member Dave Camp (R-MI) and 153 additional House members. “Americans have always had big hearts and a desire to lend a helping hand to people in need. The response to the victims of last week’s devastating earthquake is no different. Even in these tough economic times, millions of Americans have donated money and supplies to relief funds set up to help Haiti deal with this disaster,” stated Johnson. “This legislation will hopefully encourage even more Americans to donate to the charities and organizations that are making an effort to help Haiti recover from this tragedy. I applaud both the Democrats and Republicans in the House in quickly coming together and passing this important bill. I hope that it will make its way to the President’s desk as soon as possible.” To find out how you can help Haiti, visit the State Department Website. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin counties. ###
01.21.2010	Last week, Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.—Texas) presented the Bronze Congressional Award Medal to Amanda Lu of Plano at his district office in Richardson. She is a student at Harvard University. Amanda’s sister, Monica, also received the Bronze Congressional Award Medal but was unable to attend the presentation in Richardson. Amanda, a former member of Johnson’s Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC), was recognized by Congressman Johnson for meeting the requirements of the prestigious medal. She volunteered more than 100 hours in her community at the Scottish Rite hospital and collected over 600 books for the local library. As part of the program, Amanda was required to set a personal development goal. She chose to improve her scientific lab techniques and learn more about working in research. This is something she is using in her field of study as a student studying Biology. For her physical fitness goal, Amanda worked on her cardiovascular health by jogging. For her expedition, Amanda went on a camping trip to a remote wilderness area. “Amanda is the perfect example of volunteerism. She selflessly dedicated her time and skills to help her fellow citizens, first by volunteering at Scottish Rite and then by collecting hundreds of books for the local library. She is obviously determined and focused, as she was able to complete her challenging personal goals. This prestigious award is well deserved,” stated Johnson. Monica Lu volunteered with the Girl Scouts of America and CITY House (a local teen homeless shelter). Monica’s personal development goal was to improve her piano skills and learn about a career in music performance. She chose to practice aerobics and do situps and pushups for her physical fitness. Monica lost five pounds in 12 months. For her expedition, Monica went on a historical and cultural immersion to Israel. Congress established the Congressional Award in 1979 to recognize initiative, achievement and service in young people. The program is open to all 14- to 23-year-olds. Participants must achieve personal goals in four program areas; Volunteer Public Service, Personal Development, Physical Fitness, and Expedition/Exploration. For more information, visit the official website at http://www.congressionalaward.org A picture of Congressman Johnson and Amanda Lu from the award presentation is attached. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. ###
01.20.2010	Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.—Texas) took to the House floor today to warn his colleagues that they should think twice about ignoring the American people. The White House and senior Democrat leaders have vowed to stop at nothing to get a healthcare reform bill to President Obama as soon as possible, despite the fact that the majority of Americans are against it. Recent polls show that 60% of Americans believe the Democrats’ healthcare plan will lead to higher costs and 52% believe the legislation will lead to a decline in the quality of care. “People are desperately trying to tell Congress that they do not want the government messing with their healthcare. It’s plain and simple. What I don’t understand is why the Democrats continue to turn a blind eye and a deaf ear to the people’s message. There have been times when constituents have literally stood outside Congressional offices protesting against this government takeover. How can one miss that?” stated Johnson. Some speculate that more moderate Democrats have been given a wake-up call after the Senate race in Massachusetts. House Democrats are sure to take one more vote on this debate, whether on a reconciled House-Senate bill or on the Senate bill verbatim. “This is the true test. There are some Members here who just can’t vote yes again and expect to win in November. So they have a choice: listen to a few high-powered elites or listen to the people who elected them to office,” stated Johnson, a Republican who proposed an amendment that would require anyone who voted for the bill to enroll in the plan. It failed in committee by a vote of 18-21. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. To watch Johnson’s floor statement, visit his official You Tube Channel http://www.youtube.com/user/RepSamJohnson Remarks delivered on the House floor: “Many of my colleagues in the house are ignoring the American people. “Our constituents are holding rallies, posting blogs, talking with their neighbors, and writing to their congressmen to do everything in their power to get them to listen. “The American people are telling us loud and clear: they don’t want a government takeover of healthcare. Listen to them! Massachusetts did. “Americans want, need and deserve better then a budget-busting trillion-dollar healthcare bill when 10% of Americans are still unemployed. “They’re tired of sweetheart deals, secret meetings and dirty politics. “There is still time to do what’s right; to do what the people are asking us to do. “Vote against Pelosi’s Washington takeover of healthcare.” ###
01.20.2010	On March 25, 2010, National Medal of Honor Day, the Congressional Medal of Honor Foundation will present Citizen Service Above Self Honors to three American citizens. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.—Texas) calls on constituents to nominate a person who they believe exemplifies the motto: service before self. Citizen Service Above Self Honors are unique because they are presented to unsung heroes by our nation’s most honored heroes—the fewer than 100 living Medal of Honor recipients. “I know that there are many people in our community who wake up every morning and ask themselves how they can serve their fellow citizens. The Citizen Service Above Self Honors is the perfect way to nominate that person in your office, school or neighborhood who has gone above and beyond the call of duty to truly make a difference in the world. I hope that people take advantage of this great opportunity to recognize these amazing individuals,” stated Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran and prisoner of war in Vietnam for nearly seven years. In October 2009, the Congressional Medal of Honor Society awarded Johnson the National Patriot Award, the Society's highest civilian award given to Americans who exemplify patriotism and strive to better the nation. To be considered for this rare civilian honor, nominees must have made a difference in the lives of others through a singular act of extraordinary heroism, or through their continued commitment to putting others before themselves. Nominations may be submitted online at www.citizenserviceaboveselfhonors.org/ The deadline is February 12, 2010. The winners will be invited to Washington, DC to participate in a ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknowns at Arlington Cemetery. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin counties. ### ABOUT THE MEDAL OF HONOR Created by Abraham Lincoln in 1861, the Medal of Honor is the highest award for valor in action against an enemy force, which can be bestowed upon an individual serving in the United States Army, Navy, Marines, Air Force, and Coast Guard. To receive this rare honor, it must first be approved by the President of the United States and is then presented by the President in the name of the Congress on behalf of a grateful nation. Since the birth of our nation, more than 40 million Americans have faced combat, yet fewer than 3,500 have received our nation's highest honor for combat - the Medal of Honor. ABOUT THE CONGRESSIONAL MEDAL OF HONOR SOCIETY The Congressional Medal of Honor Society is chartered by Congress, and regarded as the most exclusive organization in our country, as its membership is solely made up of living Medal of Honor recipients. Today, there are fewer than 100 members, who come from all social classes, races and economic levels. They range in age from 58 to 99, and live in all areas of our country. No amount of money, power or influence can buy one's rite of passage to this exclusive circle, and unlike almost any other organization, this group's members hope that there will be no more inductees. For more information, visit www.cmohs.org. ABOUT THE CONGRESSIONAL MEDAL OF HONOR FOUNDATION The Congressional Medal of Honor Foundation is a non-profit organization whose mission is to perpetuate the Medal of Honor’s legacy of courage, sacrifice and patriotism. The Foundation supports the objectives, activities and programs of the Congressional Medal of Honor Society, and raises funds for initiatives such as Citizen Service Above Self Honors, that promote awareness of what the Medal of Honor represents. For more information, visit www.cmohfoundation.org.
01.20.2010	Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.—Texas) will team up with local schools to make cards and valentines for wounded veterans as part of the 2010 “Valentines for Vets” program. Johnson is scheduled to deliver the hundreds of cards to the Dallas VA Hospital and to the deployed troops arriving at DFW Airport for their two weeks of rest and relaxation during the second week of February. Teachers who want to participate in this project should schedule a pick-up time with Congressman Johnson’s Collin County office by Thursday, Feb. 4th. The pick-up can be arranged by calling 972-470-0890 or by email at: Susan.Fischer@mail.house.gov. Last year over 30 Third District schools made Valentines for Veterans. Every February, Americans open their hearts to our country's hospitalized veterans by making cards and writing notes to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical centers across the country through the "Valentines for Vets" program. The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) operates the nation’s largest integrated health care system, with 155 hospitals, more than 130 nursing homes and 45 domiciliaries. “This is always one of my favorite events of the year. The kids draw heart-warming pictures of flags and families. They get really into it! Making a valentine is an easy way to show our troops that they are not forgotten,” stated Johnson. The National Salute to Hospitalized Veterans Week will be observed the second week of February, which includes Valentine's Day. Each year, the week of February 14 is an opportunity to say thank you to a special group of men and women, the veterans of the U.S. armed services who are cared for every day in Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical centers, outpatient clinics, and nursing homes. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson served in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars. He spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. ###
01.15.2010	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) invited high school students residing in the Third Congressional District to submit original artwork for the annual Congressional Art Competition. This contest is open to students enrolled in public, private or home schools. Teachers and parents should contact the local office on behalf of students no later than February 12th to enter the student’s name, hometown and school. The deadline for entries is February 22, 2010. Participating artwork must be received in my district office by 12:00pm. Parents, students or art teachers should call Deanna Kuykendall at 972-470-0892 or email her at Deanna.Kuykendall@mail.house.gov. Only original artwork created by Third District high school students will be judged. The first prize entry will be sent to Washington, DC to join artwork from other Congressional Districts for an exclusive unveiling ceremony and then will go on to hang in the tunnel of the United States Capitol for one year. In addition, all artwork submitted will be displayed at a formal art presentation in the spring. The event will be open to the public and free of charge. Once the date, time and location are confirmed, the high school art show details will be announced to the news media and public. The rules are as follows: artwork must be an original concept, not reproduced from an existing photo, painting or other such work. It must be two dimensional, no larger than 30” by 30” framed and no more than 4 inches in depth. The entry must fall into one of the following categories: paintings (oil, watercolor, acrylic, etc.); drawings (pastels, pencil, charcoal, ink, markers, etc.); collages (must be two dimensional); prints (lithographs, silk screens, block prints); mixed media; computer graphics; and photography. The winning artwork will have to be framed. High school students wishing to participate in the 2010 Congressional Art Competition should contact their art teachers and/or Johnson’s office; Congressman Johnson mailed out official information to all high schools and senior high schools last week. Johnson represents the portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. ###
01.14.2010	On Thursday, January 28 at 10 a.m. the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host “mobile office hours” at multiple locations to visit with constituents. The event is free and open to the public. No advance appointments are necessary. Staff from the Congressman’s office regularly host “mobile office hours” throughout the Third Congressional District to meet with constituents. During the “mobile office hours,” the Third District staff will gladly offer assistance with problems regarding federal issues or agencies, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration or the Internal Revenue Service. They also may help facilitate overseas adoptions. Constituents are invited to stop by and share their comments about federal issues in Congress. If a person would like assistance with a federal agency, he or she should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. If a person cannot attend the scheduled “mobile office hours,” he or she is free to contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. For more information, visit www.samjohnson.house.gov and click “24 Hour Online Office.” Allen City Hall Entrance/Lobby Area 305 Century Parkway Allen 214-509-4100 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Frisco George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Entrance/Lobby Area, 1st floor 6101 Frisco Square Blvd. Frisco 972-292-5000 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. Garland Nicholson Memorial Library System Central Library Outer Entrance Area 625 Austin Street Garland 972-205-2500 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. McKinney Collin College - Central Park Campus Entrance/Lobby Area 2200 W. University Drive McKinney 972-548-6790 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Plano Collin College – Spring Creek Campus Entrance/Lobby Area 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway Plano 972-881-5790 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. Richardson Richardson Civic Center West Alcove Area 411 Arapaho Road Richardson 972-744-4090 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. ###
01.14.2010	This weekend U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.—Texas) spoke about leadership and the merits of public service at a local Eagle Scout award ceremony in Plano. Five outstanding members of Boy Scout Troop 219 were recognized for their hard work in pursuing the Boy Scouts of America’s highest rank: Jeremy Crum graduated from Plano Senior High School in May 2009 and attends Collin College Tommy Kahl is a current senior at Plano Senior High School and will attend the University of Oklahoma next fall Travis LeVay graduated from Plano Senior High School in May 2009. He intends to further his education in computer technology Jeff Palmer is a senior at Plano West Senior High School Garrett Tollette is a senior at Plano Senior High School and will attend Texas A&M University next fall “Reaching the rank of Eagle is no easy task,” stated Johnson. “For most, it takes years to complete and only 4% of those in scouting reach the rank of Eagle.” Requirements include earning 21 merit badges and planning and developing a large service project. This year the service projects included building fencing at Heritage Farmstead Museum, planting trees for the Villages of White Rock Creek and constructing planting beds at the Plano Community Gardens. Jeremy, Tommy, Travis, Jeff and Garrett are also active in their respective churches and schools, so much so that Johnson recommended that they “give the federal government a lesson in time management!” “I’m proud of you for giving back to our great community and rising to the challenge placed before you. I hope that you will continue to be active and engaged citizens,” Johnson stated during his remarks at Saturday’s event. A photo from Saturday’s event is attached. From left to right: Thomas Kahl, Jeremy Crum, Travis LaVay, Garrett Tollette, Jeffrey Palmer. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. ###
01.12.2010	This weekend Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd-Dist.—Texas) and The Sallie Mae Fund hosted over 100 local students at a free saving, planning and paying for college workshop in Plano. The workshop coincided with the release of the 2010-2011 Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FASFA) form. “We wanted to host a workshop as soon as the FASFA form was released so that students and families can be as proactive as possible when it comes to paying for college,” stated Johnson. “My wife, Shirley, put our three kids through college all by herself while I was a POW in Vietnam. We both know that a strong education is one of the best gifts a parent can give to a child.” The event was designed to help students and families navigate the often confusing financial aid process. An expert from The Sallie Mae Fund, a charitable organization sponsored by Sallie Mae, led a presentation about the many resources available to college-bound students and their parents. Representatives from Collin College, Southern Methodist University, the University of North Texas in Denton and the University of Dallas were also on hand to talk about various ways their schools make it easier for families to pay for college. “We are fortunate that our district is home to top high schools and high caliber students. For some, getting into a good school isn’t the hard part—paying for it is. Most families are unaware of the billions of dollars in the form of grants, scholarships and low-cost education loans that are available to students. It’s important for parents to know that there is help out there, especially in these tough economic times.” stated Johnson. The seminar was particularly beneficial for one high school student from Plano who won a $500 scholarship via random drawing. Pictures from Saturday’s event are attached. “Scholarship winner Ian Szumila of Plano with his family and Sallie Mae Fund presenter, Letitia Reyna, on the far right.” Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. ###
01.05.2010	On Saturday, January 9th at 10 a.m. in Plano, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) and The Sallie Mae Fund will hold a free workshop on saving, planning and paying for college. The event coincides with the release of the 2010-2011 Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) form. One participant at the seminar will leave with a $500 scholarship via random drawing. The informational program is free and open to the public. The Saving, Planning and Paying for College program is sponsored by The Sallie Mae Fund, a charitable organization sponsored by Sallie Mae. A Sallie Mae Fund expert will lead the presentation for parents and teens and then answer questions. Families will learn about saving, planning and paying for college and will receive free resources to guide them through the process. The seminar will run from 10:00 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. in the Conference Center at the Collin College Spring Creek Campus, located at 2800 Spring Creek Parkway in Plano. To attend the workshop, please RSVP to The Sallie Mae Fund online, as seating is limited. To register online, simply go to www.salliemaefund.org. “Now more than ever, it is critical for kids and parents to learn about the ways they can pay for college. I hope that the Saving, Planning and Paying for College seminar helps folks better understand their financial options and plan for the future with college in mind,” said Johnson. Those with questions about the event should contact Johnson’s office at 972-470-0892. Saturday, January 9, 2010 10:00 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. FREE Saving, Planning and Paying for College Workshop Conference Center Collin College 2800 Spring Creek Parkway Plano *RSVP online # # #
12.16.2009	Today, the House voted to raise the nation’s debt limit by $290 billion dollars to a staggering $12.394 trillion. Since the Democrats took control of Congress in 2007, the debt limit has increased by more than 33%. This is in great part due to the recent spending by the Democrats which this year has included a $787 billion dollar stimulus package, the $447 billion dollar appropriations bill and the $700 billion dollar Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). “It’s scary to think that the Democrats can spend nearly two trillion dollars without batting an eye,” stated Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.—Texas), an ardent fiscal conservative. Johnson believes that the Congress, like every American family, should tighten its budget during these tough economic times. Now more than ever, it is not the time to hike up the deficit and spend, spend, spend. The need to raise the national debt is a sure sign that the Democrats’ spending is out of control. “Anyone who has balanced a checkbook or taken Economics 101 will tell you that you can’t base a budget on ‘I Owe You’s,’” said Johnson. “In Texas, we call that having champagne taste on a beer budget.” Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin counties. ###
12.16.2009	Today the House passed, H.R. 3326, the annual Defense Appropriations bill. The bill provides a total funding level in FY 2010 of $508.2 billion in regular appropriations funding, a $19.2 billion increase over last year. “Many people forget that we are fighting a two-front war in Afghanistan and Iraq. The brave men and women in our Armed Forces depend on the funding granted to them by the U.S. Congress. It is vital to give our military the resources they want, need and deserve in order to retain its status as the strongest military in the world,” said Johnson (3rd Dist.—Texas), a 29-year Air Force veteran and Prisoner of War for nearly seven years. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin counties. ###
12.15.2009	Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security Opening Statement of Ranking Member Sam Johnson Joint Hearing on the Recovery Act Project to Replace the Social Security Administration’s National Computer Center Mr. Chairman, Madame Chair, I want to thank you for holding this important hearing. But before I turn to this hearing’s subject, and in light of the Social Security Subcommittee Chairman’s recent retirement announcement, I want to take advantage of this opportunity to personally acknowledge and thank the Chairman for his long and distinguished service to this nation. Mr. Chairman, the American people have truly benefited from your leadership, and I am proud to call you a good friend. With about a year to go I very much look forward to working with you here on the Subcommittee. Thank you again for all that you have done. God bless you. Turning to the focus of today’s hearing, Social Security is at a critical crossroads. While this hearing may seem rather technical in nature, at heart it is about Social Security being able to operate day in and day out for the American people. As our population ages, more workers and retirees are depending on Social Security’s essential benefits and services that they paid for through their hard earned wages. Social Security’s ability to deliver those services depends on its use of modern, secure technology that they and the American people can rely on. Yet Social Security’s 30-year old National Computer Center that allows the agency to process applications, pay benefits and store secure data on most U.S. workers is on its last legs. That’s why Congress has given Social Security $500 million to build a new, 21st Century center. In the meantime however, should the current Center fail, Social Security’s recovery plan falls short. Currently it would take a week to restart only some of the system’s operations, and even then Social Security will only be operating at a third of its current level. Social Security reports it is making progress on plans to fully restore service delivery and protect Americans’ personal information in the event of a major failure by bringing on line its backup data center in North Carolina early next year. I look forward to hearing from Social Security in terms of what it is doing to ensure that there is minimal disruption in service to the American people in the event of a system failure and the progress it is making to bring its North Carolina center on line. In the longer term, replacing Social Security’s outdated National Computer Center with its new Support Center is critical to maintaining and improving service delivery. With taxpayers investing $500 million in this project, they rightfully deserve to expect that their investment is being used to build this new Center on time and within budget. I thank the witnesses for joining us today and presenting their expert testimony. Johnson represents the portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
12.11.2009	In a poll conducted by the National Journal this week, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.—Texas) was recognized as the “most admired” Republican member of the U.S. House of Representatives. The Journal polled Congressional and political insiders. “This is a humbling honor, and I am grateful to be able to serve my country everyday as the representative from the Third District of Texas,” said Johnson, a 29 year Air Force veteran and prisoner of war for nearly seven years in Vietnam. The full article is available in print and online at National Journal ###
12.11.2009	Yesterday the House passed the Democrats’ $446.8 billion, 2,500 page, pork-barrel laden FY 2010 spending bill by a vote of 221-202. Once again, the Democrats showed the American people that they just can’t stop spending and wasting taxpayer dollars. The Omnibus Appropriations Bill, H.R. 3288, contains 12.5% increase in spending over FY2009 and an overall 24.4% increase over FY2008. In total, this bill increases spending by $47 billion since last year. This bill contains 5,224 earmarks totaling $3.8 billion. Also troubling is that the bill allows the DC government to fund abortions and needle exchanges using public dollars, eliminates funding for abstinence education and increases international family planning funding by nearly 20% over last year. “I am outraged that the Democrats keep spending and spending despite the fact that the average American is struggling to make ends meet,” said Johnson, a senior member of the tax-writing House Ways and Means committee. “It would have been an insult to the American people if I had voted for this bill.” Next week, the House will vote on the Defense Appropriations Bill which was strategically left out of today’s vote. Separating the two spending bills allows the Democrats to use Defense Appropriations as a legislative vehicle to attach any leftover provisions that need to be passed by the end of the year. One of these provisions is raising the National debt limit by as much as $1.8 trillion. Johnson, a long-time fiscal conservative, represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. ###
12.11.2009	Today the House passed H.R. 4173, the so-called “Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009” by a vote of 223-202. Many refer to the bill as “TARP II” because it includes a massive $150 billion “permanent bailout fund” with additional authority to borrow $50 billion from the U.S. Treasury. The Democrats’ bill generates a new resolution fund by levying assessments on large financial institutions. This would have the adverse consequence of further restricting credit to consumers and small businesses alike. “It’s just wrong to create a tax-payer funded bailout regime as a vehicle to inject more government bureaucracy into the economy. That’s the last thing we need,” stated Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.—Texas), an ardent fiscal conservative. “Rather than letting firms that made risky bets fail, Democrats have chosen to prop up these institutions and support their creditors against losses. The best way for Congress to make sure that firms aren’t taking unnecessary risks is to leave the threat of bankruptcy in place.” Also, this bill threatens to considerably expand the federal government’s regulation of the free market, and further limit the options consumers and businesses have for loans and other forms of credit. For one, the bill establishes a new bureaucratic Financial Services Oversight Council chaired by the Treasury Secretary. The oversight council would be charged with applying stricter prudential standards for financial stability purposes. Unfortunately, “standards” is a relative term which can be broadly interpreted and applied to everything from regulation of compensation at financial institutions to rationing of credit which will undoubtedly stifle small business growth. In addition, it empowers a singular government entity, the Consumer Financial Protection Agency, to determine what financial products are deemed safe for individuals, instead of allowing consumers to choose which products best fit their needs. “We have seen over and over that government intervention into the marketplace just doesn’t work. It baffles me that the Democrats think federal bureaucrats can run a business better from their offices in Washington than the individuals who show up to work every day,” stated Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. ###
12.10.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) congratulated McKinney resident Rebecca Noah Poynter after legislation helping military spouses she created and championed was signed into law (P.L. 111-97) on November 11, 2009. Poynter spent several days in Washington, DC visiting lawmakers who helped make her dream a success. Poynter also attended events sponsored by Military Officers Association of America (MOAA) and the Military Spouses Business Association. The law amends the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to guarantee the equity of spouses of military personnel with regard to matters of residency. Now, a military spouse who moves out of a state with their service member under military orders will have the option to claim the same state of domicile as their active duty spouse, regardless of where they are stationed. Johnson co-sponsored the House version of the bill championed by Poynter, H.R. 1182. “Shirley and I know that the military spouse plays a critical role in mission success. The military spouses are just as much a part of the mission as the soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines. Helping the military spouses by making their lives easier is the least we can do. I’m glad that this bill will become law,” said Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran and former Prisoner of War in Vietnam for nearly seven years. Rebecca and her husband, Major Ron Poynter, now reside in McKinney. Major Poynter has served in the Army for 20 years and presently is headquartered at Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio. While the Poynters owned a home in McKinney, Texas, Rebecca Poynter learned firsthand the challenges spouses face when relocating with an active-duty military spouse. Despite owning a home in Texas, Rebecca had to file separate taxes in Maryland while her husband, a Texas resident, lived and worked in the Washington, D.C. area. Once Rebecca encountered the barriers and complications created as a result of her newly found dual-state residency, Rebecca researched the issue and sought a legislative fix to this inequity. After she helped craft legislation, Rebecca drew attention to this flaw and galvanized military spouses worldwide by tapping into the popular social networking site, Facebook, among other things. Rebecca mobilized the exhaustive network of 8,000 worldwide military spouses as part of the Military Spouses Residency Relief Act Coalition to contact their hometown lawmakers and request they co-sponsor the bill. Rebecca also testified before the Senate in April – at the same time she was moving her family back to Texas and while working full time. “I credit Military Spouses from around the United States who worked for the idea that our lives needed modernizing,” said Poynter. View the Military Spouses Residency Relief Act Coalition on Facebook. “Watching Rebecca speak out on behalf of military spouses – and really make a difference - reminded me of Shirley’s tireless efforts to secure the release of American POWs while I was held captive in Vietnam,” concluded Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Attached is a photo of Johnson with Rebecca Noah Poynter during her visit to Washington, DC.
12.09.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) spoke out against the Democrats’ answer of more money and more government to strengthen the struggling economy. Specifically, Johnson highlighted that the Administration has not kept its promise that the $787 stimulus package passed last February would create more jobs—unemployment is currently hovering around 10%. Recently, President Obama hosted the first of a series of Job Summits aimed at job creation and lowering unemployment. Meanwhile in the House, Democrats have discussed putting together a costly second stimulus package before the end of the year. Johnson, an ardent advocate of smaller government, believes that the need for a second stimulus is evidence that the first one didn’t work. The Administration needs to take an entirely new approach to strengthening the economy and lowering unemployment. This includes encouraging entrepreneurial activity and helping small businesses. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. To watch Johnson’s floor statement, visit his official YouTube channel Remarks delivered on the floor of the U.S. House: “The American people deserve some answers: Where are the jobs? “Ten months after passing a $787 billion stimulus package, unemployment has reached 10% and thousands of workers have stayed unemployed for six months or more. “Unfortunately, the Democrats still think that throwing money at the struggling economy will fix it. “Albert Einstein once said, ‘The definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results.’ “The first stimulus didn’t work. A new stimulus would only increase the already massive deficit and provide a temporary fix. “Higher taxes and higher spending is not the formula for economic growth. “What we really need to do is encourage entrepreneurial activity, help small businesses and get the government out of our pockets.” ###
12.09.2009	Yesterday the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 4218 the “No Social Security Benefits for Prisoners Act of 2009” by a voice vote. The bill would prevent prisoners from receiving retroactive Social Security and Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefit payments. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas), ranking member on the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security, worked with Subcommittee Chairman Congressman John Tanner (8th Dist. – Tenn) to introduce this bill. The bill is in response to a glitch in current law discovered when Social Security began to implement a nationwide class action settlement agreement reached in September in the case of Martinez v. Astrue. That agreement reduced the number and type of felony arrest warrants used to prohibit benefit payments, resulting in retroactive payments to certain recipients, including prisoners. While current law already prohibits prisoners, fugitive felons and probation/parole violators from receiving benefits it does not prevent prisoners from receiving retroactive benefits. “I am proud to join with Social Security Subcommittee Chairman John Tanner (D-TN) today to pass this important legislation ensuring that Social Security benefits are not being given to those who are currently housed within our prison system. While this stop gap measure is an important first step, there nonetheless remain outstanding issues related to fugitive felons. I look forward to working with Chairman Tanner on these important issues in order to protect the taxpayer and the integrity of Social Security programs.” Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. ###
12.09.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.—Texas) released the following statement in support of the state sales tax deduction and the research and development credit (R&D). “I am proud to support a Republican measure that would extend these important tax provisions without raising taxes. Failure to extend these and other expiring tax provisions such as the teacher classroom expense deduction will mean higher taxes for families and businesses in 2010. The extension of the sales tax deduction will prevent a tax increase for Texas families. The extension of the R&D tax credit will help to keep good paying, high tech jobs in the district.” Johnson voted against the Democrats’ tax extenders bill because it included economically damaging tax increases. The bill passed by a vote of 241-181, despite the fact that it will raise taxes. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties and serves as a senior member of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee. ###
12.09.2009	U.S. Congressman Johnson recently met with the members of the Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) in Plano for a discussion on their careers in public service. Three guest speakers were invited to participate in roundtable discussions as life-long public servants. “I have utmost respect for people who dedicate their lives to a cause greater than themselves,” said Johnson, a 29-year Air force Veteran. “I take service to one’s country very seriously.” Speakers included: Thomas Petrowski is a supervisory special agent with the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Captain Martha Culver is a regional nurse consultant for the Health Resources and Services Administration. Jonthan Micale works for the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services. CYAC members—high school freshmen, sophomores, juniors and seniors—participated in break-out sessions with each invited guest. “I love meeting with students in the CYAC program. These future leaders are very bright, driven and have a genuine interest in making the world a better place,” said Johnson. Background: Johnson created the CYAC in 2004. The Council’s goal is two-fold. First, the group will provide Johnson with greater student perspective and insight on issues that directly affect them in their everyday lives. Second, Council activities will help educate students on government policies relevant to young people. Students will learn about the development of public policy and explore the role of citizens, lawmakers, experts, and institutions and their impact on the world’s most successful democracy. The Council is composed of high school freshmen, sophomores, juniors and seniors. Students are selected based on leadership ability, academic performance, extracurricular activities and community service. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. ###
12.07.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) congratulated seven local students who have been selected to receive prestigious Fulbright Awards. The Fulbright Program was established by Congress in 1946 with the intention of building mutual understanding between the people of the United States and the rest of the World. Selected individuals study, lecture, teach or conduct research abroad for a full academic year. The Fulbright Program operates in more than 140 countries worldwide. “The Fulbright program provides invaluable opportunities for Americans to learn more about our friends and neighbors across the globe. I am very proud of the seven students in our district who have received this great honor. I hope they will spread some Texas hospitality wherever they go.” Plano resident Erin Dooner from the University of Texas—Austin will study in Germany. Murphy resident Nan Guo from Yale University will study in Finland. Dallas resident Robert Kaufman from Brown University will study in Norway. Plano resident Ashley Killough from Baylor University will study in Armenia. Dallas resident David Levin from Texas will study in India. Richardson resident Kate Simma from the University of Richmond will study in Peru . McKinney resident Dr. Ivette Vargas-O’Bryan from Austin College will study in Hong Kong. “We are blessed to have schools that provide top-notch education to the future leaders of America,” said Johnson. Eligible students must have completed undergraduate education and hold a degree equivalent to a bachelor's degree. Students are chosen on the basis of academic or professional achievement, as well as demonstrated leadership potential in their fields. Learn more http://fulbright.state.gov/ Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. ###
12.03.2009	Today on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, 29-year Air Force veteran, Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) urged the President to listen to the experts on the ground in Afghanistan. He pressed that setting an arbitrary deadline for troop withdrawal is not the way to win a war. It sends the wrong message to our troops, our allies and the American people. Johnson’s floor speech comes in the wake of major military news developments on Afghanistan. This week, the President delivered a much anticipated national address unveiling new strategies to fight Al-Qaida. The address comes after recent requests by General McChrystal for more troops to be deployed to Afghanistan. Johnson hopes that the Administration will give the military commanders and troops the resources and man-power they need to win the war, instead of focusing on exit strategies. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. To watch Johnson’s floor statement, visit his official YouTube Remarks delivered on the floor of the U.S. House: “As a 29-year air force veteran and prisoner of war for nearly 7 years, I know what happens when you try to run a war from the white house – you lose! “Winning the war in Afghanistan and defeating al-Qaida is vital to the safety of our nation. To quote the president, ‘if left unchecked, the Taliban insurgency will mean an even larger safe haven from which al-Qaida would plot to kill more Americans.’ “Let’s listen to the military leadership in Afghanistan. “Setting a timeline to end military engagement is not the way to win a war. Instead, it empowers our enemies and sends the wrong message to our troops, our allies and the American people. “We need to listen to the experts on the ground instead of politicians who are thousands of miles away from the front line. “The president needs to stop talking about exit strategies and troop withdrawal and focus on giving our troops the resources they want, need and deserve. Eliminate the rules and fight to win.” ###
12.03.2009	Today Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) voted against H.R. 4154— the Democrats’ Estate Tax Bill—stating that it will devastate small businesses and family farms. The House passed the bill today by a vote of 225-200. This bill seeks to permanently reinstate the death tax with a excessive rate of 45%. Without Congressional action the death tax would be completely repealed in 2010 due to legislation passed by Republicans in 2001. “Instead of moving forward by providing for permanent repeal, the House today took a major step backwards by passing legislation that will keep the death tax in place,” said Johnson, senior member on the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee. “With businesses struggling more than ever to survive in these tough economic times, the very last thing we should do is to keep a tax that is likely to close more small businesses and family farms,” said Johnson. A longtime supporter of permanent repeal, Johnson remains more committed than ever to ending this tax once and for all. “Hardworking business owners and their families deserve nothing less,” said Johnson. ###
11.19.2009	Citing “it’s just not worth it,” U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took aim at the so-called stimulus created to keep unemployment below 8% that has come under intense fire for gross inaccuracies as reported on the Administration’s own $18 million website created to track the stimulus. Since the $800 billion so-called stimulus passed, unemployment has spiked to 10.2%, with that number estimated to rise even higher. Seemingly every day since the White House unveiled its stimulus jobs report, stories of exceptionally rosy jobs numbers have piled up. Last week, the Associated Press reported that the White House's original claims after the first round of recipient reports were over exaggerated by thousands of jobs. More recently, ABC News ran a story probing bogus job claims reported on the $18 million website created by the White House to track the $800 billion in stimulus spending, www.recovery.gov. For example, the costly site confirmed that nonexistent congressional districts in Arizona received millions of taxpayer dollars. “It’s just not worth it. I’m deeply concerned that the government keeps writing checks that our children and grandchildren can not cash. Furthermore, where is the accountability? Why do the facts keep shifting and why did the White House spend $18 million on a website,” wondered Johnson. In a related matter, White House's budget chief Peter Orszag recently announced that Medicare and Medicaid improperly paid out $54.2 billion in fiscal 2009, with the rate of Medicare fee-for-service errors more than doubling over the previous year. “The American public is growing weary of daily reports on how their government is wasting their hard-earned tax dollars. They have a right to know why their money is going nowhere fast,” concluded Johnson. To spotlight the problematic stimulus numbers coming out of the Administration, Johnson posted the ABC News clip citing egregious errors on Recovery.gov on his blog. To watch “Stimulus Site Gets Scorched by ABC Nightly News, Job Creation Data Very Much in Doubt,” go to http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_2Fg3s33Lug. To read Johnson’s blog, go to www.SamJohnson.house.gov. # # #
11.19.2009	Dr. Tracey McKenzie, professor of sociology at Collin College, has been named the 2009 Professor of the Year at a ceremony in Washington, DC this week. Dr. McKenzie, who resides in East Dallas, was chosen from over 1,200 community college professors for this prestigious award. For 28 years the Council for Advancement and Support of Education (CASE) and The Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching have recognized the most outstanding undergraduate instructors in the country. The award includes a $5,000 cash prize and an all-expenses paid trip to Washington, DC. Dr. McKenzie is the third professor from CCCC to be recognized at this event, making it the only community college in the nation with three national winners. Her honor marks an unprecedented third national winner at Collin College in just 9 years, with Dr. Rosemary Karr winning in 2007 and Brad Baker winning in 2000. Clearly, Collin College is home to exceptionally qualified, outstanding professors. For more information on the Professor of the Year award, including nomination and selection processes, please visit http://www.usprofessorsoftheyear.org. # # #
11.12.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) encouraged Texans to send “Holiday Mail for Heroes” by the December 7th deadline. Created by the Red Cross, Holiday Mail for Heroes allows people to mail Christmas cards and personal greetings to soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines overseas and at home as well as veterans and family members of deployed active-duty military members. The Red Cross will work with Pitney Bowes to screen all mail for security purposes and then deliver the greetings to over 300 locations worldwide. “It can get pretty lonely during the holidays when you’re far from home and missing your loved ones. Hearing from supportive Americans who back your mission, who tell you that they’re praying for you and send you their love can make a big difference,” said Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran and former Prisoner of War in Vietnam for nearly seven years. People may send cards to Holiday Mail for Heroes, P.O. Box 5456, Capitol Heights, MD 20791-5456. Greetings must have adequate postage. Cards received after December 7th will be returned. In December 2007, Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, D.C. approached the Red Cross to distribute thousands of holiday cards coming to the facility for wounded troops. The Red Cross reached out to Pitney Bowes to turn the project into a larger opportunity that could reach members of the military at other facilities. Now in its third year, the Holiday Mail for Heroes program provides Americans with the opportunity to extend holiday greetings and thanks to service members, veterans and their families worldwide. Last year the program received more than 1.4 million cards for service members, their families, and veterans, in communities around the world. The Red Cross asks that people follow several guidelines while preparing holiday greetings: Do: sign all cards; entitle cards “Dear Service Member, Family or Veteran;” limit cards to 15 per person or 50 for school class or business group; and bundle groups of cards in single, large envelopes. Do not: send letters; include personal information such as home or email addresses to request contact or reciprocity; use glitter as excessive amounts can aggravate health issues of wounded recipients; or include inserts of any kind as they must be removed in the screening process. Learn more at http://www.redcross.org/holidaymail. # # #
11.09.2009	On Saturday, January 9th at 10 a.m. in Plano, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) and The Sallie Mae Fund will hold a free workshop on saving, planning and paying for college. The event coincides with the release of the 2010-2011 Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) form. One participant at the seminar will leave with a $500 scholarship via random drawing. The informational program is free and open to the public. The Saving, Planning and Paying for College program is sponsored by The Sallie Mae Fund, a charitable organization sponsored by Sallie Mae. A Sallie Mae Fund expert will lead the presentation for parents and teens and then answer questions. Families will learn about saving, planning and paying for college and will receive free resources to guide them through the process. The seminar will run from 10:00am to 11:30am in the Conference Center at the Collin College Spring Creek Campus, located at 2800 Spring Creek Parkway in Plano. To attend the workshop, please RSVP to The Sallie Mae Fund online, as seating is limited. To register online, simply go to www.salliemaefund.org. “Now more than ever, it is critical for kids and parents to learn about the ways they can pay for college. I hope that the Saving, Planning and Paying for College seminar helps a lot of folks better understand their financial options and plan for the future with college in mind,” said Johnson. Those with questions about the event should contact Johnson’s office at 972-470-0892. Saturday, January 9, 2010 10:00 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. FREE Saving, Planning and Paying for College Workshop Conference Center Collin College 2800 Spring Creek Parkway Plano, Texas *RSVP online # # #
11.07.2009	Watch live CSPAN here Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) delivered the following statement on the $1.2 trillion, 20 pound Affordable Health Care for America Act, H.R. 3962. The 2,000 page bill hurts seniors with sweeping cuts to Medicare, forces Americans to buy health insurance or go to jail, taxes all Americans and businesses who do not purchase “government approved” health coverage, limits personal choices and individual decisions, and jeopardizes the health insurance Americans already have – and often times like. Johnson will vote against the measure tonight. Johnson believes that healthcare in America needs reform and feels that Congress can and must do better with a targeted, bipartisan approach. Specifically, individuals, small businesses and other groups should be able to join together to access insurance at lower prices, the same way large businesses and labor unions do. For years, Johnson has championed legislation to do just that, the Small Business Health Fairness Act, H.R. 2607. In fact, Republican leadership included Johnson’s measure in their common-sense, fiscally responsible substitute amendment to the health bill that will be debated on the floor tonight. Yesterday the non-partisan Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) confirmed that the failure to comply with the individual mandate to buy health insurance contained in H.R. 3962 could land people in jail. The JCT letter makes clear that Americans who do not maintain “acceptable health insurance coverage” and who choose not to pay the bill’s new individual mandate tax (generally 2.5% of income), are subject to numerous civil and criminal penalties, including criminal fines of up to $250,000 and imprisonment of up to five years. H.R.3962 creates 111 new bureaucracies. This bill also includes over $500 billion in cuts from the Medicare program including nearly $200 billion in across-the-board cuts to all hospitals, Ambulatory Surgery Centers (ASCs), skilled nursing facilities (SNFs), hospice, clinical laboratories, and durable medical equipment (DME). The measure also slashes over $40 billion from the Medicare prescription drug program, which will raise seniors’ premiums by at least 20%. Medicare Advantage (MA) which currently provides benefits to more than 11 million seniors, will be cut by $170 billion. Remarks as prepared for delivery: “Today we are voting on Speaker Pelosi’s $1 trillion Washington takeover of healthcare. This bill bulldozes individual liberty and puts the government just where it does not belong – right smack dab in the middle of your personal healthcare decisions. “This bill forces every single person in this country to purchase ‘government-approved’ healthcare – or else…go to jail! Businesses also must offer ‘government-approved’ healthcare or face hundreds of billions of dollars in job killing taxes. “Unfortunately, ‘government-approved’ healthcare will be defined by a handful of bureaucrats around a conference table in Washington. This unprecedented Washington power grab eliminates an individual’s right to choose what kind of healthcare is best for them and their families. “Speaker Pelosi’s 20 pound, 2,000 page bill costs $2.2 million per word. The American public has made their voices heard. They are sick and tired of the government sticking its nose where it does not belong. “They are fed up with Washington’s trillion dollar bailouts, free handouts and special interest paybacks. The Democrats in Congress need to listen and come up with a bipartisan, patient-centered plan. “We can do better with a targeted, fiscally responsible approach that makes health insurance more affordable, accessible and available. Real health reform protects the patients’ right to choose their own care. Real health reform gives doctors the freedom to do what is best for their patients. We can do all of this without piling trillions of dollars in debt on to our children and grandchildren. “Vote down this deficit ballooning, job killing Washington takeover of healthcare today.” # # #
11.06.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement on the tragedy that rocked Fort Hood. “My thoughts and prayers go out the victims and their loved ones devastated by the tragedy at Fort Hood. Shirley and I know the strength and vibrancy of close-knit, military communities and have faith that the brave patriots at Fort Hood will rise above this.” # # #
11.06.2009	At a news conference today on Capitol Hill, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) detailed his efforts to rule out taxpayer subsidized health insurance for illegal immigrants. Later today Johnson will offer several amendments to clarify the vague language that grants taxpayer funded health insurance benefits to illegal immigrants in H.R. 3926, the Affordable Health Care for America Act. “Unfortunately, since my colleagues and I attempted to fix this problem this summer, the problem has gotten worse, not better. Speaker Pelosi’s latest version of government-run health insurance actually covers 2.5 million more illegal immigrants than her last attempt,” said Johnson. These protections are needed as a November 2, 2009 nonpartisan Congressional Research Service report on immigration and pending health reform legislation concluded, “The House bill contains no express restrictions on noncitizens – whether legally or illegally present, or in the United States temporarily or permanently – accessing and paying for coverage available through the health insurance exchange.” “The Democrats’ healthcare bill spends hundreds of billions of dollars on subsidies for people to have access to government-run healthcare. We need to ensure that American citizens are the ONLY ones receiving these benefits,” said Johnson. Johnson seeks tougher citizenship check tools and more stringent enforcement mechanisms to prevent illegal immigrants from accessing the government-run health program. Specifically, Johnson strives to ensure that people will have to prove who they say they are with a valid photo identification to receive taxpayer subsidized health insurance. “There are so many activities that currently require a valid photo identification: getting on an airplane, driving a car, entering a government building, using a credit card, writing a check, or renting a movie at Blockbuster. It’s just common sense that Congress would require the same proof of identification for someone to rent a $4 movie as they should for people accessing the thousands of dollars of government healthcare benefits,” wondered Johnson. Nowhere in H.R. 3962 is the Commissioner required to apply the existing citizenship and identity verification requirements that exist in current law. Another amendment will prevent the American taxpayers from being forced to finance welfare benefits for illegal aliens by clarifying that all potential Medicaid enrollees must first go through tougher citizenship and identity verification requirements. These amendments mark Johnson's third attempt in nearly as many months to guarantee that illegal immigrants do not receive taxpayer-funded health insurance benefits under the government-run health insurance plan. In July, Johnson co-authored an initiative to prohibit illegal immigrants from accessing taxpayer subsidized care in the new government-run plan; the Committee Democrats voted the measure down. This September, Johnson attempted to offer a common-sense immigration provision in a Ways and Means Committee markup that mirrored legislation the Democrat-led Senate Finance Committee passed just days before; House Democrats thwarted Johnson’s attempts. Johnson coordinated with Congressmen Nathan Deal (9th Dist.-Ga.), Dean Heller (2nd Dist.-Nev.), and Joe Wilson (2nd Dist.-S.C.) when offering today’s amendments. FAIR, a national, nonprofit, public-interest organization for immigration reform, and NumbersUSA also participated in the news conference. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
11.05.2009	Today on Capitol Hill U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) attended the emergency “House Call” to express his opposition to the House Democrats’ Washington takeover of healthcare. Grassroots activists from across America galvanized by the popular “Tea Party” movement travelled to Capitol Hill for a news conference to vent their frustrations with the Democrats’ fast-moving healthcare bill, H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act. The Act costs nearly $1 trillion and represents three months of intense secret negotiations among House Democrats. The 20 pound, 2,000 page bill hurts seniors with sweeping cuts to Medicare, forces all Americans to buy health insurance, taxes Americans who do not purchase “government approved” health coverage, limits personal choices and individual decisions, and jeopardizes the health insurance Americans already have – and often times like. “The American people have spoken loud and clear. They don’t want a government-takeover of healthcare. They want to have the right to choose the healthcare that’s best for them, their families and their individual needs. It’s time for a patient-centered approach that doesn’t break the bank,” said Johnson, a member of the Health Subcommittee on Ways and Means. Johnson backs the fiscally responsible Republican plan that makes healthcare more affordable and accessible at a price our nation can afford by implementing smart, market-driven reforms right now to lower costs: • Permitting individuals and families to purchase health insurance across state lines; • Allowing individuals and small businesses to pool together and acquire health insurance at lower prices, the same way large corporations and labor unions do (For years, Johnson has long championed this concept and authored H.R. 2607 – the Small Business Health Fairness Act); • Giving states the tools to create their own innovative reforms that lower healthcare costs; and • Ending junk lawsuits that contribute to higher healthcare costs by increasing the number of tests and procedures that physicians sometimes order not because they think it’s good medicine, but because they are afraid of being sued. “We can do better with a targeted approach that tackles the biggest problems. The Republican plan does that,” said Johnson. Visit http://healthcare.gop.gov to learn more about the Republican plan to lower healthcare costs and increase the number of Americans with insurance. “It's clear where the American people stand. They’re frustrated and fed up. The trillion-dollar ‘stimulus’ created to keep unemployment below 8% isn't working. Unemployment is rising. The debt to be paid by our kids and grandkids is exploding. And now comes Speaker Pelosi's 2,000 page government takeover of healthcare. Americans simply cannot afford another Washington bailout that overspends, overreaches, and under delivers,” continued Johnson. “Healthcare represents 20% of our economy and Democrats are pushing their healthcare overhaul at warp speed. Speaker Pelosi maxes out the government credit card for a plan that will increase healthcare costs. There are much better alternatives to improving health care than Speaker Pelosi’s bill. We need to recapture the passion we saw in town halls across America to remind the Democrats in Washington of just that,” concluded Johnson. Sign up for Johnson’s free E-Newsletter, the Sam Johnson Journal, by visiting www.SamJohnson.house.gov. You also can find him on Facebook and YouTube. # # #
11.04.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took aim at a provision tucked into the Democrats’ 2,000 page healthcare bill that will reduce access to healthcare and torpedo hundreds of jobs in physician-owned hospitals, including five existing Third District hospitals that employ 950 people and three under development that will have 310 employees. “This is about freedom of choice, free enterprise and competition. If Third District residents want to have access to high quality, award-winning physician-owned hospitals, then they ought to be able to have that right. Protecting access to care is about giving patients the right to choose what works best for them. This is America! Some leaders in Washington want to take that right to choose away and I won’t stand for it,” declared Johnson. Buried inside the 20 pound recently introduced Affordable Health Care for America Act, H.R. 3962, is a provision will ban further construction of doctor-owned specialty hospitals and prohibit existing ones from expanding. There are 235 physician-owned hospitals in 35 states, including 68 in Texas. Nationwide these facilities employ more than 65,000 people with a total payroll of over $3 billion. There also are 124 projects under development in 22 states. If they are able to open, they will provide jobs for nearly 25,000 people. Almost $5 billion in current investments in these pending hospital facilities nationwide will be wasted if the House Democrat health care bill becomes law. As a result of this provision affecting physician-owned hospitals, three new hospital additions in the Third District will be shut down before they ever go online. For the Third District alone, this pending hospital provision will spark a loss of an estimated $108 million in investments already made in just the three construction projects alone. This also amounts to $13,950,000 in lost payroll and a loss of roughly 310 new jobs in the Dallas and McKinney areas that would have been created if these new facilities were allowed to open and operate as intended. The bill also restricts the growth of existing physician-owned hospitals to the point that they are not allowed to add one more hospital bed, improve the ICU, or develop a pediatric unit, for example. In the Third District, this harmful, anti-expansion measure jeopardizes five facilities that boast 950 employees, $50,250,000 in payroll and $7, 100,000 in taxes in Garland, Plano, and Richardson. The complex hospital provision is just one of the hundreds of reckless proposals coming out of Washington DC’s effort to control personal healthcare decisions. The Act also hurts seniors with sweeping cuts to Medicare, forces Americans to buy health insurance, taxes all Americans who do not purchase “government approved” health coverage, limits personal choices and individual decisions, and jeopardizes the health insurance Americans already have – and often times like. “President Obama, Speaker Pelosi, and the Democrats need to start listening to the American people and bring both parties to the table to come up with a true bipartisan solution,” said Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
11.04.2009	The newly unveiled Republican healthcare proposal includes a small business health insurance solution long advocated by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas). For years, Congressman Johnson has championed legislation to increase the insured through the creation of small business health plans, sometimes called, Association Health Plans (AHPs). “In all parts of our economy we know that buying in bulk reduces the price tag, and healthcare is no different. Government-forced healthcare is not the way to solve our healthcare problem. We can and have to do better. I am thrilled that Republican leaders included my common-sense proposal in their comprehensive healthcare reform bill that reduces costs and without expanding the government’s reach. Clearly, there are better ways to make healthcare more affordable and accessible for American families – and this plan is it,” said Johnson. Small business health plans allow small businesses to band together to purchase quality health insurance for employees and their families at a lower cost. Johnson’s Small Business Health Fairness Act, H.R. 2706, would increase small businesses’ bargaining power with insurance providers, give them freedom from costly state-mandated benefit packages while keeping important consumer protections in place, and lower their overhead administrative costs by as much as 30 percent. These are benefits that many large corporations and many labor unions already enjoy because of their larger economies of scale. Johnson takes issues with the Democrats’ latest plan for government-run health insurance. Their bill, H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act, H.R. 3962, costs nearly $1 trillion and represents three months of intense secret negotiations among House Democrats. The 2,000 page bill hurts seniors with sweeping cuts to Medicare, forces Americans to buy health insurance, taxes all Americans who do not purchase “government approved” health coverage, limits personal choices and individual decisions, and jeopardizes the health insurance Americans already have – and often times like. “For many small-business owners, affordable health insurance through small business health plans is a matter of fairness. Fortune 500 companies have excellent access to affordable quality health insurance. Labor unions have excellent access to affordable quality health insurance. Given that the small business community represents almost 60% of the uninsured population, small businesses should have that same access to affordable, quality health insurance. If it’s good enough for Wall Street, it’s good enough for Main Street,” said Johnson. To read the Democrats’ 2,000 page bill submitted for consideration, go to http://docs.house.gov/rules/health/111_hr3962_dingell.pdf. The text of the Republican alternative may be found here: http://rules-republicans.house.gov/Media/PDF/RepublicanAlternative3962_9.pdf Johnson represents Collin and Dallas Counties. # # #
11.03.2009	Encouraging North Texas residents to know how the House Democrat healthcare bill, H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act, would impact their personal lives, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will deliver copies of the bill to the local public libraries across the Third Congressional District. Johnson also has posted a link to the bill on his official website: www.SamJohnson.house.gov. The staff will deliver the text to libraries in Allen, Garland, McKinney, Plano, and Rowlett. The bill is 2,000 pages long, weighs in at 20 pounds and costs more than $1 trillion. To pay for the hefty price tag, the bill creates $572 billion in new taxes and cuts $426 billion from Medicare. “Constituent service is one of my top priorities. As a matter of principle, the American people have a right to know what is in the healthcare bill before it becomes law. Making copies of the most sweeping and transformational legislation in a generation available to the public is one more way to help my constituents better understand how this bill will personally impact them,” concluded Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Allen Allen Public Library 300 N. Allen Drive 214-509-4900 *They will keep it at the reference desk Garland Garland Central Library 625 Austin Street 905-205-2501 (reference desk) McKinney McKinney Public Library 101 E. Hunt St. 972-547-7323 *They will keep it in the reference section on the 2nd floor Plano L.E.R. Schimelpfenig Library 5024 Custer Road 972-769-4200 *At reference section in library Rowlett Rowlett Public Library 3900 Main Street 972-412-6161 # # #
11.02.2009	Sam Johnson congratulates McKinney resident for championing military spouse bill slated to become law Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) congratulated McKinney resident Rebecca Noah Poynter after legislation helping military spouses she created and championed passed both Chambers of Congress; the measure now goes to the President for his signature to become law. This afternoon the House passed S. 475, a bill to amend the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to guarantee the equity of spouses of military personnel with regard to matters of residency. The legislation mirrors H.R. 1182, the Military Spouse Residency Act, advocated by Poynter and co-sponsored by Johnson. The Act allows a military spouse who moves out of a state with their service member under military orders to have the option to claim the same state of domicile as their active duty spouse, regardless of where they are stationed. “Congratulations are in order! Rebecca’s hard work has paid off. I’m glad that her fight on behalf of military spouses everywhere has ended with victory – and so quickly,” said Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran and former Prisoner of War in Vietnam for nearly seven years. Rebecca and her husband, Major Ron Poynter, now reside in McKinney. Major Poynter has served in the Army for 20 years and presently is headquartered at Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio. While the Poynters owned a home in McKinney, Texas, Rebecca Poynter learned first hand the challenges spouses face when relocating with an active-duty military spouse. Despite owning a home in Texas, Rebecca had to file separate taxes in Maryland while her husband, a Texas resident, lived and worked in the Washington, D.C. area. Once Rebecca encountered the barriers and complications created as a result of her newly found dual-state residency, Rebecca researched the issue and sought a legislative fix to this inequity. After she helped craft legislation, Rebecca drew attention to this flaw and galvanized military spouses worldwide by tapping into the popular social networking site, Facebook, among other things. Rebecca mobilized the exhaustive network of 8,000 worldwide military spouses as part of the Military Spouses Residency Relief Act Coalition to contact their hometown lawmakers and request they co-sponsor the bill. Rebecca also testified before the Senate in April – at the same time she was moving her family back to Texas and while working full time. View the Military Spouses Residency Relief Act Coalition on Facebook by going to www.facebook.com/pages/Military-Spouses-Residency-Relief-Act/51457362877. “Watching Rebecca speak out on behalf of military spouses – and really make a difference - reminded me of Shirley’s tireless efforts to secure the release of American POWs while I was held captive in Vietnam. I am so thrilled for Rebecca that she’s having her time in the sun,” continued Johnson. “This bill will make a real difference for military families. I credit the thousands of military spouses who contacted Congress with their stories,” said Poynter. “Shirley and I know that the military spouse plays a critical role in mission success. The military spouses are just as much a part of the mission as the soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines. Helping the military spouses by making their lives easier is the least we can do. I’m glad that this bill will become law,” concluded Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
10.30.2009	On Wednesday, December 9th from 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. in Garland, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will host a free information on Medicare for seniors. The informational program is free and open to the public. There will be free blood pressure screenings. There also will be seasonal flu shots available for $21 while supplies last. (Individuals may pay with cash if they have exact change; they also may pay by check.) Held in conjunction with the Dallas Area Agency on Aging, the seminar will provide an overview of the 2010 Medicare program. The event also coincides with the annual enrollment period of the Medicare Prescription Drug Program, which runs between November 15th and late December. During the annual enrollment period seniors may switch their current Part D prescription plan to another plan if they so choose. Medicare Part D is Medicare’s prescription drug coverage program with coverage offered to Medicare eligible beneficiaries by regional prescription drug plans and Medicare Advantage Plans with prescription drug coverage. Seniors satisfied with their current coverage will not have to take any action during the annual enrollment period. At the event, benefits experts with the Dallas Area Agency on Aging will lead the discussion on the 2010 Medicare program and talk about the annual enrollment period. Benefits counselors will be on hand to provide valuable one-on-one assistance to seniors with signing up for or changing their Medicare prescription drug plans before December 31. To attend the free information session, please RSVP by calling 972-470-0892. Those with questions about the event should contact Johnson’s office at 972-470-0892. Wednesday, December 9th 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. FREE Information Session on Medicare for Seniors Senior Activity Center 600 W. Avenue A. Garland, Texas 75040 *Kindly RSVP by calling 972-470-0892
10.29.2009	After Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) unveiled sweeping health reform legislation written behind closed doors, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) declared that government-forced insurance is not the answer and urged Congress to reconsider a targeted, more bipartisan approach. “Today the Democrats proposed the biggest Washington takeover to date. Americans don’t want insurance bureaucracy and we certainly don’t need government bureaucracy. With this plan, the American people will end up with both,” declared Johnson, who serves on the Health Subcommittee on Ways and Means. “Americans deserve a better approach to healthcare – one that is patient-centered, rather than insurance company-centered or Washington-centered. Government-forced insurance is not the answer.” The newly introduced Affordable Health Care for America Act, H.R. 3962, costs nearly $1 trillion and represents three months of intense secret negotiations among House Democrats. The 2,000 page bill hurts seniors with sweeping cuts to Medicare, forces Americans to buy health insurance, taxes all Americans who do not purchase “government approved” health coverage, limits personal choices and individual decisions, and jeopardizes the health insurance Americans already have – and often times like. “Democrats and Republicans ought to be talking about how we can find solutions to provide more access to more treatments and more doctors with less interference from insurance companies and Washington politicians and special interests,” continued Johnson. Johnson takes issue with the nearly $1 trillion price tag that will greatly impact future generations. “The costly mistakes we make today will force our children and grandchildren to work twice as hard for half the opportunity. That’s not right.” Johnson believes that healthcare in America needs reform and feels that Congress can and must do better with a targeted, bipartisan approach. There are several important areas where Republicans and Democrats agree and could move forward. First, people should have access to coverage regardless of pre-existing conditions. Second, individuals, small businesses and other groups should be able to join together to access insurance at lower prices, the same way large businesses and labor unions do. For years, Johnson has championed legislation to do just that. (The Small Business Health Fairness Act, H.R. 2607) Third, America can and should provide assistance to those who still cannot access a doctor when they need one. Fourth, insurers should be able to offer incentives for wellness care and prevention. Fifth, any healthcare reform proposal should include medical malpractice liability reform so healthcare providers can stop practicing defensive medicine and instead focus on patient-centered medicine; this would save taxpayers an estimated $54 billion. Johnson also advocates several common-sense solutions, such as giving the American public and Members of Congress 72 hours to read legislation before it comes up for a vote. In addition, Johnson thinks that Members of Congress should practice what they preach and enroll in the government-controlled plan if they vote for it. To view the healthcare reform legislation advocated by House Republicans, go to http://www.gop.gov/solutions/healthcare. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
10.20.2009	This past weekend U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) held the inaugural meeting with the 2009-2010 Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC). This year 45 students representing 26 area high schools (including public, private and home-schools) make up the distinguished group; 11 students are returning members. “I consider these students my young ambassadors to Congress. They keep me updated on what’s important to their generation. I look forward to another terrific and engaging year filled with informed debate and lively discussions,” said Johnson. Johnson created the Council in 2004. The Council’s goal is two-fold. First, the group provides Johnson with greater student perspective and insight on issues that directly impact younger Americans. Second, Council activities educate students on government policies relevant to young people. The members of the Council meet approximately four times throughout the school year in the Third District. Last year, Johnson announced his official Facebook page at a CYAC meeting. At the December meeting elected local leaders representing many levels of government will visit face-to-face with the members of Congressional Youth Advisory Council. Because of intense community interest, students may serve two of four years between 9th and 12th grade. This ensures more students will have the opportunity to participate. The 2009-2010 CYAC Roster follows. 2009 - 2010 CONGRESSIONAL YOUTH ADVISORY COUNCIL Name School School District Grade City of Residence Blake Balda Jesuit College Preparatory School n/a 11th Plano Kathryn Boswell Plano Senior High School PISD 12th Plano Sarah “Abby” Callison Shepton High School PISD 9th Plano Anita Chandrahas * Texas Academy of Math & Science n/a (at UNT) 11th Plano Laura Copp Centennial High School FISD 12th Frisco Gabriel Devoto Home School n/a 11th Plano Josh Eldridge * Liberty High School FISD 11th Frisco Christina Foley Centennial High School FISD 12th Frisco Kai Fujisaka Richland Collegiate High School n/a (at Richland College) 11th Murphy John Hancock Legacy Christian Academy n/a 11th Allen Richard Hung * Plano West Senior High School PISD 12th Dallas David Jacobs * Liberty High School FISD 12th Frisco Rebecca James Allen High School AISD 11th Allen Nolan Killingsworth * Berkner High School RISD 12th Garland Michelle Kim Home School n/a 11th Plano Valencia King Rowlett High School GISD 12th Garland Kenny Lee * Plano West Senior High School PISD 12th Plano Nathan Lee Prestonwood Christian Academy n/a 11th Plano Yu-Chun Alexander Lin Vines High School PISD 10th Plano Chelsea Loughmiller McKinney Boyd High School MISD 12th McKinney Jaywin Malhi Garland High School GISD 12th Garland Michael Andrew McBrayer II Plano East Senior High School PISD 12th Richardson Adrianne Mikes Sachse High School GISD 12th Sachse Tara O’Reilly John Paul II High School n/a 11th Plano Eric Parker Williams High School PISD 10th Murphy Troy Pickens Plano East Senior High School PISD 12th Richardson Elliott Polanchyck John Paul II High School n/a 10th Plano Mitchell Powell Jasper High School PISD 10th Plano Michael Roberto Cistercian Preparatory School n/a 11th Plano Ginu Scaria Naaman Forest High School GISD 11th Garland Laura Schuller Plano West Senior High School PISD 12th Plano Jennifer Sims Naaman Forest High School GISD 12th Garland Drew Sneed Plano Senior High School PISD 12th Plano Katya Sousa Centennial High School FISD 11th Frisco Samantha Todd Jasper High School PISD 9th Plano Eann Tuan * Plano East Senior High School PISD 11th Richardson Jonathan Unger * Plano West Senior High School PISD 11th Dallas J’Lynn Vacek Centennial High School FISD 9th Frisco Andrew “Ross” Van de Kop II Shepton High School PISD 10th Dallas Cindy Wang Plano Senior High School PISD 12th Plano Julia Wang Plano West Senior High School PISD 11th Plano Alexis Webber * Prestonwood Christian Academy n/a 11th Plano Eric Womboldt * Centennial High School FISD 11th Frisco Caitlyn Woolum * Plano Senior High School PISD 11th Plano Caitlin Zanin McKinney North High School MISD 12th McKinney * Denotes returning student
10.19.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson’s (3rd Dist.-Texas) kicked off National Save for Retirement Week while discussing the importance of paying yourself first with fourth graders at Math/Science/Technology Magnet School in Richardson. Johnson co-authored the law that proclaims the week of October 18th National Save for Retirement Week. Johnson, the lead Republican on the Social Security Subcommittee on the Ways and Means Committee, is on a mission to increase awareness and share the importance of saving for retirement. Johnson co-wrote the 2009 savings resolution, H.Res. 662, with Democrat Allyson Schwartz of Pennsylvania. In 2007, Johnson and Schwartz crafted the inaugural bill that created the first-ever National Save for Retirement Week. In addition, in 2006, Johnson helped draft the first pension reform in a generation, the Pension Protection Act. The measure, among other things, created an incentive for employers to enroll employees in 401(k) plans and to match part of the employees’ contributions. The law also sparked new retirement protections in the wake of the Enron scandal. Today Johnson partnered with Junior Achievement, which aims to boost financial literacy among young people so they can thrive in today’s global economy. At today’s event, Chris Blackwood of Murphy with Nortel in Richardson, volunteered his time on behalf of Junior Achievement’s $AVE USA Initiative. The program strives to teach students the financial importance of handling money, especially when it comes to earning, saving, spending, sharing and setting goals. “Junior Achievement appreciates Representative Johnson’s commitment to teaching young people about financial literacy, particularly about saving, as he did today,” said Linda Schoelkopf, President of JA Dallas. “Financial literacy, work readiness and entrepreneurship, the three focuses of Junior Achievement’s curricula, are critical if students want to be successful when they reach adulthood, avoiding the mistakes of so many adults today.” Adults eager to learn more about saving should visit www.choosetosave.org. Developed by the nonpartisan Employee Benefit Research Institute (EBRI) and its American Savings Education Council (ASEC) program, Choose to Save® promotes the idea that saving today is vital to a secure financial future. As part of its mission, Choose to Save® develops user-friendly, multimedia materials to help individuals plan and save for their financial future, like the Ball Park Estimate worksheet and online planning calculators. “I know it can be discouraging to even think about your retirement savings in this economy. But getting started is the most important step you can take towards building a nest egg for your later years. It’s always a good time to learn the benefits of paying yourself first and making saving for you a top priority,” stated Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. For a photo of Johnson with the fourth grade students, please contact McCall Avery at 202-225-4201. # # #
10.15.2009	Today at the Ways and Means Committee markup to discuss the future costs of H.R. 3200, America’s Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009, the House Democrats shut down debate before U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) could offer an amendment to rule out free health insurance for illegal immigrants. “The Democrats’ healthcare bill spends hundreds of billions of dollars on subsidies for people to have access to government-run healthcare and we need to ensure that American citizens are the ONLY ones receiving these benefits,” said Johnson. At today’s markup, Johnson intended to offer an amendment to clarify the vague language about illegal immigrants in the bill passed by the Ways and Means Committee earlier this summer. In July, Johnson co-authored an initiative to prohibit illegal immigrants from accessing taxpayer subsidized care in the new government-run plan; the Committee Democrats voted the measure down. Today’s common-sense amendment would have required people to show proof of legal citizenship status through an individual’s name, Social Security number, and date of birth by presenting a photo identification to take advantage of taxpayer subsidized health benefits. According to the Social Security Administration (SSA), more than 46 million Social Security numbers have been issued to non-citizens. Some of these individuals may now be U.S. citizens, but others may continue to reside in the United States illegally. Johnson believes that the mere possession of a valid Social Security number is not adequate to establish U.S. citizenship or legal presence in the United States. That is why the amendment adds the additional safeguard that an individual must show a government-issued photo ID. “There are so many activities that currently require a valid photo identification: getting on an airplane, driving a car, entering a government building, using a credit card or writing a check, renting a movie at Blockbuster. It’s just common sense that Congress would require the same proof of identification for someone to rent a $4 movie as they should for people accessing the thousands of dollars of government healthcare benefits,” wondered Johnson. Ironically, Johnson’s idea resembles a provision in the Senate Finance Committee bill that passed earlier this week. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
10.15.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas), Ranking Member of the Social Security Subcommittee on the Ways and Means Committee, released the following statement after the Social Security Administration announced that due to falling prices, there will be no annual Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA) for 2010. In response, the White House has suggested spending $13 billion for a one-time $250 payment for seniors, railroad retirees, veterans and the disabled. “These are tough times for everyone, especially seniors and the disabled, which is why I believe that we should consider providing a helping hand. That said, in a time of record deficits, we must do so in a fiscally responsible way.” # # #
10.13.2009	On Thursday, October 29th, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host “mobile office hours” to visit with constituents. The current cities hosting “mobile office hours” include: Allen, Frisco, Garland, Plano, and Richardson. “By holding mobile office hours in Third District cities my staff will have the opportunity to provide people with the constituent service they deserve from their local officials,” said Johnson. Staff from the Congressman’s office host regular “mobile office hours” throughout the Third Congressional District to meet with constituents. During the “mobile office hours” the Third District staff gladly will offer assistance with problems regarding federal issues or agencies, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration or the Internal Revenue Service. They also may help facilitate overseas adoptions. Constituents are invited to stop by and share their comments about federal issues in Congress. No advance appointments are necessary. If a person would like assistance with a federal agency, he or she should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. In the event people cannot attend the “mobile office hours” in their city, residents are free to contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. “Constituent service is one of my top priorities. The size and scope of the federal government can sometimes be overwhelming, but if folks need help, then we are here to make sure that the bureaucracy is accountable to the people,” concluded Johnson. Allen Senior Recreation Center Entrance/Lobby Area 451 East St. Mary 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Frisco George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Entrance/Lobby Area, 1st floor 6101 Frisco Square Blvd. 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. Garland Nicholson Memorial Library System Central Library Outer Entrance Area 625 Austin Street 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Plano Plano Municipal Center Entrance/Lobby Area 1520 Avenue K 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. Richardson Richardson Civic Center West Alcove Area 411 Arapaho Road 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. # # #
10.09.2009	Tonight in Dallas the Congressional Medal of Honor Society presented U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) the National Patriot Award, the Society’s highest civilian award. Over 30 living Medal of Honor recipients attended the event to celebrate the award and congratulate Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran and former Prisoner of War (POW) in Vietnam. The Congressional Medal of Honor Society presents the National Patriot Award to distinguished Americans who exemplify the ideals that make our country strong. According to the Society, the recipients’ “dedication to freedom evidences no limitations; their love of fellow man is not qualified; their allegiance to our flag with a full understanding of its demands is without reservation.” The Congressional Medal of Honor Society started the Foundation in 1999 to help perpetuate the Medal of Honor’s rich legacy of courage, sacrifice, selfless service and patriotism. Only 95 recipients of the nation’s highest award for valor remain alive today and more than 60 percent of those who have received the award since the beginning of World War II have received it posthumously; all six from Iraq and Afghanistan have been awarded posthumously. “Thank you for this award. It is a deep honor to be surrounded by so many living Medal of Honor recipients. I know how much y’all have sacrificed to rate the Medal of Honor so I do not take this recognition lightly. During my time in the Air Force, especially as a POW, I’ve known great patriots, real war heroes and Medal of Honor recipients, like my cell mate, Jim Stockdale, or POW friends Bud Day or Leo Thorsness,” said Johnson at the gala dinner. Fresh out of Southern Methodist University, Johnson flew 62 combat missions in Korea. The fighter pilot served as the director of the Air Force Fighter Weapons School (Top Gun) and flew with the first supersonic air precision team, the Thunderbirds. During Johnson’s first tour in Vietnam, he helped orchestrate the first bombing campaigns under General Westmoreland. During Johnson’s second tour of duty on April 16, 1966, the enemy shot Johnson down over North Vietnam where he would remain a Prisoner of War for nearly 7 years, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. Forced into solitary after his captors labeled him a “die-hard,” his captors kept Johnson in leg stocks (like the pilgrims) for 72 days and then leg irons for the next 2 ½ years. In the event he escaped, Johnson committed 374 names of fellow POWs to memory by tapping a special code on the prison wall. Johnson returned home to freedom, his family and Texas in February 1973 as part of Operation Homecoming. The award commends Johnson for his tireless work to support America’s men and women in uniform as well as his efforts on behalf of veterans. As an elected official, Johnson serves on the U.S. Russia Joint Commission on POWs and MIAs. Other notable National Patriot Award recipients include: General William C. Westmoreland U.S. Army (Retired) 1986; H. Ross Perot 1993; General H. Norman Schwarzkopf, U.S. Army (Ret.) 2002; U.S. Senator John McCain of Arizona (2005); General Peter Pace, former Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff 2006; Roger Staubach, retired Dallas Cowboys football player 2006; and former First Lady Laura Bush 2008; among others. During Johnson’s first tour of duty in Vietnam, Johnson worked under General Westmoreland. Johnson and McCain shared a cell while held captive in Vietnam. Johnson chronicles his time in captivity in his autobiography, Captive Warriors. For his service and bravery to this country, the military awarded Johnson two Silver Stars, two Legions of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross, one Bronze Star with Valor, two Purple Hearts, four Air Medals, and three Outstanding Unit Awards. “Colonel Johnson is a great Texan, an American patriot and a living example of courage and selfless service to his countrymen,” said Texas Governor Rick Perry. “Sam has long embodied the best Texas characteristics of faith, patriotism, and strength during his years in the military, in captivity and in public service. He is most deserving of honor by the Congressional Medal of Honor Society.” Legendary businessman and longtime friend, Ross Perot, extended his warm wishes to Johnson. Ross Perot stated, “Congratulations on receiving the National Patriot Award! I cannot think of anyone more deserving of this award because of your 29 years of service in the Air Force and the sacrifices you made as a Prisoner of War. You endured brutal treatment without ever compromising your integrity. You are a hero and role model to the other POWs you were confined with and all others who served with you! In meetings with fellow POWs at the conventions after you came home, you were one of the most respected people in this great group of patriots. You have served our country as a Member of Congress and have been a man of principle throughout these years. Throughout your career and life, you have lived the words of Winston Churchill’s shortest speech, ‘Never give in, never give in, NEVER, NEVER, NEVER!’ By your heroism, you certainly earned this award, and all of us who know you are very proud that you have received it!” In addition to Johnson’s recognition, Mr. Bill O’Reilly accepted the Tex McCreery Award for excellence in journalism and entertainer Steve Amerson received the Bob Hope Award for excellence in entertainment at the gala. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
10.05.2009	On Saturday, October 10th in Dallas the Medal of Honor Society will present its highest civilian award, the National Patriot Award, to 29-year Air Force veteran and former Prisoner of War in Vietnam, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas). At least 34 living Medal of Honor recipients will attend the event with U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson. The Congressional Medal of Honor Society presents the National Patriot Award to distinguished Americans who exemplify the ideals that make our country strong. According to the Society, the recipients’ “dedication to freedom evidences no limitations; their love of fellow man is not qualified; their allegiance to our flag with a full understanding of its demands is without reservation.” The Foundation was founded by the Congressional Medal of Honor Society in 1999 to help perpetuate the Medal of Honor’s rich legacy of courage, sacrifice, selfless service and patriotism. Only 95 recipients of the nation’s highest award for valor remain alive today and more than 60 percent of those who have received the award since the beginning of World War II have received it posthumously. Fresh out of SMU, Johnson flew 62 combat missions in Korea. Johnson, a fighter pilot, served as the director of the Air Force Fighter Weapons School (Top Gun) and flew with the first supersonic air precision team, the Thunderbirds. During Johnson’s first tour in Vietnam, he helped orchestrate the first bombing campaigns under General Westmoreland. During Johnson’s second tour of duty on April 16, 1966, the enemy shot Johnson down over North Vietnam where he would remain a Prisoner of War for nearly 7 years, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. Forced into solitary when his captors labeled him a “die-hard,” his captors kept Johnson in leg stocks (like the pilgrims) for 72 days and then leg irons for the next 2 ½ years. In the event he escaped, Johnson committed 374 names of fellow POWs to memory by tapping a special code on the prison wall. Johnson returned home to freedom, his family and Texas in February 1973. The award commends Johnson for his tireless work to support America’s men and women in uniform as well as his efforts on behalf of veterans. As an elected official, Johnson serves on the U.S. Russia Joint Commission on POWs and MIAs. Johnson will join other such notable recipients as: General William C. Westmoreland U.S. Army (Retired) 1986; acclaimed musician and entertainer Lee Greenwood 1992; H. Ross Perot 1993; General H. Norman Schwarzkopf, U.S. Army (Ret.) 2002; U.S. Senator John McCain of Arizona (2005); General Peter Pace, former Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff 2006; Roger Staubach, retired Dallas Cowboys football player 2006; General Colin Powell former Secretary of State and U.S. Army, retired 2007; and former First Lady Laura Bush 2008; among others. During Johnson’s first tour of duty in Vietnam, Johnson worked under General Westmoreland. Johnson and McCain shared a cell while held captive in Vietnam. Johnson chronicles his time in captivity in his autobiography, Captive Warriors. For his service and bravery to this country, the military awarded Johnson two Silver Stars, two Legions of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross, one Bronze Star with Valor, two Purple Hearts, four Air Medals, and three Outstanding Unit Awards. The 2009 Patriot Award Gala dinner will take place at the Westin Galleria in Dallas. That evening Mr. Bill O’Reilly will accept the Tex McCreery Award for excellence in journalism and entertainer Steve Amerson will accept the Bob Hope Award for excellence in entertainment. In addition to Johnson, the two will be honored for their life’s work of dedication to preserving the freedoms Americans enjoy. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. To learn more about the Congressional Medal of Honor Society, visit http://www.cmohs.org. Tickets for the Gala are available by contacting Dee Carpenter at 214-544-4368 or by email at shelleym@lmctx.com. # # #
10.01.2009	Today on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, 29-year Air Force veteran and former Prisoner of War in Vietnam for nearly seven years, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) pressed the President to swiftly act on advice by General Stanley McChrystal, the top general in Afghanistan, to increase the number of troops if the President wants America to win the war. Johnson also declared that if the White House won’t listen to the General, the Congress should. Johnson fears that the Administration runs the risk of repeating a key tactical error in Vietnam – running the war from the White House and ignoring the advice of the commanders on the ground. Johnson’s floor speech comes in the wake of major news developments on Afghanistan. Recently, General McChyrstal said U.S. military efforts “will likely result in failure” unless more troops are sent in the next year. Meanwhile, the President repeatedly has expressed serious reservations about the need for more troops and discussed how he will not swiftly move forward with plans on Afghanistan. News reports indicate that the President will hear from Gen. McChrystal today likely via secure teleconference to discuss Afghanistan. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. To watch Johnson’s floor statement, visit his official You Tube Channel, and view “Let’s fight to win” by going to http://www.youtube.com/user/RepSamJohnson. Remarks delivered on the floor of the U.S. House: “As a former Prisoner of War in Vietnam, I learned a lot about how not to fight a war -- specifically you can not run a war from the White House and win. “General McChrystal declared that more troops are needed in Afghanistan. Meanwhile, this Administration has backpedaled on its pledge to the region and now is dragging its heels on the General’s request. “What must our young men and women in uniform think? How must their loved ones back home feel? The Administration’s waiting game torpedoes troop morale and begs mission failure. Congress needs to hear directly from General McChrystal to ensure political motivations in Washington don’t override the needs of our commanders – and our troops. “For America - ignoring the top general’s request for more troops is not the way to run – and win - a war.” # # #
09.25.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement on the thwarted car bombing in a downtown Dallas skyscraper. Authorities arrested Jordanian citizen Hosam Maher Husein Smadi, 19, yesterday when he parked a vehicle that he understood to contain real explosives at Fountain Place. Smadi was in the United States illegally. This news comes around the same time that local investigators have uncovered supposedly unrelated terrorist planning activity in Illinois, Denver, Colorado, Pennsylvania and Virginia. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. “First, I want to thank and commend the local Dallas Police and the FBI for protecting innocent people from a potential car bomb in downtown Dallas. They deserve all the credit and tremendous praise for their undercover work. “We know that the alleged perpetrator was in America illegally. Hopefully his arrest will reignite the debate for real illegal immigration reform, especially cracking down on those who overstay their welcome. This news is a grim reminder that our enemies remain ruthless in their determination to destroy our American way of life and the freedoms and liberties we hold dear. “In the last week Americans have learned of foiled terrorist activity in Dallas, Denver, New York City, Springfield, Philadelphia, and the Marine Corps base at Quantico. These are the home-grown terror plots we know about. Perhaps many have forgotten September 11, 2001. We can not let memories fade and we need to remain vigilant in the war against terror. Clearly, the enemy hides in the dark shadows within our borders and in our communities.” # # #
09.23.2009	Sam Johnson on Afghanistan: Give our troops the tools they need for victory so they can return home with honor Today on the floor of the U.S. House, 29-year Air Force veteran and former Prisoner of War in Vietnam for nearly seven years, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) urged the President to listen to the military experts on the ground in Afghanistan to give the troops “the tools they want, need and deserve for victory so they can return home with honor.” Johnson’s floor speech comes in the wake of major news developments on Afghanistan. Recently, General McChyrstal, the top Army General in charge of U.S. and NATO forces in Afghanistan, said U.S. military efforts “will likely result in failure” unless more troops are sent in the next year. Appearing on five Sunday morning news programs on September 20th, the President confessed doubt about the need for more troops and discussed how he will not swiftly move forward with plans on Afghanistan. Johnson maintains that this represents a sharp departure from the President’s March 27, 2009 speech when the President unveiled a new strategy on Afghanistan and Pakistan. To read the President’s full March 27, 2009 speech text, go to http://www.whitehouse.gov/the_press_office/Remarks-by-the-President-on-a-New-Strategy-for-Afghanistan-and-Pakistan/. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. To watch Johnson’s floor statement, visit his official You Tube Channel, and view “Stand strong for freedom” at http://www.youtube.com/user/RepSamJohnson. Remarks delivered on the floor of the U.S. House: “I bet Osama Bin Laden and his buddies are high fiving each other in their caves after hearing that the Administration is soft pedaling on its promise for an aggressive fight in Afghanistan. In March, the President unveiled a new plan for success for Afghanistan and Pakistan. Sadly now he is singing a different tune – at just the wrong time. “General McChyrstal recently warned that America and our allies are in danger of losing the war if we do not create a bold new strategy for America that requires more troops. “The President should heed the General’s advice and stand strong for freedom and security by giving our troops the tools they want, need and deserve for victory so they can return home with honor. “To quote the President, ‘the world cannot afford the price that will come due if Afghanistan slides back into chaos.’” # # #
09.21.2009	Last Friday in Plano U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) attended the first formal ribbon cutting ceremony for the recently formed United States Veterans Chamber of Commerce at Veterans Direct, Inc. “I know that there are great things in store for this group because y’all share the love of country, the bonds of combat, the fight for freedom and the spirit of free enterprise. Y’all know America is the best country in the world and y’all know that our country is worth fighting for,” exclaimed Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran who spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. “When I retired from my 29 years in the Air Force, I started a homebuilding business here in North Texas. Let me tell you – having a Veterans Chamber of Commerce would have been a tremendous resource and such a help. Y’all would have been a lifeline for me! I’m surprised that this group was not created sooner because it seems like a common-sense idea that would serve our communities and our countrymen,” continued Johnson to over 70 supporters. “I know I would have appreciated just talking with folks in the same boat and knowing that I wasn’t alone. I really would have benefited from learning how to deal with paperwork and what I needed to think about and plan for before I started a business and once it got off the ground,” confessed Johnson. The Mission Statement of the United States Veterans Chamber of Commerce is: “Advance the spirit of veteran enterprise with leadership, integrity and vision.” The Chamber’s main ambition is to promote increased trade and business relations between veteran and business owners and the community at large. It also will offer services on a commercial basis, such as advice and information on the economic conditions and laws governing veteran owned businesses and service disabled veteran owned businesses. In addition, the Veterans Chamber will support civic, social and economic interests of the local area and promote unity to build a stronger business community. “We owe a debt of gratitude to all who have worn the uniform. Thank you for all you’re doing to empower those who have put service before self. While I am not surprised, I could not be prouder that the Lone Star State is home to the first-ever United States Veterans Chamber of Commerce. God bless Texas,” stated Johnson. Veterans Direct is owned by Sergeant Major Gene Overstreet, 12th Sergeant Major of the Marine Corps, and specializes in custom-made, military branch specific caskets for veterans, among other things. Former soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines interested in learning more about the United States Veterans Chamber of Commerce should call 888-998-2126 or go to www.usvcc.com. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
09.18.2009	At a news conference at the Collin County Regional Airport (CCRA) in McKinney, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) presented a jumbo check announcing a $5 million federal cash infusion for the construction of a new runway to meet government safety regulations. “Collin County continues to win accolades for being home to award-winning cities while maintaining fast-paced growth. It is only fitting that the local airport improves to better meet the needs of the expanding community,” said Johnson, who represents portions of Collin and Dallas Counties. According to the U.S Census Bureau, McKinney ranked as the nation’s fastest-growing city between 2000 and 2007, with a population that more than doubled to 115,620. Local leaders attending the event included: U.S. Congressman Ralph Hall (4th Dist.-Texas), McKinney Mayor Brian Loughmiller, Collin County Judge Keith Self, State Representative Ken Paxton, and Glynn Raymer with the McKinney Airport Development Corporation. Raymer accepted the check on behalf of the airport. The runway is a multi-year improvement project that started in the fall of 2005 and experts predict the project will be completed in late 2012. This federal infusion of $5,555,556 represents the third allocation of the Airport Improvement Program funds. The first allocation was made in FY07 for $4.91 million; the second allocation was received in FY08 for $5 million. The runway is being constructed to allow Collin County Regional Airport to meet federal design and safety standards for runway–taxiway separation distance. To use a local analogy, an airport runway is similar to Central Expressway; the taxiway is similar to the access road; and the short connecting taxiways that link them to one another serve the same purpose as off-ramps. The new current runway measures 7,000’ x 100’ and is located 300’ from the current parallel taxiway. Once the new runway is completed and operational, the airport’s current runway will become the airport’s parallel taxiway. The new runway will measure 7,000’ x 150’ and will be located 550’ from the existing runway (future taxiway). This increased separation will enhance airport safety for the operation of large aircraft currently operating at the airport and for larger aircraft in the future. The new runway’s additional width is considered to be a “commercial” standard and will permit the operation of larger, safer, quieter aircraft at CCRA to include commercial passenger aircraft. Assuming all goes according to plan -- based on project cost estimates and the project’s multi-year funding plan, FAA has committed to investing $33 million over a 7-year period. (Six years at $5 million each year and one year of $3 million.) The Texas Department of Transportation (TXDOT) aviation has committed approximately $11 million in three multi-year allocations. McKinney Economic Development Corporation (MEDC) has committed $7 million for non-federal and state eligible costs (extra 50’ of runway width and increased weight-bearing capacity, such as thicker pavement) over three years. The City will have committed approximately $5 million once all reimbursements for land acquisitions are received. “We greatly appreciate and acknowledge the support of Congressman Johnson and our Congressional delegation in Washington with the continued generous allocation of grant funds for the runway improvements of Collin County Regional Airport. With the FAA’s support and support from our Congressional leaders, CCRA will continue to expand its available services to our corporate citizens and be a true economic engine to our City and County. We look forward to the completion of our runway improvement project which would not be possible without the continued support of Congressman Johnson, the FAA and TXDOT aviation,” said McKinney Mayor Loughmiller. “We sincerely appreciate to support of our Congressman, Sam Johnson. His leadership and assistance over the years have been invaluable to the success of the airport,” said John Wroten, Chairman, McKinney Airport Development Corporation (MADC) “Congressman Johnson has always been there for us. He was instrumental in acquiring our contract tower in the late 90s and for the recently completed runway and taxiway pavement rehabilitation project. His support for this new runway project will be a key to its success,” Ken Wiegand, Executive Director, Collin County Regional Airport. Collin County has received tremendous recognition for its reputation for offering a good quality of life while experiencing exponential growth. For example, CNN Money.com’s ranked Collin County 5th in U.S. for “Counties with the Best Job Growth.” Forbes Magazine selected four Collin County cities as part of their series “America’s Best 25 Places to Move - 2009” -- Allen (19th), Frisco (7th), McKinney (9th), and Plano (25th). CCRA generates $3 million a year in ad valorem taxes of which about $2 million goes to the McKinney Independent School District. CCRA is home to several of the busiest corporate flight departments in the Metroplex and is one of the fastest growing of 21 general aviation reliever airports in Texas with more than 103,000 annual operations. In addition, CCRA is considered a prime candidate as a future air carrier airport in the Metroplex in the next five or six years. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. ###
09.17.2009	Today on the floor of the House U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas), citing an urgent need for transparency and accountability with the presidential appointments of czars, announced his support of legislation that would withhold funding from any czar not confirmed by the U.S. Senate. With an annual salary of up to $172,000 in addition to unchecked staff, office and travel budgets, Congressman Johnson sees the appointments as a growing problem costing taxpayers millions. For example, earlier this year, President Obama’s Stimulus Accountability Czar announced that the stimulus accountability website would receive a costly $18 million makeover at taxpayers’ expense. The czars have bypassed Article II, Section 2 of the U.S. Constitution which mandates the advice and consent of the Senate when the President appoints top-level officers. Johnson believes that the President should keep his campaign promise of government transparency and require his closest policy advisors to come before the Senate and undergo the constitutionally-mandated vetting and approval process. Johnson co-sponsored H.R. 3226, the Czar Accountability and Reform Act, which would withhold funding from any czar not confirmed by the U.S. Senate. In addition, Johnson supports H.Con.Res.185, a congressional resolution that would request the President to certify the qualifications and responsibilities of czars. Johnson feels that czars wield extraordinary unchecked power and influence and the American people have a right to know who they are, their qualifications, their potential conflicts of interest, and what their job descriptions will be. Johnson maintains that the President has an obligation to disclose this information. For example, why was a 31 year old with no background in the auto industry appointed to serve as the car czar? Johnson’s prepared remarks follow: “Since being sworn in, the President has appointed 34 czars… a health czar, a car czar, an urban czar and a Great Lakes czar, to name a few. In 300 years, czarist Russia had just 18 czars. Why do we need an Energy Czar and a Secretary of Energy or a health czar and a Secretary of Health? “Worse, 27 of 34 czars have not even been confirmed by the Senate - despite the Constitution’s requirement. These czars make $172,000 yearly and that does not include expensive, unchecked staff and budgets - with zero accountability. I back legislation that would withhold funding from any czar not confirmed by the Senate. “Americans want, need, and deserve transparency and accountability. Let’s rein in the czars.” # # #
09.10.2009	Allen, Frisco, McKinney, Plano, Richardson and Rowlett On Thursday, September 24th, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host “mobile office hours” to visit with constituents. The current cities hosting “mobile office hours” include: Allen, Frisco, McKinney, Plano, Richardson and Rowlett. “By holding mobile office hours in Third District cities my staff will have the opportunity to provide people with the constituent service they deserve from their local officials,” said Johnson. “These mobile office hours serve as a chance for Third District residents in need of assistance to get their federal issues recognized and resolved by my staff without having to leave their town. I hope that folks will take advantage of this valuable resource.” Staff from the Congressman’s office host regular “mobile office hours” throughout the Third Congressional District to meet with constituents. During the “mobile office hours” the Third District staff gladly will offer assistance with problems regarding federal issues or agencies, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration or the Internal Revenue Service. They also may help facilitate overseas adoptions. Constituents are invited to stop by and share their comments about federal issues in Congress. No advance appointments are necessary. If a person would like assistance with a federal agency, he or she should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. In the event people cannot attend the “mobile office hours” in their city, residents are free to contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Allen 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Senior Recreation Center Entrance/Lobby Area 451 East St. Mary Frisco 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Entrance/Lobby Area, 1st floor 6101 Frisco Square Blvd. McKinney 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Collin College - Central Park Campus Entrance/Lobby Area 2200 W. University Drive Plano 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. Plano Municipal Center Entrance/Lobby Area 1520 Avenue K Richardson 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. Richardson Civic Center West Alcove Area 411 Arapaho Road Rowlett 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Rowlett Public Library Meeting Room 3900 Main Street # # #
09.09.2009	In advance of the President’s national address on healthcare care reform, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took to the floor of the House to call on the Democrats to, “start over and search for real bipartisan solutions” on this critical issue. Johnson, the longest serving Republican member of the Health Subcommittee on the Ways and Means Committee and a member of the GOP Health Care Reform Solutions Group, has serious reservations about the Democrats’ go-it-alone strategy to pass a major healthcare overhaul, H.R. 3200, that would spark government-controlled healthcare. During the congressional recess, Johnson hosted at congressional forum on healthcare solutions featuring tested, thriving Texas programs making a difference in the Lone Star State. The majority of the nearly 2,200 attendees did not support government-run healthcare or the costly H.R. 3200. For example, the forum highlighted thriving healthcare programs that Johnson believes are the type of common-sense solutions needed in the current reform debate. Johnson wants small businesses to be able to pool their resources together to provide access to health insurance to employers and employees, as touted by the successful Lubbock Chamber of Commerce model. For years, Johnson has worked tirelessly in Congress to see if what is being done in Texas can be a lesson learned nationwide by introducing the Small Business Health Fairness Act, HR 2607. This bill would allow small businesses across the country to band together to give them access to the same health benefits large corporations and union members enjoy. Congressman Johnson also believes medical liability reform needs to be in any health reform proposal so that doctors and hospitals are protected from frivolous lawsuits. Johnson also heard from a doctor in Plano, TX, who has built a model of care that focuses on same day access for patients, coordination of care among doctors and specialists, and uses innovative technology to improve the quality of care. Johnson hopes that this patient-centered care can serve as a model for health reform in Washington. In a related matter, Johnson and his colleagues on the House GOP Healthcare Solutions Group have offered detailed a plan. Their proposal would make quality health care coverage more affordable, accessible and available. Johnson delivered the following statement on the floor of the House: “Rather than complaining about the 1,000 page, $1 trillion healthcare bill, H.R. 3200, that rations care and increases costs, in my district I hosted a forum on healthcare solutions. “A panel of experts shared some Texas-sized solutions they have used to fix what is broken in our healthcare system. These folks did not rely on a government bureaucrat to solve their problems. They did not wait for a Washington bailout. They forged ahead with innovative programs that have improved the quality of life for Texans – ideas that both Democrats and Republicans can agree on. “My constituents have told me loud and clear: One - they don’t want government-controlled healthcare; two – the President and Democrats in Congress need to start over and search for real bipartisan solutions.” # # #
09.08.2009	Two days that changed America “This month, America marks two momentous days in its history. The course of our nation was forever altered on September 11, 2001, when fanatical Islamic terrorists hijacked four passenger jets and used them to murder nearly 3,000 innocent American civilians. “The remembrance ceremonies held across the country renew our memories of that day and remind us of the need to remain vigilant in the fight against terrorism. “But our nation also celebrates another significant day in September. On September 17, 1787, the delegates to the Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia signed the U.S. Constitution, giving us one of the most enduring charters of freedom and democracy the world has ever known. “In the two centuries that have passed between those momentous days, our nation has witnessed extraordinary change. Spreading word of the newly signed Constitution to the far ends of the country took weeks. Today, Congressional proceedings are broadcast to the world in real time on TV and the Internet. “But despite the countless differences between then and now, the core question for our country remains the same: Can our freedom last? “It has been said that someone approached Ben Franklin as he walked out of Independence Hall that September day and asked him what kind of government had been formed by the delegates. Franklin told his questioner, ‘A republic sir, if you can keep it.’ “Franklin’s reply got to the heart of things then, and it still does today. The circumstances have changed, but the foundational challenge for Americans remains the same. “At its core, America embodies the idea that mankind can live free. Our Founding Fathers sought to throw off the yoke of tyranny and create a nation of liberty and self-rule. They were men of big ideas for their time. They spoke of inalienable rights and urged separation from one of the most powerful empires in the world. “The story of American history is a narrative of defending and promoting freedom. From winning independence from an overbearing British monarch, to fighting Nazism in Europe, to facing down Soviet communism, America has always been willing to pay the price for its freedom. “On September 11, 2001, we awakened to a new threat. Though the terrorists had been carrying out attacks for years, the horrific scale of that day’s attacks brought this threat into clear focus. The terrorists responsible for the death and destruction of 9/11 have a hatred for our way of life. They despise the liberty we value so greatly and seek a totalitarian world marked by autocratic rule and repression of individual liberty. “Defeating those who seek to impose oppression on the world will be this generation’s defining challenge. And like previous challenges, it will require clarity of purpose, a willingness to sacrifice, and a long-term determination to succeed. “Since 9/11, we have had some successes in fighting terrorism. We’ve rounded up many of al-Qaeda’s top operatives and gleaned valuable intelligence from them. We’ve thwarted additional attacks planned against our people. Our brave men and women in uniform have left the major cities of Iraq with honor. These successes are important, but the war against terrorism is far from over. There will be future battles to fight, and we must be committed to winning them. “Defeating radical Islamic terrorism is an enormous task, but I’m convinced that we are up to it. Americans have shown again and again that they are willing to defend their freedom when it is threatened. We will prevail in this struggle as well, showing the world that our love of freedom is stronger than our enemy’s desire for bloodshed and tyranny. “Please say a prayer of thanks, gratitude and protection for our brave men and women in uniform who have been serving on the front lines for the last eight years – so that we may remain ‘the land of the free and the home of the brave.’” ###
09.01.2009	This week in Frisco, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will officially kick-off the Third District Congressional Youth Advisory Council and invite students to apply for the 2009-2010 school year. The CYAC will be open to students enrolled in public, private and home schools. High school and senior high school students who reside in the Third District have until September 22nd to apply. On Friday, September 4th at 1:30 p.m. Johnson will invite students of Liberty High School in Frisco to apply. This event is open to the media. “The last election showed what I have known and seen for several years now - young people want to speak out and make a difference. The Congressional Youth Advisory Council encourages young people to get more involved in local government and engaged on national issues and current events,” said Johnson. Johnson created the CYAC in 2004. The Council’s goal is two-fold. First, the group will provide Johnson with greater student perspective and insight on issues that directly affect them in their every day lives. Second, Council activities will help educate students on government policies relevant to young people. Students will learn about the development of public policy and explore the role of citizens, lawmakers, experts, and institutions and their impact on the world’s most successful democracy. Students must apply for the CYAC and may only serve on CYAC two of four years between grades 9 – 12 to ensure as many students may participate as possible. For the application to be considered students must submit the completed application form, a letter of parental permission, a current photo for identification purposes only, a short personal essay and two letters of recommendation. Once selected, the members of the Council will meet approximately twice each school semester in the Third District. The Council will be composed of high school freshmen, sophomores, juniors and seniors selected based on leadership ability, academic performance, extra curricular activities and community service. “As I have seen over the years, it is my hope that the Council will benefit our young people and those of us working in their best interests,” continued Johnson. Anyone interested in applying can access a CYAC application form in the student section on Johnson’s website www.samjohnson.house.gov. The form must be submitted to Johnson’s office by September 22nd. Friday, September 4th at 1:30 p.m. Congressional Youth Advisory Council Kick-off Liberty High School 15250 Rolater Rd Frisco # # #
08.31.2009	At a congressional forum on healthcare at the Eisemann Center in Richardson, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) told a gathering of citizen activists that the Congress should dump the $1.5 trillion, 1,000 page government-controlled healthcare plan, H.R. 3200, and examine some proven Lone Star State solutions featured at the event. “I know the debate in Washington is focused on the federal government trying to solve your problems for you but I believe the people best equipped to solve Texas’ healthcare problems are Texans,” stated Johnson, the longest serving Republican on the Health Subcommittee. “When I was a Prisoner of War for nearly seven years in Vietnam, my fellow POWs and I decided when, not if, we returned, we would quit griping about the government and do something about it. That’s how I think of this congressional forum on healthcare. You can either complain about the Democrats’ plan or offer solutions,” said Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran. “So, instead of complaining about what is wrong with the Democrats’ bill, I want to explore proven, tested and tried solutions and see how we can move this debate forward without a government takeover of healthcare. We all agree we need reform. We just don’t agree on how to go about it,” continued Johnson. Johnson hosted the congressional forum on healthcare in Richardson featuring U.S. Congressmen Joe Barton (6th Dist.-Texas), Jeb Hensarling (5th Dist.-Texas), and Pete Sessions (32nd Dist.-Texas). Much like a hearing on Capitol Hill, the Members of Congress delivered opening remarks and then proceeded to hear from a distinguished panel of guests. Eddie McBride, the President of the Lubbock Chamber of Commerce, discussed how the Lubbock Chamber of Commerce works to make health coverage more affordable for employers and their employees through both advocacy and the award-winning Lubbock Chamber Employer Health Plan. Christopher Crow, MD, with Village Health Partners in Plano, detailed how Village Health Partners remains a nationally recognized family medical practice, serving patients throughout Dallas and Collin County. Joel Allison, President and CEO, of Baylor Health Care System; touted the tremendous achievements of Baylor. Baylor has teamed with physicians to provide many award-winning physician-owned hospitals in North Texas. These facilities have shown that you can increase the quality of care while decreasing the cost. Tarrant County Judge Glen Whitley, First Vice President of the National Association of Counties, publicized successful local prescription drug card plans. During his testimony, Johnson advocated making health insurance more affordable, accessible and available. He also reminded the audience that four out of five Americans like the health insurance that they have and they don’t want to lose it – so the Congress must strike the right balance. According to the Lewin Group, an estimated two out of three Americans will lose their health insurance under H.R. 3200. “It’s time for real reform that works, not the same old answers of more money and more government and red tape. Real healthcare reform should cost Americans less money, not more. It should provide better quality not worse and it should empower patients and providers, not government bureaucrats. By working together, across party lines, we can do just that,” said Johnson, who opposes the Democrats’ go-it-alone strategy for passing healthcare reform. John Goodman, President and CEO of the National Center for Policy Analysis, of Dallas, moderated the congressional forum. Richardson’s Barbara Herteg performed the National Anthem; Richardson’s Boy Scout Troop 1001 with Trinity Baptist Church presented the colors and guided the attendees in the Pledge of Allegiance. Johnson invited constituents to take his short online healthcare survey on his website, www.SamJohnson.house.gov. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
08.27.2009	Sixty-six years later, this morning U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) presented a long-overdue Distinguished Flying Cross to McKinney resident and World War II veteran Col. Paul Yeager (USAF-Ret.). Johnson, a Prisoner of War (POW) for seven years in Vietnam, presented Yeager’s medal before family and friends at the home of Paul and Connie Yeager in McKinney. “It’s an honor to present this Distinguished Flying Cross to an American war hero. I just wish he didn’t have to wait 66 years for this moment,” said Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran who spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. Yeager earned the Distinguished Flying Cross Medal for combat missions flown from March to November 1943 in the Western Pacific Theater. Yeager, 88, retired from the Air Force in 1968 and never received this medal. Yeager initially sought the medal in 1968, but nothing ever came of it. In 2007, Yeager contacted Johnson’s office for assistance. After obtaining a copy of Yeager’s military records and submitting his documentation for determination, the Awards and Decorations Board finally made a favorable decision in January 2009. Johnson’s office finally received the Citation and medal in August 2009. According to the citation, Yeager earned the Distinguished Flying Cross for Extraordinary Achievement While Participating in Aerial Flight from March 1943 to November 1943. “It is so gratifying to be receiving this award after waiting such a long time. I am most appreciative of Congressman Johnson's efforts on my behalf, without which this would never have come to pass,” said Paul Yeager. Paul’s wife, Connie, continued, “We are especially honored to have such a heroic fellow Air Force officer, Congressman Johnson, here in our home to present this medal. I think Paul had about given up hope of ever receiving it, but thanks to Sam Johnson he finally has this recognition of his bravery way back in 1943.” The citation reads: “2Lt. Paul M. Yeager distinguished himself by extraordinary achievement while participating in aerial flight as a Pilot assigned to the 9th Fighter Squadron, 49th Fighter Group, Dobadura, New Guinea, from March 1943 to November 1943. During this period, Lt. Yeager participated in more than 50 operational flight missions in the Southwest Pacific Area during which hostile contact was probable and expected. These operations included the escort of bombers and transport aircraft, interceptor and attack missions, and patrol and reconnaissance flights. In the course of these operations, strafing and bombing attacks were made from dangerously low altitudes, destroying and damaging enemy installations and equipment. The professional competence, aerial skill, and devotion to duty displayed by Lt. Yeager reflect great credit to himself and the United States Army Air Forces.” “For many different reasons, folks came home from war and didn’t receive the medals that they earned. It’s never too late to say ‘thank you’ to those who sacrificed so much. To provide superior constituent service to our nation’s men and women in uniform, my office helps veterans obtain medals earned or replace medals lost in moves or destroyed in fires. Veterans residing in the Third District may contact my office at any time for help,” continued Johnson. Veterans or the loved ones of veterans may call 972-470-0892 for more information on procuring medals earned or other veterans’ benefits. “As a 29-year Air Force veteran, I know that freedom is not free. We owe a debt of gratitude to all who have worn the uniform. One of my priorities in Washington is to ensure that our veterans receive the care they deserve and the benefits they merit,” concluded Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
08.25.2009	August 31st at 7 p.m. at the Eisemann Center in Richardson On Monday, August 31st at 7:00 p.m., U.S. Congressmen Joe Barton (6th Dist.-Texas), Jeb Hensarling (5th Dist.-Texas), Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas), and Pete Sessions (32nd Dist.-Texas) will host a congressional field hearing on healthcare solutions at the Eisemann Center in Richardson. The free event will be open to the public and the media. There will be parking but people are encouraged to take DART. Congressional hearing panelists include: 1. Eddie McBride, President, Lubbock Chamber of Commerce; the Lubbock Chamber of Commerce works to make health care coverage more affordable for employers and their employees through both advocacy and the award-winning Lubbock Chamber Employer Health Plan; 2. Christopher Crow, MD, Village Health Partners, Plano, TX; Village Health Partners is a nationally recognized family medical practice located in Plano, serving patients throughout Dallas and Collin County; 3. Joel Allison, President and CEO, Baylor Health Care System; For the 17th consecutive year, U.S News has listed Baylor University Medical Center at Dallas (Baylor Dallas) in its America’s Best Hospitals issue. Baylor Dallas is the only North Texas hospital to achieve this distinction; and 4. Tarrant County Judge Glen Whitley, First Vice President of the National Association of Counties, to discuss local prescription drug card plans. John Goodman, President and CEO of the National Center for Policy Analysis, of Dallas, will serve as the moderator of the event. Barbara Herteg of Richardson will perform the National Anthem. Richardson’s Boy Scout Troop 1001 with Trinity Baptist Church will present the colors. The Eisemann Center’s location, just south of the intersection of Central Expressway (US 75) and the President George Bush Turnpike (Hwy. 190), is easily accessible by car. Just a few hundred feet from the Eisemann Center’s front doors is the DART Rail’s Galatyn Park Station on the Red Line. For the safety of all attendees, the Center prohibits large signs, posters or banners and any placard affixed to sticks or other sharp objects from being brought into the Center. In the event the Hill Performance Hall reaches capacity, attendees will be directed and seated in over-flow rooms where they may watch the event via a live video feed. Monday, August 31st 7:00 p.m. Doors open at 5:00 p.m. Congressional field hearing on healthcare solutions U.S. Congressman Joe Barton (6th Dist.-Texas) U.S. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (5th Dist.-Texas) U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) U.S. Congressman Pete Sessions (32nd Dist.-Texas) Charles W. Eisemann Center for Performing Arts and Corporate Presentations Hill Performance Hall 2351 Performance Drive Richardson *The event is free and open to the public. There will be parking but people are encouraged to take DART. # # #
08.06.2009	After years of behind-the-scenes work to secure a federal courthouse in Collin County, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) witnessed the fruits of his labor when he recently dropped by the Plano Courthouse to learn how the courthouse employees are serving the residents of North Texas. Since 1991, Johnson pushed his legislation to erect a federal courthouse in Plano. The measure would pass the House and never come up in the Senate. In 2003 that all changed with Senator John Cornyn promoting the initiative in the U.S. Senate. The Congress finally passed Johnson’s proposal in 2003; the Senate followed suit soon after and President Bush signed the measure into law. The official groundbreaking took place in March 2007. The dedication took place in August 2008. Until then, people of Collin County had to commute just miles from the Oklahoma border to address any federal legal matters. “Miracles do happen! This was one of my first priorities when I came to Congress in 1991. It defied common-sense that one of the fastest growing areas in the country did not have a federal courthouse. I’m glad to see the Plano Courthouse up and running and serving the people of North Texas,” said. Johnson. This courthouse in Plano is the newest federal courthouse in the Eastern District of Texas. The new courthouse is a second location for holding court for the Sherman Division. The civil cases are split 50/50 between the two courthouses via a random draw. The two courthouses currently have the same judges and jury panels, so the distinction (at least for civil cases) at present is simply where trials occur. Judge Schell, who oversees the court in Plano, is one of eight District Judges for the Eastern District of Texas. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Pictured here, Magistrate Judge Don Bush, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson, and Judge Richard Schell,a long-time proponent of erecting a federal courthouse in Plano. # # #
07.28.2009	Call (202) 225-3121 and ask for the following Members of Congress: Blue Dog Members Altmire, Jason (PA-04) Arcuri, Mike (NY-24) Baca, Joe (CA-43) Barrow, John (GA-12) Berry, Marion (AR-01) Bishop, Sanford (GA-02) Boren, Dan (OK-02) Boswell, Leonard (IA-03) Boyd, Allen (FL-02) Bright, Bobby (AL-02) Cardoza, Dennis (CA-18) Carney, Christopher (PA-10) Chandler, Ben (KY-06) Childers, Travis (MS-01) Cooper, Jim (TN-05) Costa, Jim (CA-20) Cuellar, Henry (TX-28) Dahlkemper, Kathy (PA-03) Davis, Lincoln (TN-04) Donnelly, Joe (IN-02) Ellsworth, Brad (IN-08) Giffords, Gabrielle (AZ-08) Gordon, Bart (TN-06) Griffith, Parker (AL-05) Harman, Jane (CA-36) Herseth Sandlin, Stephanie (SD) Hill, Baron (IN-09) Holden, Tim (PA-17) Kratovil, Jr., Frank (MD-01) McIntyre, Mike (NC-07) Marshall, Jim (GA-03) Matheson, Jim (UT-02) Melancon, Charlie (LA-03) Michaud, Mike (ME-02) Minnick, Walt (ID-01) Mitchell, Harry (AZ-05) Moore, Dennis (KS-03) Murphy, Patrick (PA-08) Nye, Glenn (VA-02) Peterson, Collin (MN-07) Pomeroy, Earl (ND) Ross, Mike (AR-04) Salazar, John (CO-03) Sanchez, Loretta (CA-47) Schiff, Adam (CA-29) Scott, David (GA-13) Shuler, Heath (NC-11) Space, Zack (OH-18) Tanner, John (TN-08) Taylor, Gene (MS-04) Thompson, Mike (CA-01) Wilson, Charles (OH-06)
07.28.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) re-introduced common-sense legislation to give seniors the freedom to make their own healthcare decisions. “Over and over again in this health reform debate Democrats have joined with the President to claim that if you like your health insurance you have, then you should be able to keep it. Well, if that is true, one of the provisions in their 1,000 page bill would be to allow seniors to opt of Medicare,” said Johnson, the longest serving Republican on the Health Subcommittee on Ways and Means. “In these lean economic times, if Warren Buffett or Ross Perot wants to pay for their own medical care, and save taxpayer dollars, I say we should let them,” continued Johnson. Presently Medicare’s bureaucracy prevents seniors from paying their own doctor out of pocket, mandates that seniors enroll in Medicare or forfeit their Social Security benefits, (even the wealthy ones who do not wish to participate in Medicare), and prevents seniors from contributing to their tax-free health savings account (HSA) once they hit 65. That’s why Johnson introduced the Medicare Beneficiary Freedom to Choose Act, H.R. 3356. One, the Act would put seniors in control of their health care decisions by allowing them to select their own doctor in Medicare. Under current law, if a doctor enters into a private contract with a Medicare patient, then the doctor must leave the entire Medicare program for two years. Johnson’s bill would remove the Medicare red-tape that prohibits seniors from working with a health care provider of their choice. Two, the bill would allow seniors to opt out of Medicare Part A when they become eligible, usually age 65, if they don’t want to receive the benefit. Part A covers hospital and skilled nursing home care, among other things. Presently, seniors may choose not to enroll in Medicare Part B or Part D, but not Part A. Right now, if a senior decides to withdraw from Medicare Part A, he or she may no longer collect Social Security benefits. Three, the bill allows seniors to contribute pre-tax dollars to a health savings account when used in conjunction with a high-deductible health plan. Under current law, once a person turns 65 he or she is automatically enrolled in Part A. This coverage makes them ineligible to contribute to an HSA. Johnson’s bill would restore this tax benefit for those seniors who decide to opt out of Part A and help those who have accumulated money in their HSA prior to turning 65. “Ask any senior who has tried to find a general practitioner willing to accept Medicare and you’ll know why seniors want, need and deserve better medical options. This bill gives seniors control over their healthcare decisions and saves the taxpayers money at a time when government spending is out of control. Sounds like a win-win to me,” said Johnson. The Medicare Beneficiary Freedom to Choose Act, H.R. 3356, has the backing of Freedom Works. FreedomWorks Chairman Dick Armey commented: “Can you imagine the outrage if the day Americans turned 65 they could no longer purchase their own food, but were forced to buy groceries only with food stamps? But this is what happens in Medicare. The day you turn 65 you are forced to receive your health care through Medicare, even if you want to continue to purchase the same health insurance you had at age 64.” “A free society is based on choice and individual responsibility. Medicare makes it illegal for me to have a choice in health insurance, and prohibits me from taking responsibility for my own health decisions. I applaud Congressman Johnson for standing up for seniors, and fighting for folks like me over the age of 65 to have an option to purchase our own health insurance, and give the taxpayers a break.” In a related matter, there presently is an ongoing lawsuit started by people seeking to opt of Medicare who want to receive their Social Security benefits. Filed on Oct.9, 2008, in U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, Brian Hall, et al. v. Michael Leavitt, et al. charges the Social Security Administration (SSA) and Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) with improperly adopting illegal and coercive policies that deny otherwise eligible retirees their rightful Social Security benefits if those retirees choose not to enroll in Medicare. To learn about this case, visit www.medicarelawsuit.org. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
07.24.2009	Bill Seeks to Protect Privacy of Your Social Security Number Seeking to protect the privacy of Americans’ Social Security numbers (SSNs) and combat identity theft, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas), ranking member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security, has re-introduced the “Social Security Number Privacy and Identity Theft Prevention Act of 2009,” H.R. 3306. “Americans are right to worry about the security of their personal information, including their Social Security number, and I don’t blame them. According to the Privacy Rights Clearinghouse, data breaches in the public or private sector of personal information in the past 4 ½ years have totaled almost 300 million records,” said Johnson. The Federal Trade Commission reports that identity theft is the fastest-growing type of fraud in the United States. Private consulting firm Javelin Research and Strategy reports that almost 10 million Americans were victims of identity theft in 2008 – a 22 percent increase from 2007. In their April 2007 report, the President’s Identity Theft Task Force identified the Social Security number as the “most valuable commodity for an identity thief.” The pro-consumer legislation would prohibit federal, state and local governments and the private sector from selling, except in very limited circumstances, Social Security numbers. The bill would also prohibit the display of Social Security numbers to the general public including on the Internet and identification cards. Numbers would also no longer be allowed to be included on checks. Also, under the bill prisoners could no longer access Social Security numbers through their jobs. The new consumer privacy safeguards would be enforced by tough, new criminal and civil penalties. Johnson re-introduced the legislation with U.S. Congressman John Tanner (8th Dist.-Tenn.), Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security. “Identity theft is facilitated by the easy availability of SSNs in many public- and private-sector records,” Tanner said in Congressional Record remarks when introducing the bill. “SSNs are valuable to criminals because they are relied upon by business to authenticate identity. They are the skeleton key that unlocks many other sources of private, personal information.” “It’s time to stop talking and take action to prevent ID theft and protect Americans’ privacy. Let’s get to work,” concluded Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties in North Texas. # # #
07.23.2009	Sam Johnson announces online health care survey at www.SamJohnson.house.gov Today on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) compared the pending government-controlled health care proposal with moving happy homeowners into government housing and urged the President to scrap the current proposal before the Congress and “move forward with real health care reform.” Johnson’s remarks on the floor follow below. In addition, to better serve constituents of the Third Congressional District, Johnson posted an online health care reform survey on his official website, www.SamJohnson.house.gov. “While we may disagree on how to get there, everyone agrees that America's healthcare system is in need of serious reform. I hope that folks will take the time to complete this survey to share their thoughts with me on this important issue,” said Johnson. Johnson supports improving access to health insurance for all Americans but fears that the costly $1.5 trillion House Democrat plan will put bureaucrats between patients and doctors and ration care like in Canada and Europe. Johnson backs less expensive ways to make health insurance more affordable, accessible and available. For example, the House Republican plan would make quality coverage available for every American, regardless of pre-existing health conditions. Johnson believes that if you like your health insurance, you should be able to keep it and supports giving all Americans the freedom to choose the health plan that best meets their needs. The Republican plan would improve Americans’ lives through effective prevention, wellness and disease management programs while developing new treatments and cures for life-threatening diseases. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Remarks by Congressman Sam Johnson: “Think about this concept of government-managed health care for a minute. Imagine that the federal government told you that you can have your house for free. That sounds good – right – until they tell you that you have to live in government housing. Now what? How many Americans want to leave their homes for government subsidized housing? “Polls show that the more people learn about the government-controlled health plan, the less they support it. “Increasing the number of Americans who have health insurance is a laudable goal we all want to achieve. Paying $1.5 trillion to get part of the way there – with a government-controlled plan that eliminates choice and stifles the doctor – patient relationship – is not the answer. “Mr. President, scrap this bill and let’s move forward with real health care reform.” # # #
07.16.2009	Today on Capitol Hill, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took issue with the $1.5 trillion Democrat health care proposal that forces people and employers to have insurance coverage -- or else. share: f t Today on Capitol Hill, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took issue with the $1.5 trillion Democrat health care proposal that forces people and employers to have insurance coverage -- or else. People would be penalized as much as 2.5 percent of their income for failure to buy health insurance. Most employers would be required to insure their employees or pay a penalty equal to as much as 8 percent of their total payroll. The 1,018-page plan mandates that the federal government would be responsible for ensuring that every person, regardless of their health or income, has health insurance. “If you like your health care plan, you should be able to keep it. Surely we can make health insurance more affordable, more accessible and more available without the government taking over the health care industry and Big Brother bullying people and employers. In essence, the Democrats are telling the American people that they must have health insurance – or else. That’s not right.” said Johnson. At the Ways and Means Committee mark-up, Johnson criticized the House Democrats $1.5 trillion plan for jeopardizing the doctor/ patient relationship, killing jobs, and forcing more than 100 million Americans out of the health coverage they currently receive through their job. By penalizing employers -- including millions of small businesses -- who cannot afford to pay for health care, these new mandates will mean even fewer jobs in an already stretched economy with almost 10% unemployment. According to the Wall Street Journal, “A new study by the Kaufman Foundation finds that small business entrepreneurs have led America out of its last seven post-World War II recessions. They also generate about two of every three new jobs during a recovery.” The National Federation of Independent Businesses recently warned that the new mandates in the Democrats’ health bill could cost one million small business jobs alone. At the Ways and Means Committee mark-up of the House Democrat plan, Johnson offered numerous changes to the 1,000 page bill. Under the House Democrats’ plan, most employers would be required to insure their employees or pay a stiff fine. That is why Johnson offered an amendment that would remove the employer mandate from the bill that forces business owners to guarantee health insurance for every single employee. “Let’s not punish the small business men and women we are counting on to start hiring workers again.” In addition, Johnson proposed amendments that would deny health insurance benefits to illegal immigrants, prohibit any public health plan from using taxpayer dollars to pay for abortions, and rule out “self-verification” on income to qualify for lower-income, government-run health programs. Johnson also offered to strike the prohibition on physician-owned hospitals that would dramatically impact and even close North Texas facilities like Forest Park Medical Center in Dallas, Heart Hospital Baylor - Plano, Presbyterian Plano Center for Diagnostics & Surgery in Plano, Reliant Rehabilitation Hospital - North Texas in Richardson, Baylor Heart and Vascular Center in Dallas, and Texas Institute for Surgery in Dallas. Johnson also backed several other amendments, including one to remove the costly government-run health plan from the bill. “Consider two of our existing government-run healthcare programs, Medicare and Medicaid. These programs are in financial jeopardy and it takes an act of Congress to reform them. In the last session of Congress, some 452 bills were offered by Members of Congress to push for much-needed reforms in these government-run programs. Of those, only 12 became law – not a great track record when it comes to fixing broken government healthcare plans! Are we sure we want to push millions more Americans into this kind of a government run plan?” Johnson also spoke in favor of a provision that says Members of Congress who vote for a government-run health plan will have to enroll in that plan. “Members of Congress should stop asking the American people to make sacrifices they are not willing to make themselves,” continued Johnson. Johnson supports improving access to health insurance for all Americans but fears that the House Democrat plan will put bureaucrats between patients and doctors and ration care like in Canada and Europe. In addition, with an estimated price tag topping $1.5 trillion, and reports that the costly health plan still leaves 17 million Americans without health insurance, Johnson feels there are better, less expensive ways to make health insurance more affordable, accessible and available. Johnson believes that the problem isn’t that Americans currently don’t spend enough on health care; it’s that money is being spent inefficiently. Johnson supports the House Republican proposal that will reduce costs, expand access and increase the quality of care in a way America can afford. “While I have grave concerns about a government takeover of our nation’s healthcare, a bipartisan solution to healthcare reform is achievable and must be a primary goal of this Congress,” concluded Johnson. To view the organizational chart of the House Democrats’ health care reform plan, go to www.SamJohnson.house.gov. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # # # # #
07.15.2009	Sam Johnson believes that Members of Congress who vote for a public, government-run health plan should be the first to enroll Backs legislation to hold Members accountable Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) insisted that Members of Congress who vote for a government-run health plan for the American public should be the first to enroll. A pending health reform proposal has a special carve out for Members of Congress exempting them from mandatory participation in the public health care plan if it becomes law. “Members of Congress should stop asking the American people to make sacrifices they are not willing to make themselves,” said Johnson. This morning Johnson took to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to tout his support of legislation that calls on Members of Congress who vote in favor of a government-run health plan to enroll in that plan. Johnson’s remarks on the floor follow below. Johnson supports improving access to health insurance for all Americans but fears that the House Democrat plan will put bureaucrats between patients and doctors and ration care like in Canada and Europe. In addition, with an estimated price tag topping $1 trillion, and reports that the costly health plan still leaves 17 million Americans without health insurance, Johnson feels there are better, less expensive ways to make health insurance more affordable, accessible and available. Johnson believes that the problem isn’t that Americans currently don’t spend enough on health care; it’s that money is being spent inefficiently. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Remarks by Congressman Sam Johnson: “As we debate the best way to reform our health care system and ensure that all Americans have access to quality health care, some in Congress insist that a government-run public option must be included.” Yet in one proposal, Members of Congress are curiously exempt from participation in the public plan. “For those who are convinced that government run health care won’t sacrifice quality and won’t lead to rationing, I back a resolution saying that if a Member of Congress votes to support the government-run option, then the Member must be automatically enrolled in it. “If Members of Congress are convinced that the government-run option will deliver the same quality of care as their Congressional health plans, then they should be the first in line to enroll. “Members of Congress should stop asking the American people to make sacrifices they are not willing to make themselves.” # # #
07.14.2009	Washington, DC – Three U.S. Representatives who serve as the top Democrat and Republicans on subcommittees overseeing the Social Security Administration (SSA) have requested a thorough explanation of why taxpayer funds were used for a conference at the luxurious Arizona Biltmore resort. share: f t Washington, DC – Three U.S. Representatives who serve as the top Democrat and Republicans on subcommittees overseeing the Social Security Administration (SSA) have requested a thorough explanation of why taxpayer funds were used for a conference at the luxurious Arizona Biltmore resort. Seeking the information are John Tanner (D-TN) and Sam Johnson (R-TX), respectively the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Social Security, as well as John Linder (R-GA), the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee that has jurisdiction over the Supplemental Security Income program administered by SSA. “At a time when millions of Americans are out of work and having to do more with less, and when the SSA has received significant new funding to address near record backlogs after longstanding funding requests made before our Subcommittees, it is essential that great care be taken to use administrative funding wisely, in a way that brings the most value to the American people SSA serves,” the Representatives wrote in a letter to Michael Astrue, the Commissioner of Social Security. Giving the Administration a July 17, 2009, deadline, the Representatives asked SSA for detailed information about the conference, including: •All conference costs paid by the taxpayers, including travel, rooms, meals, speakers, entertainment, conference room rental and equipment charges; and •The process used to select the conference location, including whether government contracting rules were followed and whether the hotel housing the conference was the lowest bidder. The entire letter can be read here. ###
07.14.2009	On Thursday, July 30th, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host “mobile office hours” to visit with constituents. The current cities hosting “mobile office hours” include: Allen, Frisco, McKinney, Plano, Richardson and Rowlett. share: f t Sam Johnson announces “mobile office hours” on July 30th Allen, Frisco, McKinney, Plano, Richardson and Rowlett On Thursday, July 30th, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host “mobile office hours” to visit with constituents. The current cities hosting “mobile office hours” include: Allen, Frisco, McKinney, Plano, Richardson and Rowlett. “By holding mobile office hours in Third District cities my staff will have the opportunity to provide people with the constituent service they deserve from their local officials,” said Johnson. “These mobile office hours serve as a chance for Third District residents in need of assistance to get their federal issues recognized and resolved by my staff without having to leave their town. I hope that folks will take advantage of this valuable resource.” Staff from the Congressman’s office host regular “mobile office hours” throughout the Third Congressional District to meet with constituents. During the “mobile office hours” the Third District staff gladly will offer assistance with problems regarding federal issues or agencies, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration or the Internal Revenue Service. They also may help facilitate overseas adoptions. Constituents are invited to stop by and share their comments about federal issues in Congress. No advance appointments are necessary. If a person would like assistance with a federal agency, he or she should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. In the event people cannot attend the “mobile office hours” in their city, residents are free to contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Allen Senior Recreation Center Entrance/Lobby Area 451 East St. Mary 214-509-4820 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Frisco George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Entrance/Lobby Area, 1st floor 6101 Frisco Square Blvd. 972-292-5000 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. McKinney Collin College - Central Park Campus Entrance/Lobby Area 2200 W. University Drive 972-548-6790 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Plano Plano Municipal Center Entrance/Lobby Area 1520 Avenue K 972-941-7000 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. Richardson Richardson Civic Center West Alcove Area 411 Arapaho Road 972-744-4090 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. Rowlett Rowlett Public Library Meeting Room 3900 Main Street 972-412-6161 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. # # #
07.09.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced his support for the New Alternative Transportation to Give Americans Solutions (NAT GAS) Act, H.R. 1835. The bill aims to accelerate the production and use of more natural gas-fueled vehicles. share: f t T. Boone Pickens names Sam Johnson an “Energy Independence Crusader” Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced his support for the New Alternative Transportation to Give Americans Solutions (NAT GAS) Act, H.R. 1835. The bill aims to accelerate the production and use of more natural gas-fueled vehicles. The bipartisan legislation is driven by the need for America to quickly reduce its dependence on foreign oil while simultaneously reducing greenhouse gases and urban pollution. “As a supporter of the NAT GAS Act, Congressman Johnson is a true energy independence crusader, proving his commitment to enabling his constituents in North Texas to choose a legitimately American fuel at the pump,” said oil executive turned alternative energy advocate, T. Boone Pickens. “Natural gas is the only available domestic resource that can replace foreign oil as a transportation fuel. It’s cleaner, it’s cheaper, it’s abundant, and it’s ours.” According to the Wall Street Journal, “America is now swimming in natural gas” and has the equivalent of “18 years’ worth of current oil production” and “enough to satisfy nearly 100 years of current U.S. natural gas demand.” In a related matter, earlier in the week in the Third District, Johnson toured environmentally friendly companies in Garland and McKinney. On Monday morning, Johnson visited the newly redesigned Garland Chamber of Commerce now located at Richland College’s Garland campus. The site has applied for the prestigious Leadership in Energy and Environmental (LEED) designation. According to the university, “It is our intent that the systems and operations in this new building function in efficient ways to produce the minimum impact to the environment and carbon footprint.” For example, the campus installed a white reflective roof to reduce the sun’s heating effects on the building’s cooling system. The facility captures rain water on the roof and parking lot and reuses the water for irrigation and landscaping. They also use renewable resources such as bamboo flooring in the tenant wing. Later that day, Johnson travelled to Hie Electronics in McKinney. During the visit, Johnson viewed the TeraStack Solution, a 50 terabyte "green" optical data storage device. Johnson praised Hie Electronics for the recent placement of a TeraStack Solution at Keesler Air Force Base to be used for traumatic brain injury scan storage. According to the company, the TeraStack Solution is designated as a "green business" by Tested Green, a national green certification program for businesses interested in doing business with the federal government. Hie Electronics employs 35 people. Also this week on Capitol Hill, Johnson met with the director of the newly formed Energy Institute at the University of Texas at Austin, Dr. Ray Orbach. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. (For a photo of Congressman Johnson, T. Boone Pickens and other congressional co-sponsors of H.R. 1835, or for a photo of Johnson touring the Garland Chamber or visiting with Hie employees in McKinney, contact McCall Avery at 202-225-4201.) # # #
07.07.2009	Yesterday in Plano, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) presented World War II female pilot, Frankie Bretherick, 94, with a Congressional Record heralding her service and congratulating her for earning the Congressional Gold Medal. share: f t Yesterday in Plano, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) presented World War II female pilot, Frankie Bretherick, 94, with a Congressional Record heralding her service and congratulating her for earning the Congressional Gold Medal. Recently the President signed a bill into law that would give long overdue recognition to the Women Air Force Service Pilots (WASP) of World War II in the form of the Congressional Gold Medal, the nation’s highest civilian commendation. The WASPs flew and ferried American planes, in turn freeing up American men to fly the combat missions. A 29-year Air Force veteran and former Prisoner of War in Vietnam for nearly seven years, Johnson thanked Bretherick for her service and bravery, and presented her a copy of a Congressional Record hailing Bretherick by name. Bretherick’s niece, Linda Cosper, of Plano, and a few friends and family also attended the private meeting with Congressman Johnson. “As a fighter pilot in the Air Force for 29 years, I hold the WASPs in high regard. All veterans share a common bond of service before self. I have profound respect for brave women, like Frankie, who put their lives and dreams on hold to serve their country. The WASPs contributed to America’s victory in World War II, no doubt about it,” said Johnson. Like the Navajo Code Talkers, the WASPs are some of the unsung heroes of World War II. They stood up to serve their country and did a fine job – without the homecoming parades, thanks and celebrations like other World War II veterans. That’s about to change since the Congressional Gold Medal is the highest and most distinguished award that the U.S. Congress can award to a civilian. “It’s long past time these dynamic women had their time in the spotlight. I hope that they savor every second of it. While long overdue, I’m thankful that the WASPs will finally receive the Congressional Gold Medal for their contribution to America’s WWII victory,” said Johnson. “Plano has a living legend among us in Frankie Bretherick. To the brave and selfless women like Frankie, our nation owes them a debt of gratitude for their service and sacrifice,” concluded Johnson, who represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. The text of the Congressional Record honoring Frankie Bretherick follows. Recognizing Frankie Bretherick Honoring America’s first fly girls June 26, 2009 U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson of Texas Women Air Force Service Pilots (WASP) were the first women in American history to fly military aircraft. Between the years 1942-1944, women were recruited to fly non-combat missions, so that every male pilot could be deployed in combat. These women piloted every kind of military aircraft and logged 60 million miles flying missions across the United States. They were never awarded full military status and were not eligible for officer status. It was not till 1977 that the WASP pilots were granted veterans’ status. Of the 1,102 WASP pilots, just under 300 are living today. One of these living legends resides in the Third Congressional District, Frankie Bretherick. I’d like to thank her personally for her service to this great nation for being a pioneer of flight. Frankie Lovvorn was born September 19, 1914, in Cranfils Gap, Bosque County, Texas. Her parents were Francis Marion Lovvorn and Primrose Smith. She graduated from high school in Meridian, Bosque County, Texas. She graduated from Providence Hospital Nursing School in Waco, Texas, in 1937. She worked for five years at various veteran's hospitals in Texas and Louisiana. She began flying lessons at an airport south of Dallas, Texas. By the time she applied and was accepted into the WASP program, Class of 44-W-6, she had acquired a commercial pilot's license and had logged over 200 hours of flying time. While stationed in Greenville, Mississippi at Greenville Army Air Base until deactivated on December 20, 1944, she flew BT-13s and UC-78s and slow-timed repaired aircraft. After deactivation, Frankie was asked to join the Army Nurse Corps in May 1945. She was sent to Mitchell Field, New York where she worked at a hospital for three weeks. She was then sent to Randolph Field in San Antonio, Texas to attend the School of Aviation Medicine where she received training to become an air evacuation nurse. After World War II, she went to business school and attended Southern Methodist University in Dallas, Texas. She also worked part-time as a nurse while in school. Frankie met Joseph Harry Bretherick while both were stationed in Greenville, Mississippi. They married in 1949 and lived in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania for 19 years. Frankie continued working as a part-time nurse after their marriage. They moved to Sarasota, Florida in 1968. After moving to Sarasota, Florida, Frankie became involved with the Sarasota Garden Club. She also acquired her Real Estate license. Frankie's husband, Joe, died in 1999. About three years ago Frankie moved to Plano, Collin County, Texas, to be close to family. Through their actions, Women Air Force Service Pilots were a catalyst for revolutionary reform in the integration of women pilots into the U.S. Armed Services. Just as the Navajo Code Talkers served with distinction and were awarded the Congressional Gold Medal, it is also appropriate for Congress to recognize and honor the service of the WASP with the Congressional Gold Medal. The Congressional Gold Medal is the highest and most distinguished award that the U.S. Congress can award to a civilian. Finally, these women will receive that long-overdue and recognition now that the House and the Senate have passed the bill granting these women. This Congressional Gold Medal honors mothers, grandmothers; teachers, office workers, nurses, business women, photographers, dancers, one was even a nun. But before that, they were pilots for the US Army Air Corps during World War II. Finally, this Congress has recognized their sacrifice and considers them all heroes because these trailblazers and true patriots served our country without question and with no expectations of recognition or praise. That is what being a true hero is all about! The Congressional Gold Medals will be awarded to all 1,102 pilots and/or their surviving family members. To the brave and selfless women like Frankie, our nation owes them a debt of gratitude for their service and sacrifice. I am so very proud of them. God bless them and God bless America! I salute them one and all. # # #
07.06.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced his co-sponsorship of legislation championed by the special needs community in North Texas. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced his co-sponsorship of legislation championed by the special needs community in North Texas. After hearing from Texans eager for Johnson to back the common-sense measure, Johnson recently signed on to H.R. 1255. The Act would protect the interests of residents of Intermediate Care Facilities for people with Mental Retardation (ICFs/MR) in class actions lawsuits filed, purportedly, on behalf of such residents. Reform is desperately needed as 28 federally-funded class action lawsuits have been filed, resulting in the closure of at least 15 facilities in 9 states, impacting thousands of individuals with developmental disabilities. “This is about family rights and what is in the best interest of all parties involved. This bill supports the common sense principle that residents of ICFs/MR and their legal guardians (usually family members) should be the ones to decide whether a class action lawsuit proceeds on their behalf, not the government,” added Johnson. Plano resident and father, Stephen Gersuk, stated, “My wife, Ann, and I are the parents and guardians of Stephen Gersuk, a resident of Denton State School (now called Denton State-Supported Living Center) for the past eight years. Each legislative session, we add our voices to those of others to preserve the freedoms and protections that DSS and other state schools afford our challenged family members and loved ones, against (sometimes) well-intentioned efforts to establish community care as the one-size-fits-all solution for these most vulnerable of Texans. We resolutely oppose being an unwilling party to any action that furthers that agenda, strongly support the opt-out provisions of H.R. 1255, and deeply appreciate Representative Johnson’s sponsorship of the bill.” Richardson’s Carol Scott echoed that message. “Each individual has unique needs that may, or may not, be met in a variety of settings. As guardians for our family members, who usually cannot speak for themselves, we have been charged with looking out for their best interests. We feel like we know what is best for our family members and where their needs can best be met. Guardians should have the right, on behalf of our family members, to be notified and opt out of class action lawsuits that we do not support,” said Carol Scott. Scott is the guardian for her sister, Nancy Baker, 59, a resident at Denton State-Supported Living Center. Although legal guardians often object strongly to the lawsuit and its closure objectives because they are pleased with the care their loved ones are receiving, under current law there is no requirement that residents or legal guardians be notified of a lawsuit and they do not have the right to opt out. Consequently, many residents of these facilities are swept into these lawsuits against their or their guardians’ wishes. The legislation, if passed, will require that before federally-financed class action lawsuits against Medicaid-certified and funded facilities can proceed, residents and guardians must receive notice of the lawsuit and be given a time-limited opportunity to opt-out of the proposed lawsuit, or do nothing and join in. The legislation, introduced by Congressman Barney Frank (D-Mass.) has the backing of VOR. VOR is an organization of families, friends and professionals speaking out for people with mental retardation that supports the right of individuals and families to choose the residential setting most appropriate to the needs of each individual. VOR membership includes several thousand family members, organizations, companies, facilities, professionals and educators from around the country. The year-round focus includes advocacy for all residential choices, family participation in decision making, significant legal cases, special education choices and quality care for all. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
07.04.2009	It is no secret why thousands of hard working Americans have chosen to unite and make their voices heard across this Country on our Nation’s birthday. Over the past several months, the current powers that be have found it necessary to engage in policy decisions that directly threaten the fabric of our great nation – and the futures of our children and grandchildren. share: f t Statement for the Dallas Tea Party July 4, 2009 Southfork Ranch It is no secret why thousands of hard working Americans have chosen to unite and make their voices heard across this Country on our Nation’s birthday. Over the past several months, the current powers that be have found it necessary to engage in policy decisions that directly threaten the fabric of our great nation – and the futures of our children and grandchildren. Reckless spending, corporate bailouts, and an unprecedented expansion in the size of the Federal Government are not the answers to the problems that our Nation faces today. Think about it. The Democrats have spent nearly $1 trillion on the stimulus, plus $400 on the so-called emergency spending bill. They gave $20 billion to Chrysler, nearly $50 billion to GM, $13.5 to GMAC, $46 billion to Citigroup and a whopping $167 billion to AIG! That’s just not right! The American government has no business being in the car business! These bailouts are nothing more than a transfer of moral obligation that intrudes upon the American people’s God given right to govern themselves. Ronald Reagan said it best, “Government is not the solution to the problem. Government is the problem.” That’s what makes your attendance here today so vital. This is not a movement that saw its beginnings in the halls of a Congressional building. This is a movement of the people, by the people, for the people. Americans want, need, and deserve to have their voices heard! In closing, I want to thank each and every one of you for being here today. If history stands true, which I believe that it will, you the people are the keys to our future successes. God bless you and God bless America. Sincerely, SAM JOHNSON Member of Congress
06.30.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) congratulated Jennifer Goebel of Plano for winning one of six National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB)/ Visa Young Entrepreneur Awards. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) congratulated Jennifer Goebel of Plano for winning one of six National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB)/ Visa Young Entrepreneur Awards. Over 6,000 high school students applied for the prestigious scholarship and accolade worth up to $5,000. Goebel, a 2009 Plano West Senior High School (PWSH) graduate, owns All American Dance Company that teaches ballet and tap dance classes in private day care centers to children ages 2 – 12. For a photo of Goebel with Johnson, contact McCall Avery at 202-225-4201. “I want to congratulate Jennifer on winning a prestigious NFIB/ Visa Young Entrepreneur Award,” said Johnson. “Jennifer shows the initiative and vision of someone well beyond her years. I am proud of her,” said Johnson. Eager for something more than just a summer job, Goebel started her business at the age of 16. Inspired by a Communications Applications class at Jasper High School and the book “Copy This” by the founder of Kinkos, Paul Orfalea, Goebel combined her passion for dance and her drive to create a business of her own. Her company has already grown eight times since its inception and Goebel presently employs two people. She now has a license for All American Dance Company to teach classes at any Kinder Care daycare facilities, a national daycare company. Information about her business can be found at www.All-AmericanDance.com. Goebel will attend Millsap College in Mississippi in the fall. She plans to teach dance classes in Mississippi as well. While at PWSH, Goebel served on Johnson’s Third District Congressional Youth Advisory Council and as a Page in the United States Senate on Capitol Hill during her junior year in the spring semester of 2008. An avid dancer and performer, Goebel starred in the lead role of “Annie” put on by the Plano Metropolitan Ballet Company. She also participated in the PWSH in school pop choir "Syncopation" and chorale. In addition to capturing the NFIB/ Visa Young Entrepreneur Award, Goebel won the McKelvey Foundation Entrepreneurial scholarship, the Else School of Management scholarship, and was a TCU Texas Youth Entrepreneur of the Year scholarship winner. The NFIB Young Entrepreneur Award program is an educational scholarship for high school seniors pursuing higher education and their entrepreneurial dreams. The foundation hopes that by enabling young entrepreneurs in their educational endeavors, the nation's youth will understand the critical role that private enterprise and entrepreneurship play in the building of America. Since 2003, the NFIB Young Entrepreneur Foundation has awarded 1,954 scholarships to graduating high school seniors totaling $2,122,000. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
06.26.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will advance clean energy and job creation and vote against a national energy tax that would cost the average American family $1,600 more a year. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will advance clean energy and job creation and vote against a national energy tax that would cost the average American family $1,600 more a year. “As a clean energy advocate, I believe we should be good stewards of this earth and its resources. We are in the midst of a long recession. Now is not the time for Nancy Pelosi’s massive new energy tax on American families that we cannot afford,” said Johnson. “With the price at the pump rising 65% this year, the Democrat’s bill would create a 77¢ per gallon tax hike. Even though the unemployment rate is closing in on 10%, the Democrat’s bill would kill at least 2.5 million jobs per year. In my district, around 3,000 jobs per year would be lost. Let’s promote American energy resources to create American jobs to boost the American economy,” said Johnson. Later today it is expected that the House will vote on the Waxman-Markey climate change bill, H.R.2454, that would create a national energy tax; Johnson does not support the measure. Even the President has admitted, “Under my plan of a cap and trade system, electricity rates would necessarily sky rocket.” In a time of economic uncertainty, Johnson feels that the Democrats should instead cut government spending, control the deficit, create jobs and cut taxes. Johnson supports the American Energy Act. The American Energy Act will produce more energy, lower fuel bills, create more jobs, yield a cleaner environment, and lead to a more secure nation. The American Energy Act offers an ‘all of the above’ strategy by producing more American energy in an environmentally safe way, promoting the use of alternative fuels to reduce carbon emissions, such as clean coal and nuclear, and encouraging increased efficiencies and cutting edge technologies to maximize America’s energy potential. The bill also boosts America's energy supply by lifting restrictions on Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR), the Outer Continental Shelf, and oil shale in the Mountain West. The Democrats would not allow for an up or down vote on the Republican energy bill. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
06.24.2009	Today at a Ways and Means Committee hearing on the future of health reform, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) demanded answers as to how Democrats plan to pay for their pricey health care proposals and urged his colleagues to make health care affordable, accessible and available, not push people out of the health plan that they presently like. share: f t Today at a Ways and Means Committee hearing on the future of health reform, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) demanded answers as to how Democrats plan to pay for their pricey health care proposals and urged his colleagues to make health care affordable, accessible and available, not push people out of the health plan that they presently like. “Top priorities for health reform should include making care more affordable, more accessible and more available. The American public has to foot the bill for the $1 trillion stimulus and the $500 billion omnibus spending bill. That money is on top of the housing bailout, the banking bailout and the auto industry bailout. Enough is enough. If the Democrats want to pass a health care bill costing trillions of dollars, the American people want, need and deserve to know – how will the Democrats pay for this,” exclaimed Johnson, a member of the Health Subcommittee on the Ways and Means Committee and the GOP Health Care Reform Solutions Group. The House Democrats’ 852-page health plan could force more than 100 million Americans out of their current health care plan and onto the government rolls, according to a Lewin Group study published earlier this year. The Congressional Budget Office reports that a similar plan authored by Senate Democrats would force at least 23 million Americans off of their current plans. The Energy & Commerce Committee Chairman Henry Waxman (D-CA) has admitted that the Democrats’ health legislation would be financed with tax hikes. It has been reported that Democrats are considering everything from taxing soda at 10 cents per unit, to raising income taxes on those earning more than $200,000, to creating a federal sales tax. “People want access to their doctor, they want access to the quality care they are accustomed to, and they want access to the medical treatments they need when they need it. They don’t want to be subject to the whims of a government bureaucrat that makes health care decisions at the expense of patients and doctors. All would be jeopardized under a government-run plan being proposed by congressional Democrats,” continued Johnson. A majority of Americans worry government run health care would lead to a loss of their doctor, limits on treatments and lower quality care. Specifically, a recent New York Times poll shows more Americans have concerns over what a government-run plan would do to the quality of their healthcare. For example, the New York Times/CBS News poll shows that: • 63 percent were concerned that their own health care would get worse under a government-run system of health care; • 68 percent believed a government-run system would limit their access to treatments and quality care; and • 53 percent were concerned they would have to give up their own doctor under a government-run system. “We don’t need to spend more money to solve our health care problems; America spends more on health care than any other developed nation. We just need to spend our health care dollars smarter,” concluded Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
06.17.2009	Today the House Republican Health Care Reform Solutions Group outlined their commonsense approach that will reduce costs, expand access and increase the quality of health care for all Americans. share: f t Today the House Republican Health Care Reform Solutions Group outlined their commonsense approach that will reduce costs, expand access and increase the quality of health care for all Americans. U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas), a member of the Health Subcommittee on the Ways and Means Committee and the GOP Health Care Reform Solutions Group, lauded the yet-to-be introduced plan. “Our plan will make health care more affordable, more accessible and more available. If you like your health plan – you should be able to keep it. A government takeover of health care would raise costs and put bureaucrats, not patients and doctors, in charge of critical medical decisions. Yet that appears to be just what the Democrats in charge of Washington are doing. They are privately crafting their government-run plan that would tax employee health benefits and eliminate consumer choice” said Johnson. Go to Johnson’s website, SamJohnson.house.gov to participate in the latest policy poll: Would you be willing to pay higher taxes to guarantee health insurance for all Americans? Johnson hailed the GOP initiative for dramatically boosting the number of Americans with insurance. The plan would strengthen employer provided coverage by helping the 10 million uninsured Americans who are eligible, but not enrolled in, an employer-sponsored plan get health insurance; the plan does this by encouraging employers to move to opt-out, rather than opt-in rules. In addition, the measure recognizes that not all high school and college graduates find jobs that offer health insurance after school. The GOP plan allows dependents to remain on their parents’ policies up to the age of 25, helping 7 million presently uninsured Americas. In addition, the proposition would allow states, small businesses, trade associations and other reputable groups to increase their purchasing power by banding together to offer health insurance at lower costs, a benefit enjoyed by big business and labor unions. The GOP proposal also helps employers offer health insurance to workers by reducing administrative costs through a new small business tax credit. Johnson also likes that the Republican health care plan focuses on innovative prevention and wellness programs to help avoid serious, and costly, illnesses and arms patients with information. For example, the bill makes health care convenient by eliminating red-tape to expand access to Community Health Centers, the first medical point of contact for some. The program establishes plan finders to provide people with the tools that they need to easily find the right health plan that best meets their needs and gives patients access to health care information so that they can identify and select health providers who deliver quality care. Many seniors feel that there aren’t enough primary care doctors; they are learning this once they find out that their long-time doctor does not accept Medicare patients and they’re forced to find a new primary care doctor. The proposal provides incentives to physicians who enter the field of primary care, increasing access to the front-line doctors patients need. The program also promotes home care and independence for patients, rather than forcing people into institutionalized settings. “Our plan puts patients back in control of their health care decisions, right where they belong. The Democrats want the government to run the nation’s health care system. I don’t think folks are willing to pay higher taxes just to ensure that every American has health insurance. We need to ensure that folks have a choice when it comes to their health care and that they are not denied a procedure or drug or surgery because Democrats forced them into one-size fits all, rationed care,” concluded Johnson. Complete legislation based on the group’s outline will be introduced in the near future. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
06.16.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after the IRS called on Congress to “make clear that there will be no tax consequence to employers or employees for personal use of work-related devices such as cell phones provided by employers.” share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after the IRS called on Congress to “make clear that there will be no tax consequence to employers or employees for personal use of work-related devices such as cell phones provided by employers.” Johnson is the author of common-sense legislation, the MOBILE (Modernize Our Bookkeeping In the Law for Employee’s) Cell Phone Act, H.R. 690. Introduced with Congressman Earl Pomeroy (D-N.D.), the Act would update the tax treatment of cell phones and Blackberries used for business and repeal the requirement that employers and employees maintain detailed logs of cell phone use. The measure passed the House in the last Congress. A constituent concern generated the concept for Johnson’s legislation. In February 2008, a lawyer from North Texas contacted the Congressman on behalf of a client. The IRS wanted the client to keep records on employee cell phone and Blackberry use or forfeit the deduction. Given the tremendous advances in this technology, Johnson thought the IRS should modernize the tax code as quickly as possible. “It is days like this when I am reminded that constituent concerns turned into legislation are what make serving in Congress truly worthwhile. I’m glad that the IRS has called on Congress to pass the MOBILE Cell Phone Act. I hope that the Speaker doesn’t waste any time and she schedules a vote immediately. Time and technology have marched on,” said Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
06.15.2009	On Saturday, June 20th at 1:30 p.m., U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will honor the future of the armed forces when he meets with service-academy bound students and their families at a private meeting in Plano. share: f t On Saturday, June 20th at 1:30 p.m., U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will honor the future of the armed forces when he meets with service-academy bound students and their families at a private meeting in Plano. While this event is closed to the public, it is open to the press. A complete list of the students accepting appointments to the service academies follows. “Service to our nation is a high calling, and I am extremely proud to have nominated such fine young men and women to our nation’s service academies. Serving in the military is never easy, yet time and again I am inspired by these young, patriotic candidates. I wish them all the very best,” said Congressman Sam Johnson. Earlier this year, Congressman Johnson announced the students nominated to the academies. (Naval Academy – Annapolis; Military Academy – West Point; Merchant Marine Academy; and the Air Force Academy; the Coast Guard Academy appointees do not need a congressional nomination.) Since then, each student listed below received and accepted an appointment to an academy. Saturday’s meeting is the last formal event with the Congressman for the students and their families before classes begin. Students depart for their respective academies shortly after to report for summer training. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War (POW), more than half of that time in solitary confinement, during the Vietnam War. All Third District residents interested in seeking nominations to a service academy for the class entering July 2010 should contact Lori McMahon in the Congressman’s Texas office at 972-470-0892. Sometime this fall, Congressman Sam Johnson will host a service academy open house/ information session for interested students and their families. Representatives from each service branch will attend this popular meeting. Who: U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson Service academy appointees and their families What: Sam Johnson salutes the military leaders of tomorrow When: Saturday, June 20th at 1:30 p.m. Where: Plano Station 1012 16th Street Plano THIRD CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT SERVICE ACADEMY APPOINTMENTS Air Force Academy Matthew Burnham (Plano West Senior High School) Darrell Dancy (USAFA Prep School – From McKinney) Stephen Hunter (Allen High School) Zachary Matthews (Frisco High School) Christine Molina (Ursuline Academy of Dallas – From Dallas) Chad Moore (Home School – From Plano) Spencer Wood (Frisco High School) Military Academy Richard Hansen (Jesuit College Preparatory School of Dallas – From Richardson) Joshua Koeppe (Prince of Peace Christian School – From Plano) Joseph Ramos (Sachse High School) Jan Redmond (Plano East Senior High School) Zachary Ricketts (St. Benedict at Auburndale – From Parker) Jeff Yao (Plano Senior High School) Jacek Zapendowski (St. Mark’s School of Texas - From Richardson) Merchant Marine Academy Jonathan Espinoza (North Garland High School) Tyler LeCocq (Frisco Centennial High School) Brian Nichols (Plano Senior High School) Naval Academy John Aselton (Plano Senior High School) Jonathan Alston (Plano Senior High School) Lauren Carpenter (Plano East Senior High School) Jacob Coffey (McKinney Boyd High School) Tyler Mapes (Newman Smith High School – From Plano) Christopher Martinez (Cistercian Preparatory School – From Plano) Michael Schmeck (John Paul II High School – From Plano)
06.11.2009	In the wake of a Roll Call front-page story, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) blasted partisan threats of retaliation on health care as “politics at its worst” and urged Democrats to work with Republicans to move forward on health care reform. share: f t n the wake of a Roll Call front-page story, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) blasted partisan threats of retaliation on health care as “politics at its worst” and urged Democrats to work with Republicans to move forward on health care reform. Today’s Roll Call features an article detailing efforts by aides of Senate Finance Chairman Max Baucus (D-Mont.) telling health care industry representatives not to attend a health care meeting led by Republicans – or else. To read “Baucus Aides Warn K Street” go to http://www.rollcall.com/issues/54_144/news/35773-1.html. Specifically, the cover story talks about how Baucus staff warn health care stakeholders that attending a meeting on how to pay for health care reform called by Republican Senator John Thune (R-S.D.) would be viewed by Baucus as a “hostile act.” “President Obama has repeatedly said he would listen to all sides and work with people on both sides of the aisle who offer ideas and propose solutions on health care. Now, the Finance Committee Chairman has his staff out there doing the dirty work of threatening those who consult with both Democrats and Republicans. That’s just ugly and defines politics at its worst,” said Johnson, who sits on the Health Subcommittee on the Ways and Means Committee. “Our Founding Fathers would think it’s dangerous to shut an entire party out of the legislative process – especially on an issue as important as health care,” continued Johnson. “The Democrats in the House and Senate should work with Republicans to tackle health reform for America. It’s just too important not to get this right. I’m convinced that there is more that unites than divides us and the American public is trusting us to work together to do what is best for our country,” said Johnson. Johnson supports improving access to health insurance for all Americans. Johnson takes issue with a core part of the Democrat’ proposals - a new government-run program that will not only put bureaucrats between patients and doctors, but also could force more than 100 million Americans out of the health coverage they currently receive through their job. “We need a plan that really does let Americans who like their health care coverage keep it – a plan that doesn’t add new taxes or new mandates that drive up costs and people out of health care coverage. We must give all Americans the freedom to choose their health plan, not force them into a government-run, one-size-fits-all plan,” concluded Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
06.09.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement on reports that Guantanamo Bay terrorist prisoner Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani has been transferred into the United States: share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement on reports that Guantanamo Bay terrorist prisoner Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani has been transferred into the United States: “Just what is the plan for Gitmo detainees? I fear that the President will move them one at a time to this country and grant them the same privileges and rights as American citizens until every last terrorist resides on American soil. “In the dark of night the first Gitmo terrorist indicted for killing innocent people was moved to New York for trial. The White House approved this, despite the fact that 65 percent of Americans polled said they do not support closing Guantanamo and sending its detainees to U.S. prisons. “This Administration may have taken on too many large projects at once and needs to slow down and start an open and honest debate – and inform the Congress before moves like this are made. This sneaky middle of the night move smacks of arrogance and trickery and shows that the Administration does not want to publicly answer any questions about their exit strategy on Gitmo. “Americans want, need and deserve to know exactly where these terrorists will go come next January – and we don’t want them here in the United States.” Johnson, a co-sponsor of the Keep Terrorists Out of America Act and the No Welfare for Terrorists Act of 2009, represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
06.08.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) congratulated 10 Third District Outstanding Texas 7th and 8th grade students who have been selected to participate in Education in Action’s summer 2009 Lone Star Leadership Academy programs in Houston/Galveston. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) congratulated 10 Third District Outstanding Texas 7th and 8th grade students who have been selected to participate in Education in Action’s summer 2009 Lone Star Leadership Academy programs in Houston/Galveston. “The Third District has some terrific young leaders who really care about their community and aspire to make a difference. It’s always refreshing to learn about students eager to get involved at such an early age. I hope that they continue to follow this passion and perhaps even apply to represent their peers on the Congressional Youth Advisory Council when they reach high school,” said Johnson, referring to his popular program for high school students. Third District student participants are: Ashlynn Collman - McKinney ISD Dowell Middle School, McKinney, TX Chris Edwards - Allen ISD Ereckson Middle School, Allen, TX Mary Catherine Halphen - Allen ISD Ereckson Middle School, Allen, TX Megan Herrel - Frisco ISD Clark Middle School, Frisco, TX Allison Jones - Garland ISD Webb Middle School, Garland, TX Caleb Martin - Garland ISD Schrade Middle School, Rowlett, TX Lauren McCaskill - McKinney ISD Dowell Middle School, McKinney, TX Michael Roohy - Plano ISD Frankford Middle School, Dallas, TX Andrea Shaver - Frisco ISD Scoggins Middle School, Frisco, TX Erin van Creveld - Plano ISD Frankford Middle School, Dallas, TX Selection for the Lone Star Leadership Academy is based on a student’s demonstrated academic success and leadership ability, an educator recommendation and involvement in school/community activities. During the weeklong residential Lone Star Leadership Academy programs, students join delegations of other distinguished students from across the state to develop leadership skills while learning about the great state of Texas. Career speakers introduce participants to a wide variety of unique career and internship opportunities. The Lone Star Leadership Academy provides a unique opportunity for outstanding students to learn about the Spirit of Texas and what it truly means to be from the Lone Star State. Participants discuss what they learn, complete problem solving and decision-making simulations, exercise creativity and practice presentation skills in Leadership Groups. Education in Action is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization dedicated to empowering young Texans to become informed and active leaders in their communities. Students involved in student government and service organizations are especially good candidates for Lone Star Leadership Academy programs. For more information about Education in Action or the Lone Star Leadership Academy, visit www.educationinaction.org. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. ###
06.04.2009	James MacGibbon, a 2008 Plano Senior High School graduate and rising sophomore at the United States Military Academy, successfully completed his summer internship for U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) in Richardson. For a photo of MacGibbon, contact McCall Avery at 202-225-4201. share: f t James MacGibbon, a 2008 Plano Senior High School graduate and rising sophomore at the United States Military Academy, successfully completed his summer internship for U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) in Richardson. For a photo of MacGibbon, contact McCall Avery at 202-225-4201. “I want to thank James for a job well done. He’s a fine young man with a solid work ethic. He’s the face of the future of our armed forces and I couldn’t be prouder,” said Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran who spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam. Since attending the USMA, MacGibbon made the Dean’s List in both the fall and spring. He also plays on the varsity lacrosse team. After earning his commission in 2012, he hopes to pursue counter-terrorism intelligence as an officer in the United States Army. While living in Plano, his peers voted him the Junior Class President. MacGibbon served on the prestigious Third District Congressional Youth Advisory Council between 2006 and 2008. He participated in the PSHS Student Congress between 2006 and 2008. An avid lacrosse player and two-time captain of the PSHS lacrosse team, MacGibbon earned the title of Academic All American in 2008. In his free time, he coached the Plano Junior Lacrosse Team, volunteered within the community, privately taught lacrosse and tutored students in math. MacGibbon is the son of Kevin and Carol MacGibbon, both USMA Class of 1980. His older sister, now Jennifer Barry, 24, is USMA Class of 2007; her husband is USMA class of 2006. James MacGibbon’s older brother, Jeff MacGibbon, 21, serves in the Air Force. Students interested in learning about attending one of the nation’s service academies should contact Lori McMahon in Johnson’s Richardson office at 972-470-0892. Johnson will host a free information session on the academy application process and the military collegiate experience for parents and students this fall. Johnson will post the application for the Congressional Youth Advisory Council on his official website later this summer. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
05.22.2009	Just in time for Memorial Day, when America recognizes the sacrifices of our nation’s military men and women, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) introduced legislation to provide deployed members of the armed services with the same opportunity to buy their first home as their friends and neighbors back home. share: f t Just in time for Memorial Day, when America recognizes the sacrifices of our nation’s military men and women, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) introduced legislation to provide deployed members of the armed services with the same opportunity to buy their first home as their friends and neighbors back home. The Service Members Home Ownership Act, H.R. 2562, would extend the $8,000 first-time homebuyer credit for an additional year for members of the armed services who are deployed during 2009 for a full year. “The men and women who wear the uniform fight for our freedom and protection have every right to the first-time homebuyer credit. It’s just common-sense that we extend this measure specifically for them,” said Johnson, a 29 year Air Force veteran. Earlier this year, Congress took an important step to rejuvenate the housing market and help middle class families buy their first home by modifying and extending the first-time homebuyer credit as part of the stimulus bill. This important provision provides first-time homebuyers with an $8,000 tax credit for homes purchased before November 31, 2009. Unfortunately, many service members who are deployed overseas will not be able to take advantage of this tax credit. Introduced with Congressman Ron Kind (D-Wisc.), the Service Members Home Ownership Act would address this problem by extending the first-time homebuyer credit for an additional year for members of the armed services who are deployed during 2009. “An Air Force veteran himself, Sam Johnson knows and understands the needs of our men and women in uniform – especially those who deploy. I’m proud to introduce the Service Members Home Ownership Act with one of the few combat veterans in Congress,” said Kind This legislation is supported by: American Legion, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Military Order of the Purple Heart, National Military Family Association, and Veterans of Foreign Wars. Johnson represents Collin and Dallas Counties. # # #
05.21.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) congratulated two local teachers for winning coveted slots in the distinguished House Fellows Program in the Office of the Historian for the U.S. House of Representatives. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) congratulated two local teachers for winning coveted slots in the distinguished House Fellows Program in the Office of the Historian for the U.S. House of Representatives. The prestigious program accepted Plano’s Maria Arena and Frisco’s Dodie Kasper. In June the two teachers will travel to Washington, D.C., for a week-long session on Capitol Hill; the Fellows Program only accepted 24 teachers from across America. (News media interested in photos of Arena and Kasper should contact McCall Avery at 202-225-4201.) “It’s no surprise to me that North Texas will have two award-winning teachers serving in the House Fellows program this summer. Congratulations are in order for both Maria and Dodie and I look forward to hearing about the program from them personally when they are up on Capitol Hill representing the Third District,” said Johnson. Arena has taught for 24 years in the Dallas area, 20 of those at the same high school, Berkner in Richardson. Arena now teaches at Plano Senior High School in Plano and is a proud Plano Senior High Wildcat. Through her career, she has been honored by her peers and school district with various teaching awards. In addition to teaching Government, Arena has trained students in leadership skills through developing and teaching a course on student leadership. “I am so honored to be selected for this program and to have the unique opportunity to see the U.S. House of Representatives in action and to study the practices of this great institution. For a government teacher, this is a once in a lifetime opportunity and I am thrilled to get to be part of this program,” said Arena. Kasper has dedicated her 20 year teaching career and her free time to engaging young minds on the inner workings of government and lessons from history. Kasper has volunteered her time to the We the People Program for the last 10 years and has served on the Project Citizen Program since 2007. In 2002, Kasper helped Johnson craft a select panel to engage Texas’ Third Congressional District high school students, the Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC). Kasper counseled Johnson’s staff on the best ways to draw students into this program and keep them interested. Thanks in part to her helpful insight, 150 students applied for the CYAC the first year and the program continues to thrive, representing the gold standard of students in North Texas. “I am excited about this invaluable opportunity to gain insight into the inner workings of the House of Representatives and be able to bring this back to the students in my classroom. I hope that it will spark interest into our government and help them realize how much they as constituents play a role in the political process,” said Kasper. Established in 2006, the House Fellows Program brings together secondary education teachers of American history and government for a week-long intensive institute on the history and practice of the House of Representatives. Each component of the House Fellows Program is designed to help educators improve their knowledge and understanding of the “People’s House.” The Office of the Historian provides information and interpretation on important precedents and events for the use of Members of Congress and their staffs, the media, students, educators, scholars, and the general public. The Office conducts oral history interviews of current and former members of Congress and selected staff, as well as advises members on the disposition of their archives and papers. # # #
05.20.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the high priority projects he’ll seek federal funding for in an upcoming transportation bill that will greatly upgrade road conditions for those who live, work and drive in North Texas. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the high priority projects he’ll seek federal funding for in an upcoming transportation bill that will greatly upgrade road conditions for those who live, work and drive in North Texas. Recently, Johnson requested $147.5 million for five transportation projects to improve the quality of life in Dallas and Collin Counties. Johnson firmly believes that since Texas is a “donor-state,” meaning that for every $1 dollar sent to Washington, Texas receives only 92 cents in return, that he should fight to guarantee that Texas receives its fair share in transportation dollars. “The more this area grows, the more our transportation needs grow. Quality highway infrastructure is critical for economic development, particularly given the size of Texas and the rapid growth of our area,” said Johnson. “These projects can and will have an important impact on their communities by creating jobs and easing people’s commutes.” Johnson believes that any funding request, some times called an earmark, included in any bill should be made public and attributed to the Member of Congress who requested it. In the interest of transparency and accountability, Johnson publishes his requests well before Congress considers them. Johnson began these disclosures before the House of Representatives adopted additional disclosure requirements for projects in bills. The U.S. House of Representatives’ Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure is crafting new surface transportation authorization legislation to replace the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users, sometimes called “SAFETEA-LU”, which expires on September 30, 2009. The U.S. Department of Transportation, the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) and local metropolitan planning organizations are responsible for the vast majority of transportation investment decisions. In conjunction with the work of these agencies, Members of Congress have been given the opportunity to submit requests under this legislation for worthwhile transportation projects in their districts. Johnson requested that the Committee publicly, properly and carefully consider whether his projects merit federal funds. Each Member of Congress must decide individually to request money for his or her congressional district as well as the amount in funding. · Plan, design, engineer and conduct environmental review for the construction of an eight-lane divided urban freeway with HOV lanes and frontage roads along US 75 from SH 121 to US 380. ($77,076,480) Proposed recipient of funding: TxDOT · Grade separation improvements at the IH 635 and Skillman Street interchange. ($29,396,736) Proposed recipient of funding: TxDOT · Widening of US 380 to a six-lane divided roadway from east of Custer Road to east of Lake Forest Drive ($14,383,861) Proposed recipient of funding: TxDOT · Widening of State Highway 5 from US 380 to FM 543. The road will be widened from two to four lanes. ($22.72M) Proposed recipient of funding: City of McKinney · Improvements on State Highway 5 between FM 546 and US 380. Project components may include the construction of a median, improved traffic signals, sidewalks, crosswalks and street design. ($4M) Proposed recipient of funding: City of McKinney Total: $147,577,077 The projects included on this list are not guaranteed funding or that any funding they receive will be in the amount requested. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
05.12.2009	In the wake of a new report showing a worse than predicted future for Social Security, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas), the Social Security Subcommittee’s top Republican, called on Congress to find real solutions for the nation’s ailing retirement safety net program. share: f t In the wake of a new report showing a worse than predicted future for Social Security, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas), the Social Security Subcommittee’s top Republican, called on Congress to find real solutions for the nation’s ailing retirement safety net program. Today’s Trustees Report predicts an even gloomier forecast than last year, in large part due to the economic downturn and the beginning retirement wave of the Baby Boomer generation. The Trustee’s project that Social Security’s benefit costs will exceed taxes beginning in 2016. “Here we go again, another annual report from the Social Security and Medicare Trustees reminding us of the enormous financing challenges Social Security and Medicare face, only this time these challenges are worse. The President and Majority Leader Hoyer have rightly called for action to secure Social Security’s future. Congress must respond now by finding solutions that work. As the lead Republican tasked with handling Social Security, I stand ready and willing to join Democrats and Republicans to get the job done,” said Johnson. “The longer we delay, the more drastic Social Security’s program adjustments will be, the greater the burden will be on future generations, and the more detrimental the impact will be on our nation’s economy. Americans want, need and deserve a secure retirement,” continued Johnson. For years, Johnson has fought behind the scenes at the center of the retirement policy debate. A member of the powerful Ways and Means Committee since 1995, Johnson enjoys a long record of success to improve the retirement security of Americans. Since the last Congress, he has served as the Ranking Member on the Social Security Subcommittee. For example, Johnson authored the law that ended the Social Security “earnings penalty” for seniors who wanted to stay in the workforce and collect benefits; Bill Clinton signed Johnson’s measure into law. In addition, Johnson chaired the Employer – Employee Relations Subcommittee at the Education and the Workforce Committee for six years. During that time, Johnson guided legislation on 401(k) disclosure laws in the wake of the Enron scandal and helped draft the first pension reform in a generation. Also, Johnson spearheaded efforts to allow older employees to collect a company pension and continue working for the company to promote what is called “phased retirement.” This would encourage people over 62 to work past retirement. Johnson’s initiative passed as part of the pension overhaul of 2006. Prior to Johnson’s action, employees either had to retire to collect the pension they earned – or keep working for a current paycheck. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
05.07.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) introduced bipartisan legislation to help working parents pay for child care. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) introduced bipartisan legislation to help working parents pay for child care. “Raising children is tough enough, especially in these difficult economic times. This common-sense bill provides some help for parents who are working hard and trying to do the best for their kids,” said Johnson. Introduced by Democrat John Yarmuth (3rd Dist.-Ky.) and Johnson, the Expanding Dependent and Child Care Act of 2009, H.R. 2298, better enables working parents to afford the ever rising cost of child care. A popular and important tax benefit, the dependent care flexible spending account allows parents to set aside pre-tax up to $5,000 of their earnings in order to pay for child care in an employer-sponsored account, commonly known as the Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account (DCFSA). Unfortunately, as the amount that can be set aside for child care has not been indexed for inflation, the value of this benefit has decreased over the years. Johnson’s bill would increase the amount from $5,000 annually to $7,500 per year and index the higher amount to inflation. While the dependent care flexible spending account is most commonly associated with child care, it also may be used for elderly dependent care for adults who live with the taxpayer. The DCFSA can not be used for summer sleepover camps or for long term care for parents who live away from home, such as in a nursing home. Many working families can no longer afford to pay the rising cost of health care, and some parents who want to work must abandon their careers,” said Congressman John Yarmuth. “This legislation will offer some much-needed child care assistance to working families and help businesses retain a strong and productive workforce.” Representatives Linda Sanchez (D-CA) and Peter Roskam (R-IL) are also original co-sponsors of the Act with Johnson and Yarmuth. All of these Members of Congress serve on the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties in North Texas. # # #
04.23.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) urged his colleagues to adopt his bipartisan bill to combat illegal immigration with mandatory worksite enforcement. Johnson, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Social Security, Committee on Ways and Means, re-introduced the New Employee Verification Act, H.R. 2028, with Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords (8th Dist.-Ariz.) share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) urged his colleagues to adopt his bipartisan bill to combat illegal immigration with mandatory worksite enforcement. Johnson, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Social Security, Committee on Ways and Means, re-introduced the New Employee Verification Act, H.R. 2028, with Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords (8th Dist.-Ariz.) “Employers want, need and deserve a reliable employee verification system and I want to give it to them,” said Johnson. The New Employee Verification Act achieves three important goals: ensure a legal workforce, safeguard workers’ identities, and protect Social Security. “The bill offers an innovative and bipartisan approach to a critical component of our immigration system – worksite verification,” said Johnson. First, this legislation seeks to prevent the hiring of illegal workers. The current failed, paper-based I-9 screening process is replaced with an Electronic Employee Verification System, known as EEVS. The system would rely on the use of fewer, more secure identity documents and would build upon the new hire reporting process in each state. This program is already used by 90% of employers and was put in place a dozen years ago to track down dead beat dads. For Americans, work authorization would be confirmed only through the Social Security Administration. For non-citizens, work authorization would be confirmed through the Department of Homeland Security that maintains relevant databases on visa and immigration status. Through the current pilot program on employee verification, E-Verify, the Department of Homeland Security checks the work authorization of newly hired employees of employers who choose to participate. Johnson believes that the DHS has no business keeping tabs on the work records of law-abiding citizens and considers this the fundamental job of the Social Security Administration (SSA). E-Verify will expire on September 30, 2009. NEVA will extend E-Verify until November of 2013; E-Verify will be repealed when NEVA is fully implemented, which is 36 months after the date of enactment of the bill. “An agency responsible for tracking terrorists and securing our borders should not be keeping track of when and where Americans work. Yet, according to their own privacy documents from February 2008, the Department of Homeland Security is building databases and maintaining data on the work history of American citizens and American employers. That’s just wrong,” said Johnson. Second, the legislation would also help safeguard workers’ identities. A voluntary system for employers would be created using the latest technology to authenticate and protect a worker’s identity. Private sector experts, certified by the federal government, would first verify work authorization in EEVS, but would also authenticate the identity of employees by utilizing existing background-check and document screening tools. The identity would then be secured through a biometric identifier, such as a finger print or eye scan. This is the Secure Electronic Employee Verification System, SEEVS. In April 2008, Homeland Security agents raided Pilgrim’s Pride chicken-plucker plants in five states in the South, including Texas. The federal agents took 400 employees into custody and charged the illegal immigrants with document fraud and selling stolen Social Security numbers. The poultry producer voluntarily participates in the employment verification system, E-verify. In December 2006, nearly 1,300 workers in six states at Swift and Company were arrested, including many in Cactus, Texas. A Swift and Company human resource official testified before a House panel that Swift had willingly participated in the government’s voluntary verification program, E-verify, for Social Security numbers since 1997. “These companies played by the rules and tried to do everything right, yet they still ended up hiring illegal immigrants by accident. The immigrations raids showcase the growing practice by illegal immigrants of using authentic documents - borrowed, rented, purchased or stolen - to avoid detection in the hiring process. Clearly we must create new solutions to prevent illegal immigrants from taking American jobs,” concluded Johnson. Third, the bill would help protect the integrity of the Social Security system. Not only would the legislation prevent future unauthorized wages from being used to determine Social Security benefits, the bill would also protect the Social Security Administration’s primary mission and trust funds by authorizing employment verification only through advanced appropriated funds. The Society for Human Resource Management, the American Council on International Personnel, and the Human Resource Initiative for a Legal Workforce (www.legal-workforce.org) back the New Employee Verification Act. # # #
04.20.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) thanked and recognized the 24 students who serve on the Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) who participated in the first ever “Making a Difference Service Challenge.” The 24 students volunteered nearly 400 hours during the month of March. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) thanked and recognized the 24 students who serve on the Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) who participated in the first ever “Making a Difference Service Challenge.” The 24 students volunteered nearly 400 hours during the month of March. This year, CYAC members wrote an essay about people making a difference in the community. Johnson invited the students to “pay it forward” in the inaugural Making a Difference – a Month of Service Challenge. Johnson encouraged students to volunteer at least two times in March to make a difference in the lives of others as a representative of the CYAC. “These kids went above and beyond. They serve their peers as the voice of young people to Congress. Now they served their communities as members of CYAC. These kids are remarkable. I want to thank them for their service,” said Johnson. Students volunteered at the Plano Teen Court, worked at local food banks, taught kids to play chess, and served meals to the elderly. They donated time to local Boys and Girls clubs, spring break camps for special needs children and a host of other activities. To learn more about the students and their volunteer commitment within the community, contact McCall Avery at 202-225-4201. This year 45 students representing 21 area high schools make up the elite group. Johnson created the Council in 2004. The Council’s goal is two-fold. First, the group provides Johnson with greater student perspective and insight on issues that directly impact younger Americans. Second, Council activities educate students on government policies relevant to young people. Allen ISD Trevor Ede, Allen HS, 12th grade, Allen Frisco ISD Christian Cummings, Frisco HS, 10th grade, Frisco Josh Eldridge, Liberty HS, 10th grade, Frisco Ashley Newton, Centennial HS, 11th grade, Frisco Joshua Womboldt, Centennial HS, 11th grade, Frisco Eric Womboldt, Centennial HS, 10th grade, Frisco McKinney ISD Corbin Ringley, McKinney HS, 11th grade, McKinney Plano ISD Jonathan Alston, Plano Senior HS, 12th grade, Plano Matt Burnham, Plano West Senior HS, 12th grade, Plano Anita Chandrahas, Clark HS, 10th grade, Plano John Clark, Plano Senior HS, 12th grade, Plano Richard Hung, Plano West Senior HS, 11th grade, Dallas Sravanthi Kadali, Plano Senior HS, 11th grade, Plano Amber Khan, Plano West Senior HS, 11th grade, Plano Kenny Lee, Plano West Senior HS, 11th grade, Plano Abboss Rezaie, Shepton HS, 10th grade, Plano Evan Rosenfield, Plano West Senior HS, 12th grade, Plano Eann Tuan, Williams HS, 10th grade, Richardson Jonathan Unger, Shepton HS, 10th grade, Dallas Caitlyn Woolum, Jasper HS, 10th Grade, Plano Private schools Nick Brush, Greenhill School, 11th grade, Dallas Luke Franz, Jesuit College Preparatory School of Dallas, 12th grade, Plano Stephen Hayes, Greenhill School, 12th grade, Dallas Richardson ISD Nolan Killingsworth, Berkner HS, 11th grade, Garland # # #
04.09.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced that “Silver Still-Life,” an oil painting by Plano East Senior High School 12th grader, Katerina Paletykina, won the grand prize of the 2009 Congressional Art Contest for the Third District of Texas. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced that “Silver Still-Life,” an oil painting by Plano East Senior High School 12th grader, Katerina Paletykina, won the grand prize of the 2009 Congressional Art Contest for the Third District of Texas. Johnson also invited the public to attend the official awards ceremony and view all of the work submitted for the Congressional Art Competition Art Exhibit on Monday, April 20th from 7:00 to 8:30 p.m. in the Gallery of the McKinney Performing Arts Center. The free event is open to the public. Those in attendance will have an opportunity to vote for the People’s Choice Award. Paletykina’s work will be shipped to Washington for display in the United States Capitol. In addition, Southwest Airlines will fly Paletykina and one family member and her art instructor to Washington, D.C., in June to attend the official congressional unveiling celebration. Paletykina studies art under the instruction of Lori Whitaker. Plano East Senior High School 12th grader Stacy Bloodworth placed second with her charcoal drawing “Melancholy.” Bloodworth, who lives in Richardson, also studies under Lori Whitaker. She will receive a trophy and certificate at the McKinney art showing. Plano resident Cindy Bai captured third for “Chinese Firecrackers” made with colored pencils. The Liberty High School senior studies under Diane Bray. Bai won second place last year for her artwork. Bai also will receive a trophy at the McKinney art showing. Allen High School’s Jessica Fisher, a senior, won fourth for her untitled photograph. Fisher studies under Melinda Linn. Allen High School junior Laura Swan took fifth place for her work, “Blue Angels,” a mixed medium-acrylic and mirrors. Swan is a student of Susan Tadlock. McKinney’s Trevor Smith placed sixth with “Sun and Earth,” a digital/ computer generated work. Smith attends McKinney Boyd High School where he is in 11th grade and studies under Kelley Davis. Honorable mention ribbons will go to the following: John Welke—Allen High School (AISD)—Grade 12—Resides in Fairview Ricardo Funes—McKinney High School (MISD)—Grade 11 Lisa Chen—Vines High School (PISD)—Grade 10 Jennifer West—Wylie High School (WISD)—Grade 10—Resides in Richardson Mary Valker—Plano East High School (PISD)—Grade 12 Gus Renaud—Rockwall Christian Academy (Private School)—Grade 12—Resides in Garland Wenchuan Li—Jasper High School (PISD)—Grade 10 Earlier this year, Johnson invited high school students residing in the Third Congressional District to submit original artwork for the annual Congressional Art Competition. This contest was open to students enrolled in public, private or home schools. For more information on the Art Exhibit, contact 972-470-0892.
04.08.2009	On Monday, April 20th from 7:00 to 8:30 p.m., U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will host the Third Annual Congressional Art Competition Art Exhibit in the Gallery of the McKinney Performing Arts Center. The free event is open to the public and the press. share: f t On Monday, April 20th from 7:00 to 8:30 p.m., U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will host the Third Annual Congressional Art Competition Art Exhibit in the Gallery of the McKinney Performing Arts Center. The free event is open to the public and the press. All of the artwork featured will be pieces submitted for the 2009 competition, An Artistic Discovery, by area high school students. An awards presentation for the winners will take place during the exhibit around 7:00 p.m. Those in attendance will have an opportunity to vote for the People’s Choice Award. “I hope that folks will come out to encourage and recognize talented young artists of North Texas,” said Johnson. Monday, April 20th 7:00 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. Free Artistic Discovery display and awards reception U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) The Art Gallery McKinney Performing Arts Center 111 North Tennessee Street McKinney 972-547-2650 *No R.S.V.P is needed. ** Business attire is suggested # # #
04.03.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) publicized the priorities he’ll seek federal funding for in the money allocating process, known as appropriations. Johnson believes that any funding request, some times called an earmark, included in an appropriations bill should be made public and attributed to the Member of Congress who requested it. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) publicized the priorities he’ll seek federal funding for in the money allocating process, known as appropriations. Johnson believes that any funding request, some times called an earmark, included in an appropriations bill should be made public and attributed to the Member of Congress who requested it. In the interest of transparency and accountability, Johnson publishes his requests before Congress considers them. FY 2010 is the third consecutive year Johnson has disclosed on his website all appropriations projects requests. Johnson began these disclosures before the House of Representatives adopted additional disclosure requirements for projects in bills. “Earmark spending must be done wisely, openly, fairly, and responsibly,” said Johnson. Johnson took issue with the FY 2008 bill that contained nearly 300 unexamined earmarks costing more than $800 million. The extra projects were added in, or “air dropped” at the last minute, in the middle of the night, immune of public debate or scrutiny until after the fact. Under the Appropriations Committee, there are 12 Appropriations Subcommittees tasked with assigning federal dollars to each of the 435 congressional districts for the 2010 spending bill. Seeking federal funding for a specific project does not guarantee that the item will receive any money from the federal government. Johnson requested that the Appropriations Committee properly and carefully consider whether his projects merit federal funds. Each Member of Congress must decide individually to request money for his or her congressional district as well as the amount in funding. Of the eight requests totaling $9 million, six are defense or national-security related to help strengthen all branches of the armed forces. Johnson attributes this to the dominant presence of the defense industry in North Texas; the Third Congressional District includes small, medium, and large defense-affiliated companies employing thousands of people who live and/ or work in the Third District. Johnson also believes that the strict regulations governing the sale of American defense-company merchandise and technology for national security reasons puts American defense companies at a unique disadvantage compared with foreign-owned companies. Defense Bio-printing of new skin for battlefield burn repairs - $1 million. MicroFab Technologies Inc., located in Plano, is working to develop a portable bio-printer/ skin printing system to repair life threatening battlefield burn injuries with biologic skin. This will allow military medical personnel to promptly respond and manage burn injuries on site using a printable allograft, a graft using cells from a variety of individuals. (Microfab Technologies, Inc., 1104 Summit Ave. #110, Plano, Texas 75094) Remote aiming and sighting optical retrofit (RASOR) - $1 million. Garland’s L-3 Electro-Optical Systems Division employs 336 people at the Garland facility and 202 at the Dallas site. Currently, it is not possible for a Marine to use Night Vision Devices (NVDs) and Thermal Weapon Sights (TWSs) at the same time. This causes a decrease in awareness and puts the Marine at greater risk. Through research, the industry has developed technology to fuse the two systems, enabling a Marine to see a night scene and thermal imagery, targeting lasers and targeting information all through the helmet-mounted NVD. The RASOR program is developing a kit to retrofit the existing NVD that will enable the user to receive the imagery and targeting data from the thermal weapon sight. (L-3, 3414 Herman Drive, Garland, Texas 75041) MTI Scout radar - $1 million. Mustang Technology Group, of Allen, aims to improve the radar system for the Navy. The Navy lacks an all-weather airborne unmanned air vehicle (UAV) surveillance capability to detect and track high value targets that move, stop for a while, and then move again (Move Stop Move: MSM). Not having this capability allows terrorists that stop and plant mines and IEDs along the shoreline to evade surveillance. The MTI Scout radar hardware is designed to support MSM but requires additional work to develop, integrate, and test the MSM mode software. The light weight and low power of the MTI Scout radar make it ideal for many other airborne manned and unmanned surveillance platforms, like the Predator, Fire Scout, and MC-12W. (Mustang Technology, 400 W. Bethany Dr; Ste 110, Allen, Texas 75013) Current Force Common Active Protection System (APS) Radar for the Army’s Combat Vehicle Improvement Programs - $2 million. Raytheon’s Active Protection System division employs approximately 35 people full time in McKinney. APS is an externally mounted vehicle protection system that identifies, discriminates and intercepts rocket propelled grenades (RPGs), mortars, antitank guided missiles and artillery projectiles after they are launched toward a combat vehicle. It provides 360 degree surveillance and protection against multiple simultaneous threats. This funding will allow insertion of reduced cost electronics and modifications to the radar for Stryker integration, as well as software and hardware development for system command and control, including the human-machine interface. (Raytheon, 2501 West University Drive, McKinney, TX 75071-2813) E-6B Strategic Communications Upgrade (VLF-TX and HPTS) - $1 million. Richardson-based Rockwell-Collins is working to improve and upgrade a system used by the Navy. The Navy’s E-6B Mercury TACAMO (Take Charge And Move Out) is a manned airborne communications relay platform designed to provide a survivable, reliable, endurable airborne Command and Control Communications link between the President, Secretary of Defense and U.S. strategic and non-strategic forces. TACAMO’s primary purpose is the relay of messages via survivable Very Low Frequency transmissions (VLF-TX). All 16 aircraft are being upgraded to support this critical mission set. The existing E-6B VLF transmit terminal is becoming unsupportable. This equipment is essential in the performance of the VLF transmit function and failure to properly support this equipment would result in an inability to perform the TACAMO mission. New VLF-TX equipment must undergo lengthy certification processes and thus entails a lengthy development cycle. Additionally, this modification will result in a significant weight reduction in the aircraft. (Rockwell-Collins, 3200 East Renner Rd., Richardson, TX 75082) Mobile Oxygen, Ventilation, and External Suction (MOVES) System for the Navy and Marine Corps – $1 million. SVTronics in Plano employs 120 people. The U.S. Marine Corps has been developing a lightweight, self-contained, Mobile, Oxygen, Ventilation, and External Suction (MOVES) system in support of the En Route Care System. The MOVES system uses ambient air to produce oxygen and then delivers the oxygen directly to the casualty. It has a ventilator that can ventilate a patient with up to 85% oxygen, and it also has suction capability. In addition, the MOVES system can monitor vital signs including blood pressure, heart rate, pulse oximetry, temperature, oxygen and carbon dioxide levels, and ECG. All of these capabilities are integrated in a single system that can run its own power and easily connect to a patient litter for transport. MOVES reduces the cube and weight of the present En Route Care System by over 60%, and eliminates the hazards associated with pressurized oxygen cylinders in the field. (SVTronics, 3465 Technology Drive, Plano, Texas 75074) Energy and water Center for Energy Storage Research at University of Texas – Dallas - $1 million. The Center will develop next generation energy storage materials and systems by analyzing the role nanomaterial components can play in functional energy storage systems. The most common electrical energy storage systems at this time are batteries. This program will allow UTD to develop new materials and technologies that will compete with batteries in terms of energy density but will greatly surpass them in terms of energy power. These new materials will have long term reliability but are fabricated with environmentally friendly materials. The ability to efficiently store electrical energy is critical in seeing the use of renewable energy spreads to the individual home. Efficient local electrical storage is necessary to ensure that electrical energy generated locally won’t be wasted but stored for future use. (University of Texas – Dallas, 800 West Campbell Road, MP-15, Richardson, TX 75080-3021) Labor, HHS, Education Funding for the National Virtual Vietnam Archive at Texas Tech University - $1 million. This money will go to update and digitize documents related to the Vietnam War. (Texas Tech University, The National Virtual Vietnam Archive, Special Collections Library, Rm. 108, Box 41041, Lubbock, Texas 79409-1041) # # #
04.02.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took to the House floor to declare that Congress acts with fiscal responsibility when creating the budget blueprint of America. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took to the House floor to declare that Congress acts with fiscal responsibility when creating the budget blueprint of America. Later today the House will vote on the Administration’s budget. The measure is expected to pass. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. To watch Johnson’s remarks on the floor, go to his website, SamJohnson.house.gov. Johnson’s floor statement follows: “The President’s budget spends too much, taxes too much, and borrows too much. This is the most fiscally irresponsible budget in the history of the United States. “The spending levels in the budget are just staggering. Under the President’s budget, government spending will represent roughly 30 percent of our economy. That’s not the American way. “The right way forward is the Paul Ryan alternative budget which trims wasteful government spending and lets families and small businesses keep more of their hard earned money. “I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting the conservative budget proposal that re-kindles prosperity, promotes financial security, invests in our future, and saves for our children. Let’s go America! It’s the right way forward. # # #
03.24.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) lauded the Administration’s announcement to stop the violence along the Mexico border with tightened security. Johnson called on the Administration to consider beefing up security by sending more National Guardsmen to assist the effort. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) lauded the Administration’s announcement to stop the violence along the Mexico border with tightened security. Johnson called on the Administration to consider beefing up security by sending more National Guardsmen to assist the effort. Earlier today U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Janet Napolitano announced several measures to clamp down on Mexican drug cartels by bolstering security in the Southwestern states. “Today Texas is learning the benefit of having a border state governor serving at the helm of the Department of Homeland Security. I hope that she’ll build on this common-sense plan by adding more National Guardsmen to the border and working closely with Governor Perry,” said Johnson. The drug and gang violence from Mexico spilling into Texas towns has worried Johnson. In fact, Johnson joined with the Texas delegation and recently sent a letter to Secretary Napolitano urging her to take action to protect the citizens of Texas from the burgeoning drug cartels fighting for control of the lucrative drug and human smuggling market. Along those lines, the “U.S. Joint Forces Command reported that Mexico rivals Pakistan as the country most at risk of collapse and foreign policy experts have noted that Mexico has surpassed Colombia as the kidnapping capital of the world,” states the letter. To read the Administration’s release on the new security measures, go to http://www.dhs.gov/ynews/releases/pr_1237909530921.shtm. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
03.20.2009	On Saturday, April 18th at 10:00 a.m. in Plano, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host a homeownership promotion and foreclosure prevention seminar. This event is free and open to the public and the press. share: f t On Saturday, April 18th at 10:00 a.m. in Plano, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host a homeownership promotion and foreclosure prevention seminar. This event is free and open to the public and the press. The seminar will take place in the Ballroom – Section C - of Collin College’s Spring Creek Campus located at 2800 East Spring Creek Parkway in Plano. Housing experts and credit counselors will join Johnson at the informative session. “To assist those in need of mortgage counseling, I am hosting a homeownership promotion and foreclosure prevention seminar. If you are in a situation where you are facing foreclosure, having difficulty making your mortgage payment, or you are looking to purchase your first home, I encourage you attend this event,” said Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. To learn more about this event, contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. Saturday, April 18th 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Homeownership promotion and foreclosure prevention seminar U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson Collin College Ballroom - Section C 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway Plano # # #
03.17.2009	On the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) insisted that the schemers in the AIG financial products unit deserve jail time, not a cushy bonus. share: f t On the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) insisted that the schemers in the AIG financial products unit deserve jail time, not a cushy bonus. On Sunday, March 15, 2009, The Washington Post reported, “American International Group is giving executives in its most troubled business unit tens of millions of dollars in new bonuses even though it received a taxpayer bailout of more than $170 billion dollars. AIG has said it must pay out the executive bonuses … [as part of] a larger total payout reportedly valued at $450 million.” AIG asserts it can not risk a lawsuit if the company demands the money back. Johnson vehemently disagrees and believes that once the taxpayers own 80% of a company, the company no longer has the right to offer multi-million dollar bonuses to employees, especially those who sparked such extreme economic turmoil. On several occasions, the Congress has passed limits on employee and executive compensation in both the original TARP bill and the stimulus for companies that accept government funds. Johnson feels that the President should do everything in his power to rescind these bonuses. The extravagant bonus news comes just months after news reports surfaced that shortly after accepting billions of dollars in government assistance, AIG employees spent almost $500,000 for a luxury spa retreat at the St. Regis Resort in Monarch Beach, California, among other things. Johnson agrees with a blogger who promoted a crafty way to secure the bonus money from AIG. Rob Cox, of Breakingviews.com wrote, “As the 80% owner of AIG, the government should try to force the company into ‘naming and shaming’ the bonus recipients. Better yet, give them a choice. AIG Financial Products employees who forgo bonuses until certain taxpayer-friendly performance hurdles are met will not see their names in lights.” The text of Johnson’s statement follows: “My email inbox is full of constituents fed up about AIG. I don’t blame them. I’ve had it up to here with bad news about AIG and their big time bonuses. They need to return this money. “As a US News columnist asked, ‘Forget bonuses. Why are these people still collecting regular paychecks?’ “I’m glad that New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo demanded that AIG provide information on who is receiving bonuses in its financial products group. “Those who received the fat-cat bonuses are partly responsible for the company’s and the country’s financial problems. I say fire them all. They don't deserve bonuses. I say hand them over to the Marines and throw them in the brig!”
03.17.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas), an injured combat veteran who fought in two wars, blasted a new White House proposal to force service-injured veterans pay for their own health care. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas), an injured combat veteran who fought in two wars, blasted a new White House proposal to force service-injured veterans pay for their own health care. “I find it sad and shameful that around the same time we’re learning of government-subsidized AIG paying out lavish bonuses with taxpayer dollars to executives who ran the company into the ground the Administration is willing to force wounded warriors to pay for their own care. I will fight like mad to stop this rash and reckless proposal,” insisted Johnson. “Charging wounded soldiers for treatment seems incomprehensible,” demanded Johnson. “I urge every American who thinks this idea is absurd, abhorrent and unconscionable to call the White House at 202-456-1414 and tell the new President that valiant wounded warriors are the absolute last people we need to hit up to balance any budget.” In an articled titled, “Obama mulls making vets foot the bill for service injuries” in The Buffalo News, David Goldstein reports that, “the Obama administration is considering making veterans use private insurance to pay for treatment of combat and service-related injuries. The plan would be an about-face on what veterans believe is a long-standing pledge to pay for health care costs that result from their military service. But in a White House meeting Monday, veterans groups apparently failed to persuade President Obama to take the plan off the table.” According to the American Legion, the Administration aims to generate roughly $540 million in revenue with this new cost-cutting proposal. The American Legion Commander David K. Rehbein stated, “This reimbursement plan would be inconsistent with the mandate ' to care for him who shall have borne the battle' given that the United States government sent members of the armed forces into harm's way, and not private insurance companies. I say again that The American Legion does not and will not support any plan that seeks to bill a veteran for treatment of a service connected disability at the very agency that was created to treat the unique need of America's veterans!” A 29- year Air Force veteran and lifetime American Legion member, Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
03.12.2009	On the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) voiced his opinion that the Congress spending $1 billion an hour stinks. share: f t On the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) voiced his opinion that the Congress spending $1 billion an hour stinks. Yesterday in “Politico,” journalist Mike Allen describes Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell’s (R-Ky.) floor speech detailing how Congress has spent about $1 billion an hour since the new President took office. The stimulus cost almost $787 billon; the omnibus spending bill cost $409 billion. Mike Allen wrote, “The math: 50 days times 24 hours equals 1,200 hours. 1,200 times 1 billion equals 1.2 trillion (a thousand billions is a trillion).” To watch the video, go to SamJohnson.house.gov and view “Congressman Johnson criticizes congressional spending spree.” A long-time fiscal conservative, Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Remarks as prepared for delivery: “FOLKS IN AMERICA OUGHT TO BE OUTRAGED. THEY HAVE A RIGHT TO KNOW THAT THEIR CONGRESS HAS SPENT ROUGHLY $1 BILLION AN HOUR SINCE THE NEW PRESIDENT TOOK OFFICE. “RECENTLY, MIKE ALLEN OF ‘POLITICO’ WROTE ABOUT A SPEECH IN THE OTHER BODY. “HE DESCRIBED A CRAFTY SENATOR’S EFFORTS TO EXPRESS HIS DEEP CONCERN THAT THE NATION IS SPENDING WAY TOO MUCH MONEY – AND THAT AMERICA CAN’T AFFORD THIS FREE-FOR-ALL SPENDING CONGRESS. “IN JUST 50 DAYS, THE CONGRESS VOTED TO SPEND ABOUT $1.2 TRILLION BETWEEN THE STIMULUS AND THE OMNIBUS. THAT’S AMOUNTS TO $24 BILLION A DAY, OR ABOUT $1 BILLION AN HOUR—MOST OF IT BORROWED. “CONGRESS SPENDING ONE BILLION DOLLARS AN HOUR… PEW!” # # #
03.09.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) questioned President Barack Obama’s decision to okay the practice of spending taxpayer dollars on embryonic stem cell research. Johnson argued that experts continue to make revolutionary medical breakthroughs while protecting human embryos at the same time. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) questioned President Barack Obama’s decision to okay the practice of spending taxpayer dollars on embryonic stem cell research. Johnson argued that experts continue to make revolutionary medical breakthroughs while protecting human embryos at the same time. Johnson supports stem cell research when it is from the umbilical cord, placental blood, and other adult stem cell sources. “Taxpayers should not have to fund the destruction of human life,” said Johnson. “Adult stem cells currently are being used to treat patients with many diseases such as juvenile diabetes, ovarian cancer, and leukemia. These are the avenues that hold the most promise for real treatments that help patients now. Scientists agree that this exciting medical research is making a tremendous difference and I firmly believe federal money should be devoted to perfecting this ethical and life-saving research,” said Johnson. Johnson pointed to a North Texas example as representative of the breakthroughs in stem cell research. Recently Readers Digest profiled Plano mom Emily Woods, who battled scleroderma with a stem cell transplant relying on her own stem cells. According to the publication, “Doctors agree that overall, Emily has had a tremendous turnaround, and three years after the transplant, there's still no sign of the disease returning.” In addition, acclaimed Dr. Anthony Atala, Director of the Institute for Regenerative Medicine at Wake Forest University, heralds the benefits of stem cells drawn from amniotic fluid and maintains that they can be used to develop muscle, bone, nerve and other cells in the laboratory. Dr. Anthony Atala told Medical News Today, “Our hope is that these cells will provide a valuable resource for tissue repair and for engineered organs as well. It has been known for decades that both the placenta and amniotic fluid contain multiple progenitor cell types from the developing embryo, including fat, bone, and muscle. We asked the question, 'Is there a possibility that within this cell population we can capture true stem cells?' The answer is yes.” This is not the first time the new President has evoked the ire of pro-life advocates. After serving just a day in the Oval Office, President Obama rescinded the so-called Mexico City Policy, which prohibited federal taxpayers from subsidizing abortions internationally. Also, last month the Obama Administration announced that it would review the new protections put in place by President Bush, called the “conscience clause.” The regulation created legal safe haven for healthcare providers who choose not to participate in abortions and other services, like providing contraception, for personal ethical reasons. News reports indicate that the Administration will soon start a 30-day public comment period, after which they will eliminate the recently created protections for medical personnel and facilities. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
03.05.2009	On the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) urged the Administration not to raise taxes on hard working Americans during a recession. share: f t On the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) urged the Administration not to raise taxes on hard working Americans during a recession. According to the IRS, about 47% of Americans don’t pay taxes. Under the new Administration’s budget proposal, that number will jump to 50%. The IRS reported that the top 50% of wage earners paid 97% of all taxes in 2006. Johnson feels these people already are overtaxed. In 2006, the top 25% made $64,702 and paid 86.27% of the taxes while the top 50% earned $31,987and paid 97% of the taxes. A long-time fiscal conservative, Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Remarks as prepared for delivery: “The Administration’s new budget torpedoes some core values we Americans hold dear – hard work, fairness and the freedom to thrive. “Sadly, the new budget will raise taxes on anyone who works hard, plays by the rules, and pays taxes. “It will raise taxes on anyone who drives a car, turns on their lights, or saves. “It will raise taxes on people who donate to charity or own a home. “It will raise taxes on anyone who plans, hopes or dreams of becoming successful. “That’s just wrong and I urge the Administration to not raise taxes during a recession.” # # #
03.03.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd District-Texas) invited high school students residing in the Third Congressional District to submit original artwork for the 2009 Congressional Art Competition. This contest is open to students enrolled in public, private or home schools and the deadline to submit art work is March 30th. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd District-Texas) invited high school students residing in the Third Congressional District to submit original artwork for the 2009 Congressional Art Competition. This contest is open to students enrolled in public, private or home schools and the deadline to submit art work is March 30th. “The previous years demonstrated the wealth of talent in the area and I look forward to viewing another round of submissions,” said Johnson. Each year Members of Congress hold contests within their districts to choose winning pieces of art by high school students. Since this competition started in 1982, hundreds of thousands of high school students have participated at the local level. The winning masterpiece for the Third District will be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the United States Capitol Building for an entire year. Teachers, students and/or parents should contact Johnson’s office on behalf of students no later than March 27th to schedule a pick up. Interested parties should call Deanna Kuykendall at 972-470-0892 or email her at Deanna.Kuykendall@mail.house.gov. In addition, the public will be invited to view all Third District artwork submissions at the Congressional Art Contest Exhibit in McKinney on Monday, April 20th at 7:00 p.m. Johnson will release more information about this event at a later date. Only original artwork created by Third District high school students will be judged. Students may download the complete list of rules at Johnson’s website, SamJohnson.house.gov. In summary: artwork must be an original concept, not reproduced from an existing photo, painting or other such work. It must be two dimensional, no larger than 30" by 30" framed and no more than 4 inches in depth. The entry must fall into one of the following categories: paintings (oil, watercolor, acrylic, etc.); drawings (pastels, pencil, charcoal, ink, markers, etc.); collages (must be two dimensional); prints (lithographs, silk screens, block prints); mixed media; computer graphics; and photography. Johnson represents the portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. ###
02.27.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) made the following statement after President Barack Obama announced that U.S. troops will depart Iraq by August 2010, with as many as 50,000 Marines and soldiers staying in Iraq until December 2011. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) made the following statement after President Barack Obama announced that U.S. troops will depart Iraq by August 2010, with as many as 50,000 Marines and soldiers staying in Iraq until December 2011. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. Johnson spoke on the House floor on numerous occasions demanding that the Congress not repeat the mistakes he witnessed in Vietnam. “God bless the troops! I salute you. Y’all did your jobs no matter what the critics in Congress and your country said. Today’s big announcement on Iraq was made possible because of your service, sacrifice, patriotism and fierce level of dedication as well as the steady, visionary leadership of General Petraeus and other fine military leaders in the face of adversity. “I am optimistic about today’s news and look forward to hearing even more good reports from Iraq. I hope that the President continues to listen to the commanders on the ground and leaves the hard-core military decisions to the experts in the armed forces.” “Make no mistake - America must stand behind our men and women in uniform because they stand up for us every minute of every day.”
02.26.2009	After the President submitted his upcoming budget to Congress, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took aim at the new $600 billion universal health coverage plan paid for with the so-called “two percent” tax hike and urged fiscal restraint in place of spending more and raising taxes in a recession. share: f t After the President submitted his upcoming budget to Congress, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took aim at the new $600 billion universal health coverage plan paid for with the so-called “two percent” tax hike and urged fiscal restraint in place of spending more and raising taxes in a recession. “By the way the Democrats are spending taxpayer money, you’d think the economy is booming. Americans want, need and deserve a budget that creates jobs, exerts fiscal discipline and gets us back on track for a healthy economy. Americans know that we can’t tax and borrow our way to a better future when we are in a recession,” said Johnson. Today President Barack Obama sent his budget blueprint to Congress. Among other things, the plan would create a new $635 billion fund solely devoted to kick-start universal health care coverage. “My goal is to get every American insured. I support a system that gives Americans more health care choices so they can pick coverage that best meets their needs. I vehemently oppose government run health care. We ought to be working on making heath care more affordable, not rationing health care and forcing people into a one-size-fits-all program,” said Johnson. President Obama plans to increase taxes to pay for his new budget. According to The Wall Street Journal, “Even the most basic inspection of the IRS income tax statistics shows that raising taxes on the salaries, dividends and capital gains of those making more than $250,000 can't possibly raise enough revenue to fund Mr. Obama's new spending ambitions… And the reality is that the only way to pay for Mr. Obama's ambitions is to reach ever deeper into the pockets of the American middle class.” Johnson feels that the hidden taxes within the President’s budget on energy alone will fall directly on every American worker and family who drive cars or heat their homes. Johnson tried to dispel the so-called “two percent” myth, that only wealthy people will feel a heavier tax burden. Small to medium sized businesses generate nearly 70% of all jobs. These smaller employers often file as individuals to avoid burdensome corporate tax rates, rules, and regulations. Small businesses would be swept up in this “elitist” group, perhaps forcing the local grocery store, dry cleaner, or restaurant to downsize to pay taxes. Johnson believes that many retirees will be negatively impacted by capital gains and dividend tax increases. In addition, Johnson opposes the President’s plan to limit the popular home interest deduction and charitable deduction for households. “Hurting charities to pay for these new spending increases is very short sighted,” continued Johnson. “Every American will bear the burden of these new taxes. Thwarting entrepreneurs and small to medium sized businesses with higher taxes will stifle job growth and hurt Americans struggling to get ahead. Instead of punishing those who are creating jobs in our communities, Washington ought to trim government spending and show some fiscal discipline. Hiking taxes, increasing spending and mandating universal health care will not create more opportunity in communities across America,” said Johnson. “Where is all of this money going to come from? There has got to be a better way than starting tax hikes in a recession. During these uncertain economic times, American families are forced to re-evaluate their expenses. The American government would be well served to follow the good example. We must do better for our children and grandchildren,” concluded Johnson. # # #
02.25.2009	On the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) advocated fiscal restraint within the government over hiking taxes on the American people. share: f t On the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) advocated fiscal restraint within the government over hiking taxes on the American people. Later today the House will vote on H.R. 1105, the Omnibus Appropriations Act. The new spending plan costs over $400 billion and only covers government operations from March 2009 through September 2009. The measure combines nine unfinished spending bills from the last Congress and increases spending well above last year’s funding levels. Today’s vote comes after the Congress passed an $800 billion stimulus bill earlier this month. A long-time fiscal conservative, Johnson will vote against H.R. 1105. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Remarks as prepared for delivery: “After just passing a one trillion dollar spending plan, the Democrats in Congress claim that they will have to tax and spend our way out of this economic gloom. I think we should root out government waste before we add new government spending…and we don’t want to increase taxes when folks are already feeling pinched by this tough economy. “In the Texas State House, the Speaker threatened to kick me off Ways and Means if I didn’t vote to raise taxes. I just said no. When I didn’t vote to raise taxes, they booted me off the committee. What can I say – no new taxes for Texas or America. “This Congress must consider a federal spending freeze before we consider tax hikes during these uncertain economic times. The last thing we need to do is push consumer confidence even lower. Let’s take tax hikes off the table.” # # #
02.13.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the names of students he has nominated to U.S. Service Academies for the Class of 2013. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson nominated a range of the best and brightest students from all across the Third District. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the names of students he has nominated to U.S. Service Academies for the Class of 2013. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson nominated a range of the best and brightest students from all across the Third District. “One of the most positive and rewarding things that I do in Congress is nominating the future leaders of our armed forces,” said Johnson. The nominations are for the U.S. Air Force, Naval, Military and Merchant Marine Academies. From here, each academy narrows the field by granting an appointment to the most qualified nominees. The academies will make formal offers of appointment this spring. If selected, the students will start classes in July. The Coast Guard Academy does not require a congressional nomination. With the significant number of applicants each year, Congressman Johnson employs the “competitive” method of nomination. An independent selection board, appointed by Congressman Johnson and comprised of Air Force, Naval, Merchant Marine and Military Academy graduates, selects ten candidates for each vacancy. Third District residents between the ages of 17 and 23 were eligible to apply to service academies if they met eligibility requirements in leadership, physical aptitude, scholarship and character. The selection of nominees was based on academic performance, exhibited by class rank, SAT or ACT scores and grade point average. Other important factors evaluated by the board included participation in extracurricular and civic activities as well as athletic aptitude. Students interested in learning more about the service academies for the class starting in July 2010 or beyond should contact Ashlea Quinonez in the Congressman’s office at 972-470-0892. In addition, every fall the Congressman hosts an Academy Information Session with all branches represented. The Third Congressional District includes portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY Dancy, Darrell- McKinney North (McKinney) Dowsey, Joshua- Rowlett (Rowlett) Guariento, Alessandro- Plano Senior High (Plano) Hansen, Richard- Jesuit (Richardson) Hull, Andrew- Home school (Plano) Hunter, Stephen- Allen (Allen) Kaschak, John- Allen (Allen) Macmanus, Mark- Trinity Christian Academy (Plano) Matthews, Zachary- Frisco (Frisco) Moore, Chad- Home school (Plano) Myrose, Jacqueline- Allen (Allen) Ostert, Brandon- Plano Senior High (Plano) Parker, Paxton- Melissa (McKinney) Strakele, Grayson- Plano Senior High (Plano) Wood, Spencer- Frisco (Frisco) Bock, Karl- Plano Senior High (Plano) Burnham, Matthew- Plano West (Plano) Cariker, Jeb- Garland HS (Rowlett) Coffey, Jacob- McKinney Boyd (McKinney) Godwin, Morgan- Rowlett (Rowlett) UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY Zapendowski, Jacek- St. Mark’s (Richardson) Yao, Jeff- Plano Senior High (Plano) Janowski, Michael- Plano East (Murphy) Ramos, Joesph- Sachse (Sachse) Ricketts, Zachary- St. Benedict of Auburndale (Parker) Redmond, Jan- Plano East (Richardson) Weaver, Travis- Allen (Allen) Salinas, Ernesto- Naaman Forest (Garland) Carpenter, Lauren- Plano East (Murphy) Aselton, John- Plano Senior High (Plano) Alston, John- Plano Senior High (Plano) Kleinhans, Richard- Sachse (Garland) Parker, Paxton- Melissa (McKinney) Hager, Jon- Plano Senior High (Plano) Matthews, Zachary- Frisco (Frisco) Ostert, Brandon- Plano Senior High (Plano) Hansen, Richard- Jesuit (Richardson) Godwin, Morgan- Rowlett (Rowlett) Moorehead, Lyndon- Canyon Creek Christian Academy (Murphy) Hunter, Stephen- Allen (Allen) UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY Burnham, Matthew- Plano West (Plano) Bock, Karl- Plano Senior High (Plano) Carpenter, Lauren- Plano East (Murphy) Alston, John- Plano Senior High (Plano) Hager, Jon- Plano Senior High (Plano) Aselton, John- Plano Senior High (Plano) Martinez, Christopher- Cistercian (Plano) Coffey, Jacob- McKinney Boyd (McKinney) LeCocq, Tyler- Centennial (Frisco) Godwin, Morgan- Rowlett (Rowlett) Thompson, Preston- Trinity Christian Academy (Plano) Kleinhans, Richard- Sachse (Garland) Schmeck, Michael- John Paul II (Plano) Mapes, Tyler- Newman Smith (Plano) Cariker, Jeb- Garland HS (Rowlett) Moorehead, Lyndon- Canyon Creek Christian Academy (Murphy) Hanson, Richard- Jesuit (Richardson) Hampton, Kyle- Richland Collegiate (Plano) Hull, Andrew- Home school (Plano) Strakele, Grayson- Plano School High (Plano) UNITED STATES MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY Nichols, Brian- Plano Senior High (Plano) Espinoza, Jonathan- North Garland (Garland) LeCocq, Tyler- Centennial (Frisco) Macmanus, Mark- Trinity Christian Academy (Plano) Schmeck, Michael- John Paul II (Plano) Cariker, Jeb- Garland HS (Rowlett) Godwin, Morgan- Rowlett (Rowlett) Smith, Randall- McKinney (McKinney) Hampton, Kyle- Richland Collegiate (Plano) Kleinhans, Richard- Sachse (Garland) # # #
02.13.2009	As the House and Senate debate the so-called stimulus bill that would balloon the bureaucracy and Big Brother reach of the government when it comes to health information technology (HIT), U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) offered a common-sense alternative to the Democrat proposal and introduced his own (HIT) bill that would protect patient privacy and transform health care. share: f t As the House and Senate debate the so-called stimulus bill that would balloon the bureaucracy and Big Brother reach of the government when it comes to health information technology (HIT), U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) offered a common-sense alternative to the Democrat proposal and introduced his own (HIT) bill that would protect patient privacy and transform health care. “As we all know, health information technology is a must-do when it comes to reforming our healthcare system. However, for HIT to happen and to happen right we need the government to get out of the way and let ingenuity and market forces do their job. My bill strikes the right balance between patient privacy, innovation and smart spending,” said Johnson. Last night Johnson introduced the Promotion of Health Information Technology (PHIT) Act, H.R. 1039. The Act would save lives and trim wasteful spending, ultimately saving taxpayers money. The Institute of Medicine has reported that nearly 100,000 Americans die from preventable medical errors each year and another 1.5 million Americans suffer from preventable injuries due to improper prescribing, dispensing and taking of medications. Johnson thinks the Democrat provisions included in the stimulus bill unnecessarily increase the government-role in the implementation of health information technology. Johnson feels it is imperative to bring every doctor’s office, hospital and healthcare provider into the 21st Century. Provisions in the so-called stimulus bill give physicians up to $65,000 to purchase health IT systems which have an average cost of $35,000. In addition, hospitals can receive up to $15.9 million to purchase systems that could only cost a couple of million. The democrats’ bill lets these healthcare providers to keep the difference. Mr. Johnson believes there is a better, more efficient way to achieve the same goal that doesn’t make taxpayers literally give away millions to doctors and hospitals with zero accountability. “We need continued innovation and ingenuity to make improved health IT a reality and the ideas offered up by the Democrats move us in the absolute wrong direction: more government interference, more wasteful spending, less freedom and choice,” continued Johnson. Johnson’s bill speeds the use of health IT by healthcare providers, by using the tax code to increase the adoption of health IT. Under PHIT, physicians who purchase HIT would be allowed to deduct this business expense in the first year they put it to use. PHIT also ensures hospitals, during these economic times, would have access capital to purchase this life-saving technology by creating an interest-free loan guarantee program. A study by the RAND Corporation estimates that widespread use of HIT could produce savings of roughly $165 billion per year, which could reduce spending by 7 ½ - 30 percent to HHS. Johnson sits on the Health Subcommittee on the Ways and Means Committee. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
02.11.2009	In the wake of President Barack Obama’s recent executive order to close down Guantanamo Bay Naval Base detention center within a year, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) joined fellow Lone Star State lawmakers and sent a letter to the President insisting that they will join together to ensure that suspected terrorists presently residing in “Gitmo” don’t end up in Texas. share: f t In the wake of President Barack Obama’s recent executive order to close down Guantanamo Bay Naval Base detention center within a year, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) joined fellow Lone Star State lawmakers and sent a letter to the President insisting that they will join together to ensure that suspected terrorists presently residing in “Gitmo” don’t end up in Texas. “Don’t send terrorists to Texas. We don’t want them. It’s that simple,” said Johnson, a former Prisoner of War in Vietnam for nearly seven years, who spent more than half of that time in solitary confinement. The January 22, 2009 order insists that the facility will close no later than one year later. The order also states that people covered by this order will “be returned to their home country, released, transferred to a third country, or transferred to another United States detention facility in a manner consistent with law.” The letter states, “It is our collective opinion that no detainee from the Guantanamo Bay detention facility should, under any circumstances, be released, transferred to the State of Texas…These enemy combatants are kept at Guantanamo – under American control but outside the United States – to ensure that constitutional rights do not attach to them. Supreme Court precedents indicated that courts can bestow certain constitutional rights on individuals simply by virtue of their being on U.S. soil, potentially affording these detainees additional rights under U.S. immigration statutes. Granting such rights to these dangerous enemy combatants could potentially lead to their release into towns and cities of Texas…which would put innocent Texans in great danger, and we will do everything we can to prevent that from happening.” Johnson feels that the transfer or release of Gitmo inmates presents a clear and present danger to the American people. At least 61 former detainees have returned to terrorist activities and one is suspected of orchestrating last September’s deadly attack on the U.S. Embassy in Yemen. Johnson believes that the United States has already given enemy combatants rights far beyond those provided by any other nation. Johnson co-sponsored legislation to prohibit federal courts from ordering the release or transfer of Gitmo detainees into the U.S. The Enemy Combatant Detention Review Act, H.R. 630, establishes clear rules regarding the detention of known terrorists. The Act prohibits a federal court from ordering the government to bring enemy combatants into the U.S. and ensures that an alien captured and detained abroad during wartime cannot be admitted and released in the U.S. “My first choice would be for President Obama to change his mind and keep Gitmo open for the safety and security of Americans. I will do anything in my power to make sure these terrorists don’t end up in Texas,” concluded Johnson. For a copy of the letter, contact McCall Avery at 202-225-4201 or go to Johnson’s website at SamJohnson.house.gov. Johnson serves parts of Collin and Dallas Counties. # # #
02.11.2009	On the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) criticized the so-called stimulus proposals that cost nearly one trillion dollars. Johnson supports a streamlined stimulus package that boosts the lagging economy with job creation, tax relief and smart, targeted spending. share: f t On the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) criticized the so-called stimulus proposals that cost nearly one trillion dollars. Johnson supports a streamlined stimulus package that boosts the lagging economy with job creation, tax relief and smart, targeted spending. The House and Senate must reconcile the differences between the bills before final legislation can be passed. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Remarks as prepared for delivery: “My constituents are outraged at Washington’s reckless spending bills and they insist that this jumbo government give-away won’t stimulate the economy, help them find good jobs, keep a roof overhead or help them pay the bills. “I’m deeply concerned that the government keeps writing checks that our children and grandchildren can not cash. We must know – who is going to pay for all of this? Our constituents deserve much better. Taxpayers should not be exposed to even more risk! “Many have been hurting from the economic crunch for some time now. Yet experts project most of this stimulus spending won’t happen until after 2010, years into our recession. That will not help struggling Americans right now. “I think our country would benefit from a real stimulus package that boosts our lagging economy with job creation, tax relief and smart, targeted spending. Let’s work together to get this done RIGHT for America.” # # #
02.10.2009	After the United States Senate passed a trillion dollar economic stimulus bill, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) called on the House and Senate to come together to create a real economic plan for America that boosts the lagging economy with job creation, targeted tax relief and smart initiatives that will reinvigorate consumer spending. The House and Senate bills will go to conference where negotiators will create compromise legislation that both chambers must approve before the measure goes to the President for his signature. share: f t After the United States Senate passed a trillion dollar economic stimulus bill, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) called on the House and Senate to come together to create a real economic plan for America that boosts the lagging economy with job creation, targeted tax relief and smart initiatives that will reinvigorate consumer spending. The House and Senate bills will go to conference where negotiators will create compromise legislation that both chambers must approve before the measure goes to the President for his signature. “Our constituents deserve much better than an excessive trillion dollar spending bill. The House and Senate need to come together to find a balanced plan that creates jobs, cuts taxes, spends smarter, and gets consumers spending again. We should be spending money to help small businesses and entrepreneurs; they are the ones who create jobs. That will help the unemployed struggling to stay afloat,” said Johnson. Johnson took aim at the nearly trillion dollar price tags for both spending bills. “I’m deeply concerned that the government keeps writing checks that our children and grandchildren can not cash. We must know – who is going to pay for all of this? Our constituents deserve much better. Taxpayers should not be exposed to even more risk. They already practically own several banks as well as failed government mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Enough already! There must be a better way,” said Johnson. “If we really want to help stressed and frazzled families, we need to fix the housing problem that’s plaguing our economy and free up the credit markets. We shouldn’t be spending money on arts programs and other big-government goodies,” concluded Johnson. Johnson sits on the Ways and Means Committee that held a mark-up on the House version of the economic stimulus. At the mark-up, Johnson advocated that the Congress temporarily suspend the tax on unemployment benefits for 2008 and 2009 to help the unemployed. While President Obama suggested this idea on his website, www.change.gov, House Democrats voted down the measure. # # #
02.04.2009	On the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took aim at financial firms doling out $18 billion in bonuses last year. share: f t On the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took aim at financial firms doling out $18 billion in bonuses last year. Last week the New York Comptroller stated that Wall Street paid $18.4 billion in bonuses in 2008. Around the same time, on just January 26th alone, companies announced at least 50,000 new layoffs. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. His remarks follow. “Last week, Americans learned of 50,000 new layoffs in just one day. We also heard another startling fact – that the financial industry, bailed out by Uncle Sam, paid $18 billion in bonuses. That’s just appalling. “The $18 billion payout in 2008 ranks as the 6th highest in bonus history and compares with 2004, a banner year on Wall Street. “As a supporter of free-enterprise, I back performance-based bonuses for a job well done. Banks just barely getting by – thanks to taxpayer bailout money - have no business paying bonuses. With our economy sliding deeper into recession, this reckless decision to pay bonuses showcases the disgraceful behavior of greed and arrogance of Wall Street that Americans detest. It is flat out irresponsible. “I say stop the corporate bonus bonanza!” # # #
01.28.2009	As Congress debated the future of an $800+ billion economic stimulus proposal, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) urged his colleagues to help the unemployed and stop forcing jobless Americans to pay income taxes on unemployment benefits this tax season. share: f t As Congress debated the future of an $800+ billion economic stimulus proposal, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) urged his colleagues to help the unemployed and stop forcing jobless Americans to pay income taxes on unemployment benefits this tax season. Johnson called on fellow Members of Congress to “go back to the drawing board to come together to find real economic solutions to help get this economy moving again” – not at the expense of the unemployed. Last week, during debate of the bill at the Ways and Means Committee, Johnson offered an amendment to temporarily halt the taxation of unemployment benefits for 2008 and 2009. Despite the fact that President Obama advocated this common-sense proposal in his economic plan (www.change.gov), the Committee Democrats defeated the measure. Today the House passed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, H.R. 1, without the Johnson unemployment tax assistance initiative by a vote of 244 to 188. “Eleven million unemployed Americans are receiving a notice that says that they owe taxes on their unemployment benefits and they will have a huge bill due by April 15th. As this Congress works to find ways to kick start the economy, I propose that we not kick folks when they’re down, and that we eliminate the tax on unemployment insurance benefits for 2008 and 2009. The economic stimulus needs to do this,” Johnson said on the floor of the House. “I’d like to be able to inform my constituents that we’re going to do something about this problem. If we really want to help those struggling with unemployment, striving to get (or keep) a job, and hoping to keep a roof overhead and food on the table, we need to get to work. We need to help people keep more of their money,” said Johnson. Johnson backs reducing the lowest tax rates from 15% to 10% and from 10% to 5%. A married couple filing jointly could save up to $3,200 a year. This would help every taxpayer. While Johnson supports spurring economic recovery with job creation and tax relief, Johnson took issue with the non-related, non-emergency government spending in the so-called stimulus bill that passed the House that topped $800+ billion. “The Democrats went overboard when putting together their out-of-control spending plan – and allocated money to some of the most irrelevant programs that have absolutely nothing to do with economic recovery. The excess is shameful – especially in this time of financial need,” said Johnson. For example, the Democrats allocated $600 million to buy new cars for government workers – despite the fact that the government already spends $3 billion a year to care for a fleet of over 640,000 trucks, cars and other vehicles. In addition, the Democrats dedicated $335 million for STD education, $50 million for the National Endowment of the Arts, and $1 billion for Amtrak, the government’s rail company that hasn’t made a profit in over forty years. # # #
01.27.2009	Last night U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) re-introduced his common-sense proposal, The MOBILE (Modernize Our Bookkeeping In the Law for Employee’s) Cell Phone Act, H.R. 690. The Act would modernize the tax treatment of cell phones and Blackberries used for business and repeal the requirement that employers and employees maintain detailed logs of cell phone use. share: f t Last night U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) re-introduced his common-sense proposal, The MOBILE (Modernize Our Bookkeeping In the Law for Employee’s) Cell Phone Act, H.R. 690. The Act would modernize the tax treatment of cell phones and Blackberries used for business and repeal the requirement that employers and employees maintain detailed logs of cell phone use. A constituent concern in 2008 sparked the idea for Johnson’s cell phone fix legislation. Last year, a lawyer from North Texas contacted the Congressman on behalf of a client. The IRS wanted to verify the client’s records on employee cell phone and Blackberry use or he had to include the cost of the cell phones as part of their employees’ pay. The rules on cell-phone substantiation date back to 1989. Given the tremendous advances in this technology, Johnson thought the IRS should update the tax code as quickly as possible. “Think back to 1989 and what cell phones looked like at that time. The phones themselves were the size of a shoe, often they were bolted to the floor of a limo, and air time cost a fortune. The movie ‘Wall Street,’ with the lead character Gordon Gekko using a ‘brick’ cell phone, was the archetype for why Congress imposed the reporting requirements – only high-flying executives had this perk and there was a belief that business deductions for such an expensive toy should be thoroughly substantiated,” said Johnson. In the last Congress, Johnson, who sits on the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, swiftly pushed his cell phone proposal through the Democrat-led Congress. Within months of introduction, the House approved Johnson’s initiative as part of the Taxpayer Assistance and Simplification Act of 2008, H.R. 5719. Johnson hopes that President Obama will sign this legislation into law this year. Once again, Johnson re-introduced the legislation with Democrat Congressman Earl Pomeroy (At large -N.D.), who also serves on the Ways and Means Committee. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
01.22.2009	Just in time for the 2008 tax season, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) authored a provision to temporarily eliminate the federal income tax on unemployment benefits for 2008 and 2009 as part of the economic stimulus bill, H.R. 598, before the Ways and Means Committee. share: f t Just in time for the 2008 tax season, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) authored a provision to temporarily eliminate the federal income tax on unemployment benefits for 2008 and 2009 as part of the economic stimulus bill, H.R. 598, before the Ways and Means Committee. While President Obama expressed his support for removing the tax on unemployment benefits (www.change.gov), the Committee Democrats defeated Johnson’s measure on a party-line vote. “As we work to find ways to kick start the economy, I propose that we don’t kick folks when they’re down and that we eliminate the tax on unemployment insurance benefits for 2008 and 2009,” said Johnson. “Pretty soon a demoralizing scene will be played out in millions of American homes. Unemployed people will open a 1099 form from their state showing the amount of his or her unemployment benefits in 2008. But for most people there won’t be anything listed on the form for how much money has been withheld from their benefit checks. People on long-term unemployment benefits will then face the scary realization that they just got another bill -- but this one is for taxes that come due on April 15,” said Johnson. Estimates show that there were roughly 11.1 million unemployed Americans in December 2008, which translates into an unemployment rate of 7.2 percent. Many agree that this ranks as the highest unemployment rate since the 1992 recession. According to 2006 IRS data, more than a quarter of taxable unemployment benefits are on returns with less than $30,000 of income; more than half of taxable unemployment benefits are on returns with less than $50,000 of income; and approximately three-quarters of taxable unemployment benefits are on returns with less than $75,000 of income. “The 1099 statements that are showing up in mail boxes tell my constituents that they are going to owe federal taxes on their unemployment. I’d like to be able to tell my constituents that we’re going to do something about this problem in the stimulus bill,” said Johnson. Johnson also offered two other amendments to H.R. 598 -- one on health information technology and one on Medicare. Johnson voted against the stimulus bill that now heads to the floor of the House of Representatives for a vote. # # #
01.21.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) insisted that the taxpayers want, need and deserve serious answers on the first round of government bailout billions before Congress should authorize the second round of money - $350 billion more - in bailout funds. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) insisted that the taxpayers want, need and deserve serious answers on the first round of government bailout billions before Congress should authorize the second round of money - $350 billion more - in bailout funds. While Johnson voted against H.R. 384, the Troubled Asset and Relief Program (TARP) Reform and Accountability Act, the measure passed 260 to 166. The bill would release the second $350 billion. “Taxpayers want, need and deserve answers on how the Treasury spent the first $350 billion before Congress should authorize the next bundle of billions,” said Johnson. Last fall then Secretary Paulson worked with some in Congress to create the so-called $700 billion economic rescue plan with the initial intent to buy up toxic mortgage assets to help propel the American economy out of a terrible housing slump. Around the same time, AIG executives made headlines for vacationing at the St. Regis Monarch Beach Resort. “It’s astounding that AIG received government bailout money and then the company executives retreated to a highfalutin’ beach resort in Southern California. Come on! This is just one bold example of how the government bailout was poorly executed,” said Johnson. “Congress can not approve the second $350 billion without an honest assessment of how it will be spent. To date, Secretary Paulson spent almost $300 billion with zero accountability and little to show for it. My constituents are outraged at the lack of accountability – and rightly so. There must be answers before we spend one penny more on so-called bailouts,” concluded Johnson. The measure now goes to the Senate for consideration; it is unlikely that the Senate will move forward on H.R. 384. # # #
01.19.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after President George W. Bush commuted the sentence of imprisoned border agents Jose Alonso Compean and Ignacio Ramos. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after President George W. Bush commuted the sentence of imprisoned border agents Jose Alonso Compean and Ignacio Ramos. Earlier this month, Johnson penned a monthly column asking constituents to call the White House to urge President Bush to pardon the agents. Last week, Johnson joined fellow Texas lawmakers in a letter urging the President to take action on this case before he left office. "Today is a new day for the Ramos and Compean families. I want to thank President Bush for commuting their sentences. Of course, I wish he had pardoned the agents. The important thing is that Ramos and Compean can return home to their loved ones and finally walk free." ###
01.16.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement in advance of the first hearing of Hall v Leavitt, a lawsuit that challenges controversial government rules that deny retirees their Social Security benefits if they choose to opt out of Medicare, Part A, the hospital insurance program, in favor of keeping the private health coverage of their choice. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement in advance of the first hearing of Hall v Leavitt, a lawsuit that challenges controversial government rules that deny retirees their Social Security benefits if they choose to opt out of Medicare, Part A, the hospital insurance program, in favor of keeping the private health coverage of their choice. Last year three people filed a lawsuit against Health and Human Services and the Social Security Administration to opt out of Medicare Part A. Around the same time last year, Johnson introduced the Medicare Beneficiary Freedom to Choose Act. The legislation would give seniors the freedom to take control over their health care decisions and opt out of Medicare Part A if they choose. Johnson plans to re-introduce the legislation in the 111th Congress. This afternoon a U.S District Court for the District of Columbia will hold an initial hearing on Hall v. Leavitt. The hearing will focus on Brian Hall's request for a temporary restraining order (TRO) barring the Department of Health & Human Services from enrolling him in Medicare against his will. Presently Medicare’s bureaucracy prevents seniors from paying their own doctor out of pocket, mandates that seniors enroll to receive government benefits (even the wealthy ones who do not wish to participate), and prevents seniors from contributing to their tax-free health savings account (HSA) once they hit 65. Johnson’s bill, the Medicare Beneficiary Freedom to Choose Act, would change all that. To learn more about this case, go to www.medicarelawsuit.org. “The sad reality that Brian Hall needs a temporary restraining order to try to stay out of Medicare defies common sense. If people want to pay for their own health decisions, they should be able to do that without Big Brother interfering – especially when government entitlement programs are breaking the bank. That’s why my bill, the Medicare Beneficiary Freedom to Choose Act, should be law.” # # #
01.15.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd District-Texas) congratulated the Allen High School football team for capturing the state title on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd District-Texas) congratulated the Allen High School football team for capturing the state title on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. Last month, the Allen Eagles defeated Fort Bend Hightower 21 to 14 in a second half comeback to win the Texas 5-A Football Championship in front of a huge crowd in Houston's Reliant Stadium. Johnson will attend the Allen community State Championship celebration and pep rally on Sunday, January 18th in Allen to congratulate the team personally. Prepared remarks follow: “I rise to congratulate the 2008 State Champions of Texas high school football – the blue and white Allen Eagles. “Last month, the Allen Eagles defeated Fort Bend Hightower 21 to 14 in a second half comeback to win the Texas 5-A Football Championship in Houston's Reliant Stadium. The crowd went wild! “Under head coach Tom Westerberg, the Eagles football program has thrived with stellar seasons in 07, 06, and 05 as well. I request permission to insert the names of the top coaches into the record. “There is a special story about this team. Each spring, the rising seniors pick a motto for the upcoming season. The players selected – Start strong. Finish strong. “Congratulations to the Allen Eagles. Way to finish strong. I salute you. “God bless you and God bless America. Go Eagles!” # # #
01.14.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) spoke out to protect physician-owned hospitals, sometimes called specialty hospitals, on the floor of the House of Representatives. A provision to gut doctor-owned hospitals – save for a few “carve outs” for certain Members of Congress - was included in the childrens’ health legislation that passed the House. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) spoke out to protect physician-owned hospitals, sometimes called specialty hospitals, on the floor of the House of Representatives. A provision to gut doctor-owned hospitals – save for a few “carve outs” for certain Members of Congress - was included in the childrens’ health legislation that passed the House. Johnson has a long record of fighting behind the scenes to protect physician-owned hospitals. In this instance, Johnson filed an amendment to strike the harmful provision from the comprehensive insurance bill but Democrats refused to consider the amendment. North Texas boasts several premiere physician-owned hospitals, including the Presbyterian Plano Center for Diagnostics & Surgery, Heart Hospital Baylor Plano, and Reliant Rehabilitation Hospital in Richardson. Presently, award-winning Heart Hospital Baylor Plano is in the process of expanding and this bill jeopardizes the ability to complete their expansion project. Texas has 100+ doctor-owned hospitals and presently 50 are in the pipeline for future development; if passed, today’s legislation would squash those plans. Johnson’s prepared statement follows: “I rise today in strong opposition to a provision in this bill that would have drastic consequences for hospitals in my district and hospitals around the nation. Everyone in this chamber can agree that healthcare in this country needs a transformation. America has always been a leader when it comes to medical research, training the best and brightest and providing superior care. We need to make sure that tradition continues. “Physicians across the country have decided that they can provide better healthcare to more people by engaging in the process. Some doctors have decided to play a role in the care delivered in the hospitals in their community. Studies show this has resulted in higher quality care and higher patient satisfaction. Physician-owned hospitals employ highly skilled workers, they are an engine in their local economies and language in this bill will devastate most of these facilities. I say most, because a handful of hospitals located in special congressional districts will have rights that hospitals in my district and a majority of others around the country will not. Why do only a handful of Members of Congress receive the privilege of a carve out for their hospitals? “Many facilities have poured millions of dollars into constructing hospitals that will be forced to shut down because of this bill. A hospital in my district is in the process of adding additional operating rooms and hospital beds to serve their community’s needs. This local hospital will not be able to complete that project because of this bill. “I ask my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to work with me to see that ALL existing hospitals and those underdevelopment are treated the same in this legislation. No carve outs. No special privileges for a few. It has to be ALL fair and ALL the same. “Physician-owned hospitals have proven over and over again that they spur greater choice and offer high quality care to patients. These hospitals ALL deserve the right to continue to serve their community, and right now, we ALL need them to continue to employ and bolster our country’s economy.” # # #
01.13.2009	On Wednesday, January 28th the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host “mobile office hours” to visit with constituents. The current cities hosting January’s “mobile office hours” include: Allen, Frisco, McKinney, Plano, Richardson and Rowlett. share: f t On Wednesday, January 28th the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host “mobile office hours” to visit with constituents. The current cities hosting January’s “mobile office hours” include: Allen, Frisco, McKinney, Plano, Richardson and Rowlett. Staff from the Congressman’s office host regular “mobile office hours” throughout the Third Congressional District to meet with constituents. During the “mobile office hours” the Third District staff gladly will offer assistance with problems regarding federal issues or agencies, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration or the Internal Revenue Service. They also may help facilitate overseas adoptions. Constituents are invited to stop by and share their comments about federal issues in Congress. No advance appointments are necessary. If a person would like assistance with a federal agency, he or she should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. In the event people cannot attend the “mobile office hours” in their city, residents are encouraged to contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Allen Allen Senior Recreation Center Meeting Room 451 East St. Mary 214-509-4820 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Frisco George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Entrance/Lobby Area, 1st floor 6101 Frisco Square Blvd. 972-292-5000 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. McKinney Collin College - Central Park Campus Entrance/Lobby Area 2200 W. University Drive 972-548-6790 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Plano Plano Municipal Center Entrance/Lobby Area 1520 Avenue K 972-941-7000 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. Richardson Richardson Civic Center West Alcove Area 411 Arapaho Road 972-744-4090 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Rowlett Rowlett Public Library Meeting Room 3900 Main Street 972-412-6161 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. ###
01.13.2009	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) invited Third District residents to pick up their official Inauguration tickets on Friday, January 16th and Monday, January 19th between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. in 1211 Longworth House Office Building. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) invited Third District residents to pick up their official Inauguration tickets on Friday, January 16th and Monday, January 19th between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. in 1211 Longworth House Office Building. There are no more public tickets available for the official swearing-in ceremony. People who secured tickets in advance and received a confirmation through Johnson’s office may pick up their tickets anytime during the office hours. Inauguration Day is a federal holiday and the office will be closed for business on Tuesday, January 20th as prescribed by the Office of Personnel and Management. People picking up tickets must show an official photo identification. Inauguration tickets are free of charge. Each congressional office received 198 tickets. Johnson distributed virtually all of his allotted tickets to constituents. Thousands upon thousands of constituents requested tickets. Johnson allocated tickets on a first-come-first-served basis and stopped keeping a waiting list shortly after Election Day due to the high demand. On Friday and Monday constituents are welcome to stop by to warm up with coffee and meet fellow Texans in town for the Inauguration. People will have the opportunity to hand-write letters to a Marine serving in Iraq and/ or a soldier stationed in Afghanistan and thank them for their service. Light refreshments will be served while supplies last. People are encouraged to take the Metro (Capitol South/ orange or blue line) or take a cab as parking will be very limited. For a complete listing of official Inaugural events, visit http://www.pic2009.org/content/home.
12.11.2008	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) questioned the Department of Homeland Security’s background checking process for new hires, known as E-verify, after news broke that illegal immigrants cleaned the home of the Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff. share: f t U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) questioned the Department of Homeland Security’s background checking process for new hires, known as E-verify, after news broke that illegal immigrants cleaned the home of the Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff. According to the Washington Post, “Every few weeks for nearly four years, the Secret Service screened the IDs of employees for a Maryland cleaning company before they entered the house of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, the nation's top immigration official. The company's owner says the workers sailed through the checks -- although some of them turned out to be illegal immigrants.” In the article the employer in question took aim at the screening system, “‘Our Homeland Security can't police their own home. How can they police our borders?’” E-Verify is a partnership between the Social Security Administration and the Department of Homeland Security that allows employers to check the work authorization status of newly hired employees. This voluntary plan is the only tool the government offers to help employers comply with immigration law. “Americans want, need and deserve real immigration reform. Today’s news that illegal immigrants passed high level background checks to clean the home of the Department of Homeland Security demonstrates why Congress should take a new, fresh approach to illegal immigration reform in the next Congress,” concluded Johnson. This year Johnson introduced the New Employee Verification Act (NEVA), H.R. 5515. The Act will achieve three important objectives: ensure a legal workforce, secure workers’ identity, and protect Social Security. To learn more about the New Employee Verification Act, visit www.SamJohnson.house.gov. # # #
11.13.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took issue with the latest developments of the so-called $700 billion economic rescue plan initially designed to buy up toxic mortgage assets to help propel the American economy out of a terrible housing slump. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took issue with the latest developments of the so-called $700 billion economic rescue plan initially designed to buy up toxic mortgage assets to help propel the American economy out of a terrible housing slump. “The American people want, need and deserve answers and accountability on the bailout money,” said Johnson, who opposed the bailout proposal. “Congress can not approve the second $350 billion without an honest assessment of how it will be spent. To date, the Bush Administration has spent $290 billion with zero accountability and little to show for it.” Yesterday Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson changed course on the $700 billion financial sector bailout that would use taxpayer dollars to purchase troubled assets from banks in favor of a new plan. Paulson’s new plan aims to expand the bailout program into the markets that provide support for credit card debt, auto loans and student loans. This news came on the heels of the announcement that the government would pump additional taxpayer dollars into lagging AIG; AIG employees have taken two luxury getaways since the bailout. “Secretary Paulson keeps changing the rules. He’s completely abandoned any thoughts of buying troubled assets with the money Congress threw at him. Bad mortgages are the kernel of what’s gone wrong here. If all we are going to do is mask the symptoms and not address the cause, we’re never going to put the economy on a healthy track,” continued Johnson. “Secretary Paulson is accountable to absolutely no one because the Congressional Oversight Panel is yet to convene. He’s apparently decided to change tax law on a whim. Only Congress can change the law so whatever he has proposed can not stand. Paulson and the people at the Treasury Department need to be reined in,” said Johnson. Johnson has voiced opposition to the idea of a “free-for-all” bailout since news first broke of the initial Paulson proposal. Sky-high executive compensation and pricey severance packages for top corporate leaders, among other things, have drawn Johnson’s ire. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
10.20.2008	Today the Ranking Member of the Social Security Subcommittee on the Ways and Means Committee, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas), commended the work of Social Security Commissioner Michael J. Astrue and praised agency efforts to reduce backlogged claims for disability benefits. share: f t Today the Ranking Member of the Social Security Subcommittee on the Ways and Means Committee, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas), commended the work of Social Security Commissioner Michael J. Astrue and praised agency efforts to reduce backlogged claims for disability benefits. “I’m glad to see Mike Astrue’s hard work and good management are paying off. He and his staff have done a great job streamlining the disability appeals process and improving service to those who need it most, especially to those who were waiting the longest,” said Johnson. At a recent speaking engagement to the National Organization of Social Security Claimants’ Representatives, Commissioner Astrue gave a detailed progress report on agency actions. The Social Security Administration (SSA) hired 190 new Administrative Law Judges, “opened a National Hearing Center, eliminated virtually its entire aged case backlog of more than 135,000 cases waiting over 900 days for a hearing decision, and implemented a quick disability determination process in all 50 states.” According to the SSA, “as a result of these and many other activities, the disability backlog at the hearings level, which had been growing at the rate of about 70,000 cases each year for most of this decade, grew by only about 14,000 cases.” Last year Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Mike McNulty (D-N.Y.) and Johnson worked together with Appropriators to receive close to $150 million more in additional funding over the President’s budget request to bolster disability program service. As a result, the number of judges and support staff are increasing. Social Security disability benefits provide essential income security to workers with disabilities and their families and represent 16% of total Social Security benefits paid. As of June 2008, 7.2 million disabled workers and 1.8 million dependents collected Social Security disability benefits. Johnson has long expressed his concerns that Americans have been waiting longer than ever, over 17 months on average, to hear whether a judge has decided they are eligible for benefits and the fact that some judges are processing cases at a level well below the agency expectations. To read the full SSA news release announcing the disability backlog progress, visit http://www.ssa.gov/pressoffice/pr/backlog-progress-pr.html # # #
10.17.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) sent a bipartisan letter to Treasury Secretary Paulson and Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke condemning AIG’s luxurious getaway. In the letter, Johnson and fellow Members of Congress demanded that the nation’s financial leaders determine whether or not AIG spent taxpayer funds, and if so, insisted that “AIG repay the American people in full.” share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) sent a bipartisan letter to Treasury Secretary Paulson and Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke condemning AIG’s luxurious getaway. In the letter, Johnson and fellow Members of Congress demanded that the nation’s financial leaders determine whether or not AIG spent taxpayer funds, and if so, insisted that “AIG repay the American people in full.” The text of the letter follows. “We write to express strong concerns about AIG’s possible misuse of federal taxpayer funds. “It has come to our attention that, after the Federal Government provided a loan of $85 billion to AIG, the AIG executives hosted a lavish $440,000 retreat at the St. Regis Resort in Monarch Beach, California. “Even more troubling, the day after this was revealed to the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, the New York branch of the Federal Reserve announced it will borrow $37.8 billion in investment-grade securities from AIG in exchange for cash. “At a time when many of our constituents have concerns about their own financial security, we demand that you ensure that no taxpayer funds were used by AIG to host this retreat. If taxpayer funds were used, we demand that AIG repay the American people in full. It is crucial that the American people be able to trust the actions of the Federal Reserve and the Treasury.” # # #
10.14.2008	On Saturday, October 25th U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will kick off the “Badges of Honor” initiative to help veterans obtain the service medals they’ve earned. The event will take place on Saturday, October 25th from 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. at the Grand Texan in McKinney located at 2491 Country View Lane. share: f t On Saturday, October 25th U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will kick off the “Badges of Honor” initiative to help veterans obtain the service medals they’ve earned. The event will take place on Saturday, October 25th from 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. at the Grand Texan in McKinney located at 2491 Country View Lane. Veterans needing assistance with personal medals, campaign medals or service medals are asked to bring a COPY of their DD214. Congressional staff will be available to assist with the paperwork needed to begin the service medal request process. Typically veterans will seek a replacement medal or ribbon if they lost them in a move. In some cases, veterans earned a service medal and did not know that s/he rated the new commendation because s/he had moved on to a new duty station or left military service before the medal commendation could be awarded. For example, in 2001 Johnson presented Plano’s Gildas McDowell with long overdue medals for his heroics as a Prisoner of War in World War II. Gildas retired from the military in 1974. In 2001, Johnson gave Maximo Fernandez of Garland a Bronze Star with an Oak Leaf Cluster for his valor in the Army in World War II. “We have a whole new generation of men and women coming home from war. Sometimes they rated medals and never pinned them on. I’m here to help,” said Congressman Johnson. In the event a veteran or family member of a veteran can not attend this event, the interested parties should contact Johnson’s office in Richardson for assistance at 972-470-0892. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson served in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars. He spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. A decorated combat veteran and war hero, Johnson was awarded two Silver Stars, two Legions of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross, one Bronze Star with Valor, two Purple Hearts, four Air Medals, and three Outstanding Unit Awards. Saturday, October 25th 1:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. Badges of Honor initiative U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) The Grand Texan The Ballroom 2491 Country View Lane McKinney # # #
10.09.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after three people filed a lawsuit against Health and Human Services and the Social Security Administration to opt out of Medicare Part A, Brian Hall et al v. Michael Leavitt et al. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after three people filed a lawsuit against Health and Human Services and the Social Security Administration to opt out of Medicare Part A, Brian Hall et al v. Michael Leavitt et al. Recently, Johnson introduced the Medicare Beneficiary Freedom to Choose Act. The legislation would give seniors the freedom to take control over their health care decisions. Presently Medicare’s bureaucracy prevents seniors from paying their own doctor out of pocket, mandates that seniors enroll to receive government benefits (even the wealthy ones who do not wish to participate), and prevents seniors from contributing to their tax-free health savings account (HSA) once they hit 65. That’s why Johnson introduced the Medicare Beneficiary Freedom to Choose Act, H.R. 7148. To learn more about this case, go to www.medicarelawsuit.org. “It’s sad that people who want to make their own health care decisions feel like they have no other option than to sue the federal government. That’s why my bill, the Medicare Beneficiary Freedom to Choose Act, should be law. People should make their own medical decisions, the government shouldn’t force health care decisions on anyone.” # # #
10.08.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) invited Third District middle school students to compete in the second annual Patriotic Essay contest. The theme for this year’s essay contest is “What America means to me.” Students have until November 5th to submit an original essay. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) invited Third District middle school students to compete in the second annual Patriotic Essay contest. The theme for this year’s essay contest is “What America means to me.” Students have until November 5th to submit an original essay. The purpose of the middle school contest is to promote patriotism among pre-teens and adults in homes, schools and neighborhoods. To participate in the contest, students must live within the Third District. Only essays from middle school students attending public, private, or home schools will be considered. Those interested may download the guidelines and student/parent release form here. “Patriots come in all shapes and sizes and ages and stages. I hope that middle school students will participate and write about their pride in America,” said Johnson. Participants must submit type-written essays between 400 and 500 words. The broad theme, “What America means to me” will allow students to get creative. Students may not identify themselves, their school, or their parents within the essay. An all-volunteer panel of community leaders will judge the essays and select a winner. To prevent the panelists from knowing who wrote an essay, students must turn in the essay to Johnson’s District Office with a cover page with the student’s full name; title of essay; school; teacher; and grade. To ensure that every writer gets an equal chance, the cover page will be removed from the essay and the essay will be identified by a number. Any essay text containing a student’s name or personal-identifying information will be disqualified. “My staff and I go to great lengths to ensure that all Third District young residents feel like that they have a way to make a difference in their community. Middle school students can compete in the patriotic essay contest. Elementary school kids hand-make ‘Valentines for Veterans.’ High school students may serve on the Congressional Youth Advisory Council. It’s important to give middle school students an opportunity to make their contribution and be recognized. A patriotic essay does just that. Hopefully this essay contest will inspire fun, family discussions at home and at school,” stated Johnson. Johnson referred to two popular programs for Third District young people: 1) Valentines for Veterans, a successful district-wide campaign when school children create “Valentines for Veterans” that Johnson delivers personally to the Dallas Veterans’ Hospital; and 2) the Congressional Youth Advisory Council, a group that provides Johnson with greater student perspective on issues relevant to younger Americans. To be considered, completed essays must be received in Johnson’s district office by 4:00pm on Wednesday, November 5th, located at 2929 North Central Expressway, Suite 240, in Richardson. For more information or assistance, contact Deanna Kuykendall at (972) 470-0892 or by email at deanna.kuykendall@mail.house.gov. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. The cities include: Allen, north Dallas, Frisco, Garland, McKinney, Murphy, Parker, Plano, Richardson, Rowlett, Sachse, and Wylie. # # #
10.03.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1424, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, by a vote of 263 to 171. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1424, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, by a vote of 263 to 171. Johnson supports the economic rescue alternative plan championed by House conservatives, H.R. 7223. Johnson serves on the Ways and Means Committee that has jurisdiction over taxes and represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. “This clearly ranks as one of the toughest votes I’ve ever cast in Congress. I wish that there was a better way to help struggling homeowners facing foreclosure. “It was with mixed emotion that I voted no. While I liked the state-sales tax deduction, alternative minimum tax relief, and other energy conservation tax breaks, the bad outweighed the good in this bill. Even if people are willing to trust Secretary Paulson with this, I feel there are better alternatives, such as the economic rescue alternative plan. “My constituents told me very clearly that they did not like the new version of the economic rescue package and I cast my vote with them in mind. “Our children and grandchildren should not be saddled with the financial burden created by this generation.” # # #
10.01.2008	This week U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) introduced legislation to give seniors the freedom to take control over their health care decisions. share: f t This week U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) introduced legislation to give seniors the freedom to take control over their health care decisions. “If Warren Buffett wants to pay for his own medical care, I say we should let him,” said Johnson, who serves on the Health Subcommittee. Presently Medicare’s bureaucracy prevents seniors from paying their own doctor out of pocket, mandates that seniors enroll to receive government benefits (even the wealthy ones who do not wish to participate), and prevents seniors from contributing to their tax-free health savings account (HSA) once they hit 65. That’s why Johnson introduced the Medicare Beneficiary Freedom to Choose Act, H.R. 7148. First, the Act would put seniors in control of their health care decisions by allowing them to select their own doctor in Medicare. Under current law, if a doctor enters into a private contract with a Medicare patient, then the doctor must leave the entire Medicare program for two years. Johnson’s bill would remove the Medicare red-tape that prohibits seniors from working with a health care provider of their choice. Second, the bill would allow seniors to opt out of Medicare Part A when they become eligible, usually age 65, if they don’t want to receive the benefit. Part A covers hospital and skilled nursing home care, among other things. Presently, seniors may choose not to enroll in Medicare Part B or Part D, but not Part A. Third, the bill allows seniors to contribute pre-tax dollars to a health savings account, HSA, when used in conjunction with a high-deductible health plan. Under current law, once a person turns 65 he or she is automatically enrolled in Part A. This coverage makes them ineligible to contribute to an HSA. Johnson’s bill would restore this tax benefit for those seniors who decide to opt out of Part A. “In just a few years the Baby Boomer generation will start retiring and collecting Medicare. We need to rejuvenate and improve Medicare before they enter the system, especially if it can cut down on government costs,” concluded Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
09.30.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the temporary disruption of the email server for the U.S. House of Representatives due to “the unprecedented amount of emails,” likely sparked by the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, sometimes called Secretary Paulson’s $700 billion bailout plan. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the temporary disruption of the email server for the U.S. House of Representatives due to “the unprecedented amount of emails,” likely sparked by the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, sometimes called Secretary Paulson’s $700 billion bailout plan. Constituents may experience a delay when trying to send an email to Congressman Sam Johnson via the “Write Your Representative” feature on the website, SamJohnson.house.gov. People are encouraged to try back later or call the Congressman’s two offices at 972/470-0892 or 202/225-4201 to register their opinion. “I want to thank the record amount of people who reached out to my office to share their thoughts on the economic rescue package. They are the voices of democracy in action. Folks were fired up! The calls and emails came in 10 to 1 against the Paulson proposal. The only time I remember such unparalleled constituent feedback was when the Senate debated illegal immigration and blanket amnesty,” said Johnson. To date, over the past week, roughly 2,300 constituents contacted Johnson on the $700 billion bailout. The Chief Administrative Office (CAO) of the House, the organization tasked with email server security, sent the following alert to all congressional offices: “In order to ensure that constituents can access and view the House.gov website and all websites within the domain, including those of all Members and Committees, House computer engineers have had to implement limits on the unprecedented amount of emails flowing into the system via the Write Your Rep application at this time. “During hours of peak demand, some constituents attempting to use the system may receive a message asking them to try back at a later time, when demand is not so extreme. This measure has become temporarily necessary to ensure that Congressional websites are not completely disabled by the millions of emails flowing into the system. Engineers are working diligently to accommodate this enormous traffic flow and we appreciate your patience in this matter.” # # #
09.29.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement on the Wall Street bailout legislation before the U.S. House of Representatives, H.R. 3997, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. The measure failed 205-228. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement on the Wall Street bailout legislation before the U.S. House of Representatives, H.R. 3997, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. The measure failed 205-228. Johnson supports the Economic Rescue Alternative Plan proposed by House conservatives. Johnson serves on the Ways and Means Committee that has jurisdiction over taxes and represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. “As a relentless supporter of free enterprise, I fear we are rushing headlong into socialism. The American people want us to do something. I agree 110%. Today’s vote shows that they think the Paulson proposal was not the answer. I say let’s go back to the drawing board and craft a thoughtful compromise that demands that Wall Street bails out Wall Street. “A teacher once said, ‘for every choice you make, you pay a price.’ Wall Street, not the taxpayers, should be paying the price for reckless decisions, risky loans, blind ambition, and uncontained greed. “The taxpayers of the Third District have been calling my office all weekend wanting to know when the Congress will bail them out just like government will rescue Wall Street…just like they did for Bear Stearns, just like they did for Freddie Mac, just like they did for Fannie Mae, just like they did for AIG. The taxpayers of the Third Congressional District have told me ‘enough already.’ “Too many people and banks were overleveraged. Now they’re paying the price – literally. This package rewards banks that made poor business decisions to the disadvantage of good banks – all financed by taxpayers. “I support helping families, homeowners, and business owners. I say we slow down and figure out the best way forward. Now is not the time to strap the U.S. taxpayers with a rushed $700 billion bailout for Wall Street that may not even work. I am not willing to sacrifice the financial future of my children and grandchildren. They can’t be expected to pay for this. There has to be a better way.” For information regarding the alternative I support, please the the attached document. # # #
09.25.2008	This morning on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) delivered the following statement on a suggested $700 billion Wall Street bailout. share: f t This morning on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) delivered the following statement on a suggested $700 billion Wall Street bailout. Prepared remarks follow: "The news on this Wall Street bailout has me fuming. Taxpayers want, need and deserve answers and accountability. The Treausry Secretary should not have the authority to spend $700 billion with zero oversight. "Meanwhile, a provision in the bill says that banks that bought Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac preferred stock get better tax treatment than an individual who bough preferred stock. That is just wrong. "Why shouldn't banks be held responsible for their mistakes? I'm not sure this is the best way to fix the problem. We need to discuss serious alternatives before we ask Americans to shoulder billions in additional debt. "Hundreds of my constituents have called outraged at this Wall Street rescue and they want to know when we're going to bail them out. I am outraged too. Taxpayers deserve better from America." For information regarding the alternative I support, please the the attached document. ###
09.22.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement on a suggested $700 billion Wall Street rescue. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement on a suggested $700 billion Wall Street rescue. “Taxpayers want, need and deserve answers and accountability. So far, I’m seeing neither when it comes to the latest proposed Wall Street bailout. I understand it’s a moving target and nothing is final but what I am hearing gives me great cause for concern. “Believe it or not, I agree with some of the Democrats on a few things. For starters, people on Wall Street have no business receiving enormous severance packages, tremendous bonuses, and gigantic compensation deals paid for by the U.S. taxpayer. I also don’t think that the Secretary of the Treasury should have the authority to spend $700 billion with zero oversight. We don’t even know who will be the Treasury Secretary come next January. “I don’t know what the best answer will be. I am not an economist. But I am getting sick and tired of bailout after bailout. The taxpayers deserve better. The latest and greatest bailout demands deliberation and thoughtfulness, not speed and silence.” For information regarding the alternative I support, please the the attached document. # # #
09.18.2008	On Saturday, September 27th at 10 am, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will host the annual Service Academies Forum for young people and their families interested in pursuing an education at one of the nation’s prestigious service academies. The free informational event will take place in the Conference Center of the Collin County Community College Spring Creek Campus located at 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway in Plano. No R.S.V.P is needed. share: f t On Saturday, September 27th at 10 am, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will host the annual Service Academies Forum for young people and their families interested in pursuing an education at one of the nation’s prestigious service academies. The free informational event will take place in the Conference Center of the Collin County Community College Spring Creek Campus located at 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway in Plano. No R.S.V.P is needed. Students interested in seeking a nomination to the U.S. Military, Naval, Air Force, or Merchant Marine Academies are encouraged to attend. At the event, representatives will present highlights of each Service Academy and provide details on student evaluation, nomination and appointment procedures. Following this overview, people will break into groups. This allows students and parents to speak directly with representatives from each academy. Students who attend the forum are under no obligation to apply or enroll in an Academy. Students must be nominated for the U.S. Air Force Academy (Colorado Springs, CO), the U.S. Military Academy (West Point, NY), the U.S. Naval Academy (Annapolis, MD), and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (Kings Point, NY). Students applying to the U.S. Coast Guard Academy (New London, CT) do not need a congressional nomination. Typically, students in 8th – 11th grade, as well as their families, attend this event. In most cases, seniors have passed the information-gathering process for the service academies and started the application process, if desired. “This forum is a great opportunity for interested students and their parents to meet with representatives from the service academies to get first-hand information about these fine schools,” concluded Johnson. For more information, contact Johnson’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. Saturday, September 27th 10 am Service Academies Forum – a free informational session Collin County Community College Spring Creek Campus Conference Center 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway Plano # # #
09.17.2008	Today on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) delivered the following statement blasting the Democrats’ so called energy bill as “all hat and no cattle.” Johnson favors a balanced approach and real solutions on energy, supporting an “all of the above approach” share: f t Today on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) delivered the following statement blasting the Democrats’ so called energy bill as “all hat and no cattle.” Johnson favors a balanced approach and real solutions on energy, supporting an “all of the above approach” Shortly after the Democrats took control of Congress on January 31 2007, the average cost of a gallon of regular unleaded gasoline was $1.99. Today the national average is $3.84 – down from the July peak of over $4.12. Remarks as prepared for delivery: “The American people want, need and deserve a Congress that responds to their needs and acts diligently on their top priority – the high costs of energy. Sadly, the Democrats in Congress – beholden to their radical leftist interests - have blocked progress and will not let us do the job that the American people sent us to Washington to do – that is to come up with a balanced approach to real energy solutions. “Ironically, the only border fence the Democrats seem to care about is the fence they want to put up around the areas where we can’t explore for oil. It’s just a disgrace. “Solving our energy crisis means tapping all of America’s resources for America’s future to create American jobs and American prosperity. “Folks are sick and tired of paying around $4 for a gallon of gas. They are fed up with relying on foreign countries and brutal dictators to supply our energy needs. Americans have had it with the Democrat Leadership who told the Congress to take a 5 week vacation instead of staying around to do their jobs. “The Democrat bill before us today is just a sham. They’re refusing to allow us to tap into our own homegrown energy resources and discouraging investment in our future energy supply. I am here to tell you—as we say in Texas— this bill is all hat and no cattle. “On October 1st – the ban on offshore energy exploration on the Outer Continental Shelf expires. This bill would put the lid on the OCS with no progress in sight. I say we should finally open up this resource to domestic production. However, today’s bill puts excessive rules and regulations back on the OCS, landing us back basically where we started. That’s not what I call progress. “We owe it to the American people to get this one done right. We need to open up the Outer Continental Shelf for exploration. We need to allow states to share the revenue of oil exploration. We need to tap Alaskan areas that hold the potential for domestic energy resources – not just the parts cherry-picked by the Speaker. We must be open to oil shale and clean coal and renewable energy sources, like the wind and the sun. We DON’T need more bureaucracy, we need more innovation and we need to do it all. “I am opposing this bill and urging my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to work together to come up real energy reform for our children and our grandchildren and for all Americans.” # # #
09.16.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) invited college-bound students and their families to a free workshop on planning and paying for college on Saturday, October 4th at 10 a.m. in Dallas. High school juniors and seniors present may enter to win a $500 scholarship from The Sallie Mae Fund. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) invited college-bound students and their families to a free workshop on planning and paying for college on Saturday, October 4th at 10 a.m. in Dallas. High school juniors and seniors present may enter to win a $500 scholarship from The Sallie Mae Fund. The free event is open to the public and press. People may RSVP by emailing SamJohnsonEvent@mail.house.gov but it is not mandatory. Johnson will host the Paying for College program with the Sallie Mae Fund, a leading servicer of student loans. Sallie Mae financial aid experts, as well as representatives from local colleges, will be on hand to answer questions. Families will learn about applying for and qualifying for financial aid; understanding financial aid awards; borrowing for college; the differences in federal student loan programs and more. The event will take place on Saturday, October 4th at 10 a.m. in the Pavilion of the Texas A&M Extension Center located at 17360 Coit Road in Dallas. “Most parents of college bound kids are feeling financial jitters in this shaky economy. Many parents and kids may be wondering – and perhaps fearing – how will they pay for everything in these lean economic times. For some, getting into a good school isn't the hard part -- paying for it is. This Paying for College seminar should help a lot of folks learn more about their financial options,” said Johnson. Those with questions about the event should contact Johnson’s office at 972-470-0892. Saturday, October 4th 10 a.m. FREE Paying for College Seminar U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson Texas A&M Extension Center - Pavilion 17360 Coit Road Dallas, TX 75252
09.15.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) hailed the government’s decision to cancel the multimillion dollar severance package, sometimes called the “golden parachute,” for the outgoing CEOs of the failed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) hailed the government’s decision to cancel the multimillion dollar severance package, sometimes called the “golden parachute,” for the outgoing CEOs of the failed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. “There ought to be real consequences for ousted CEOs who drive companies into the ground and then ask the government to clean up their mess… all at taxpayers’ expense. Finally some accountability! Thank heavens the government decided to cut the cord on the golden parachute for the former housing executives,” said Johnson. Johnson co-sponsored H.R. 6864, legislation to stop the outgoing executive officers and board members of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac from receiving millions of dollars in severance pay. Fannie Mae's former CEO Daniel Mudd and Freddie Mac’s CEO Richard Syron could have received, in total, up to $25 million, as part of a pre-negotiated severance plan. This summer the Congress passed a law that empowered the director of Federal Housing Finance Agency the authority to limit, but not cancel, severance payments made to departing executives. Last weekend the government took control of the failed former mortgage giants. As Congress debated a housing industry bailout earlier this summer, Johnson blasted the lack of accountability within the entire industry and lobbed verbal shots at the two top executives of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Johnson took to the floor to demand action. Johnson stated, “Why should taxpayers foot the bill to prop up those former giants when the company CEOs rake in a bundle – and continue to do so? As one person said, it’s privatized profits and socialized risk. Apparently, Daniel Mudd, the CEO of Fannie Mae, received $11.6 million in salary, stock and other compensation for 2007. Richard Syron, CEO of Freddie Mac, took home about $18.3 million last year. On top of his salary, stock options and a $3.45 million bonus, Freddie Mac paid for a number of other perks for Syron, such as a car and driver, a home security system, travel costs for his wife, even $100,000 to pay his lawyer to negotiate his employment contract with the bank. Everyone knows I’m a strong supporter of freedom and free enterprise but this is ridiculous. The lack of accountability and responsibility is astounding.” Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
09.12.2008	Last night U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) introduced a congressional resolution congratulating Nastia Liukin and her fellow female American Olympic gymnasts. share: f t Last night U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) introduced a congressional resolution congratulating Nastia Liukin and her fellow female American Olympic gymnasts. “Nastia captured the hearts of countless Americans and really made America proud. She was a vision of beauty, grace and elegance. Nastia inspired a new generation of youngsters who were doing cartwheels in their living room after watching her ace performance after performance – my granddaughter included. Her effortlessly stunning performances will always be remembered. This resolution ensures that,” said Johnson. Liukin, 18, hails from Parker and captured the gold medal in the 2008 Olympic individual all-around. She also won three silvers and one bronze medal. Nastia became the third American woman to tie the U.S. record. A four-time World Champion, Nastia's other titles include: nine-time World medalist, four time U.S. National Champion, multiple Pacific Rim and American Cup titles. In 2005, International Gymnastics Hall of Fame named her Gymnast of the Year. After Liukin clinched the gold for the all-around, Johnson left a celebratory voicemail for Nastia and her parents in China. Once the Liukins returned to North Texas, Johnson attended Nastia’s party at the Embassy Suites. At the event, Johnson presented both Nastia and her parents with an American flag flown over the United States Capitol. At the celebration, Johnson also paid tribute to the grit of Nastia’s parents, who left the then Soviet Union to pursue a better life. “They too are shining examples of the American Dream. They represent the deep hope and fierce optimism of Olympic quality athletes and patriotic Americans. Her parents run the thriving World Olympic Gymnastics Company, which started in Plano. Johnson co-authored the bill, H.Res. 1428, to honor the U.S. Women’s Olympic Gymnastics Team with Iowa Congressman Leonard Boswell (D-Iowa), the U.S. Representative for Shawn Johnson. The legislation recognizes the tremendous accomplishments of Liukin, Shawn Johnson, Chellsie Memmel, Samantha Peszek, Alicia Sacramone and Bridget Sloan. The House likely will take up the measure in the coming weeks. “Everyone across the country was proud to witness the women’s gymnastics team this summer,” said Boswell. “But, I know that the folks back home in Iowa were particularly proud of Shawn Johnson. She’s a fabulous athlete and a charming, dynamic young lady, who even without the medals is a winner in my eyes. Shawn, and the whole team, deserve this congressional recognition.” Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. **For a photo of Johnson with Nastia and her father, contact McCall Avery at 202-225-4201. # # #
09.11.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) led the debate on the floor of the House against a highway trust fund bailout. Johnson delivered the following opening statement during the debate of H.R. 6532, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to restore the Highway Trust Fund balance. The measure Johnson railed against passed by a vote of 376 to 29. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) led the debate on the floor of the House against a highway trust fund bailout. Johnson delivered the following opening statement during the debate of H.R. 6532, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to restore the Highway Trust Fund balance. The measure Johnson railed against passed by a vote of 376 to 29. Prepared remarks follow: “Today, just seven weeks after the House first considered this bill transferring eight billion dollars from the general fund to the Highway Trust Fund, here we are, back again. I was one of 37 Members to vote against this bill when it was previously considered in the House. This bill simply kicks the can down the road just a little bit more until the Highway Trust Fund is again broke. “Delay and bailout. Delay and bailout. This Congress is elected to run this country, yet we delay action, wring our hands and lament that there are few good options available to address the nation’s problems and then bailout programs gone broke. Our delay only makes problems worse. Our delay only leaves us with fewer options once we are forced to act. The bill before us today just puts another temporary patch on a highway system that needs funding. Even with this eight billion dollar infusion of cash, the Trust Fund is going to be broke again before Congress acts to address the underlying problem! “When the House initially passed this bill on July 23rd, the balance in the Trust Fund stood at $4.2 billion. Now, we learn from the Department of Transportation that, in the span of just these few weeks, that balance has fallen all the way to $1.4 billion as of the beginning of this month. So today, the Administration has called upon Congress to approve this $8 billion transfer and to make it effective immediately, rather than on September 30th, because is likely to go broke sooner. “The highway funding system is based on fuel taxes that are declining at a time when the price of fuel is rising. Fewer people are driving because the cost of gas is skyrocketing. The Majority won’t let us debate an energy bill. The Majority won’t let America work toward more domestic oil and gas. Americans want, need and deserve a clear energy policy that uses American energy sources like oil and gas from offshore. Americans want, need and deserve an energy policy that develops new technologies and brings them to the market. Yet this Congress delays action and prevents debate. “If the Highway bills that this Congress has passed were not larded up with thousands of earmarks, then spending from the Trust Fund could be better regulated to match taxes with spending. A little bit of self control would solve this problem. Unfortunately, the bill that will pass the House today shows no self control, it is just another bailout.” ###
09.10.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement on the anniversary of September 11, 2001. On the morning of September 11, 2001, Johnson left the Pentagon shortly before United Airlines flight 77 crashed into the building. Johnson had just finished a breakfast briefing with the Secretary of the Air Force. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement on the anniversary of September 11, 2001. On the morning of September 11, 2001, Johnson left the Pentagon shortly before United Airlines flight 77 crashed into the building. Johnson had just finished a breakfast briefing with the Secretary of the Air Force. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson flew combat missions in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars. Shot down on his 25th mission during his second tour of duty, Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties in North Texas. “September 11th, 2001, will forever live in the hearts and minds of not just Americans, but of every single person who values freedom, peace, and security. “We’ve been fortunate that Al Qaeda has not attacked us on our homeland since that dreadful day. We must not become complacent with a false sense of security created from seven years of apparent silence. But we know they’re hiding and plotting. They’ve taken credit for brutal bombings in London, Indonesia, Istanbul, and Madrid, among other places. They tried to get a foothold in Iraq, but we wouldn’t let them. Thanks to the troop surge, things have improved dramatically on the ground and I’m inspired by that turn-around. I hope that we can do the same for Afghanistan in rooting out those in cahoots with the Taliban and Al Qaeda. “What stands out in my mind from 2001 was the way that people came together and tapped into the hope and spirit of America. The horrific terrorist attacks on our homeland inspired countless young men and women to serve in the armed forces. Our nation remains free because of the sacrifices of brave and selfless men and women – and their families too. As a former fighter pilot for 29 years, I know freedom isn’t free. I salute the valiant men and women who volunteer to wear uniform one and all for their hard work and sacrifices.” # # #
08.21.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) spoke at an Energy Forum at the University of Texas – Arlington to discuss energy prices and their impact on Texas families, businesses and communities. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) spoke at an Energy Forum at the University of Texas – Arlington to discuss energy prices and their impact on Texas families, businesses and communities. “You know, the phones have been ringing off the hook in my office. Constituents are fighting mad that the Speaker adjourned the House without an up or down vote on real energy solutions. I don’t blame them. I think $4 is a lot to pay for a gallon of gas. When they’re done speaking their mind, my staff kindly transfers the caller to the Speakers office so she knows just how fired up folks are about spending $100 to fill up the tank at the gas station,” said Johnson. To bring down the price of gasoline and natural gas, Johnson favors exploring America’s own energy resources, streamlining the number of fuel blends, reducing burdensome regulations on U.S. refineries to boost production and promoting the use of clean, alternative energy sources, among other things. Earlier this year Johnson bucked party leadership and voted with Democrats in Congress to extend clean energy tax incentives. Other dignitaries participating include: U.S. Congressmen Joe Barton (6th Dist.-Texas), Pete Sessions (32nd Dist.-Texas), and Kenny Marchant (24th Dist.-Texas). Panelists included John Bass, of Nucor Bar Mil Group, Texas Railroad Commissioner Victor Carrillo, Bob Cornelius of Denbury Resources, Trudy Harper of Tenaska Power Services Company, Ron Ricks of Southwest Airlines, John Rau of American Airlines, and Bill Stevens of Texas Alliance of Energy Producers. “Today’s energy forum showcased what sky-high energy prices mean for Texas and the nation,” said Johnson. “Americans are ready for action and want an up or down vote on energy independence. They don’t understand why the Speaker of the House would allow the Congress to leave for a five week vacation when the Congress failed to address the number one concern of the American people – sky high energy prices. Americans have the right to a Congress that will hold an up-or-down vote on their top priority,” concluded Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
08.15.2008	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) invited young adults living in the Third District to apply for the Third District’s Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC). The CYAC will be open to students enrolled in public, private and home schools residing within the Third District. Ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth grade students have until Monday, September 15th to apply. Students must apply for the CYAC by turning in a completed application. share: f t U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) invited young adults living in the Third District to apply for the Third District’s Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC). The CYAC will be open to students enrolled in public, private and home schools residing within the Third District. Ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth grade students have until Monday, September 15th to apply. Students must apply for the CYAC by turning in a completed application. “The Congressional Youth Advisory Council showcases the gold standard of high school students. The members are smart, talented and well-rounded. Each year students from all across the Third District continue to impress me. I hope that high school students living in the Third District will consider applying for this influential group,” said Johnson. Johnson launched the CYAC in 2004. The Council’s goal is two-fold. First, the group provides Johnson with greater student perspective and insight on issues that directly impact younger Americans. Second, Council activities help educate students on government policies relevant to young people. In meetings and after guest-panel discussions, students explore the role of citizens, lawmakers, experts, and organizations and how together they shape the world’s most successful democracy. The members of the Council meet approximately four times throughout the school year in the Third District. The CYAC application includes an information form, a letter of parent permission to participate, a passport-type photo, a brief essay, and two letters of recommendation. Students may download the application at SamJohnson.house.gov. To ensure that as many students as possible have the opportunity to serve on this select council, students may serve up to two years between their freshman and senior years. Students must submit the completed application and related paperwork to the Office of Congressman Sam Johnson by September 15th in person or via mail to: Office of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson, 2929 North Central Expressway, Suite 240, Richardson, Texas 75080. Only completed applications will be considered. For the last several years, roughly 150 people have applied to serve on the panel; about 40 were nominated. A volunteer board of community leaders determines the membership of CYAC. Young people are selected based on public service, academic performance, leadership experience, extra-curricular activities, and the application essay. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. The cities include: Allen, north Dallas, Frisco, Garland, McKinney, Murphy, Parker, Plano, Richardson, Rowlett, Sachse, and Wylie. # # #
08.14.2008	After years of tireless work behind the scenes to secure a federal courthouse in Plano, Texas, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) attended the public dedication ceremony for the new facility located at 7940 Preston Road in Plano. Dignitaries attending the event included: U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-Texas), U.S. Congressman Ralph Hall (4th Dist.-Texas) and The Honorable Judge Richard Schell, among others. Johnson first started his campaign to erect a federal courthouse in Collin County in 1991. share: f t After years of tireless work behind the scenes to secure a federal courthouse in Plano, Texas, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) attended the public dedication ceremony for the new facility located at 7940 Preston Road in Plano. Dignitaries attending the event included: U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-Texas), U.S. Congressman Ralph Hall (4th Dist.-Texas) and The Honorable Judge Richard Schell, among others. Johnson first started his campaign to erect a federal courthouse in Collin County in 1991. “The role of the federal government is to serve the people. This common-sense solution is a perfect example of good government, constituent service, civic activism and people coming together to get things done,” said Johnson. In 1991, during the 102nd Congress, Johnson backed H.R. 3666, legislation to establish a federal courthouse in Plano, making the bill one of his first legislative priorities. (Johnson won a special election in May 1991.) That year, the first bill introduced by then-Texas Congressman Jack Brooks (9th Dist.-Texas) passed the House and failed to gain momentum in the U.S. Senate. Once Brooks left Congress, Johnson took the mantle as the lead sponsor and ushered the measure through Congress. The House would pass the legislation and the Senate failed to move on the bill. In 2003 that all changed when U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-Texas) championed the idea in the U.S. Senate as a vocal advocate for Texas on the Judiciary Committee. Congress finally passed a version of Johnson’s initiative in 2003; the Senate followed suit soon after and President Bush signed the measure into law. For years Collin County residents had to drive within a few miles from the Oklahoma border to address any federal legal matters. Judge Richard Schell will relocate full time to Collin County and serve as the head judge for the Collin County federal courthouse. Johnson praised the efforts of Judge Shell, who worked to secure a federal Courthouse in Collin County. “Make no mistake. We would not be here without the persistence of Judge Schell,” continued Johnson. Johnson also hailed Senator Cornyn’s activism in the Senate and commended his strong leadership as a then-newly elected Senator. “Year after year the Plano courthouse bill would pass the House only to die in the Senate. Thankfully John Cornyn stepped up to bat and used his seat on the Judiciary committee to help move this bill forward. John really saved the day in the Senate and broke the 12-year logjam,” said Johnson. “Collin County represents one of the fastest growing areas in the state and the nation. It only makes sense that one of the most populated areas receives a federal courthouse,” continued Johnson, who represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. “Thanks to the leadership and perseverance of Congressman Sam Johnson, a new federal courthouse in Plano will be dedicated on Wednesday, August 13th. Located on Preston Road in northwest Plano, the new courthouse is proximate to a large and growing population in southern Collin and Denton Counties. The United States Courthouse in Plano will for the first time afford the judges on our court the opportunity to hold court in the largest city within our district, and it will provide the public with another convenient venue for the resolution of their disputes,” said Richard Schell, United States District Judge, Eastern District of Texas. # # #
07.24.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement on H.Res. 1368 - Relating to the House procedures contained in section 803 of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003. The House will vote on the measure later today. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement on H.Res. 1368 - Relating to the House procedures contained in section 803 of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003. The House will vote on the measure later today. To promote fiscal responsibility and accountability to the Medicare entitlement program, the 2003 Medicare modernization legislation included a provision that would force the President to submit legislation that would reform the Medicare program to contain costs if spending tops a pre-determined limit, i.e. the “trigger”. Last April the Medicare trustees revealed that for two years running the Medicare program had to secure just under half of its money needs from the general government revenue because the Medicare trust fund money did not cover the bills. Today Democrats are bringing legislation to the floor that would remove this “trigger” provision that would have forced a much-needed floor debate on how to ensure Medicare’s long-term financial viability. This bill shows that the Democrats are not taking the Trustees’ warnings seriously and are willing to delay any actions on this program. “Every report known to man shows that Medicare’s facing serious financial troubles. The Democrats just have to ‘cowboy-up’ and admit it and work with Republicans to create real solutions that won’t break the bank. “The Democrats want to remove the one safeguard that tries to keep Medicare spending in check. The Baby Boomers will rely on Medicare for decades to come so we better fix the hemorrhaging now while there’s still time. I wish that the Democrats had the courage to admit that Medicare’s heading for trouble and we have to roll up our sleeves and make hard and tough choices to see this through – for our children and our grandchildren. “If we really want to fix Medicare, we must slow the growth of the ever-expanding program. The federal government spends more money on Medicare than the Departments of Agriculture, Education, Energy, Homeland Security, Transportation, and Veterans Affairs spend combined. “Clearly, the Democrats aren’t up to this challenge and have decided to leave this mess for others to deal with.” # # #
07.23.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) ripped the Democrat so-called housing bill that would force taxpayers to pay for a $300 billion government bailout of the industry and a blank check for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) ripped the Democrat so-called housing bill that would force taxpayers to pay for a $300 billion government bailout of the industry and a blank check for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Remarks as prepared for delivery: “Congress is trying to keep the housing market afloat and is working on an unbridled government expansion of the Federal Housing Administration to do it. “I am all for finding common-sense housing relief for those in trouble -- but we need to hold hearings and take a closer look at this proposal and the ramifications. Just because the housing market has tumbled doesn’t mean we should capriciously finance a big fat government bailout. “Some in Congress want the FHA to insure about $300 billion dollars worth of risky mortgages – and they want the taxpayers to be held responsible when homeowners default on their loan. That makes no sense. “The Senate sent us a proposal to pay for the FHA expansion using a “tax” on mortgage finance companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Unfortunately, Fannie and Freddie are in trouble and now are looking for a bailout from Congress. “Why should taxpayers foot the bill to prop up those former giants when the company CEOs rake in a bundle – and continue to do so? As one person said, it’s privatized profits and socialized risk. “Apparently, Daniel Mudd, the CEO of Fannie Mae, received $11.6 million in salary, stock and other compensation for 2007. “Richard Syron, CEO of Freddie Mac, took home about $18.3 million last year. On top of his salary, stock options and a $3.45 million bonus, Freddie Mac paid for a number of other perks for Syron, such as a car and driver, a home security system, travel costs for his wife, even $100,000 to pay his lawyer to negotiate his employment contract with the bank. “Everyone knows I’m a strong supporter of freedom and free enterprise but this is ridiculous. The lack of accountability and responsibility is astounding. “I will not support a bailout for speculators and a package that does little to help to real homeowners struggling to pay their mortgages on time. “I do not believe we should ask people who rent homes or apartments and all the people who reasonably and responsibly saved for a home to foot the bill for all of the people who are in foreclosure. That’s not right. “We should have empathy – but we must not write a blank check.” # # #
07.22.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Benjamin L. Cardin and Barbara A. Mikulski (both D-MD) joined with Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (MD-5) and Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) and members of the Korean War Veterans Association (KWVA) today to celebrate enactment of legislation granting the group a Federal Charter. They also joined in celebrating the 55th Anniversary of the armistice agreement ending the Korean War on July 27, 1953. Senator Cardin and Congressmen Hoyer and Johnson introduced the Federal Charter legislation, which was co-sponsored by Senator Mikulski and Congressmen Roscoe Bartlett (MD-6), Wayne Gilchrest (MD-1), C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-2) and John Sarbanes (MD-3). share: f t WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Benjamin L. Cardin and Barbara A. Mikulski (both D-MD) joined with Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (MD-5) and Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) and members of the Korean War Veterans Association (KWVA) today to celebrate enactment of legislation granting the group a Federal Charter. They also joined in celebrating the 55th Anniversary of the armistice agreement ending the Korean War on July 27, 1953. Senator Cardin and Congressmen Hoyer and Johnson introduced the Federal Charter legislation, which was co-sponsored by Senator Mikulski and Congressmen Roscoe Bartlett (MD-6), Wayne Gilchrest (MD-1), C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-2) and John Sarbanes (MD-3). “The Korean War is often referred to as the ‘forgotten’ war, and recognition of our veterans from this war is long overdue,” said Senator Cardin. “This Federal Charter lets the nearly 1.2 million American veterans of the Korean War who are still alive know that we have not forgotten them, and we honor the sacrifice they made for our nation.” “Korean War veterans deserve the same official recognition for their struggles and sacrifices on behalf of freedom that other veterans enjoy,” said Majority Leader Hoyer. “Granting this Federal Charter delivers a long overdue honor to the 5.7 million Americans who fought and served during the Korean War. It is but a small expression of this nation’s eternal appreciation for the extraordinary courage and sacrifice of our Korean War veterans.” “We owe our veterans a debt of gratitude – not just with words, but with deeds. Korean War veterans have waited a long time for this special recognition,” said Senator Mikulski. “On the eve of the 55th anniversary of the Korean War Armistice, that special recognition has come. I am proud to have cosponsored this bill, which honors the sacrifices and commitment these men and women made. Today, a grateful nation remembers.” “Imagine coming home from a bloody and brutal war only to learn that your country did not acknowledge your service. That’s more or less what happened to the estimated 5 million valiant men and women who served in the Korean War. It’s high time these folks receive the recognition and the national charter that they earned,” said Congressman Johnson, a 29-year Air Force fighter pilot and Korean War veteran. The Korean War, often overlooked in American history, is anything but forgotten by the nearly 1.2 million American veterans of the Korean War still alive today. During the three-year course of the war, some 5.7 million Americans were called to serve, and by the time the Korean Armistice Agreement was signed in July 1953, more than 36,000 Americans sacrificed their lives, 103,284 were wounded, 7,140 were captured and 664 were missing. The KWVA is the only fraternal veterans’ organization in the Unites States devoted exclusively to Korean War veterans and the only U.S. member of the International Federation of Korean War Veterans Associations. Incorporated in 1985, the 17,000-member charitable association has established a strong record of service and commitment to fellow Korean War veterans, ranging from efforts on behalf of Project Freedom to its successful effort to construct a national Korean War Veterans Memorial on the National Mall. Congress has long recognized various military and veterans patriotic organizations in public law. While a Federal Charter does not confer any special rights, privileges or benefits to a membership organization, it is a public acknowledgement that a group serves the public interest by providing its members important services and community support. Granting this charter to the Korean War Veterans Association will focus more attention on issues of concern to Korean War veterans, and will allow the KWVA to fully participate on veterans’ advisory panels and select groups with other congressionally-chartered veterans’ and military organizations. ###
07.14.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after President George W. Bush called for the end of the offshore energy exploration ban. Noting that only one hurdle remains, Bush declared, “This means that the only thing standing between the American people and these vast oil resources is action from the U.S. Congress.” To bring down the price of gasoline and natural gas, Johnson favors expanding U.S. refinery capacity, tapping America’s own energy resources, streamlining the number of fuel blends and promoting the use of clean, alternative energy. Johnson’s statement follows: “Finally – a real energy solution that makes America more energy self sufficient! Americans are fed up paying over $4 for a gallon of gas and want action – now. “The United States must become energy independent -- oil, gas, coal, nuclear, solar and wind. All of it. To bring down the price of gasoline, we must focus on increasing America’s energy supply. Congress needs to follow the President’s example and act now to increase exploration. Now the only thing holding up lower gas prices is the Democrat leaders in Congress. “Recently a Democrat aide was quoted in The Hill newspaper as saying, “Right now, our strategy on gas prices is ‘Drive small cars and wait for the wind.’ Americans want Democrats and Republicans to work together to find common-sense solutions to the skyrocketing cost of gasoline – and that includes exploring for energy right here in America. “The President made the first move. Now it’s time for the Democrats in Congress to change their tune and follow his lead.” # # #
07.09.2008	On Friday, July 25, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host “mobile office hours” to visit with constituents. The current cities hosting “mobile office hours” include: Allen, Frisco, Garland, McKinney, Plano and Richardson. share: f t On Friday, July 25, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host “mobile office hours” to visit with constituents. The current cities hosting “mobile office hours” include: Allen, Frisco, Garland, McKinney, Plano and Richardson. Staff from the Congressman’s office host regular “mobile office hours” throughout the Third Congressional District to meet with constituents. During the “mobile office hours” the Third District staff gladly will offer assistance with problems regarding federal issues or agencies, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration or the Internal Revenue Service. They also may help facilitate overseas adoptions. Constituents are invited to stop by and share their comments about federal issues in Congress. No advance appointments are necessary. If a person would like assistance with a federal agency, he or she should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. In the event people cannot attend the “mobile office hours” in their city, residents are free to contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Allen Allen Senior Recreation Center Entrance/Lobby Area 451 St. Mary Allen 214-509-4820 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Frisco George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Entrance/Lobby Area, 1st floor 6101 Frisco Square Blvd. Frisco 972-292-5000 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. Garland Nicholson Memorial Library System Central Library Outer Entrance Area 625 Austin Street Garland 972-205-2500 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. McKinney Collin College - Central Park Campus Entrance/Lobby Area 2200 W. University Drive McKinney 972-548-6790 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Plano Plano Municipal Center Entrance/Lobby Area 1520 Avenue K Plano 972-941-7000 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. Richardson Richardson Civic Center West Alcove Area 411 Arapaho Road Richardson 972-744-4090 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. # # #
07.07.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after the passing of Murphy Martin, a former broadcaster for ABC news and WFAA, among other things. This morning Johnson will serve as a pallbearer at Murphy Martin’s funeral. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after the passing of Murphy Martin, a former broadcaster for ABC news and WFAA, among other things. This morning Johnson will serve as a pallbearer at Murphy Martin’s funeral. Martin passed away on July 3rd, just an hour shy of his 83rd birthday. Murphy served as the president of United We Stand, the organization to assist Americans who were prisoners of war or missing in action in Southeast Asia. In 1998, he retired as the voice of the Dallas Cowboys after 20-plus years as the public address announcer. He is survived by his wife, Joyce. “My friend, Murphy, was one of the greatest broadcasters who ever lived. Murphy defined the gold standard in broadcast journalism. From news to sports to public affairs, Murphy was the jack of all trades and a giant in the industry. Many Texans know and respect him from his time at ABC news, WFAA, and as the distinguished voice of the Dallas Cowboys. “Murphy and I became friends after I returned home from nearly seven years in captivity in Vietnam, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. Murphy championed the cause of Prisoners of War with United We Stand. Murphy and Joyce helped my wife, Shirley, and the kids get through indescribably painful times – and helped us celebrate upon my return. Murphy later told me that he considered the work he did with United We Stand as one of the most important things he ever did in his life. He will be sorely missed. Joyce and the Martin family are in our thoughts and prayers.” # # #
06.26.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after the Supreme Court of the United States ruled the 1976 D.C. gun ban unconstitutional in the case of The District of Columbia v. Heller. Johnson believes that the Second Amendment grants law-abiding Americans the right to keep and bear arms. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after the Supreme Court of the United States ruled the 1976 D.C. gun ban unconstitutional in the case of The District of Columbia v. Heller. Johnson believes that the Second Amendment grants law-abiding Americans the right to keep and bear arms. “This is a huge victory for Americans and The Constitution. The ability to keep and bear arms is a fundamental right that our Founding Fathers created for law-abiding citizens. This applies to people who live inside and outside the Nation’s Capital. The Supreme Court made the right decision. “I am thankful that President Bush appointed common-sense conservative judges to the highest court in the land who do not kowtow to the politically correct movement of the moment or consider it their job to make new laws.” Johnson represents Collin and Dallas Counties. # # #
06.26.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) congratulated the members of the newly crowned national championship high school baseball team – the Plano West Senior High School. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) congratulated the members of the newly crowned national championship high school baseball team – the Plano West Senior High School. PWSHS captured the State title and won the District. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. The text prepared for delivery follows: “I rise to congratulate the new high school baseball national championship team -- Plano West Senior High School. Go wolves! (Howl.) “MaxPreps.com ranked the Texas State champs, the Plano West Senior High School Varsity baseball team, number one in the nation on June 22nd. Under head coach Kendall Clark, this year the Wolves played a perfect season and won the District title with 14 wins and won 28 straight in 2008. “This is the first time since 1987 that Plano Independent School District has had a team crowned the national champions and this year marks the first time a baseball team in Plano has captured the National Title. “Congratulations to the Wolves. We are proud of you. Your parents are proud of you. Plano is proud of you and America is proud of you…and I salute you. God bless you and God bless America. “I’d like to insert the names of the players and the coaches in to the record and congratulate them one and all.” # # #
06.26.2008	Today the House of Representatives passed legislation to designate October 19 – 25, 2008, as “National Save for Retirement Week,” a measure introduced by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas). share: f t Today the House of Representatives passed legislation to designate October 19 – 25, 2008, as “National Save for Retirement Week,” a measure introduced by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas). Earlier this year the Employee Benefits Research Institute released its annual Retirement Confidence Survey that shows 44% of Americans age 55 and older have saved less than $100,000. In addition, the study finds “Americans’ confidence in their ability to afford a comfortable retirement has dropped to its lowest level” in several years. “I know that Americans are strapped for cash and that, right now, saving is a hard thing to do. Rising gas prices are taking bigger and bigger bites out of everyone’s income. But Americans don’t want to work forever. The only way to retire is to plan and save,” said Johnson. This is the second year in a row Johnson has initiated the creation of National Save for Retirement week. Johnson has long championed increasing the national savings rate and boosting retirement savings. Johnson directed the first comprehensive pension reform in a generation and enacted “phased retirement” so older employees can work a reduced schedule and collect a pension at the same time. He also led the fight to repeal the “earnings limit” so seniors could work past retirement and collect Social Security without a penalty tax. “I hope to work with more employers in my Congressional District this year to bring the message of ‘Save for Retirement Week’ to employees,” continued Johnson. “Hopefully this week will make employees more aware of how critical it is to save now for their financial future and learn how to take advantage of ‘free money’ when saving for retirement by contributing enough to the retirement plan to receive the company match,” concluded Johnson. # # #
06.18.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) took to the floor of the House of Representatives to blast the high price of gasoline and urged the Congress to enact new solutions to bring down the cost. His remarks prepared for delivery follow. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) took to the floor of the House of Representatives to blast the high price of gasoline and urged the Congress to enact new solutions to bring down the cost. His remarks prepared for delivery follow. Shortly after the Democrats took control of Congress on January 31 2007, the average cost of a gallon of regular unleaded gasoline was $1.99 according to DallasGasPrices.com. Today the national average is $4.07. Last week Congressman Johnson signed a discharge petition to immediately bring legislation up for a vote that would provide relief for Americans by reducing the high cost of gasoline. Johnson signed the petition in support of H.R. 3089, the No More Excuses Energy Act of 2007. Johnson is a co-sponsor of the bill that would reduce the price at the pump by increasing American oil production and exploration, and decrease greenhouse emissions by boosting alternative energy development. Johnson’s prepared floor remarks: “Americans are fed up paying over $4 a gallon for gas and nearly $5 for diesel. The price of a gallon of gas has spiked $2 since the Democrats took control of Congress in January 2007. It’s high time the Democrats did something about the skyrocketing cost of gasoline and allowed us to explore for oil here in America. “To bring down the price of gasoline, we must expand U.S. refinery capacity, tap America’s own energy resources, streamline the number of fuel blends and promote the use of clean, alternative energy. “With the nationwide price for gasoline now over $4 a gallon, it’s no surprise that a recent Gallup poll showed 57 percent of Americans now favor further exploration for oil right here in America. These folks are right. Come on America, let’s strike oil.” # # #
06.17.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) lauded passage of legislation to grant a long-overdue national charter to the Korean War Veterans Association; the measure now heads to the President to become law. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) lauded passage of legislation to grant a long-overdue national charter to the Korean War Veterans Association; the measure now heads to the President to become law. “It’s been said that the Korean War is called the Forgotten War. Nowhere is this more evident than the fact that the Korean War Veterans Association has not received a national charter. Giving the veterans of the Korean War a national charter will put them in the same echelon as the Veterans of Foreign Wars and the American Legion. It’s truly a mark of distinction,” said Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran who flew 62 combat missions in Korea. After years of opposition in Congress, in 2007 U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-.Texas) authored House legislation with House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-Md.) to grant the Korean War Veterans Association the special recognition. Specifically, the charter will afford the Association the same status as other major organizations and would allow it to participate as part of select committees with other Congressionally-chartered veterans and military groups. A federal charter will also help the Association gain accreditation with the Department of Veterans Affairs, which will enable its members to assist in processing veterans’ claims. Ed Buckman, a Korean War veteran and Founder of the Sam Johnson Korean War Veterans Association Chapter 270 in North Texas, said, “This is a great day for all Korea service members who have served in Korea in a war that has lasted 58 years and still rages on. I am very proud and pleased that the Korean War Veterans Association has received a national charter. This gives notice that the Korean War is not forgotten.” To learn more about the Sam Johnson Chapter, visit www.kwva270.org. Congress has long recognized various military and veteran “patriotic” organizations in public law as a means to acknowledge that a group serves the public interest by providing member services and community support. In addition to bestowing special recognition, granting this charter to the Korean War Veterans Association would allow it to expand its mission and further its charitable and benevolent causes. The Korean War, often overlooked in American history, is anything but forgotten by the nearly 1.2 million American veterans of the Korean War still alive today. During the three-year course of the war, some 5.7 million Americans were called to serve, and by the time the Korean Armistice Agreement was signed in July 1953, more than 36,000 Americans sacrificed their lives, 103,284 were wounded, 7,140 were captured and 664 were missing. The KWVA is the only fraternal veterans’ organization in the Unites States devoted exclusively to Korean War veterans and the only U.S. member of the International Federation of Korean War Veterans Association. Incorporated in 1985, the 25,000-member charitable association has established a strong record of service and commitment to fellow Korean War veterans, ranging from efforts on behalf of Project Freedom to its successful effort to construct a national Korean War Veterans Memorial on the National Mall. # # #
06.10.2008	At a hearing on employment verification privacy, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) advocated Congress adopt his electronic employment verification program to ensure that the Social Security Administration, not the Department of Homeland Security, verifies the employment of Americans to better protect the privacy of law-abiding citizens. He also urged the panel to learn why the Department of Homeland Security gave an exhaustive list of employers in the Third Congressional District of Texas participating in the pilot program, E-verify, to a Member of Congress from another state and for what purposes. share: f t At a hearing on employment verification privacy, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) advocated Congress adopt his electronic employment verification program to ensure that the Social Security Administration, not the Department of Homeland Security, verifies the employment of Americans to better protect the privacy of law-abiding citizens. He also urged the panel to learn why the Department of Homeland Security gave an exhaustive list of employers in the Third Congressional District of Texas participating in the pilot program, E-verify, to a Member of Congress from another state and for what purposes. “We have a privacy problem here and we must do something about it,” said Johnson, the Ranking Member of Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee. Johnson testified before the Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law on the House Judiciary Committee at a hearing titled, “Electronic Employment Verification Systems: Needed Safeguards to Protect Privacy and Prevent Misuse.” As part of the hearing, the panel examined Johnson’s bipartisan legislation, the New Employee Verification Act (NEVA), H.R. 5515. The Act will achieve three important objectives: ensure a legal workforce, secure workers’ identity, and protect Social Security. Through the current pilot program on employee verification, E-Verify, the Department of Homeland Security checks the work authorization of newly hired employees of employers who choose to participate. Johnson believes that the DHS has no business keeping tabs on the work records of law-abiding citizens and considers this is the fundamental job of the Social Security Administration (SSA). E-Verify will expire later this year. “An agency responsible for tracking terrorists and securing our borders should not be keeping tabs on when and where Americans work. Yet, according to their own privacy documents from February 2008, the Department of Homeland Security is building databases and maintaining data on the work history of American citizens and American employers,” said Johnson. “Over two weeks ago, Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Mike McNulty and I sent a letter to Secretary Chertoff asking about privacy protections provided by Homeland Security in its E-Verify system. I ask that a copy of that letter be inserted in the record. This letter resulted from an incident that occurred during a May Subcommittee hearing where the Customs and Immigration Service provided information to Representative Heath Shuler (D-NC) who then shared with each member of our Subcommittee, through our staff, a copy of the employers in our Congressional Districts that are registered to participate in E-Verify. The questions we posed to Secretary Chertoff are important and must be answered before this E-Verify program is extended,” said Johnson. A copy of the prepared complete testimony and the letter follow. Johnson advocated that the Congress adopt his proposal that requires that the Social Security Administration, not DHS, verify work authorization for Americans. Under NEVA, DHS would verify the work authorization of legal immigrants. Tuesday’s hearing on privacy marks the second time a House Subcommittee has vetted Johnson’s worksite authorization measure in just five weeks. # # # The Honorable Sam Johnson (R-TX) Prepared complete testimony before the Committee on the Judiciary, Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law Hearing on Electronic Employment Verification Systems: Needed Safeguards to Protect Privacy and Prevent Misuse June 10, 2008 Chairman Lofgren, Ranking Member King, and Members of the Subcommittee, thank you for holding this hearing on the crucial employee verification component of the immigration reform debate. Protecting the privacy of American citizens is a great concern to me. Over the last several years, the Committee on Ways and Means and the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security, on which I serve as Ranking Member, have held a number of hearings on employment verification and its impact on citizens and workers. After years of studying this issue, I believe there are certain guiding principles that we must respect in order to craft a truly effective, secure, reliable, electronic employment verification system. These are: 1) prohibit unlawful employment, 2) protect workers, 3) partner with employers, 4) reduce the risk of identity theft, and 5) protect Social Security. This past February I, along with several of my Republican Social Security Subcommittee colleagues, introduced H.R. 5515, the New Employee Verification Act, or NEVA which now has bipartisan support, including my distinguished colleague Congresswoman Giffords from Arizona. NEVA represents an innovative and comprehensive approach to worksite enforcement and I would like to take a few minutes to explain how NEVA represents those key principles. First, NEVA prohibits unlawful employment by eliminating the paper-based and error-prone I-9 process with an electronic verification system that builds upon the lessons learned from E-Verify. The employee’s name, Social Security number and date of birth would be instantaneously checked against the Social Security database in much the same way that E-Verify does currently. The critical difference is the entry of data using a platform already used by employers which I will discuss shortly. Second, NEVA protects workers by ensuring that no U.S. citizen seeks permission to work from a federal law enforcement agency. The Social Security Administration (SSA) has always had the responsibility to track the earnings history of every worker to ensure they receive the correct amount of disability or retirement benefits. Americans trust the Social Security Administration and they believe the agency does a good job – I do too. I believe that these earnings should be accurate and a mandatory electronic employee verification system would help increase accuracy sooner and maintain accuracy through workers’ lifetimes. An agency responsible for tracking terrorists and securing our borders should not be keeping tabs on when and where U.S. citizens work. Yet the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is building databases and maintaining data on the work history of American citizens and American employers. Over two weeks ago, Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Mike McNulty and I sent a letter to Secretary Chertoff asking about privacy protections provided by Homeland Security in its E-Verify system. I ask that a copy of that letter be inserted in the record. This letter resulted from an incident that occurred during a May Subcommittee hearing where the Customs and Immigration Service provided to Representative Heath Shuler (D-NC), who then shared with each member of our Subcommittee, the employers in our Congressional Districts that are registered to participate in E-Verify. The questions we posed to Secretary Chertoff are important and must be answered before this E-Verify program is extended when it expires in November. NEVA puts the Social Security Administration in charge of employee verification because it is their fundamental job to track earnings and because the vast majority of those who work in this country are American citizens who should not be tracked by DHS. Under NEVA, Social Security verifies U.S. citizens and the DHS verifies non-citizens. Also, DHS maintains its essential role in worksite enforcement, bolstered by increased penalties for those employers who do not comply. To further protect workers, NEVA also provides extensive administration and judicial reviews so workers can challenge any decision they believe is in error, creates penalties for unauthorized use of information, and establishes an advisory panel of public and private experts to ensure the highest degree of efficiency, accuracy, and privacy. Third, NEVA makes employers part of the solution. NEVA partners with employers and creates an easy-to-use system. Employers would transmit their newly hired employee’s information through a system 90 percent of employers already use to help states track down dead beat dads, each State’s new hire reporting system. The information would be routed to the SSA and would provide nearly instantaneous work authorization. NEVA also provides liability protection to employers who unknowingly hire illegal workers through a subcontractor and provides an exemption from penalties for an initial good faith violation. Fourth, NEVA will reduce identity theft. As the highly publicized raids in the meat packing industry have illustrated, we know that a simple check of name, number of date of birth would still be subject to document fraud and identity theft. NEVA allows employers to voluntarily take the additional step of using government certified private sector experts to authenticate the identity of the new employee and to then harden the identity to a biometric, such as a finger print. After the employer verifies that the same person who went through the screening is the same person who shows up to work, the employee may then ask that their personal information be erased. Finally, NEVA would protect Social Security by requiring that employers use the system for newly hired employees only. From what we know about the illegal immigrant population, where they work, and the annual rate of new hires in key industries, this will minimize the additional burden placed upon an already strained agency, while preventing unlawful employment. Also, NEVA would require the Congress to provide the SSA with the financial resources needed before the agency can perform employment verification. Proponents of a mandatory E-Verify system rarely acknowledge the need to properly fund this expanded mission of the Social Security Administration. In fact, the DHS has not even paid the SSA for their cost of E-Verify for two recent years of their efforts for that pilot program. The SSA is integral to employment verification and I will be working to ensure that it is not relegated to the status of an afterthought. Today, thousands of immigrants enter the country seeking the life a job in the country has to offer, but too many do so by breaking the law. And we cannot enforce the law with the broken enforcement system we currently have. After years of inaction by the Congress, the American people are fed up with broken laws and broken promises. It is time for a new direction. I am confident, after looking at this issue a great deal during my time in Congress, I and my bipartisan cosponsors, have created a workable solution to a critical component of immigration reform. The large and diverse group of employers who agree with us include: the National Association of Manufacturers; the Society for Human Resource Management; the National Association of Home Builders; and the National Federation of Independent Business. Thank you and I look forward to answering any questions you may have. # # #
05.21.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) backed “real solutions for Texans” when he cast his vote to extend the popular state sales tax deduction through 2008. The House passed H.R. 6049, the Renewable Energy and Job Creation Act of 2008, that included a provision to include state sales tax deductibility in the federal income tax code for 2008, among other things. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) backed “real solutions for Texans” when he cast his vote to extend the popular state sales tax deduction through 2008. The House passed H.R. 6049, the Renewable Energy and Job Creation Act of 2008, that included a provision to include state sales tax deductibility in the federal income tax code for 2008, among other things. In 1986, Congress eliminated the state sales tax deduction. In 2004, Johnson used his seat on the tax-writing committee and worked tirelessly to resurrect the state sales tax deduction. Nearly each year since 2004, Johnson has had to fight to extend the measure. The popular deduction expired in 2007. “Texans are proud of the efficient and cost-effective government that we’ve got in our State and we should be able to deduct the cost of that government – financed through sales taxes – just like residents of other states can deduct their state income taxes,” said Johnson. Prior to 2004, taxpayers could only deduct their state and local income taxes and their property taxes. Ending the state sales tax deduction in 1986 translated into higher tax bills for the taxpayers of seven states that rely upon sales taxes - Texas, Florida, Tennessee, Wyoming, Washington, South Dakota and Nevada. Johnson bucked his party leadership when he voted with the Democrats in Congress to pass the tax measure. “This bill is about solutions and these are real solutions for Texans,” said Johnson. Johnson also lauded many other top tax legislative priorities included in H.R. 6049. First, the Act extended the critical tax deduction for teachers who purchase supplies with their own money. Second, the initiative encourages the production and use of renewable energy. Third, the measure allows companies to continue to use the Research and Development (R&D) credit, important to Texans, home to many high-tech companies with good-paying jobs. “America has jobs that foreign nations would love to have. Foreign governments routinely offer very generous incentives to companies to move these high-tech jobs to their countries. The one national policy we’ve got to keep these high-tech jobs in this country is the currently-expired R&D tax credit,” continued Johnson. “The R&D credit is something that I believe is particularly important to the defense industry in America. The weapons systems for our troops must be the best engineered and designed systems in the world. Our defense industry cannot be put at a competitive disadvantage to global competitors,” said Johnson. Fourth, the bill finally ends the unfair alternative minimum tax on “phantom gains” as a result of incentive stock options. Since 2001 Johnson has championed the end of the unjust and punitive tax on paper gains, authoring legislation and maneuvering behind the scenes to carve away at this tax. “In many situations, the tax imposed on phantom income from incentive stock options has caused my constituents to live under an I.R.S. imposed budget, forced them to drain their retirement accounts, and pushed others to empty their children’s college savings accounts. Worse, the I.R.S. has seized the homes of others to pay taxes on phantom income they never saw. It is time to end this tax nightmare,” concluded Johnson. # # #
05.19.2008	This past weekend U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) hosted a free foreclosure prevention and homeownership promotion seminar in Plano. share: f t This past weekend U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) hosted a free foreclosure prevention and homeownership promotion seminar in Plano. Joined by housing experts and credit counselors, Johnson empathized with many constituents facing foreclosure and advised attendees that most banks want people to stay in their homes. “People may face foreclosure for many reasons, for example, extreme changes in life situations — death of a breadwinner, divorce, a job loss, a prolonged illness — or because they must immediately relocate,” continued Johnson. “Banks don’t want your home. If homeowners get behind on payments, lenders likely will work with them to bring the loan current. The earlier you work with the lender, the better.” Johnson arranged for a stellar lineup of professionals in many sectors of the housing and credit industry to educate constituents on foreclosure prevention and the prospects of homeownership. Speakers included: Celine Thomasson from NeighborWorks, a national nonprofit organization created by Congress to provide financial support, technical assistance, and training for community-based revitalization efforts; Todd Mark from Consumer Credit Counseling of Greater Dallas; and Bob Cook from the Housing and Urban Development Office in Dallas. Participants distributing information at the seminar included: Joan Albright, Servicing Specialist Lead at Freddie Mac; Gary Neuman, Homeownership Preservation Foundation (HOPE) Director, GMAC Residential Capital, a real estate finance company; and Maxine Sweet, Vice President of Public Education at Experian, a credit reporting bureau. Credit counselors providing one-on-one assistance to attendees included: Todd Mark, Vice President of Education Consumer Credit Counseling Greater Dallas; and Kalisha Keeling and Soneakqua White with the Jordan Community Development Corporation. “The prospect of losing your home can be down right frightening. I hope that folks left the foreclosure prevention seminar armed with information and optimistic about the future,” said Johnson. “I want to thank the excellent line up of community advocates and financial experts who helped make this event a success,” concluded Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
05.16.2008	On his May 15, 2008 show, Lou Dobbs talked about the “New Employee Verification Act,” or NEVA, bipartisan legislation which I introduced this Congress. share: f t On his May 15, 2008 show, Lou Dobbs talked about the “New Employee Verification Act,” or NEVA, bipartisan legislation which I introduced this Congress. My constituents and those in Congress know I’m for combating illegal immigration and NEVA is a step forward in the right direction. Here are facts about NEVA in response to Mr. Dobbs’ erroneous report: Allegation: NEVA replaces the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) voluntary E-Verify employment verification process with a whole new system. No - NEVA doesn’t replace E-Verify, it makes it better by adding new features, protecting the privacy of U.S. citizens and avoiding a “big brother” law enforcement agency building new databases on law abiding citizens. Like E-Verify, NEVA still relies on databases maintained by the DHS and by the Social Security Administration (SSA) and still relies on DHS to enforce the law. But NEVA goes even further by: 1. Replacing the current paper-based, error-prone, I-9 work status verification process with a mandatory paperless, reliable verification system for all new hires; 2. Making the system simple for employers to use by requiring they transmit verifying information through a system they already use to enhance child support enforcement, their State’s system to find dead beat dads; 3. Requiring both DHS and Social Security to certify the accuracy of their databases; 4. Protecting U.S. citizens’ privacy by ensuring they are verified only by Social Security and not a “big brother” law enforcement agency; 5. Safeguarding workers’ identities through creating a voluntary system using the latest technology to authenticate and protect a worker’s identity; and 6. Making sure Social Security has the resources it needs to deliver the essential services the American people have earned. Allegation: Replacement program would make it impossible for local governments and state governments to clamp down on illegal immigration and illegal employers. No – The reason we have an illegal immigrant population that has grown to over 12 million by some estimates and a patchwork of conflicting state and local laws is because Congress hasn’t done its job. Some states have passed laws to fill this void, but many haven’t – and some cities have chosen to become sanctuary cities. NEVA mandates employment verification for all employers, no matter where they do business and ensures that employees are treated fairly. My legislation eliminates the ability of illegal immigrants to work in sanctuary cities. My legislation creates a reliable system that will work and that will help remove the burden of illegal immigration that decades of federal inaction has placed upon the states. Allegation: NEVA would prevent information sharing with “immigration enforcement officials,” making it harder to crack down on employers who hire illegal workers. No – my legislation contains several provisions that will immediately aid the efforts of immigration enforcement officials. 1. My proposal provides enforcement officials with critical information on employers who submit bogus information to the U.S. government in order to hire illegal workers. 2. Immigration officials will play a lead role in verifying the lawful employment of non-citizens. If a non-citizen submits bad information in order to obtain illegal work, immigration officials will know immediately. 3. If by “information sharing” Mr. Dobbs refers to sharing private and sensitive Social Security and IRS information on U.S. citizens with the Department of Homeland Security, well then Mr. Dobbs does have that right – I am opposed to sharing this personal information on law abiding citizens. Allegation: It is a shame and an outrage. No - the simple facts of my legislation help to set the record straight. 1. The failures of the federal government have forced states to enact a patch-work of laws that hurt employers and that leave pockets of illegal employment through out the country. This is wrong and Congress has a responsibility to act. 2. We have a responsibility to enforce our laws and we can do better than the E-Verify system. American citizens should not be required to receive permission to work from a law enforcement agency and I believe we should provide effective tools so that our law enforcement agencies can get the job done. 3. NEVA provides a way forward by ensuring a legal workforce, safeguarding workers identities and protecting Social Security.
05.15.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) urged his colleagues to pass a clean troop funding bill before the Pentagon starts handing out pink slips. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) urged his colleagues to pass a clean troop funding bill before the Pentagon starts handing out pink slips. “The Democrats in Congress just signaled to the troops on the ground that they want you out of Iraq now and they don’t want to give you money to pay for you now and they don’t want to give you money for you to leave. It’s just a shame,” declared Johnson a 29-year Air Force veteran. “Congress needs to support our troops and give them the wherewithal to win. It’s time for Congress to pass a clean troop funding bill,” continued Johnson. The underlying legislation was supposed to allocate money to the troops serving in harm’s way. The amendment to send money to the troops on the front lines did not garner enough Democrat “yea” votes to pass. In a surprise move to the Democrats, a majority of Republicans voted “present.” The last minute maneuver prevented the Democrats from using Republicans to pass a bill that uses the troops as political pawns to balloon spending and mandate a troop withdrawal. Democrats also passed an amendment to the emergency spending proposal to pull the troops out of Iraq within 30 days of the bill becoming law. Recently, top Pentagon officials signaled that if a troop funding bill does not pass both chambers of Congress before the Memorial Day recess, then soldiers will stop receiving money after June 15th. Congress could adjourn next week without passing a troop funding bill. The Democrats loaded up the so-called troop spending measure with non-related items, such as unemployment insurance, foreign aid, tax hikes and flood protection for New Orleans, irking the Republicans who favored a stand-alone troop funding bill. “Playing pork-barrel politics with money for the troops is immoral and unethical,” said Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
05.06.2008	Today a House panel vetted worksite enforcement legislation authored by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) as a component of potential immigration reform. The bipartisan New Employee Verification Act, H.R. 5515, will achieve three important objectives: ensure a legal workforce, secure workers’ identity, and protect Social Security. share: f t Today a House panel vetted worksite enforcement legislation authored by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) as a component of potential immigration reform. The bipartisan New Employee Verification Act, H.R. 5515, will achieve three important objectives: ensure a legal workforce, secure workers’ identity, and protect Social Security. Johnson’s measure strengthens enforcement by making employers part of the solution. The proposal replaces the current error-prone and cumbersome I-9 process with a new, effective electronic verification system. On November 1st the nation’s employment verification system pilot program, E-Verify, will expire. Johnson serves as the Ranking Republican on the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security. The panel held a hearing titled, “Employment Eligibility Verification Systems and the Potential Impacts on the Social Security’s Ability to Serve Retirees, People with Disabilities, and Workers.” Johnson’s prepared statement follows. Remarks in Subcommittee on Social Security: “For more than two centuries legal immigration has helped our nation prosper. Most immigrants have come here legally by getting in line and waiting their turn, however many have not. Our broken enforcement system, prone to fraud and abuse, has aided those who chose to break our immigration laws. “The result is an illegal immigrant population that has grown to over 12 million by some estimates and a patchwork of conflicting state and local laws as elected officials seek the answers that their federal counterparts have failed to find. “Americans know our country cannot sustain this path and want Congress to enact real solutions now. We must learn from our past mistakes and set a new course. That is why I, along with a number of my Subcommittee colleagues introduced H.R. 5515, the New Employee Verification Act, also known as NEVA. NEVA will help achieve three important goals: ensure a legal workforce, safeguard workers’ identities, and protect Social Security. “First, my legislation replaces the current failed, paper-based I-9 process with a mandatory electronic system to verify the work authorization of new hires. The system would rely on the use of fewer, more secure identity documents and employee information would be transmitted through a system already used by 90 percent of all employers to track down dead beat dads, each State’s new hire reporting system. “U.S. citizenship and therefore work authorization would be confirmed only through the Social Security Administration, so there is no ‘Big Brother’ law enforcement agency building new databases and violating the privacy of law abiding citizens. Work authorization for non-citizens would continue to be confirmed through the Department of Homeland Security. “Second, the legislation would allow employers to voluntarily access a network of private sector experts, certified by the federal government, to not only verify work authorization, but to also authenticate and secure through biometrics the identity of their employees. “Finally, the bill would help protect the integrity of the Social Security system. Not only would the legislation prevent future unauthorized wages from being used to determine Social Security benefits, the bill would also protect the Social Security Administration’s primary mission and trust funds by authorizing employment verification only through advanced appropriated funds. “NEVA offers an innovative and bipartisan approach to a critical component of our immigration system – worker verification. “For over three years now Members of the House and Senate have rightly approved immigration reform proposals mandating the verification of work authorization. Closing the door to jobs for those who cross the border illegally is essential to securing our border. NEVA will make employers part of the solution to the problem of illegal immigration. “Like it or not, Social Security has the only database able to confirm citizenship for American citizens. So any meaningful immigration reform will impact the agency’s operations. It is time to start solving the problem of HOW to do electronic employee verification and stop asking IF we need to do it. “The American people are tired of broken laws and broken promises. This Subcommittee has had ten hearings in the past four years focusing on Social Security number verification as well as I.D. issues. It’s time the Congress gave the American people an employment verification system that works, and that protects the ability of Social Security to deliver outstanding service for all Americans.” # # #
05.01.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) drew attention to “National Cover the Uninsured Week” and called on Congress to move forward with common-sense legislation. In the United States, roughly 47 million people are without health insurance. Census Bureau data show that over 5 million people are uninsured in Texas. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) drew attention to “National Cover the Uninsured Week” and called on Congress to move forward with common-sense legislation. In the United States, roughly 47 million people are without health insurance. Census Bureau data show that over 5 million people are uninsured in Texas. “It’s time Congress got serious about increasing the number of Americans with health insurance. Free-market driven solutions will help give people better access to affordable insurance,” said Johnson. Johnson, a member of the Subcommittee on Health on the Ways and Means Committee, has authored or advocated key legislation to increase the number of Americans with health insurance, including the Small Business Health Fairness Act, H.R. 241, and the Health Savings Account (H.S.A.) Improvement and Expansion Act of 2007, H.R.3234. Creating Small Business Health Plans: More than 60% of uninsured Americans have ties to a small business. That is why Johnson’s proposal is crucial to solving the uninsured problem. It would allow small businesses to band together to buy health insurance “in bulk” through a reputable association. (Some examples include a local Chamber of Commerce or the National Federation of Independent Business.) These plans would grant small businesses the same “purchasing power” corporate America and the unions already enjoy. Expanding Health Savings Accounts (H.S.A.s): Used in conjunction with a high-deductible health plan, health savings accounts are designed to help individuals save for future qualified medical and retiree health expenses tax-free. Since the creation of H.S.A.s, an estimated 6.12 million Americans (360,000 Texans) have selected H.S.A.s as their choice for health insurance coverage. Previous studies have shown that almost 1/3 of the new enrollees of HSA plans were previously uninsured. They continue to be an avenue to increase the insured in America. Johnson backs building on the successes of H.S.A.s by making this tax-free health savings account more appealing, more affordable and more readily available. He would enhance the wildly popular health program in several ways, like increasing HSA contribution limits and making premiums for HSA-compatible insurance tax-deductible, among other things. “If we are going to cover the uninsured we need to find new and different ways to offer quality, affordable health insurance to more Americans,” said Johnson. “Creating small business health plans and expanding H.S.A.s will do that.” Johnson represents Collin and Dallas Counties. # # #
04.30.2008	On Tuesday, May 6th at 10:00 a.m., the Subcommittee on Social Security of the Ways and Means Committee will host a hearing titled, “Hearing on Employment Eligibility Verification Systems and the Potential Impacts on SSA’s Ability to Serve Retirees, People with Disabilities, and Workers.” share: f t On Tuesday, May 6th at 10:00 a.m., the Subcommittee on Social Security of the Ways and Means Committee will host a hearing titled, “Hearing on Employment Eligibility Verification Systems and the Potential Impacts on SSA’s Ability to Serve Retirees, People with Disabilities, and Workers.” As part of the hearing, the panel will examine bipartisan legislation, the New Employee Verification Act (NEVA), H.R. 5515, authored by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas). Earlier this year, Johnson, the Ranking Member of the Social Security Subcommittee, introduced NEVA. The Act will achieve three important objectives: ensure a legal workforce, secure workers’ identity, and protect Social Security. Johnson’s initiative replaces the current error-prone and cumbersome I-9 process with a new, effective electronic employee verification system that will make employers part of the solution to the problem of illegal immigration. Johnson serves as the highest-ranking Republican on the panel and he will give an opening statement and question the panelists. WHEN: Tuesday, May 6 10:00 a.m. WHAT: “Hearing on Employment Eligibility Verification Systems and the Potential Impacts on SSA’s Ability to Serve Retirees, People with Disabilities, and Workers WHO: Subcommittee on Social Security WHERE: B-318 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C.
04.23.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) marked Tax Freedom Day, the day that Americans stop working to pay for government bureaucracy and start working for themselves. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) marked Tax Freedom Day, the day that Americans stop working to pay for government bureaucracy and start working for themselves. This year Tax Freedom Day falls on April 23, according to the Tax Foundation's annual calculation using the latest government data on income and taxes. This year Tax Freedom Day falls three days earlier than in 2007; the Tax Foundation attributes this to the stimulus rebates and a projection of slow growth in 2008. The Tax Foundation estimates that, “In 2008, Americans will work 74 days to afford their federal taxes and 39 more days to pay state and local taxes. Meanwhile, buying food requires 35 days of work, clothing 13 days, and housing 60 days. Other major categories are health and medical care (50 days), transportation (29 days), and recreation (21 days).” “Americans have to work nearly one third of the year just to pay for government. Sadly, the worst is yet to come since the Democrats in Congress want to hike taxes on every single working American” said Johnson. “Their proposed tax hike for nearly every married couple, family with children, senior, and small business entrepreneur means that the average Third District taxpayer would pay over $3,000 more in taxes. That’s the last thing folks want in this stagnant economy,” concluded Johnson. Johnson serves on the Ways and Means Committee that has jurisdiction on taxes and represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
04.21.2008	On Saturday, May 17th at 10:00 a.m. in Plano, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host a homeownership promotion and foreclosure prevention seminar. This event is free and open to the public and the press. People may R.S.V.P. to SamJohnsonEvent@mail.house.gov, but it is not mandatory. share: f t On Saturday, May 17th at 10:00 a.m. in Plano, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host a homeownership promotion and foreclosure prevention seminar. This event is free and open to the public and the press. People may R.S.V.P. to SamJohnsonEvent@mail.house.gov, but it is not mandatory. The seminar will take place in the Sunny Slope Room of the Plano Centre located at 2000 East Spring Creek Parkway in Plano. “Homeownership embodies the American Dream. For years, most of America experienced a tremendous housing boom. Homeownership is at or near historic levels, with nearly 70 percent of Americans owning a home. However, with that home purchase comes serious responsibilities and significant obligations. The recent turmoil in the housing market coupled with the rising cost of living has left some with difficulties making their mortgage payments,” stated Johnson. “To assist those in need of mortgage counseling, I am hosting a homeownership promotion and foreclosure prevention seminar. If you are in a situation where you are facing foreclosure, having difficulty making your mortgage payment, or you are looking to purchase your first home, I encourage you attend this event,” said Johnson. “There has been a steady a rise in home foreclosures across our nation and unfortunately, North Texas is no exception. While the percentage of homes in foreclosure is still relatively low compared with places like California and Florida, it is a very serious concern to those in jeopardy of losing their home. I want to help those people as well as educate folks hoping to buy their first home to make sure that they can avoid predatory lenders and better navigate the home buying process,” concluded Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. To learn more about this event, contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. Saturday, May 17 10:00-11:30 a.m. Homeownership promotion and foreclosure prevention seminar U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson Plano Centre Sunny Slope Room 2000 E. Spring Creek Parkway Plano R.S.V.P. to SamJohnsonEvent@mail.house.gov (optional) # # #
04.18.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) publicized the priorities he’ll seek federal funding for in the money allocating process, known as appropriations. Johnson believes that any funding request, called an earmark, included in an appropriations bill should be made public and attributed to the Member of Congress who requested it. In the interest of transparency, Johnson is announcing his requests before Congress considers them. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) publicized the priorities he’ll seek federal funding for in the money allocating process, known as appropriations. Johnson believes that any funding request, called an earmark, included in an appropriations bill should be made public and attributed to the Member of Congress who requested it. In the interest of transparency, Johnson is announcing his requests before Congress considers them. Under the Appropriations Committee, there are 12 Appropriations Subcommittees tasked with assigning federal dollars to each of the 435 congressional districts for the 2009 spending bill. Seeking federal funding for a specific project does not guarantee that the item will receive any money from the federal government. Johnson requested that the Appropriations Committee properly consider whether his projects merit federal funds. Each Member of Congress must decide individually to request money for his or her congressional district as well as the amount in funding. Of the nine requests, seven are defense or national-security related to help strengthen all branches of the armed forces. Johnson attributes this to the dominant presence of the defense industry in North Texas; the Third Congressional District includes small, medium, and large defense-affiliated companies employing thousands of people who live and/ or work in the Third District. Johnson also believes that the strict regulations governing the sale of American defense-company merchandise and technology for national security reasons puts American defense companies at a unique disadvantage compared with foreign-owned companies. Defense · Wounded Warrior trauma care pilot program in Texas - $3.8 million; · Army research, test, and development for the signal intelligence (SIGINT) capability for the Army’s “Warrior” UAV- $3.1 million; · Secure Grids for Network Centric Operations at UT Dallas - $4.2 million; · Development of networked wireless sensor technology for reconnaissance, surveillance, and tactical applications for border security housed at UTD - $4 million; · Stryker Common APS Radar: APS is an externally mounted vehicle protection system that identifies and intercepts rocket propelled grenades, mortars, and the other projectiles after they are launched toward the vehicles - $4.5 million; · Portable mobile oxygen and ventilation systems for Marine Corps - $4.2 million; and · Expanded target tracking capability for the FireScout radar - $4.6 million. Commerce, Justice, Science · City of McKinney: a public safety radio system replacement from analog to digital. Because of the rapid growth of the City of McKinney, the existing public radio system has dead spots that could compromise the safety of officers and the public. - $300,000. Labor, HHS, Education · Funding for the National Virtual Vietnam Archive at Texas Tech University - $4 million. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
04.16.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) praised Governor Rick Perry’s efforts to create and maintain jobs by cutting unemployment taxes. At a Ways and Means Committee mark-up on H.R. 5749, The Emergency Extended Unemployment Compensation Act of 2008, Johnson delivered the following statement. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) praised Governor Rick Perry’s efforts to create and maintain jobs by cutting unemployment taxes. At a Ways and Means Committee mark-up on H.R. 5749, The Emergency Extended Unemployment Compensation Act of 2008, Johnson delivered the following statement. Remarks at Committee Hearing: “In Texas we’ve got a relatively low unemployment rate -- currently 4.1 percent. Last month, Governor Perry bucked the trend among governors and state legislatures and announced that he was going to further cut taxes. He suspended for one year the unemployment insurance replenishment tax and by this move he is saving businesses in Texas $90 million. In 2007, Texas created more jobs than any other state in the union, resulting in record-low unemployment. This even came after the Hurricane Katrina disaster brought us thousands of displaced Louisiana residents who are now happily working and calling themselves Texans. “Mr. Chairman, at a time when much of the nation is facing an economic downturn, Texas created a whopping 235,000 new jobs in the last year. The next closest state was New York that created 75,000 jobs. I believe that the Texas economy is thriving due to the good economic sense of our Governor who knows that at the time of economic uncertainty, good government does not raise taxes – it allows Americans to keep more of their own money to continue being productive. I salute Governor Perry for his cutting of the unemployment insurance tax and for continuing to keep the Texas economy growing. I would encourage all members of the committee to keep this lesson in mind as we are presented with tax increases on Americans.” # # #
04.15.2008	Today common-sense legislation authored by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) passed the U.S. House of Representatives. Johnson’s measure, The MOBILE (Modernize Our Bookkeeping In the Law for Employee’s) Cell Phone Act, H.R. 5450, would update the tax treatment of cell phones and Blackberries used for business and repeal the requirement that employers and employees maintain detailed logs of cell phone use. share: f t Today common-sense legislation authored by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) passed the U.S. House of Representatives. Johnson’s measure, The MOBILE (Modernize Our Bookkeeping In the Law for Employee’s) Cell Phone Act, H.R. 5450, would update the tax treatment of cell phones and Blackberries used for business and repeal the requirement that employers and employees maintain detailed logs of cell phone use. The House approved Johnson’s initiative as part of the Taxpayer Assistance and Simplification Act of 2008, H.R. 5719, that passed the House 238 - 179. Johnson, who sits on the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, swiftly pushed his cell phone proposal through Congress. A constituent concern generated the concept for Johnson’s legislation. In February, a lawyer from North Texas contacted the Congressman on behalf of a client. The IRS wanted the client to keep records on employee cell phone and Blackberry use or forfeit the deduction. Given the tremendous advances in this technology, Johnson thought the IRS should modernize the tax code as quickly as possible. “Picture a cell phone in 1989. Back then, cell phones were the size of a shoe, it required a suitcase to carry the battery, and each minute cost a small mint. Around that time, a law was put in place to require that detailed log sheets be kept by employees of their cell phone use in order to document their business use. Those rules made sense back then. Fast forward to today. Clearly, time and technology have marched on. It’s time that we update this outdated law,” said Johnson. Because Democrats loaded up the tax simplification bill with unrelated items, Johnson voted against the Taxpayer Assistance and Simplification Act of 2008. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
04.10.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after the Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi (D-Ca.) squashed the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. The proposal would have opened up a new market to U.S. products as well as protect and create more American jobs. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after the Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi (D-Ca.) squashed the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. The proposal would have opened up a new market to U.S. products as well as protect and create more American jobs. According to The Washington Post, “At the moment, Colombian exports to the United States already enjoy preferences. The trade agreement would make those permanent, but it would also give U.S. firms free access to Colombia for the first time, thus creating U.S. jobs. Politically, too, the agreement is in the American interest, as a reward to a friendly, democratic government that has made tremendous strides on human rights, despite harassment from Venezuela's Hugo Chávez.” Johnson serves on the Ways and Means Committee, which has jurisdiction over international trade. “By squashing the Colombia free trade agreement, Nancy Pelosi has catered to freedom-hating dictators like Hugo Chávez and Fidel Castro. She picked helping Hugo Chávez over helping American farmers, ranchers and small-business owners who were hoping to finally gain access to the growing South American market. “As the Speaker of the House, she should know better than to play San Francisco politics with international policy. “A vital ally in a tumultuous region, Colombia has gone to great lengths to thrive in Hugo Chávez’s backyard. Instead of reaching out to our friend, Colombia, Nancy Pelosi abrogated an agreement and disgraced our Nation. By stopping this agreement for her political gain, she has smeared the reputation of the United States.” # # #
04.10.2008	Today on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) urged fellow Members of Congress to co-sponsor his bipartisan bill to prevent unauthorized employment. share: f t Today on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) urged fellow Members of Congress to co-sponsor his bipartisan bill to prevent unauthorized employment. Johnson, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Social Security, Committee on Ways and Means, touted his bill, the New Employee Verification Act, H.R. 5515. The Act achieves three important objectives: ensure a legal workforce, safeguard workers’ identity, and protect Social Security. The text follows. Remarks on the Floor of the House: “On November 1st the nation’s voluntary employment verification system, E-Verify, will expire. Our current system of broken laws and broken promises to enforce those laws has allowed over 12 million immigrants to enter our country illegally. Mandating E-Verify won’t fix a broken worksite enforcement system. We must find new solutions. “Under my bipartisan bill, H.R. 5515, the New Employee Verification Act, the current paper-based and error-prone I-9 process – upon which E-Verify is based – would be replaced with an electronic verification system. “H.R. 5515 would use the existing new hire registry reporting process already used by 90% of U.S. employers. My bill would mandate a national employment verification system for new hires that is reliable and efficient. “With E-Verify scheduled to expire this year, now is the time for the Congress to create a new way forward that would help stop unauthorized work. I urge my colleagues to co-sponsor H.R. 5515.” # # #
04.07.2008	In the wake of a recent report, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to demand Congressional action on Social Security. share: f t In the wake of a recent report, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to demand Congressional action on Social Security. The trustees’ annual report, which was released on March 25th, projects that Social Security will begin paying out more money than it takes in from payroll taxes in 2017. By 2041, the Social Security trust fund will be exhausted. The Social Security surplus begins to decline in 2011. Johnson serves as the highest ranking Republican on the Social Security Subcommittee and considers reform of the nation’s retirement system a top priority. Remarks as prepared follow: “A recent report shows Social Security sliding into the red. We need to protect Social Security for the next generation. It’s up to Congress to take serious action ...now. “The trustees’ annual report on Social Security, released over the district work period, paints a gloomy picture. Social Security will begin paying out more money than it takes in from payroll taxes in 2017. By 2041, the Social Security trust fund will be exhausted. These dismal dates come as no surprise. “Each day that ebbs by, we’re left with fewer options for how to address this growing problem. “As the Ranking Member on the Social Security Subcommittee, I stand ready to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to find real solutions for the future. “The time is now. We can not afford to wait.”
04.07.2008	On Saturday, April 12th at 8:00a.m., the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will co-host the DFW Metroplex U.S. Service Academies Forum. This free informational session provides interested students grades eight through twelve an opportunity to learn more about our nation's service academies, requirements for admission and the selection process. The seminar will take place at the Student Center at Tarrant County College, Northeast, located at 828 Harwood Road in Hurst, Texas. share: f t On Saturday, April 12th at 8:00a.m., the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will co-host the DFW Metroplex U.S. Service Academies Forum. This free informational session provides interested students grades eight through twelve an opportunity to learn more about our nation's service academies, requirements for admission and the selection process. The seminar will take place at the Student Center at Tarrant County College, Northeast, located at 828 Harwood Road in Hurst, Texas. Representatives from congressional offices and all five academies (U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Coast Guard Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy) as well as cadets and midshipmen will be on hand to talk with North Texas students, parents and educators on a one to one basis about the possibilities associated with attending these premier educational institutions and the following military commitment. U.S. Congressman Johnson will host the event with Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison and John Cornyn, as well as Congressmen Joe Barton, Kay Granger, Kenny Marchant, Michael Burgess and Pete Sessions. For more information regarding the Academy Forum, or directions to Tarrant County College, Northeast in Hurst, please contact Robin Vaughan, Office of Congressman Michael Burgess, 972/434-9700 or robin.vaughan@mail.house.gov. Saturday, April 12 8:00 a.m. DFW Metroplex Service Academies Forum Student Center Tarrant County College, Northeast 828 Harwood Road Hurst
03.27.2008	On Saturday, April 5th from 7:00 to 9:00 p.m., U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will host the Second Annual Congressional Art Competition Art Exhibit in the Gallery of the McKinney Performing Arts Center. The free event is open to the public and the press. share: f t On Saturday, April 5th from 7:00 to 9:00 p.m., U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will host the Second Annual Congressional Art Competition Art Exhibit in the Gallery of the McKinney Performing Arts Center. The free event is open to the public and the press. All of the artwork featured will be pieces submitted for the 2008 competition, An Artistic Discovery, by area high school students. An awards presentation for the winners will take place during the exhibit around 7:30 p.m. Those in attendance will have an opportunity to vote for the People’s Choice Award. “I hope that folks will come out to encourage and recognize talented young artists of North Texas,” said Johnson. Saturday, April 5th 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. Free Artistic Discovery display and awards reception U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) The Art Gallery McKinney Performing Arts Center 111 N. Tennessee Street McKinney 972/547-2650
03.25.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) urged Congress to address the future of Social Security in the wake of a new report that shows the nation’s retirement system sliding into the red. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) urged Congress to address the future of Social Security in the wake of a new report that shows the nation’s retirement system sliding into the red. “Insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results. We get this report every year. We know Social Security has to be fixed and yet the Democrats in Congress fail to even mention this urgent issue in their budget for next year,” said Johnson, the Social Security Subcommittee’s top Republican on the Ways and Means Committee. The trustees’ annual report, which was released today, projects that Social Security will begin paying out more money than it takes in from payroll taxes in 2017. By 2041, the Social Security trust fund will be exhausted. The Social Security surplus begins to decline in 2011. Last year Johnson introduced the Individual Social Security Investment Program Act of 2007. Modeled after the CATO “6.2 % Solution,” Johnson’s plan allows younger workers to split the 12.4% of an employee’s payroll tax and says – let’s share – half to the government, half to you. “It’s time that folks in Congress took these new numbers to heart and did something to bolster the nation’s ailing retirement system. Social Security will be there for current and near retirees. It’s younger Americans who should be worried and that’s why I want Congress to take action now as Baby Boomers begin to retire,” continued Johnson, referring to the generation of Americans born after 1946. Under Johnson’s bill, younger workers would keep 6.2 percent to invest in a personal retirement account – and take advantage of the miracle of compound interest. They would have a sizeable retirement fund and a real asset to pass on to loved ones. The government receives 6.2 percent to meet its obligations to those over 55 and to the disabled, widows, and orphans. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties in North Texas. # # #
03.25.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) congratulated the grand prize winner of the inaugural Third District Patriotic Essay Contest, eighth grader Kayla Hudgins of Murphy Middle School. Hudgins, 13, resides in Wylie and studies under Donna Jenkins. Over 275 Third District students submitted essays for the first time contest. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) congratulated the grand prize winner of the inaugural Third District Patriotic Essay Contest, eighth grader Kayla Hudgins of Murphy Middle School. Hudgins, 13, resides in Wylie and studies under Donna Jenkins. Over 275 Third District students submitted essays for the first time contest. Johnson announced the grand prize winner, Hudgins, while addressing the Junior Historians of Murphy Middle School, taught by Donna Jenkins. Jenkins’ students submitted over 100 essays for the initial writing contest. “The voices of the future are loud and clear. They respect and honor our veterans,” said Johnson. “I want to thank all of the authors for making the introductory essay contest a success.” Sai Pranathi Baddipudi, an 8th grader, placed second. Baddipudi, 13, attends Staley Middle School in Frisco. Rebecca Beverly Kow, 12, captured third place. Kow is in 6th grade at Faubion Middle School in McKinney. Johnson surprised each student with an unannounced visit to the classroom. During each award ceremony, Johnson presented every top finisher with a copy of The Congressional Record commending their award-winning essays and thanked them for participating in the contest. See attached files to read the full essays. 1st Place: Kayla Hudgins 8th Grade—Age 13 Murphy Middle School Teacher: Donna Jenkins Lives in Wylie 2nd Place: Sai Pranathi Baddipudi 8th Grade—Age 13 Staley Middle School Teacher: Tammy Brightwell Lives in Frisco 3rd Place: Rebecca Beverly Kow 6th Grade—Age 12 Faubion Middle School Teacher: Debbie Bennett Lives in McKinney
03.13.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) cast his vote against the Democrat’s budget that includes the largest tax hike in history and increases spending. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) cast his vote against the Democrat’s budget that includes the largest tax hike in history and increases spending. According to the Heritage Foundation, the Democrat’s budget hikes taxes for people living in the Third Congressional District by $2669 in 2009. The Democrat’s budget passed 212 to 207. “I think Americans are over-taxed and they are already anxious about the wobbly economy. Americans can’t afford the Democrats’ tax hikes. Congress should be able to balance the budget with fiscal discipline and real reform, not with more spending and more taxes,” said Johnson. Johnson supported the House Republican budget that holds the line on spending, prevents the largest tax hike in history, repeals the alternative minimum tax over time, and imposes a one-year moratorium on earmarks, dedicating the money saved to help keep taxes low and to balance the budget. The GOP budget aims to fix the unsustainable rate of spending of Medicare and Medicaid. The House Republican budget failed to garner enough votes to become the ultimate House budget. The Democrat’s budget raises the marginal rates for all workers, eliminates the 10% bracket for low-earners, re-instates the marriage penalty, resurrects the so-called death tax, and abandons the $500 per-child tax credit. On top of spiking taxes, the Democrat budget creates $100 billion in new spending in addition to the across-the-board 8.8% increase over the 2008 spending levels. The budget ignores the looming entitlement spending crisis in Social Security and Medicare. Failing to make tough decisions now, coupled with throwing money at the bloated programs, endangers the long-term health and retirement safety nets. “The only real action they take on reforming Social Security, Medicare or Medicaid is to kick the can down the road another five years. What is the cost of their irresponsible inaction? Roughly $14 trillion! By refusing to make the tough decisions on how to resolve the serious financial trouble these programs are facing, the Democrats have decided to leave the decisions to someone else. That is not acceptable,” said Johnson. “The liberal Democrat majority has shown their true colors – hike taxes and spending and make the American taxpayers foot the bill,” concluded Johnson. # # #
03.12.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) signed a discharge petition to force a vote in the U.S. House of Representatives on an immigration reform and border security measure. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) signed a discharge petition to force a vote in the U.S. House of Representatives on an immigration reform and border security measure. “Americans want, need and deserve illegal immigration reform. It’s time that Congress held an up or down vote on this important issue,” said Johnson. “Our borders are out of control! They are lawless and it’s time we did something about it - finally,” continued Johnson. Yesterday, a Member of Congress filed a discharge petition to force a House vote on Congressman Heath Shuler’s (11th Dist.-N.C.) SAVE Act. The SAVE Act aims to reduce illegal immigration through a strict emphasis on border security, employer verification and interior enforcement. The Save Act has 145 co-sponsors, over 40 Democrats and nearly 100 Republicans. The discharge petition is a procedural maneuver that allows a majority of Members of Congress to bring to the floor a bill, bypassing all formal house rules. If the SAVE Act discharge petition collects 218 signatures comprising a majority of the House, it “discharges” the measure from the seven House committees where it is currently under consideration, and will send it to the House floor for a vote. Johnson supports the border security and interior enforcement portions of the SAVE Act but prefers his own legislation to prevent unauthorized employment, the New Employee Verification Act. The New Employee Verification Act achieves three important objectives: ensure a legal workforce, safeguard workers’ identity, and protect Social Security. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
03.11.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) demanded House action on critical terrorist surveillance legislation. For the third week in a row, Democrats in the House have failed to call a vote on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act modernization bill. Once again, this Friday the Congress will adjourn for a two-week recess, likely without tackling the top national security priority, despite repeated calls by Republicans to bring the measure to the floor. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) demanded House action on critical terrorist surveillance legislation. For the third week in a row, Democrats in the House have failed to call a vote on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act modernization bill. Once again, this Friday the Congress will adjourn for a two-week recess, likely without tackling the top national security priority, despite repeated calls by Republicans to bring the measure to the floor. “Tomorrow marks one month since the Senate passed a bill to protect America and the House Democrats have yet to bring it up for a vote. We are less safe today in America because the Democrats in Congress refuse to get off the dime,” said Johnson. The Protect America Act that modernizes the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act expired on February 16th. On February 12th, the U.S. Senate passed a bipartisan bill to expand the government’s ability to conduct surveillance on calls between the U.S. and overseas for a foreign intelligence investigation. In mid-February the Democrats in Congress failed to act on the soon-to-expire proposal. Instead, the Democrats in the House voted to adjourn for a week-long recess. The Director of National Intelligence Mike McConnell told Congress that America’s intelligence services “have lost intelligence information … as a direct result of the uncertainty created by Congress’ failure to act.” “Why do Democrats continue to stall on national security? It defies common-sense. Americans deserve better. Mom-and-Pop business owners don’t just close up shop for two weeks because they don’t want to tackle the tough tasks. Congress shouldn’t either,” concluded Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. # # #
02.28.2008	At a news conference today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Social Security, Committee on Ways and Means, introduced the New Employee Verification Act. Sparking new interest in the stalled-out immigration reform debate on Capitol Hill, the proposal would reform the nation’s approach to worksite enforcement. share: f t At a news conference today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Social Security, Committee on Ways and Means, introduced the New Employee Verification Act. Sparking new interest in the stalled-out immigration reform debate on Capitol Hill, the proposal would reform the nation’s approach to worksite enforcement. “Employers want, need and deserve a reliable employee verification system and I want to give it to them,” said Johnson. The New Employee Verification Act achieves three important objectives: ensure a legal workforce, safeguard workers’ identity, and protect Social Security. First, this legislation draws upon lessons learned from the past to help guarantee a legal U.S. workforce for the future. The current failed, paper-based I-9 screening process is replaced with an Electronic Employee Verification System, known as EEVS. The system would rely on the use of fewer, more secure identity documents and would be built upon the new hire reporting process in each state. This program is already used by 90% of employers and was put in place a dozen years ago to track down dead beat dads. For Americans, work authorization would be confirmed only through the Social Security Administration. This ensures that there is no “Big Brother” law enforcement agency building new databases on law abiding citizens. For non-citizens, work authorization would be confirmed through the Department of Homeland Security that has the databases on visa and immigration status. Second, the legislation would also help safeguard workers’ identity. A voluntary system would be created using the latest technology to authenticate and protect a worker’s identity. Private sector companies, certified by the federal government, would first verify work authorization in EEVS, but would also authenticate the identity of employees by utilizing existing background-check and document screening tools. The identity would then be secured through a biometric identifier, such as a finger print or eye scan. This is the Secure Electronic Employee Verification System, SEEVS. In December 2006, nearly 1,300 workers in six states at Swift and Company were arrested, including many in Cactus, Texas. A Swift and Company human resource official testified before a House panel that Swift had willingly participated in the government’s voluntary verification program for Social Security numbers since 1997. “The raids at Swift shed light on the growing practice by illegal immigrants of using authentic documents - borrowed, rented or stolen - to avoid detection in the hiring process – and we must learn from it,” said Johnson. Social Security Subcommittee Members Kevin Brady (8th Dist.-Texas) and Paul Ryan (1st Dist.-Wis.) co-sponsored the bill and spoke at the news conference. At the event, Susan Meisinger, CEO for the Society for Human Resource Management, and Lynn Shotwell, Executive Director for the American Council on International Personnel, spoke in favor of the bill on behalf of the Human Resource Initiative for a Legal Workforce (www.legal-workforce.org). The HR Initiative represents human resource professionals in thousands of small and large U.S. employers representing every sector of the American economy. The HR Initiative and its members are seeking to improve the current process of employment verification by creating a secure, efficient and reliable system that will ensure a legal workforce and help prevent unauthorized employment, a root cause of illegal immigration. Click here for more information on H.R. 5515 # # #
02.26.2008	Dedicated to finding a new way forward in the illegal immigration debate, on Thursday, February 28th at 11:00 a.m., U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will host a news conference to announce tough new legislation to reform the nation’s approach to worksite enforcement. Johnson, the Ranking Member of the Social Security Subcommittee, will be joined by fellow Subcommittee members. The news conference will take place in HC-9 of the Capitol and will be open to the news media. share: f t Dedicated to finding a new way forward in the illegal immigration debate, on Thursday, February 28th at 11:00 a.m., U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will host a news conference to announce tough new legislation to reform the nation’s approach to worksite enforcement. Johnson, the Ranking Member of the Social Security Subcommittee, will be joined by fellow Subcommittee members. The news conference will take place in HC-9 of the Capitol and will be open to the news media. The New Employee Verification Act will achieve three important objectives: ensure a legal workforce, secure workers’ identity, and protect Social Security. Johnson’s measure strengthens enforcement through tougher employer penalties. The proposal replaces the current error-prone and cumbersome I-9 process with a new, effective electronic verification system. Susan R. Meisinger, President and CEO of the Society for Human Resource Management, and Lynn Shotwell, Executive Director of the American Council on International Personnel, will speak at the news conference in support of the measure as well. WHEN: Thursday, February 28th 11:00 a.m. WHAT: News conference Introduction of immigration reform bill through worksite enforcement “The New Employee Verification Act” WHO: U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (8th Dist.-Texas) U.S. Congressman Paul Ryan (1st Dist.-Wis.) Susan R. Meisinger, CEO, Society for Human Resource Management Lynn Shotwell, Executive Director, American Council on International Personnel WHERE: HC-9 The Capitol Washington, D.C.
02.15.2008	At a news conference on Capitol Hill, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) voiced his support for the Military Freedom Act. Johnson co-sponsored the measure that would deny any federal funds for any state, city, county or municipality that prohibits or restricts the establishment or operation of a military recruiting office. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. share: f t At a news conference on Capitol Hill, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) voiced his support for the Military Freedom Act. Johnson co-sponsored the measure that would deny any federal funds for any state, city, county or municipality that prohibits or restricts the establishment or operation of a military recruiting office. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. “Good afternoon. You all know The Marine Corps Hymn. It starts…. ‘From the halls of Montezuma to the shores of Tripoli, We fight our country’s battles in the air, on land, and sea.’ “Sadly, the Marines have had to wage a new fight in the City of Berkeley when the city council voted to declare that a Marine recruiting station was ‘not welcome in the city.’ To rub salt in the wound, the council then granted carte blanche to the radical protest group, Code Pink. The disappointing and despicable actions of Berkeley are offensive and obnoxious. Some might call them treasonous. They did themselves no favors when they failed to pass a resolution apologizing to the Corps last night. “I shudder to think of what might happen to our armed forces if other city councils follow Berkeley’s example. That’s why I’ve backed the Military Freedom Act. This important legislation yanks any federal funding from a city, county, state or municipality that prohibits or restricts the establishment or operation of a military recruiting office. “You know, I want to remind our countrymen that we have an all-volunteer military. These men and women make huge sacrifices, like time away from their family, and foregoing real world salaries, all to pursue a life in public service. As long as America has an all volunteer military, we must do all that we can to help our recruiters seek out and sign up the finest young men and women this country has to offer. “Returning to the draft is not an option. “When I was a POW in Vietnam, a fellow POW scratched something on a cell wall. It said, that ‘Freedom has a taste to it that the protected will never know.’ “Let’s leave it that way and protect our military recruiting stations.” # # #
02.13.2008	To celebrate 35 years of freedom, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will attend the dedication of the “Sam Johnson flagpole” in Rowlett’s Veterans Park and speak to students at Murphy Middle School and at Canyon Creek Christian Academy in Richardson. Members of the press are encouraged to attend all of these events. share: f t To celebrate 35 years of freedom, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will attend the dedication of the “Sam Johnson flagpole” in Rowlett’s Veterans Park and speak to students at Murphy Middle School and at Canyon Creek Christian Academy in Richardson. Members of the press are encouraged to attend all of these events. The events coincide with the 35-year anniversary of “Operation Homecoming,” commemorating Johnson’s return from nearly seven years in captivity in Vietnam as a Prisoner of War. Released from Hanoi on February 12th, Johnson touched down on Texas soil after 2,494 days as a POW on February 17, 1973. On Saturday, February 16th at 2:00p.m., Johnson will attend the dedication of the “Sam Johnson flagpole” in Rowlett’s Veterans Park. The public is welcome to attend this event free of charge. On Monday, February 18th at 2:45p.m., Johnson will address the Junior Historians of Murphy Middle School, taught by Donna Jenkins. Johnson will recount his experiences as a POW for nearly seven years, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. Jenkins’ students submitted over 100 essays for the inaugural middle school patriotic essay contest. On Wednesday, February 20th at 10:00a.m., Johnson will speak to the students of Canyon Creek Christian Academy in Richardson in the sanctuary. Johnson will share stories from his time in captivity. WHEN: Saturday, February 16th at 2:00p.m. WHAT: Dedication of the Sam Johnson flagpole in Veterans Park WHO: Former POW and Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) WHERE: Veterans Park Sam Johnson flagpole 3844 Main Street Rowlett WHEN: Monday, February 18th at 2:45p.m. WHAT: Johnson’s address to Junior Historians about his POW experience WHERE: Murphy Middle School 620 North Murphy Road Murphy WHEN: Wednesday, February 20th at 10:00a.m. WHAT: Johnson’s address to students about his POW experience WHERE: Canyon Creek Christian Academy The Sanctuary 2800 Custer Parkway Richardson ###
02.12.2008	On Tuesday, February 26th, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host “mobile office hours” to visit with constituents. The current cities hosting “mobile office hours” in February include: Allen, Frisco, Garland, McKinney, Plano, and Rowlett. share: f t On Tuesday, February 26th, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host “mobile office hours” to visit with constituents. The current cities hosting “mobile office hours” in February include: Allen, Frisco, Garland, McKinney, Plano, and Rowlett. Staff from the Congressman’s office host regular “mobile office hours” throughout the Third Congressional District to meet with constituents. During the “mobile office hours” the Third District staff gladly will offer assistance with problems regarding federal issues or agencies, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration or the Internal Revenue Service. They also may help facilitate overseas adoptions. Constituents are invited to stop by and share their comments about federal issues in Congress. No advance appointments are necessary. If a person would like assistance with a federal agency, he or she should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. In the event people can not attend the “mobile office hours” in their city, residents are free to contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Allen City Hall Entrance/Lobby Area 305 Century Parkway Allen 214-509-4100 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Frisco George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Entrance/Lobby Area, 1st floor 6101 Frisco Square Blvd. Frisco 972-292-5000 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Garland Nicholson Memorial Library System Central Library Outer Entrance Area 625 Austin Street Garland 972-205-2500 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. McKinney McKinney Performing Arts Center at the Historic Collin County Courthouse Outer Entrance Area 111 North Tennessee McKinney 972-547-2650 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. Plano Plano Municipal Center Entrance/Lobby Area 1520 Avenue K Plano 972-941-7000 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. Rowlett City Hall Entrance/Lobby Area 4000 Main Street Richardson 972-744-4090 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m.
02.07.2008	At a hearing on Capitol Hill, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) called for a fast fix of the outdated cell phone tax rules that demand that employers keep track of cell phone and Blackberry use to claim the deduction. Johnson asked Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson about changing this outdated law given the rise in popularity of plans offering unlimited minutes, thus freeing employers from tracking cell phone use. Secretary Paulson agreed that the law should be modernized. share: f t At a hearing on Capitol Hill, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) called for a fast fix of the outdated cell phone tax rules that demand that employers keep track of cell phone and Blackberry use to claim the deduction. Johnson asked Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson about changing this outdated law given the rise in popularity of plans offering unlimited minutes, thus freeing employers from tracking cell phone use. Secretary Paulson agreed that the law should be modernized. Johnson’s query arose from a real-life constituent concern. A lawyer from North Texas contacted the Congressman on behalf of a client. The IRS wanted the client to keep records on employee cell phone and Blackberry use or forfeit the deduction. Given the tremendous advances in this technology, Johnson wants the IRS to modernize the tax code as quickly as possible. Speech in Ways and Means Committee hearing: “I want to talk with you about a problem in the tax code that has come to my attention and see if it is something you agree we should fix. Back in 1989, a section of law was written to require that cell phones be used more than 50% for business purposes. Back then, you might remember that cell phones had a battery the size of a car battery, the phone itself was the size of a shoe and air time was blindingly expensive. “Clearly, time and technology have marched on and companies give their employees cell phones and blackberries with unlimited minutes and these communication devices are really just an extension of the business day and place to anywhere and anytime. “Because airtime minutes are often unlimited and are free after certain hours, employers generally have no interest in keeping track of employee cell phone or blackberry use. Yet there are now IRS Auditors questioning employers’ normal and ordinary business deductions for cell phones and blackberries because Employers have not been keeping records on employee cell phone or Blackberry use. “The IRS wants employers to track employees or be forced to give up the normal deduction for cell phones and Blackberries. Right now, the law does not require employers to track use of the phone at an employee’s desk or the use of email or computers for personal purposes. I think the law needs to be changed to bring it up to date with the fact that their office cell and Blackberry is just an extension of their desk phone and computer. “Secretary Paulson, don’t you think it is time to modernize the tax law so that employers are not required, for tax purposes, to track the personal cell phone use of their employees? “I’m going to be introducing a bill on this point in the next couple of days and I invite any colleagues to join me.” ###
02.06.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) blasted the City Council in Berkeley, California, for exiling the United States Marine Corps in a blistering speech on the floor the U.S. House of Representatives. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) blasted the City Council in Berkeley, California, for exiling the United States Marine Corps in a blistering speech on the floor the U.S. House of Representatives. Recently, the City Council of Berkeley voted to tell the U.S. Marines that the recruiting station “is not welcome in the city, and if recruiters choose to stay, they do so as uninvited and unwelcome intruders.” A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. On February 12, 2008, Johnson will celebrate 35 years of freedom as part of Operation Homecoming. On that day, the longest held American POW’s left Hanoi and started their journeys back to America. Speech delivered on the floor of the House of Representatives: “You all know The Marine Corps Hymn. It starts, ‘From the halls of Montezuma to the shores of Tripoli, we fight our country’s battles in the air, on land, and sea.’ “Sadly, now the Marines have a new fight in the City of Berkeley. Recently the city council voted to declare that a Marine recruiting station is ‘not welcome in the city.’ “To rub salt in the wound, the council then granted carte blanche to the radical protest group, Code Pink. The disappointing and despicable actions of Berkeley are sad, shameful and sickening. Some might call them treasonous. “Marines volunteer to serve their country and spill their blood for this nation. Berkeley should show more respect for our armed forces. “The Marine’s motto, Semper Fidelis, is always faithful. Although Berkeley may not be faithful to the Marines, I can guarantee you that the city of Berkeley wouldn’t exist in a free country without the United States Marines! “The council needs to reverse this absurd decision. It’s offensive and obnoxious.” # # #
02.05.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the names of students he has nominated to U.S. Service Academies for the Class of 2012. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson nominated a host of the best and brightest students from all across the Third District. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the names of students he has nominated to U.S. Service Academies for the Class of 2012. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson nominated a host of the best and brightest students from all across the Third District. “One of the most positive and rewarding things that I do in Congress is nominating the future leaders of our armed forces,” said Johnson. The nominations are for the U.S. Air Force, Naval, Military and Merchant Marine Academies. From here, each academy narrows the field by granting an appointment to the most qualified nominees. The academies will make formal offers of appointment this spring. The Coast Guard Academy does not require a congressional nomination. With the significant number of applicants each year, Congressman Johnson employs the “competitive” method of nomination. An independent selection board, appointed by Congressman Johnson and comprised of Air Force, Naval, Merchant Marine and Military Academy graduates, selects ten candidates for each vacancy. Third District residents between the ages of 17 and 22 were eligible to apply to service academies if they met eligibility requirements in leadership, physical aptitude, scholarship and character. The selection of nominees was based on academic performance, exhibited by class rank, SAT or ACT scores and grade point average. Other important factors evaluated by the board included participation in extracurricular and civic activities as well as athletic aptitude. Students interested in learning more about the service academies for the class starting in August 2009 or beyond should contact Ashlea Quinonez in the Congressman’s office at 972-470-0892. In addition, every fall the Congressman hosts an Academy Information Session with all service branches represented. The Third Congressional District includes portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. ALLEN INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT ALLEN HIGH SCHOOL - 2 nominees Ji Hun Hong, Allen, TX United States Naval Academy Ji Hyuk Hong, Allen, TX United States Naval Academy United States Merchant Marine Academy FRISCO INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT FRISCO HIGH SCHOOL – 3 nominees Tyler Sibley, Frisco, TX United States Military Academy Spencer Wood, Frisco, TX United States Air Force Academy Zachary Matthews, McKinney, TX United States Air Force Academy GARLAND INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT SACHSE HIGH SCHOOL – 3 nominees Drew Hunnicutt, Sachse, TX United States Military Academy Richard Kleinhans, Garland, TX United States Naval Academy United States Merchant Marine Academy Anja Vukic, Rowlett, TX United States Merchant Marine Academy SOUTH GARLAND HIGH SCHOOL – 1 nominee Marshall Atwood, Garland, TX United States Naval Academy MCKINNEY INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT MCKINNEY HIGH SCHOOL – 2 nominees Sean Gent, McKinney, TX United States Air Force Academy Carsen Neerings, McKinney, TX United States Military Academy MCKINNEY NORTH HIGH SCHOOL – 1 nominee Colton Floyd, McKinney, TX United States Air Force Academy PLANO INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT PLANO EAST SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL – 8 nominees Justin Aguilar, Richardson, TX United States Air Force Academy Colin Chisolm, Plano, TX United States Military Academy United States Merchant Marine Academy Jonathan West, Richardson, TX United States Military Academy Phillip Ball, Plano, TX United States Military Academy Mark Carrion, Plano, TX United States Naval Academy David Paxman, Richardson, TX United States Naval Academy United States Merchant Marine Academy Catherine Regan, Plano, TX Untied States Naval Academy Jan Redmond, Richardson, TX United States Merchant Marine Academy PLANO SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL – 5 nominees Landon Skinner, Plano, TX United States Air Force Academy Cameron Kistler, Plano, TX United States Air Force Academy Joshua Monson, Plano, TX United States Air Force Academy United States Merchant Marine Academy Junqin Li, Plano, TX United States Military Academy Aaron Chapman, Richardson, TX United States Naval Academy PLANO WEST SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL – 3 nominees James Worth, Plano, TX United States Air Force Academy Cameron Jones, Dallas, TX United States Military Academy Jacob Quintanilla, Plano, TX United States Naval Academy United States Merchant Marine Academy PRIVATE SCHOOLS JESUIT PREPARATORY SCHOOL - 2 nominees Scott Palmer, Dallas, TX United States Air Force Academy Preston Reine, Plano, TX United States Naval Academy United States Merchant Marine Academy MARINE MILITARY ACADEMY- 1 nominee Lyndsey Cox, Plano, TX United States Military Academy NORFLEET ACADEMY (Home School) – 1 nominee Eric Norfleet, Rowlett, TX United States Military Academy United States Merchant Marine Academy
01.17.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) encouraged Third District middle school students to compete in the 2008 Patriotic Essay contest. The theme for the inaugural annual essay contest is American Heroes: Our Veterans. Students have until January 31st to submit an essay. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) encouraged Third District middle school students to compete in the 2008 Patriotic Essay contest. The theme for the inaugural annual essay contest is American Heroes: Our Veterans. Students have until January 31st to submit an essay. The purpose of the middle school contest is to promote patriotism among pre-teens and adults in homes, schools and neighborhoods. To participate in the contest, students must live within the Third District. Only essays from middle school students attending public, private, or home schools will be considered. Those interested may download the guidelines and student/parent release form at SamJohnson.house.gov. The winner will be announced in February. The news will coincide with the 35-year anniversary of Johnson’s return home from nearly seven years in captivity as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam, more than half of that time in solitary confinement, February 17, 1973. “Patriots come in all shapes and sizes and ages and stages. I hope that middle school students will participate and show their pride in America and those who fight for our freedom,” said Johnson. Participants must submit type-written essays between 400 and 500 words. The broad 2008 theme, “American Heroes: Our Veterans” will allow students to get creative. Students may not identify themselves, their school, or their parents within the essay. An all-volunteer panel of community leaders will judge the essays and select a winner. To prevent the panelists from knowing who wrote an essay, students must turn in the essay to Johnson’s District Office with a cover page with the student’s full name, grade, school, mailing address, email and home phone number. To ensure that every writer gets an equal chance, the cover page will be removed from the essay and the essay will be identified by a number. Any essay text containing a student’s name or personal-identifying information will be disqualified. “It seems to me that middle school students in the Third District could use a way to become involved. Elementary school kids hand-make ‘Valentines for Veterans.’ High school students may serve on the Congressional Youth Advisory Council. It’s important to give middle school students an opportunity to make their contribution and be recognized. A patriotic essay will do just that. Hopefully this essay contest will inspire fun, family discussions at home and at school,” stated Johnson. Johnson referred to two popular programs for Third District young people: 1) Valentines for Veterans, a successful district-wide campaign when school children create “Valentines for Veterans” that Johnson delivers personally to the Dallas Veterans’ Hospital; and 2) the Congressional Youth Advisory Council, a group that provides Johnson with greater student perspective on issues relevant to younger Americans. To be considered, completed essays must be received in Johnson’s district office by 4:00pm on Wednesday, January 31, 2008, located at 2929 North Central Expressway, Suite 240, in Richardson. For more information or assistance, contact Deanna Kuykendall at (972) 470-0892 or by email at deanna.kuykendall@mail.house.gov. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. The cities include: Allen, north Dallas, Frisco, Garland, McKinney, Murphy, Parker, Plano, Richardson, Rowlett, Sachse, and Wylie.
01.15.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd District-Texas) invited high school students residing in the Third Congressional District to submit original artwork for the annual Congressional Art Competition. This contest is open to students enrolled in public, private or home schools. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd District-Texas) invited high school students residing in the Third Congressional District to submit original artwork for the annual Congressional Art Competition. This contest is open to students enrolled in public, private or home schools. Staff from Johnson’s office will pick up completed artwork March 12th. Teachers and parents should contact Johnson’s office on behalf of students no later than March 7th to enter the student’s name, hometown, and school. Parents, students or art teachers should call Deanna Kuykendall at 972-470-0892 or email her at Deanna.Kuykendall@mail.house.gov. Only original artwork created by Third District high school students will be judged. The winning masterpiece will be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the United States Capitol Building for an entire year. In addition, all artwork submitted will be displayed at a formal art presentation in the spring. The event will be open to the public and free of charge. Once the date, time and location are confirmed, the high school art show details will be announced to the news media and public. The rules are as follows: artwork must be an original concept, not reproduced from an existing photo, painting or other such work. It must be two dimensional, no larger than 30” by 30” framed and no more than 4 inches in depth. The entry must fall into one of the following categories: paintings (oil, watercolor, acrylic, etc.); drawings (pastels, pencil, charcoal, ink, markers, etc.); collages (must be two dimensional); prints (lithographs, silk screens, block prints); mixed media; computer graphics; and photography. The winning artwork will have to be framed. High school students wishing to participate in the 2008 Congressional Art Competition should contact their art teachers and/or Johnson’s office; Congressman Johnson mailed out official information to all high schools and senior high schools last week. Johnson represents the portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
01.11.2008	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement to showcase his strong support for physician-owned specialty hospitals. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement to showcase his strong support for physician-owned specialty hospitals. Johnson’s statement comes in the wake of a new study that shows some concern regarding physician-owned specialty hospitals’ emergency care procedures, as reported in The Washington Post. The federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) under Health and Human Services (HHS) does not require participating hospitals to maintain emergency departments, but does require that hospitals have a detailed emergency policy. The study only examines this one type of hospital and fails to compare the report’s findings with policies of similar community hospitals, among others. In North Texas, physician-owned hospitals rank among the most premiere medical facilities in the Lone Star State and the country. Those include: Baylor Jack and Jane Hamilton Heart & Vascular Hospital, The Heart Hospital at Baylor Plano, the Presbyterian Plano Center for Diagnostics and Surgery, Texas Institute for Surgery in Dallas, and the Baylor Medical Center at Frisco, among others. A member of the House Ways and Means Committee, Johnson serves on the Health Subcommittee. Johnson promotes physician-owned hospitals as much-needed competition in the health care industry to ensure that patients receive top-notch care from leading medical providers, many of who are often considered among the best in their areas of expertise. “Doctors and nurses who practice in physician-owned hospitals usually boast the best credentials and the most experience in their field of medicine. “At the end of the day, when my constituents want or need high-quality medical attention, North Texas is the place to be. I hear of doctors and nurses who help patients who travel from all over the country just to go to a certain hospital. It’s a glowing example of free enterprise at work. “Of course, safety must be priority number one. Any hospital that breaks the law must be punished. Preventable medical mistakes just make my blood boil and that is why I am encouraged to hear that HHS is embracing many of the report’s recommendations. “But I think that today’s news comes with a big bias. The study did not examine the emergency services of any other kind of hospital. It’s unfair to tarnish the reputation of one group when there is no true metric of comparison. That is why I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to see that all hospitals are held to the very high standard of care Americans want, need and deserve.”
01.09.2008	On Monday, January 14th at 10:00a.m., U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will officially launch the 2008 Valentines for Vets campaign with the PATRIOTS of Boon Elementary School in Allen. Boon is a 2007 Texas Education Agency Exemplary School. The school mascot is the Patriot. Media are invited to attend this event. share: f t On Monday, January 14th at 10:00a.m., U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will officially launch the 2008 Valentines for Vets campaign with the PATRIOTS of Boon Elementary School in Allen. Boon is a 2007 Texas Education Agency Exemplary School. The school mascot is the Patriot. Media are invited to attend this event. “Valentines for Vets ranks as a popular program because kids know just the right words to say ‘thank you for freedom.’ They draw heart-warming pictures of flags and families. Kids hit it out of the park 100% of the time! I hope students will go home and tell their parents about veterans and freedom and share the timeless lesson: freedom isn’t free,” stated Johnson. Every February, Americans open their hearts to our country's hospitalized veterans by sending cards and letters to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical centers across the country through the “Valentines for Vets” program. Once again, local veterans organizations are partnering with Third District schools to help deliver the hand-made Valentines in conjunction with the office of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson. Last year the students of the Third District contributed over one thousand Valentines that Johnson distributed at the Dallas VA Hospital. The National Salute to Hospitalized Veterans Week will be observed the second week of February, which includes Valentine’s Day. Each year, the week of February 14 is an opportunity to say thank you to a special group of men and women, the veterans of the U.S. armed services who are cared for every day in Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers, outpatient clinics, and nursing homes. During the second week of February, Johnson and his staff will distribute the Third District Valentines at the Dallas VA Medical Center as well as to returning American soldiers from the Middle East at DFW. Students attending public, private or home-schools may participate in this popular program. This year, staff and volunteers will pick up Valentines from Independent School District (ISD) drop-boxes on February 5th, 6th, and 7th. To coordinate a pick-up or to register an ISD, contact Susan Fischer by February 1st at Susan.Fischer@mail.house.gov or by phone at 972-470-0892. “On Valentine’s Day, we often tell people how much we appreciate them. I can’t think of a better way to say thank you to all of those who gave so much for something we truly love and value – our freedom,” said Johnson. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson served in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars. He spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. February 2008 marks the 35 year anniversary of Johnson’s return to America after his time in captivity. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Monday, January 14th 10:00am Boon Elementary School 1050 Comanche Allen 972/747-3331
12.17.2007	On Tuesday, January 8th, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host “mobile office hours” to visit with constituents. The current cities hosting “mobile office hours” include: Allen, Frisco, Garland, McKinney, Plano, and Richardson. share: f t On Tuesday, January 8th, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host “mobile office hours” to visit with constituents. The current cities hosting “mobile office hours” include: Allen, Frisco, Garland, McKinney, Plano, and Richardson. Staff from the Congressman’s office host regular “mobile office hours” throughout the Third Congressional District to meet with constituents. During the “mobile office hours” the Third District staff gladly will offer assistance with problems regarding federal issues or agencies, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration or the Internal Revenue Service. They also may help facilitate overseas adoptions. Constituents are invited to stop by and share their comments about federal issues in Congress. No advance appointments are necessary. If a person would like assistance with a federal agency, he or she should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. In the event people can not attend the “mobile office hours” in their city, residents are free to contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. AllenCity Hall305 Century ParkwayAllen214-509-410011:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. FriscoGeorge A. Purefoy Municipal CenterEntrance/Lobby Area, 1st floor6101 Frisco Square Blvd.Frisco972-292-500011:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. GarlandNicholson Memorial Library System Central LibraryOuter Entrance Area625 Austin StreetGarland972-205-25003:00 – 5:00 p.m. McKinneyMcKinney Performing Arts Center at the Historic Collin County CourthouseOuter Entrance Area111 North TennesseeMcKinney972-547-26503:00 – 5:00 p.m. PlanoPlano Municipal CenterEntrance/Lobby Area1520 Avenue KPlano972-941-70003:00 – 5:00 p.m. RichardsonRichardson Civic CenterWest Alcove Area411 Arapaho RoadRichardson972-744-409011:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.
12.11.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) called on Congress to increase the retirement age for commercial airline pilots from 60 to 65. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) called on Congress to increase the retirement age for commercial airline pilots from 60 to 65. Tonight the U.S. House of Representatives will vote on a stand-alone measure to raise the mandatory retirement age for commercial pilots from 60 to 65 by the end of the year. Based on “The Freedom to Fly Act of 2007,” the original measure has 314 cosponsors, including Johnson. The bill will go under suspension, demanding that the measure garner a 2/3 majority for approval. “Dallas is home to countless pilots for Southwest and American Airlines, among others. They contact me frequently insisting that they want to work past age 60, but the government won’t let them. Americans are living longer, healthier lives. It’s time to up the mandatory age requirements from 60 to 65,” said Johnson. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson flew combat missions in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars. Shot down on his 25th mission during his second tour of duty, Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. The pending giant FAA bill that contains the age hike is not likely to be enacted before Congress adjourns for the year so congressional leaders proposed a swift stand-alone fix that could pass both the House and the Senate. Current law, created in 1959, mandates that both the pilot and the co-pilot of commercial aircrafts must retire by the age of 60. Today’s bill changes that rule so that one pilot may be over the age of 60 and one must be under age 60. “Since all commercial airline pilots are required to pass rigorous physical examinations twice a year to ensure that their reflexes, health and mental capacity remain at the highest levels possible, mandatory retirement based on age is unnecessary,” said Johnson. “As a former Air Force pilot of 29 years I do not believe that an airman’s ability can be judged solely on his or her age. There is absolutely no evidence showing that pilots are any less capable of flying a plane at age 60 than they were at 59. The FAA rule mandating retirement at age 60 is an outdated and arbitrary rule that discriminates against a specific group of pilots and in no way benefits the flying public who deserve the safety of flying with our nation’s most experienced pilots.” During his 29 year Air Force career, Johnson served as director of the Air Force Fighter Weapons School (Top Gun) and was one of two authors of the air tactics manual revolutionizing military air dominance by incorporating three-dimensional flight, among other things. Johnson later ran Homestead and Holloman Air Force Bases. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties in North Texas.
11.19.2007	On Wednesday, December 5th, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host “mobile office hours” to visit with constituents. The current cities hosting “mobile office hours” include: Frisco, Garland, McKinney, Plano and Richardson. share: f t On Wednesday, December 5th, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host “mobile office hours” to visit with constituents. The current cities hosting “mobile office hours” include: Frisco, Garland, McKinney, Plano and Richardson. Staff from the Congressman’s office host regular “mobile office hours” throughout the Third Congressional District to meet with constituents. During the “mobile office hours” the Third District staff gladly will offer assistance with problems regarding federal issues or agencies, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration or the Internal Revenue Service. They also may help facilitate overseas adoptions. Constituents are invited to stop by and share their comments about federal issues in Congress. No advance appointments are necessary. If a person would like assistance with a federal agency, he or she should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. In the event people can not attend the “mobile office hours” in their city, residents are free to contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. FriscoGeorge A. Purefoy Municipal CenterEntrance/Lobby Area, 1st floor6101 Frisco Square Blvd.Frisco972-292-500011:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. RichardsonRichardson Civic CenterWest Alcove Area411 Arapaho RoadRichardson972-744-409011:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. GarlandNicholson Memorial Library System Central LibraryOuter Entrance Area625 Austin StreetGarland972-205-25003:00 – 5:00 p.m. McKinneyMcKinney Performing Arts Center at the Historic Collin County CourthouseOuter Entrance Area111 North TennesseeMcKinney972-547-26503:00 – 5:00 p.m. PlanoPlano Municipal CenterEntrance/Lobby Area1520 Avenue KPlano972-941-70003:00 – 5:00 p.m.
11.15.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) called for the release of two border agents, Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean. Johnson wants the border agents released from the unfair lengthy prison sentences since news broke that the illegal immigrant who testified against them has been indicted on federal drug-smuggling charges. share: f t rd Dist.-Texas) called for the release of two border agents, Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean. Johnson wants the border agents released from the unfair lengthy prison sentences since news broke that the illegal immigrant who testified against them has been indicted on federal drug-smuggling charges.“Finally, the real criminal here will face justice,” said Johnson. “It’s time to free Border Agents Ramos and Compean.”Border Patrol Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean are serving more than a decade in prison after being convicted of shooting an illegal immigrant. The case garnered tremendous media coverage because of the harsh prosecution and unjust conviction of the agents for shooting a fleeing illegal drug smuggler during an altercation after 740 pounds (over $1 million street value) of marijuana was discovered in his van near the border.Yesterday Osvaldo Aldrete Davila, the illegal immigrant drug smuggler who testified against the agents at the impetus of the U.S. Attorney’s office, finally was arrested in El Paso. In October an indictment was issued charging him with smuggling drugs in 2005.All along, Johnson has firmly stated that the Border Agents should not be punished for doing their jobs and that the real criminal who should face charges is the drug-running illegal immigrant.“These men were punished for doing their jobs. Now that we have the drug smuggler under arrest, we must free Agents Ramos and Compean.”“I hope that they lock the drug-thug up for good,” concluded Johnson.
11.14.2007	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the students selected to participate in the 2007-2008 Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC). This year 42 students make up the elite group, with 6 returning members. Because of immense community interest, students now only may serve two of four years between 9th and 12th grade. share: f t U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the students selected to participate in the 2007-2008 Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC). This year 42 students make up the elite group, with 6 returning members. Because of immense community interest, students now only may serve two of four years between 9th and 12th grade. “For years I’ve had the privilege of getting to know a stellar group of high school students who want to make a difference for their generation. Because this group represents their peers, I call them ‘Young Ambassadors to Congress.’ I’m very impressed with them so far and look forward to getting to know them,” said Johnson. Johnson created the Council in 2004. The Council’s goal is two-fold. First, the group provides Johnson with greater student perspective and insight on issues that directly impact younger Americans. Second, Council activities educate students on government policies relevant to young people. The members of the Council meet approximately four times throughout the school year in the Third District. The December meeting will bring local leaders of all levels to visit face-to-face with the Congressional Youth Advisory Council. The panelists confirmed for the upcoming meeting are:Texas House Representative Jodie Laubenberg, District 89; Collin County Judge Keith Self; Judge John Payton, Justice of the Peace, Precinct 3-2; Judge John Roach Jr., 296th District Court; and Richardson Mayor Steve Mitchell.“The cornerstone of democracy is civic activism. These high school students are well on their way to making North Texas a better community and America a better country,” concluded Johnson. The 2007-2008 CYAC Roster follows.2007 – 2008 CONGRESSIONAL YOUTH ADVISORY COUNCIL Name School Grade Najua Azzami Frisco Centennial High School 12th Weston Barker Episcopal School of Dallas 9th Brian Bruck Bishop Lynch High School 10th Emily Buss Ursuline Academy 11th Michael Buss Jesuit College Prep 10th Susie Choi* Plano West Senior High School 12th Ally Crutcher Frisco High School 11th Amanda Dees JJ Pearce High School 11th Trevor Ede Allen High School 11th Patrick Foster Sachse High School 11th Sean Gent McKinney High School 12th Derek Guckes Liberty High School 11th Stephen Hayes Greenhill School 11th Lauren Hill Frisco Centennial High School 11th Jessica Huseman Garland High School 12th Xinyue (Lisa) Hu Plano Senior High School 11th Patrick Ivey Berkner High School 12th Bethany Johnston McKinney High School 12th Sibel Kayaalp Plano Senior High School 11th Nabeel Lockmanjee Plano East Senior High School 12th Amanda Lu Plano West Senior High School 11th James MacGibbon* Plano Senior High School 12th Mark Macmanus Trinity Christian Academy 11th Charlie Manion * Richland Collegiate High School 12th Brandon Maso Frisco Centennial High School 11th Garrett McDaniel Spring Creek Academy 11th Erin McGranahan McKinney Boyd High School 12th Ashley Newton Frisco Centennial High School 10th Jaclyn Patterson Frisco High School 11th David Paxman* Plano East Senior High School 12th Nirjhor Rahman* Frisco Centennial High School 12th Laura Rector Allen High School 12th Allyson Rice Plano West Senior High School 12th Corbin Ringley McKinney High School 10th Curren Ryden Sachse High School 11th Rena Sheng Jasper High School 10th Mellissa Stepczyk * Frisco High School 11th Stephanie Tison Lucas Christian Academy 12th Garrett Tollette Jasper High School 10th Alexis Webber Prestonwood Christian Academy 9th Joshua Womboldt Frisco Centennial High School 10th Kevin Zimmer Richardson High School 10th *Denotes returning student
11.01.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) fought for Texas veterans and those battling a particularly bad aspect of the alternative minimum tax (AMT) at a Ways and Means Committee mark-up. A provision Johnson co-authored to help those paying the AMT as a result of “phantom gains” earned on incentive stock options when the tech bubble burst became a part of the new tax bill heading to the House floor next week. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) fought for Texas veterans and those battling a particularly bad aspect of the alternative minimum tax (AMT) at a Ways and Means Committee mark-up. A provision Johnson co-authored to help those paying the AMT as a result of “phantom gains” earned on incentive stock options when the tech bubble burst became a part of the new tax bill heading to the House floor next week. First, Johnson supported a change to a tax rule that would put Texas veterans on equal footing as veterans in other states. Johnson called for fairness for the Lone Star State and urged inclusion of a housing measure in the tax bill before the House panel. In 1946, the Texas Legislature created the Texas Veterans Land Board (VLB) to make loans to returning veterans so they could buy a piece of Texas to farm or ranch. Since then, the VLB has served more than 200,000 veterans. There are five states with similar programs. Johnson believes that the Texas Veterans Land Board should receive the same beneficial tax rules as other states enjoy. Earlier this year, Jerry Patterson, the Texas Land Commissioner, and Chairman, of the Texas Veterans Land Board, submitted testimony to Congress advocating a fair plan for Texas veterans. “The inclusion of the Qualified Veteran Mortgage Bond section …will allow California and Texas to have the same benefit to serve their veterans as Alaska, Oregon and Wisconsin now do. QVMB loans symbolize an important commitment to veterans” said Patterson. “I’ve been fighting an uphill battle for Texas veterans on this one. Hopefully, we’ll see some progress soon,” said Johnson. Johnson supported the “Heroes Earnings Assistance and Relief Tax Act of 2007,” legislation creating tax relief for members of the military and their families. The measure passed the Committee by a voice vote.Second, the House panel voted on another provision granting temporary relief for the millions of Americans about to face the AMT this tax filing season. Sometimes called “the patch,” the fix would relieve families earning less than about $66,000 a year from paying the AMT. Without this change, 25 million Americans would pay the AMT for 2007, up from 7 million in 2006. Created to guarantee that the wealthy can not avoid paying taxes by using deductions and shelters, the AMT has never been indexed for inflation. The AMT forces people to compute their taxes with far fewer deductions. Johnson voted against this bill citing that it did not go far enough to remove middle-class Americans from the punitive AMT. Third, the House panel approved an initiative Johnson drafted with U.S. Congressman Chris Van Hollen (8th Dist.-Md.). The AMT Credit Fairness and Relief Act, helps those forced to pay taxes on “paper gains” on incentive stock options (ISOs). “While employees thought they would be able to ride a wave of success with their companies, what they got was a financial and emotional tsunami that ruined lives,” said Johnson. Upon purchasing ISOs, people were automatically, and for many unknowingly, thrown into AMT in which they were taxed on the paper gain of their stock before they were allowed to sell it and get any money to pay this tax. Shortly thereafter the tech bubble burst and the IRS began to require payment of income taxes on this paper gain or “phantom income.” --MORE— Page 2 of 2/ Johnson release An example of what happened is that an employee bought stock options for $10 a share and the stock climbed to $100 a share that year. They were required to pay tax on the $90 gain despite the fact that they did not sell the stock so the gain was never cash-in-hand. It was at roughly that same moment in time that the tech bubble burst and the price of the stock may have fallen to $1 per share. Despite facing a $9 economic loss, the IRS still pursued them for a $90 gain per share. For the last several years, Johnson worked to fix this quagmire. Last year, he proved successful in getting a big chunk of the problem fixed when most of his bill H.R. 3385, the AMT Credit Fairness Act, was included in a bigger bill that got enacted at the end of 2006. Unfortunately, not every aspect of the bill was enacted. To complete the job, Johnson introduced another bill H.R. 3861, the AMT Credit Fairness and Relief Act. This bill would eliminate the income caps that were put into the law last year and would speed up the relief from a five year timeline to just two years. According to the non-partisan advocacy group, Reform AMT, many of those affected by the tax never made a cent selling their ISOs and never will. Many hit with the AMT are middle-class folks from all across America and range from administrative assistants and engineers to accounting managers and business executives. As Nelson Allen of North Texas writes, “Most all of us were forced into bankruptcy by the I.R.S. but many were hard pressed to afford legal council or CPAs who really understood AMT and could give proper guidance. To see my Congressman champion - and win - a great victory for AMT reform last year allowed me to celebrate the victory with a full heart, even though my wife and I were not covered by this victory.” “I'm also proud and appreciative to have a Congressman who didn't stop with that victory, but instead has continued the good fight for the rest of his constituents,” he said. “Congressman Johnson's new legislation if passed would allow my wife and me to complete our settlement with the I.R.S. and allow us to move on with our lives. It will not return our home or our credit which was devastated by the malicious tactics of the I.R.S. but it would allow us to move forward in building back our retirement fund. Win or lose - we appreciate the efforts of our Congressman and we hope that our great country gets stronger from reacting to the injustice of AMT.” Both the military tax bill and the temporary AMT fix head to the floor next week for House consideration.
10.25.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement in response to a new tax bill authored by House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles Rangel (15th Dist.-N.Y.) costing taxpayers $1 trillion, dubbed “the largest individual tax hike in American history.” share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement in response to a new tax bill authored by House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles Rangel (15th Dist.-N.Y.) costing taxpayers $1 trillion, dubbed “the largest individual tax hike in American history.” Initiated to target super rich families, the AMT ensured the mega-wealthy paid their fair share in taxes. Since Congress never indexed the AMT for inflation, the tax now hits families making $50,000 a year. The alternative minimum tax forces people to re-do their taxes in a parallel tax system with only a few deductions. Rangel’s bill creates a one-year fix for the AMT for 2007. The Treasury Department estimates that this needs to be fixed by early November since forms and software must go into production for the 2007 tax-filing season. To pay for the measure, the bill proposes that high-income filers would pay at least an additional 4% surtax on incomes above $150,000. The tax kicks in for families that earn $200,000, rather than $300,000, essentially creating a marriage-penalty tax. This “super-rich” surcharge is on top of the taxes people already pay. “This trillion dollar tax increase puts a huge bull’s eye on the backs of a lot of Third District residents. “Some families in my district who bring home $200,000 a year may feel like they’re just making enough to get by. They’re paying for their own health insurance. They’re paying their home mortgage. They’re saving for retirement. They’re saving for their kids’ college. Charlie Rangel wants to slap them with a huge marriage-penalty tax. “While I support AMT reform, I can not support over-taxing a huge number of North Texas families.”
10.17.2007	On Friday, October 26th, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host “mobile office hours” to visit with constituents. The current cities hosting “mobile office hours” include: Frisco, Garland, Plano, McKinney, Sachse, and Rowlett. share: f t On Friday, October 26th, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host “mobile office hours” to visit with constituents. The current cities hosting “mobile office hours” include: Frisco, Garland, Plano, McKinney, Sachse, and Rowlett.Staff from the Congressman’s office host regular “mobile office hours” throughout the Third Congressional District to meet with constituents. During the “mobile office hours” the Third District staff gladly will offer assistance with problems regarding federal issues or agencies, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration or the Internal Revenue Service. They also may help facilitate overseas adoptions. Constituents are invited to stop by and share their comments about federal issues in Congress. No advance appointments are necessary. If a person would like assistance with a federal agency, he or she should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. In the event people can not attend the “mobile office hours” in their city, residents are free to contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. FriscoGeorge A. Purefoy Municipal CenterEntrance/Lobby Area, 1st floor6101 Frisco Square Blvd.972-292-500010:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. PlanoGladys Harrington Library1501 18th Street972-941-717510:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. GarlandNicholson Memorial Library System Central LibraryOuter Entrance Area625 Austin Street972-205-250010:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. McKinneyCollin County Government Center (Old Courthouse)Entrance/Lobby Area210 South McDonald Street972-424-25002:00 – 4:00 p.m. SachseSachse Public LibraryEntrance/Lobby Area3815 Sachse Road, Suite C972-530-89662:00 – 4:00 p.m. RowlettRowlett Public LibraryLibrary Meeting Room3900 Main StreetRowlett972-412-61612:00 – 4:00 p.m.
10.16.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) voted for the Internet tax moratorium. The measure bans state Internet access taxes. Specifically, the four-year extension would prevent most state and local governments from collecting taxes on popular consumer services like cable modem, digital subscriber line (DSL), Wi-Fi and other types of Internet access. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) voted for the Internet tax moratorium. The measure bans state Internet access taxes. Specifically, the four-year extension would prevent most state and local governments from collecting taxes on popular consumer services like cable modem, digital subscriber line (DSL), Wi-Fi and other types of Internet access. “The Internet is responsible for incredible growth in our economy and has provided dramatic new ways for Americans to communicate,” said Johnson. “I’m a long-time supporter of the Internet Tax Freedom Act and am glad that it passed the House today.” In addition to the 4-year fix, Johnson favors making the Internet tax ban permanent. The ban was first enacted in 1998 and was most recently extended in 2004. The 4-year moratorium measure, HR 3678, passed today 405-2. The existing ban on Internet access taxes will expire November 1st unless Congress extends it by that date. The legislation now heads to the Senate for approval.
10.01.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) encouraged high school students and their families to attend two free workshops on planning and paying for college on Saturday, October 6th in Frisco and Garland. One participant at each seminar will leave with a $1,000 scholarship just for attending. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) encouraged high school students and their families to attend two free workshops on planning and paying for college on Saturday, October 6th in Frisco and Garland. One participant at each seminar will leave with a $1,000 scholarship just for attending. Both events are open to the public and press and are free of charge. People must sign-up to attend the event by Friday, October 5th. See below for details on the simple registration process. The Paying for College program is sponsored by The Sallie Mae Fund, a charitable organization sponsored by Sallie Mae. Sallie Mae Fund experts will spearhead the discussion and then answer questions. Families will learn about planning and paying for college and receive free resources to guide them through the process. Both events take place on Saturday, October 6th. The first seminar will run from 10:00am to 11:30am at the Collin County Community College Preston Ridge Campus on 9700 Wade Blvd. in Frisco. The second seminar will run from 2:00pm to 3:30pm at Naaman Forest High School, 4843 Naaman Forest Blvd. in Garland. To attend the workshop, please RSVP to The Sallie Mae Fund via the toll-free number, 1-877-840-8224, or online, as seating is limited. To register online, simply go to www.salliemaefund.org. “An education is one of the most precious gifts a parent may give to a child. I encourage parents and students to attend this worthwhile, informative seminar to learn how to make college more affordable. While college can be expensive, studies reveal that families overestimate its costs ‑‑sometimes leading them to believe higher education is beyond their means. Research also found that families are mystified by the financial aid process and are unaware of the billions of dollars in the form of grants, scholarships, and low‑cost education loans available every year,” said Johnson. “I hope that the Paying for College seminars help a lot of folks learn more about their financial options and plan for the future with college in mind,” continued Johnson. Those with questions about the events should contact Johnson’s office at 972-470-0892. Saturday, October 6thPaying for College Seminar10:00am to 11:30amCollin County Community CollegePreston Ridge CampusEvent Center- LC 1049700 Wade Blvd.Frisco 2:00pm to 3:30pmNaaman Forest High SchoolCafetorium4843 Naaman Forest Blvd.Garland
09.18.2007	On Saturday, September 29th, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will sponsor two identity theft prevention seminars. Congressman Johnson, along with representatives from the Federal Trade Commission and the Social Security Administration, will conduct the seminars. These events are free and are open to the public and the news media. share: f t On Saturday, September 29th, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will sponsor two identity theft prevention seminars. Congressman Johnson, along with representatives from the Federal Trade Commission and the Social Security Administration, will conduct the seminars. These events are free and are open to the public and the news media. Today, Johnson announced that a commercial shredder will be available at both sites free for public use. The only condition for people to shred important paperwork is that the person complete the process him or herself. This stipulation will prevent private documents from becoming public information if left unattended. “Identity theft is a serious crime. People whose identities have been stolen can spend a lot of time and money cleaning up the mess thieves have made of their good name and credit record,” said Johnson. “I encourage people to attend one of these important meetings. As with any crime, you cannot completely control whether you will become a victim, but you can minimize your risk by managing your personal information carefully. These seminars will tell folks what to look out for and what techniques the bad guys are using,” concluded Johnson. For more information about these seminars, please call Johnson’s Richardson office at 972-470-0892. Click Here For a Map of Seminar Locations WHEN: Saturday, September 29th from 10:00am – 11:30am WHAT: Identity theft prevention seminar WHERE: Texas A&M Agricultural Research and Extension Center at Dallas Pavilion Large Hall 17360 Coit Road Dallas WHO: U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson Federal Trade Commission officials Social Security Administration officials WHEN: Saturday, September 29th from 2:00pm – 3:30pm WHAT: Identity theft prevention seminar WHERE: Collin County Community College Preston Ridge Campus Event Center, LC-104 9700 Wade Boulevard Frisco WHO: U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson Federal Trade Commission officials Social Security Administration officials *Subject to votes on Capitol Hill.
09.10.2007	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) encourages young adults to apply for the Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC). The CYAC will be open to students enrolled in public, private and home schools residing within the Third District. Ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth grade students have until September 28th to apply. share: f t U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) encourages young adults to apply for the Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC). The CYAC will be open to students enrolled in public, private and home schools residing within the Third District. Ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth grade students have until September 28th to apply. “When it comes to government policy and world issues, high school students in the Third District really know their stuff. Year after year, members of the CYAC continue to impress me with their knowledge and interest of global and local events. They’re smart and they care – a lot. I encourage all high school students who want to make a difference and make their voices heard to apply for the CYAC. It’s a terrific opportunity to serve your community and represent your peers to Congress,” said Johnson. Johnson launched the CYAC in 2004. The Council’s goal is two-fold. First, the group will provide Johnson with greater student perspective and insight on issues that directly impact younger Americans. Second, Council activities will help educate students on government policies relevant to young people. In town-hall meetings and after guest-panel discussions, students will explore the role of citizens, lawmakers, experts, and organizations and how together they shape the world’s most successful democracy. The members of the Council meet approximately four times throughout the school year in the Third District. Students must apply for the CYAC by turning in a completed application. The application includes an information form, a letter of parent permission to participate, a passport-type photo, a brief essay, and two letters of recommendation. Students may download the application at SamJohnson.house.gov. Students must submit the completed application and related paperwork to the Office of Congressman Sam Johnson by September 28th in person or via mail to: Office of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson, 2929 North Central Expressway, Suite 240, Richardson, Texas 75080. For the last several years, roughly 150 people have applied to serve on the panel; between 40 and 50 students are nominated. A volunteer board of community leaders determines the membership of CYAC. Young people are selected based on public service, academic performance, student leadership, extra-curricular activities, and the application essay. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. The cities include: Allen, north Dallas, Frisco, Garland, McKinney, Murphy, Parker, Plano, Richardson, Rowlett, Sachse, and Wylie.
09.09.2007	On Saturday, September 15th at 9:30 am, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will host the annual Service Academies Forum for young people and their families interested in pursuing an education at one of the nation’s prestigious service academies. The free informational event will take place in the Conference Center of the Collin County Community College Spring Creek Campus located at 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway in Plano. No R.S.V.P is needed. share: f t On Saturday, September 15th at 9:30 am, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will host the annual Service Academies Forum for young people and their families interested in pursuing an education at one of the nation’s prestigious service academies. The free informational event will take place in the Conference Center of the Collin County Community College Spring Creek Campus located at 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway in Plano. No R.S.V.P is needed. “Each year, I have the privilege of nominating Texans to attend the military service academies,” said Johnson. “The estimated value of a service academy education is more than $300,000!” “Cadets receive free tuition, room and board, as well as a monthly stipend. Upon graduation, they are commissioned as second lieutenants or ensigns in their branch of service, where they must complete a five-year obligation,” continued Johnson. Students interested in seeking a nomination to the U.S. Military, Naval, Air Force, or Merchant Marine Academies are encouraged to attend. At the event, representatives will present highlights of each Service Academy and provide details on student evaluation, nomination and appointment procedures. Following this overview, people will break into groups. This allows students and parents to speak directly with representatives from each academy. Students who attend the forum are under no obligation to apply or enroll in an Academy. Students must be nominated for the U.S. Air Force Academy (Colorado Springs, CO), the U.S. Military Academy (West Point, NY), the U.S. Naval Academy (Annapolis, MD), and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (Kings Point, NY). Students applying to the U.S. Coast Guard Academy (New London, CT) do not need a congressional nomination. Typically, students in 8th – 11th grade, as well as their families, attend this event. In most cases, seniors have passed the information-gathering process for the service academies and started the application process, if desired. “This forum is a great opportunity for interested students and their parents to meet with representatives from the service academies to get first-hand information about these fine schools,” concluded Johnson. For more information, contact Johnson’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892.
08.28.2007	On Friday, September 7th, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host the first-ever “mobile office hours” to visit with constituents. The cities hosting the inaugural “mobile office hours” include: Allen, Frisco, Garland, McKinney, Plano, and Richardson. share: f t On Friday, September 7th, the staff of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) will host the first-ever “mobile office hours” to visit with constituents. The cities hosting the inaugural “mobile office hours” include: Allen, Frisco, Garland, McKinney, Plano, and Richardson. Staff from the Congressman’s office will host regular “mobile office hours” throughout the Third Congressional District to meet with constituents. During the “mobile office hours” the Third District staff gladly will offer assistance with problems regarding federal issues or agencies, such as Medicare, Veterans’ Affairs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Social Security Administration or the Internal Revenue Service. They also may help facilitate overseas adoptions. Constituents are invited to stop by and share their comments about federal issues in Congress. No advance appointments are necessary. If a person would like assistance with a federal agency, he or she should bring all relevant documents and be prepared to sign a privacy disclaimer. In the event people can not attend the “mobile office hours” in their city, residents are free to contact the Congressman’s office in Richardson at 972-470-0892. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Allen Allen Public Library Conference Room 300 N. Allen Drive Allen (214) 509-4900 2:00 - 4:00 p.m. Frisco George A. Purefoy Municipal Center Vivian McCallum Room, 4th floor 6101 Frisco Square Blvd. Frisco 972-292-5000 2:00 - 4:00 p.m. Garland Nicholson Memorial Library System Central Library North meeting room, 1st level 625 Austin Street Garland 972-205-2500 2:00 - 4:00 p.m. McKinney McKinney Memorial Public Library Conference Room 101 E. Hunt St. McKinney 972/547-7323 10:15 a.m. - 12:15 p.m. Plano Gladys Harrington Library Front lobby area 1501 18th Street Plano 972-941-7175 10:15 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Richardson Richardson City Manager’s Office Conference Room 411 W. Arapaho Rd Richardson 972/744-4093 10:15 a.m. - 12:15 p.m.
08.09.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement in the wake of a burglary in his Richardson office. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement in the wake of a burglary in his Richardson office. An employee for Congressman Johnson was working around 7:30pm on August 8, 2007, when she heard rustling in the congressional office. She guessed that the commotion in the office came from the cleaning crew. When the employee left her personal office and walked into the hallway, she came face to face with one of the two people who were in the process of ransacking the office. She phoned for assistance. The burglars soon fled the office after stealing two computer screens. No sensitive congressional information was taken. The employee was not harmed. Congressman Johnson’s office is now referring all media inquiries to Richardson Police Department Public Information Officer Lt. Mike Scott at 972-744-4800. “I’m just thankful that our employee escaped unharmed. We’re one big family in my office and I’m taking this very seriously. “I have full faith that Richardson Police Department will apprehend these intruders. The Richardson Police Department is fully investigating this. My office also has alerted the Capitol Hill Police Department since this crime took place on federal property.”
07.30.2007	Today the office U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced that Congressman Johnson is recovering from knee-replacement surgery in Plano. Johnson, 76, will be using the August district work period to recover from the surgery and rehabilitate his knee. The House of Representatives will adjourn for the district work period for 4 weeks. share: f t Today the office U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced that Congressman Johnson is recovering from knee-replacement surgery in Plano. Johnson, 76, will be using the August district work period to recover from the surgery and rehabilitate his knee. The House of Representatives will adjourn for the district work period for 4 weeks. Last summer, Johnson had his right hip replaced. For his knee, Johnson chose the same doctor and the same hospital. Now both Johnson’s right hip and right knee are constructed of titanium. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson endured nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam. While held captive, he spent 2 ½ years in leg irons and 72 straight days in leg stocks. Johnson maintains that his body has never been the same since his time as a Prisoner of War. Congressman Johnson released the following statement through his spokeswoman. “As a former Prisoner of War, I’ve endured excruciating pain. Frankly, I think I’ve handled more than my fair share. Last summer I had hip-replacement surgery to help alleviate the pain. While I don’t like to talk about it, I was still in pain and that’s why I chose to have a knee-replacement surgery. “I am well aware that my body has endured more than most when it comes to wear and tear…literally. Hopefully new titanium parts will put a fresh spring in my step. “My wife, Shirley, and I would like to ask all of our friends to pray for strength, healing and a swift recovery. Thank you for your understanding and prayers.”
07.26.2007	Yesterday U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) congratulated the schools of Collin County, Texas, for ranking second in the nation as the “best bang for the buck.” Recently, Forbes Magazine named Collin County public schools the second best buy in the country, comparing spending per student, graduation rates, and college exam scores. share: f t Yesterday U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) congratulated the schools of Collin County, Texas, for ranking second in the nation as the “best bang for the buck.” Recently, Forbes Magazine named Collin County public schools the second best buy in the country, comparing spending per student, graduation rates, and college exam scores. The prepared remarks Congressman Johnson delivered on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives follow: “I rise today to congratulate the prestigious Independent School Districts in Collin County, Texas, for their sterling reputation and superior education. “Forbes Magazine, long-time experts on all-things money, recently ranked the public schools in Collin County as second in the entire nation for the best education for your dollar. What a tremendous distinction! “The students average a score of 1102 on the college entrance exam and the schools boast a 92.2% graduation rate. This demonstrates that knowledgeable teachers, community pride, parental involvement, and top quality schools are all working together to achieve academic success. “I want to personally commend Allen, Frisco, McKinney, Plano and Wylie Independent School Districts for this exceptional award and national recognition for what they do best – teaching our kids and making the future of Texas even brighter. Congratulations!”
07.25.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) demanded that Johnny Sutton go before a House panel and testify under oath why he protected an illegal-immigrant drug smuggler over United States border agents, despite knowing full well that the smuggler had been caught running drugs again. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) demanded that Johnny Sutton go before a House panel and testify under oath why he protected an illegal-immigrant drug smuggler over United States border agents, despite knowing full well that the smuggler had been caught running drugs again. United States Attorney Johnny Sutton changed course and has announced that he will no longer testify before a House Foreign Affairs panel on the case involving two United States border agents sentenced to long-term prison sentences for shooting a Mexican drug runner in the buttocks. They feared for their lives and thought the drug runner was armed. His refusal to testify comes in the wake of a special discovery. Today at a news conference on Capitol Hill, U.S. Congressman Dana Rohrabacher (46th Dist.-Calif) revealed official border crossing documents that indicate the drug smuggler in the Ramos and Compean Border Agent case was issued unfettered access to the United States after his involvement in a second drug smuggling incident. The documents clearly prove the drug smuggler, who was given immunity to testify against Border Agents Ramos and Compean, was issued two more border passes after the government became aware of Aldrete-Davila’s involvement in a second load of narcotics. The paperwork includes six border crossing cards total. “This is gross, just gross. Johnny Sutton needs to testify or resign. Johnny Sutton needs to declare under oath why he gave a Mexican drug smuggler a free pass to testify against border agents who were doing their jobs,” said Johnson. Border Patrol Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean are currently serving 11 and 12 year prison terms, respectively. The plight of the jailed border agents has garnered intense scrutiny because of the severe prosecution and unfair conviction of the agents for shooting a fleeing “illegal drug smuggler during an altercation after 740 pounds (over $1 million street value) of marijuana was discovered in his van near the border. “It appears as though the U.S. Attorney’s Office was so intent on getting Ramos and Compean that their judgment was totally clouded to the degree they aided and abetted a criminal who was at that point actively engaged and already involved with a drug cartel,” says Rohrabacher. “Obviously, giving a free border crossing pass to a known drug smuggler either reflects total incompetence or warped sense of prosecutorial priorities which has plagued this case from the beginning. The Departments of Justice and Homeland Security have not been forthcoming about producing documents in this case and have both declined to appear before my Subcommittee to account for their actions. The U.S. Attorney’s Office withheld critical information from the jury and have continued to do so with Congress,” said Rohrabacher. “When it comes to our U.S. border agents who are just trying to do their jobs, a United States District Attorney has a civic obligation to bring to the public’s attention any evidence that would reflect upon the credibility of a witness or dramatically change the outcome of the case. Johnny Sutton gave the drug runner free access to cross our borders on condition that he would not smuggle drugs again. Later, Johnny Sutton found out that the witness was running drugs but still let him testify as an ‘innocent victim.’ By allowing the drug runner to testify, Johnny Sutton let a known liar testify against our own border agents.” For months now Johnson has called on President Bush to pardon the agents from their lengthy prison terms, sadly, with little success. “Hopefully this new information will change the President’s mind,” concluded Johnson.
07.25.2007	The U.S. Senate approved a provision late last night to help National Guard and Reserve physicians maintain their practices during lengthy overseas deployments. The bill that was passed, HR2429 – originally authored by U.S. Representatives Mike Thompson (D-CA) and Sam Johnson (R-TX) – is the House companion to S.1767, which was introduced by U.S. Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR) and U.S. Senate Republican Whip Trent Lott (R-MS) earlier this month. The measure will temporarily exempt physicians serving in the Armed Forces overseas from a Medicare law that currently places a 60-day restriction on the amount of time a physician can fill in for a colleague who is on a leave of absence. This limit creates serious hardship for physicians in the National Guard and Reserves, who are absent from their practices for longer than 60 days when they are called for active duty. Senators Wyden and Lott and Reps. Thompson and Johnson are confident that they will be able to enact a permanent exemption later this year. share: f t The U.S. Senate approved a provision late last night to help National Guard and Reserve physicians maintain their practices during lengthy overseas deployments. The bill that was passed, HR2429 – originally authored by U.S. Representatives Mike Thompson (D-CA) and Sam Johnson (R-TX) – is the House companion to S.1767, which was introduced by U.S. Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR) and U.S. Senate Republican Whip Trent Lott (R-MS) earlier this month. The measure will temporarily exempt physicians serving in the Armed Forces overseas from a Medicare law that currently places a 60-day restriction on the amount of time a physician can fill in for a colleague who is on a leave of absence. This limit creates serious hardship for physicians in the National Guard and Reserves, who are absent from their practices for longer than 60 days when they are called for active duty. Senators Wyden and Lott and Reps. Thompson and Johnson are confident that they will be able to enact a permanent exemption later this year. “Our legislation will help the nearly 3,000 medical professionals who are putting their lives and careers on hold to take care of our troops overseas,” said Wyden. “After their sacrifices for our country, these brave men and women deserve to find their medical practices waiting for them when they return home.” “Our men and women serving in the Armed Forces deserve more than bureaucratic red-tape, and this bill will help ease some of the strain placed on health care providers serving our country in uniform,” said Senate Republican Whip Trent Lott of Mississippi. “When doctors go overseas, their patients are often left without a primary physician. Our legislation, passed by unanimous consent, will allow patients to continue visiting the offices of their citizen soldier doctors.” HR2429 passed the House of Representatives in May by a vote of 422-0. Wyden and Lott and Thompson and Johnson have also introduced legislation to make the exemption permanent for National Guard and Reserve physicians serving overseas. Last night, the permanent exemption was included in the House healthcare package, HR 3162. "When physicians are deployed, they leave behind families and jobs just like any other person in the Reserve or Guard," said Vietnam veteran Congressman Mike Thompson. "But they also leave behind their patients. Doctors who care for our troops overseas shouldn't have to worry that their patients and practices aren't being cared for here at home. This legislation changes Medicare policy, ensuring that the patients and practices of thousands of doctors in the Guard and Reserves will be cared for when their doctor is called to active duty." "When you're a doctor serving in a war, the last think you want to worry about is your patients not getting the care they need because no one can help them. Our bill changes that," said the 29-year Air Force veteran, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson. Medicare currently allows physicians to enter reciprocal billing arrangements, whereby replacement physicians can care for the absent physician’s patients and bill Medicare accordingly. However, these arrangements cannot last longer than 60 days. After that, a second replacement must be found. Securing replacement physicians is an expensive and difficult process, especially for practices in remote and rural areas. Physicians who cannot secure multiple replacements during their absence can either lose their patients to other doctors or their patients must go without care. The legislation suspends the 60-day cap for physicians filling in for members of the National Guard and Reserves who are called for duty through the rest of the calendar year. This bill has been endorsed by the American Medical Association and the Reserve Officers Association.
07.23.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) congratulated Garland’s International Truck and Engine for winning a second government contract in as many months. Late Friday afternoon, International Truck and Engine was awarded $414 million to build 755 armored trucks. This new defense contract comes just barely two months after the company won a lucrative military vehicle contract to build 1,200 trucks on May 31st. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) congratulated Garland’s International Truck and Engine for winning a second government contract in as many months. Late Friday afternoon, International Truck and Engine was awarded $414 million to build 755 armored trucks. This new defense contract comes just barely two months after the company won a lucrative military vehicle contract to build 1,200 trucks on May 31st. “This shows America’s strong commitment to our troops and their safety. It’s imperative that our men and women in harms’ way have the best equipment possible and the new trucks from Garland are top-notch,” said Johnson. The additional tough and durable military vehicles will be used for convoy operations. They greatly increase the survivability and the mobility of the troops operating in a combat area against threats like small-arms fire, rocket-propelled grenades (RPGs), and improvised explosive devices (IEDs). The contract will pay to build more specially designed MaxPro, short for Maximum Protection, MRAP, short for Mine Resistant Ambush Protected, vehicles. The chassis will be manufactured in Garland which boasts over 600 employees. This contract is in addition to the 4,000+ military trucks International Truck has already provided in the Global War Against Terrorism. “This is great news for Garland and great news for the troops,” cheered Johnson. “I want to congratulate them for a job well done.” A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson fought in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
07.18.2007	Moving with unusual speed, today the U.S. House Ways and Means Committee passed Congressman Sam Johnson’s (3rd Dist.-Texas) new legislation to protect Social Security numbers from theft by a vote of 41-0. On Monday, Johnson, the lead Republican on the Social Security Subcommittee, and the Social Security Subcommittee Chairman, Congressman Michael McNulty (D-N.Y.) introduced their bill, H.R. 3046, the “Social Security Number Privacy and Identity Theft Prevention Act of 2007,” to combat the growing problem of identity theft. share: f t Moving with unusual speed, today the U.S. House Ways and Means Committee passed Congressman Sam Johnson’s (3rd Dist.-Texas) new legislation to protect Social Security numbers from theft by a vote of 41-0. On Monday, Johnson, the lead Republican on the Social Security Subcommittee, and the Social Security Subcommittee Chairman, Congressman Michael McNulty (D-N.Y.) introduced their bill, H.R. 3046, the “Social Security Number Privacy and Identity Theft Prevention Act of 2007,” to combat the growing problem of identity theft. “We are talking about keeping your private information private! If you have ever had your Social Security number stolen or your personal information compromised, you know how difficult it is to clear your good name and reclaim your credit rating. By some counts, close to 160 million personal information records have been involved in data security breaches over the past two years alone,” said Johnson. “The best way to stop Social Security numbers from being compromised is to limit their availability in the first place, and that is what this bill does.” The bill would restrict the sale and display of Social Security numbers by government and business, so they are less accessible to identity thieves, while providing exceptions for legitimate and necessary uses of the number. The top priority of the Act is protecting Americans’ privacy. “The data breaches that most frighten and anger Americans are those involving the loss of Social Security numbers. When a data breach involves a name, address and a phone number, no one cares because that is called a phone book. When a data breach involves a consumer’s preference for Wheaties over Corn Flakes, no one cares. But a leaked Social Security number is dramatically different. The stakes are much higher! If we are going to prevent Social Security number theft, we must reduce its circulation and ensure these numbers are sold or displayed by the public and private sector only when necessary and not when convenient.” “It’s long past time for Congress to act. I hope we can stop the widespread use of Social Security numbers, help prevent ID theft, and further protect Americans’ privacy,” concluded Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
07.16.2007	Republican Members of the House Ways and Means Committee today announced their strong support for legislation to fight the growing problem of identity theft by helping the American people keep their Social Security numbers private. Rep. Sam Johnson (R-TX), the ranking member on the Social Security subcommittee, worked closely with Democrats to craft the bipartisan bill, which is substantially the same as Republican-backed legislation which passed the Ways and Means Committee twice in the past. “Expert after expert has told us that Social Security numbers are the key piece of information used by identity thieves,” Johnson said. “By some counts, more than 150 million Americans’ private information may have been compromised in some way over the past two years alone. The best way to stop Social Security numbers from being compromised is to limit their availability in the first place, and that is what this bill does.” Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Jim McCrery (R-La.) hopes the legislation will quickly pass the House. “I want to congratulate Mr. Johnson and the Democrats on our Committee for coming up with a sensible, bipartisan bill to help deal with this issue. Identity theft has victimized millions and cost businesses billions. This bill achieves a necessary balance by enhancing Social Security privacy, yet allowing the use of Social Security numbers for legitimate and necessary purposes.” The bill, the “Social Security Number Privacy and Identity Theft Prevention Act of 2007,” would limit access to Social Security numbers in the public and private sector by restricting their sale, purchase and public display, including display on the Internet. It would also protect individuals by prohibiting persons from obtaining Social Security numbers to find a person with the intent to physically injure or harm them. The bill would enforce these restrictions with civil and criminal penalties. Rep. Johnson stressed that stopping identity theft is also a national security issue. “In this era, foiling identity thieves is not just about protecting peoples’ hard-earned savings and credit – it is also about protecting our nation from terrorists.”
07.11.2007	In an effort to help National Guard and Reserve physicians maintain their practices during lengthy overseas deployments, members on both sides of the aisle and in both houses of Congress introduced legislation today that would exempt physicians serving in the Armed Forces overseas from a Medicare law that currently places a 60 day restriction on the amount of time one physician can fill in for a colleague on a leave of absence. This limit creates serious hardship for physicians in the National Guard and Reserves, who are absent from their practices for longer than 60 days when they are called for active duty. share: f t In an effort to help National Guard and Reserve physicians maintain their practices during lengthy overseas deployments, members on both sides of the aisle and in both houses of Congress introduced legislation today that would exempt physicians serving in the Armed Forces overseas from a Medicare law that currently places a 60 day restriction on the amount of time one physician can fill in for a colleague on a leave of absence. This limit creates serious hardship for physicians in the National Guard and Reserves, who are absent from their practices for longer than 60 days when they are called for active duty. The House version was introduced by Representatives and Vietnam combat veterans Mike Thompson (D-CA) and Sam Johnson (R-TX), who authored the temporary version of the bill (HR 2429), which last May passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 422-0. U.S. Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR) and U.S. Senate Republican Whip Trent Lott (R-MS) introduced the Senate version today. “When our Reserve and Guard physicians are deployed, they don’t just leave behind their families – they also leave their patients,” said Thompson. “Doctors taking care of our troops overseas shouldn’t have to worry that their patients aren’t being cared for here at home. This bill will help thousands of physicians protect their patients and practices when they're called to serve.” “Every day members of the National Guard and Reserve are asked to put their jobs and their lives on hold to serve their country in harm’s way overseas, and this includes thousands of doctors who save countless lives on the battlefield. The least Congress can do is ensure that, in leaving home, these brave men and women aren’t also asked to sacrifice their medical practices,” said Wyden. “I commend Congressman Thompson for his leadership and his commitment to passing this important legislation.” “Helping our doctors serving in harm’s way in the Guard and the Reserves is just plain common sense,” said Johnson. “I hope we can get this bill done soon.” “Men and women serving our country should not have to wade through mounds of red-tape while fighting for our freedoms,” said Lott. “This legislation will help ease some of the burden physicians now face while they are deployed. By correcting the current flaw in Medicare law, physicians will not lose their practices and their patients will not lose their healthcare providers.” Medicare currently allows physicians to enter reciprocal billing arrangements, whereby replacement physicians can care for the absent physician’s patients and bill Medicare accordingly. However, these arrangements cannot last longer than a 60-day period. After 60 days, a second replacement must be found. Securing replacement physicians is an expensive and difficult process, especially for practices in remote and rural areas. Physicians who cannot secure multiple replacements during their absence can either lose their patients to other doctors or their patients must go without care. HR 2429 suspends the 60-day cap for physicians filling in for members of the National Guard and Reserves who are called for duty through the rest of the calendar year. This bill has been endorsed by the American Medical Association.
07.02.2007	Last Thursday on Capitol Hill, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) applauded 11th grade student Morgan Bailey for winning the Third District Art Competition. Bailey flew to Washington, D.C., to participate in the National Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery,” unveiling ceremony in the U.S. House of Representatives. share: f t Last Thursday on Capitol Hill, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) applauded 11th grade student Morgan Bailey for winning the Third District Art Competition. Bailey flew to Washington, D.C., to participate in the National Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery,” unveiling ceremony in the U.S. House of Representatives. “I’m very proud of Morgan and look forward to showing off her work to my friends and colleagues when I’m walking through the halls of Congress,” said Johnson. Bailey’s work “Lincoln Memorial” is a 24” x 30” oil painting. Her art depicts the Lincoln Memorial with an American flag draped behind Lincoln. The prize-winning art will be on display in the U.S. Capitol for one year. For taking the top prize, Bailey won plane tickets for a chaperone and her to travel to the art contest unveiling events courtesy of Southwest Airlines. Bailey, 17, hails from McKinney and is the daughter of Dane and Cathy Bailey. Morgan Bailey studies art under the private instruction of Annie Royer. Morgan has had private art lessons for nearly a decade. Bailey has served on the Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC), a select group of high school students who update Congressman Johnson on issues important to young people. Bailey has participated on the CYAC for the last two academic years. Bailey is the first Third District student to serve on CYAC and win the National Congressional Art Competition. Bailey first heard about the nationwide art competition at one of the meetings with the Congressman. The Bailey family flew to the nation’s capital city for several days in conjunction with Morgan’s top art honor. Highlights of their D.C. trip include a private tour of the White House and a visit to the National Holocaust Museum. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
06.25.2007	On the 57th anniversary of the start of the Korean War, U.S. Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD), House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD) and U.S. Rep. Sam Johnson (R-TX) today introduced bipartisan legislation to grant a federal charter to the Korean War Veterans Association (KWVA), a non-profit fraternal veterans’ organization. share: f t On the 57th anniversary of the start of the Korean War, U.S. Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD), House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD) and U.S. Rep. Sam Johnson (R-TX) today introduced bipartisan legislation to grant a federal charter to the Korean War Veterans Association (KWVA), a non-profit fraternal veterans’ organization. “The Korean War is often referred to as the ‘forgotten’ war. This legislation would let the nearly 1.2 million American veterans of the Korean War who are still alive know that we have not forgotten them, and we honor the sacrifice they made for our nation,” said Senator Cardin. “Korean War veterans deserve the same official federal recognition for their struggles and sacrifices on behalf of freedom that other veterans enjoy,” said Congressman Hoyer. “Granting this Federal Charter is a small expression of appreciation our nation can offer these brave men and women and represents a critical step in ensuring that the "Forgotten War' is forgotten no more.” “It's about time those who served in the Korean War enjoy the same mark of distinction and national recognition as those who came home from World War II. I can't think of a better way to honor our patriots from Korea,” mentioned Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran. During the Korean War, Johnson flew 62 combat missions in his F-86, stationed just 25 miles away from the front lines. In his plane named for his wife, Shirley's Texas Tornado, Johnson scored one MiG fighter kill, one probable and one damaged. Louis Dechert, President of the Korean War Veterans Association, said, “We strongly support this legislation and are grateful to Senator Cardin and Congressmen Hoyer and Johnson for all their efforts on behalf of the Korean War Veterans Association.” The KWVA is the only fraternal veterans’ organization in the Unites States devoted exclusively to Korean War veterans and the only U.S. member of the International Federation of Korean War Veterans Association. Incorporated in 1985, the 20,000-member charitable association also is one of the few veterans’ service organizations in America that has not been recognized with a federal charter. “Recognition of our Korean War veterans is long overdue. It’s time to acknowledge and commemorate their service,” said Senator Cardin.
06.25.2007	On the 57th anniversary of the start of the Korean War, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) introduced legislation to rightfully honor Korean War veterans with a national charter. After facing years of opposition within his own party, Johnson introduced the bill with Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-Md.) to grant a national charter to all veterans who served in the Korean War. share: f t On the 57th anniversary of the start of the Korean War, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) introduced legislation to rightfully honor Korean War veterans with a national charter. After facing years of opposition within his own party, Johnson introduced the bill with Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-Md.) to grant a national charter to all veterans who served in the Korean War. “It’s about time those who served in the Korean War enjoy the same mark of distinction and national recognition as those who came home from World War II. I can’t think of a better way to honor our patriots from Korea,” mentioned Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran. During the Korean War, Johnson flew 62 combat missions in his F-86, stationed just 25 miles away from the front lines. In his plane named for his wife, Shirley’s Texas Tornado, Johnson scored one MiG fighter kill, one probable and one damaged. From 1950 to 1953, American forces joined the United Nations to thwart the spread of Communism into South Korea. The war ended with a cease-fire, or armistice, between North and South Korea. An estimated million and half Americans served in the Korean War. Some have dubbed the Korean War the “Forgotten War” or even “the war that America forgot to remember.” A national charter for the Korean War Veterans Association (KWVA) creates an official designation that empowers its members to represent veterans with disability benefit claims before Veterans Affairs boards. The charter pays no money to veterans of the Korean War. The KWVA is the only fraternal veterans’ organization devoted exclusively to Korean War veterans and the only U.S. member of the International Federation of Korean War Veterans Association. Incorporated in 1985, the 20,000 member charitable association also is one of the few veterans’ service organizations in America that has not been recognized with a federal charter. Other veterans’ organizations with national charters include the American Legion and the Veterans of Foreign Wars. Korean war veteran Ed Buckman, formerly of the Third District, founded the KWVA Sam Johnson Chapter 270 in Richardson, Texas. He issued a joint statement with fellow Co-Chairman of Legislative Directors of the Sam Johnson Korean War Veterans Chapter. “It is with great anticipation that we have waited so long for this non-partisan decision! Obtaining a Federal Charter for the Korean War Veterans Association is a big step to equalizing Korean Service veterans with all veterans from other wars. It is appropriate that this announcement will be made fifty seven years to the day after the start of hostilities in Korea,” said Bob Banker, Co-Chairman Director, and Ed Buckman, Co-Chairman Director. Visit http://www.kwva270.org to learn more about the Sam Johnson chapter. This legislation boasts bipartisan, bicameral support. U.S. Senator Ben Cardin (D-Md.) introduced an identical bill in the Senate. Louis Dechert, President of the Korean War Veterans Association, said, “We strongly support this legislation and are grateful to Senator Cardin and Congressmen Hoyer and Johnson for all their efforts on behalf of the Korean War Veterans Association.” Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
06.21.2007	Yesterday U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) offered changes to a pending energy bill to stop huge tax hikes on oil and gas production. He also tried to prevent mandatory union-driven rules on some contracts for renewable energy. share: f t Yesterday U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) offered changes to a pending energy bill to stop huge tax hikes on oil and gas production. He also tried to prevent mandatory union-driven rules on some contracts for renewable energy. To lower the price of gasoline at the pump, Johnson favors boosting America’s energy supply by building more refineries, encouraging investment in alternative forms of energy, drilling for oil and gas domestically which will reduce our dependence on foreign oil, among other things. “America needs a balanced energy plan,” said Congressman Johnson. “Too much of America’s energy supply depends on other nations, including rogue leaders. This bill jeopardizes our national security and will bump up prices at the pump and for home heating bills,” said Johnson. “Gas prices are high enough, we should not tax oil and gas even more.” Specifically, Johnson proposed two amendments at the House Ways and Means Committee energy bill markup. First, he proposed to remove the $15 billion tax hike that would stifle output and production in two ways – and in turn is projected to raise gas prices to $6.40 a gallon according to the Heritage Foundation. One, the Democrats would end the manufacturers’ deduction for oil and gas companies that produce energy in America. Denying American manufacturers this deduction will pass on $11 billion in energy costs to American consumers, spiking gas prices even higher. Two, Democrats want to double-tax the foreign income from American petroleum companies that drill for oil in far-away places like Africa, the Middle East, South America, and Central Europe. “Some of our biggest competitors are nationalized oil cartels, such as the China National Offshore Oil Company, that barely face any taxation. Yet, the additional money that American companies will pay in taxes under this proposal will cause our energy supplies to be less reliable and more expensive. That’s bad energy policy and bad economic policy,” stated Johnson. “The Democrat policy to over-tax American oil producers will encourage them to relocate to other countries. Why would we do that?” Johnson’s second proposed change to the energy bill would eliminate the mandatory union contracts on any business or agency that uses tax credit bonds for renewable energy. The law creating union-driven wage, pension, and benefit rules, known as Davis-Bacon, was written during the Depression to purposely inflate wages on government projects. “As the former Chairman of an Education and Workforce Subcommittee, I’ve studied the punitive effects of Davis-Bacon. Make no mistake, adding mandatory labor ties to this energy bill is a pay-back to union bosses for their help in the last election. Forcing labor mandates into this energy bill will not do anything to reduce America’s dependence on foreign oil and it may even make the situation worse.” Both of Johnson’s amendments to the energy bill lost mostly on party-line votes. The full measure passed the Ways and Means Committee. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
06.21.2007	Today at a hearing on Capitol Hill, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) advocated legislation protecting the privacy of Social Security numbers to prevent identity theft. Johnson serves as the Social Security Subcommittee’s top Republican, also known as the “Ranking Member.” share: f t Today at a hearing on Capitol Hill, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) advocated legislation protecting the privacy of Social Security numbers to prevent identity theft. Johnson serves as the Social Security Subcommittee’s top Republican, also known as the “Ranking Member.” “Identity theft is one of the fastest growing crimes in the nation,” said Johnson. “Recovering from identity theft can be extremely frustrating, time consuming, and very costly.” At the Subcommittee hearing on protecting the privacy of the Social Security numbers from identity theft, various experts testified on ways to prevent Social Security number identity theft. Johnson soon hopes to draft pro-consumer legislation in the wake of this hearing. Johnson’s bill will prohibit the public sale of Social Security numbers and deal with Social Security number verification when people seek employment. According to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), over a one-year period nearly 10 million people, or roughly 5 percent of the adult population, discovered that they were the victims of identity theft. Even worse, the true number of victims of this devastating crime is unknown since most victims do not report the crime. The FTC reports that identity theft ranks as the number one consumer complaint and amounts to 36 percent of the complaints received in 2006. The President’s Identity Theft Task Force identified the Social Security number as the “most valuable commodity for an identity thief.” “Victims of identity theft can spend years and thousands of dollars restoring their reputation and their credit record. They may lose job opportunities or be denied loans for housing or cars. My legislation will protect the valuable Social Security number,” concluded Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties in North Texas.
06.14.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the 13 Third District priorities for which he requested federal funding in the congressional money allocating process, known as appropriations. Under the Appropriations Committee, there are 12 Appropriations Subcommittees charged with distributing federal dollars to each of the 435 congressional districts. This week the Congress started debate on various appropriations bills and will continue to do so for several weeks, if not months. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the 13 Third District priorities for which he requested federal funding in the congressional money allocating process, known as appropriations. Under the Appropriations Committee, there are 12 Appropriations Subcommittees charged with distributing federal dollars to each of the 435 congressional districts. This week the Congress started debate on various appropriations bills and will continue to do so for several weeks, if not months. According to the Capitol Hill publication, The Hill, Rep. Bill Young (R-Fla.), former Chairman of the Appropriations Committee, estimated “there’s 32,000 earmark request[s] this year.” This translates to roughly 70 requests per Member of Congress. Some request none, others request many. The Appropriations Subcommittees are: Agriculture; Commerce, Justice, Science; Defense; Energy and Water; Financial Services; Homeland Security; Interior and Environment; Labor, Health and Human Services, Education; Legislative Branch; Military Construction, Veterans Affairs; State, Foreign Operations; Transportation, Housing and Urban Development. Asking for federal funding for a specific project, sometimes called an “earmark,” does not guarantee that the item will receive one cent from the federal government. Johnson requested that the Appropriations Committees kindly consider if 13 projects within the Third District warrant federal funds. Each Member of Congress must decide for him or herself whether to request money for his or her congressional district and how much. Of the 13 requests, 11 are defense or national-security related to help strengthen all branches of the armed forces. Johnson attributes this to the dominant presence of the defense industry in North Texas; the Third Congressional District includes small, medium, and large defense-affiliated companies employing thousands of people who live and/ or work in the Third District. Johnson also believes that the strict regulations governing the sale of American defense- company merchandise and technology for national security reasons puts American defense companies at a unique disadvantage compared with foreign-owned companies. Defense · Army research, test, and development for the signal intelligence capability for the Army’s “Warrior” unmanned vehicle - $2.3 million; · UTD’s development of networked wireless sensor technology for reconnaissance, surveillance, and tactical applications for border security - $4 million; · Secure Grids for Network Centric Operations at UT Dallas - $4.2 million; · Digital Night Vision Systems program for all service branches - $12 million; · Special Project Aircraft Upgrade by modifying and/ or replacing obsolete intelligence collection equipment for the Navy. The Special Project Aircraft support Special Forces and other troops in data collection - $4.4 million; · Thermoelectric Power Generation Materials and Devices for the Army - $5 million; · Advanced Protection Systems (APS) for the Army. APS is an externally mounted vehicle protection system that identifies, discriminates, and intercepts rocket-propelled grenades, mortars, anti-tank guided missiles - $50 million; · Enhanced Tracking and Asset Control for the Navy - $5 million; · Mega Pixel IR Focal Plane Array Enhancement for the Army - $3.2 million; · Portable mobile oxygen and ventilation systems for Marine Corps - $4.2 million; and · Falcon Eye Seeker Development for the Air Force – this is critically enabling technology needed for low-cost guided munitions to autonomously locate and engage moving maritime targets in all weather, day or night. It is more cost-effective than regular radar – $6.3 million. Education National Virtual Vietnam Archive at Texas Tech University - $4 million Transportation New control tower at Collin County Regional Airport - $3 million Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
06.13.2007	On Saturday, June 16th at 1pm, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will honor the future of the armed forces when he meets with service-academy bound students and their families at a private meeting in Plano. While this event is closed to the public, it is open to the press. A complete list of the 19 students accepting appointments to the service academies follows. share: f t On Saturday, June 16th at 1pm, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will honor the future of the armed forces when he meets with service-academy bound students and their families at a private meeting in Plano. While this event is closed to the public, it is open to the press. A complete list of the 19 students accepting appointments to the service academies follows. “These kids represent the best and brightest of their peers. They are leaders of the armed forces of tomorrow – and America will be in good hands,” said Congressman Sam Johnson. Earlier this year, Congressman Johnson announced the students nominated to the academies. (Naval Academy – Annapolis; Military Academy – West Point; Merchant Marine Academy; and the Air Force Academy; the Coast Guard Academy appointees do not need a congressional nomination.) Since then, each student listed below received and accepted an appointment to an academy. Saturday’s meeting is the last formal event with the Congressman for the students and their families before classes begin. Students depart for their respective academies shortly after to report for summer training. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War (POW), more than half of that time in solitary confinement, during the Vietnam War. All Third District residents interested in seeking nominations to a service academy for the class entering July 2008 should contact Ashlea Quinonez in the Congressman’s Texas office at 972-470-0892. Sometime this fall, Congressman Sam Johnson will host a service academy open house/ information session for interested students and their families. Generally, students in 9th, 10th, and 11th grade participate. Representatives from each service branch will attend this popular meeting. Who: U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson* Service academy appointees and their families What: Sam Johnson salutes the military leaders of tomorrow When: Saturday, June 16th at 1:00pm Where: Plano Center 2000 E. Spring Creek Parkway Plano *Subject to votes on Capitol Hill. NAME ACADEMY HOME TOWN SCHOOL ERIK DESOUSA USNA (NAVAL) PLANO PLANO WEST BRYCE DOGANER USMMA (MERCHANT MARINE) PLANO PLANO SENIOR HIGH AUDREY HANSEN USMA (WESTPOINT) PLANO PLANO SENIOR HIGH GREGORY HARRELL USNA (NAVAL) PLANO PLANO SENIOR HIGH KANE KIMREY USMA (WESTPOINT) ROWLETT ROWLETT ANNE NAGY USMA (WESTPOINT) MCKINNEY MCKINNEY NORTH PHILIP NICHE USNA (NAVAL) MCKINNEY MCKINNEY NORTH MELANIE PRIBICH USNA (NAVAL) PLANO PLANO WEST MADISON SCHOTTLEUTHER USAFA (AIR FORCE) MCKINNEY URSULINE ACADEMY OF DALLAS RYAN SCHUBERT USMA (WESTPOINT) PLANO PLANO EAST TAYLOR SOSTER USAFA (AIR FORCE) ALLEN CANYON CREEK CHRISTIAN ACADEMY GRACE ST.CLAIR USAFA (AIR FORCE) ALLEN ALLEN STEPHANIE STANFORD USAFA (AIR FORCE) PLANO BISHOP LYNCH RYAN SZYMANIAK USNA (NAVAL) MCKINNEY MCKINNEY DREW WARWICK USAFA (AIR FORCE) PLANO JESUIT COLLEGE PREPARATORY SCHOOL F. WADE (FRED) WHEELER USMMA (MERCHANT MARINE) PLANO PLANO SENIOR HIGH MICHAEL WILLCOX USAFA (AIR FORCE) MCKINNEY MCKINNEY NORTH EVAN WISE USAFA (AIR FORCE) PLANO PLANO SENIOR HIGH TIANYI XIN USMA (WESTPOINT) PLANO PLANO SENIOR HIGH
06.07.2007	With many folks planning to travel overseas for vacations or on church missions this summer, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) wants to encourage constituents to apply early for their U.S. passports. share: f t With many folks planning to travel overseas for vacations or on church missions this summer, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) wants to encourage constituents to apply early for their U.S. passports. The U.S. Department of State Passport Services Office is experiencing unprecedented, severe delays in the issuance and renewal of U.S. passports. A law requiring all travelers entering the United States, including U.S. citizens, to have a valid passport recently went into affect, increasing the demand for U.S. passports. Americans now need a passport to travel to Mexico, Canada, the Bahamas and South and Central America. Constituents contacting our office are experiencing delays upwards of twelve weeks to receive their passport. A passport is an internationally recognized travel document that verifies the identity and nationality of the bearer. A valid U.S. passport is required to enter and leave most foreign countries. Only the U.S. Department of State has the authority to grant, issue or verify United States passports. To obtain a passport for the first time, you need to go in person to one of over 8,000 passport acceptance facilities located throughout the United States with two photographs of yourself, proof of U.S. citizenship, and a valid form of photo identification such as a driver’s license. To find the nearest passport acceptance facility to you visit: http://travel.state.gov/passport. To assist residents of the Third District who have applied for their passport and are having difficulty obtaining it, Congressman Johnson’s staff is available to help. Constituents with an emergency passport situation or who are within the two week window of their travel date may contact the District Office for assistance. The office staff can begin a formal inquiry with the Department of State on the constituent's behalf. Constituents needing further assistance should visit Congressman Johnson’s website www.samjohnson.house.gov or contact the Third District office at 972-470-0892. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
06.01.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) presented a long-overdue Purple Heart to McKinney Vietnam veteran, Alfredo “Al” Coy. Johnson presented the medal for wounds suffered in combat, the Purple Heart, at a private ceremony before close family and friends in the Congressman’s Texas District Office in Richardson. Coy earned the medal in March 1971, but never received it. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) presented a long-overdue Purple Heart to McKinney Vietnam veteran, Alfredo “Al” Coy. Johnson presented the medal for wounds suffered in combat, the Purple Heart, at a private ceremony before close family and friends in the Congressman’s Texas District Office in Richardson. Coy earned the medal in March 1971, but never received it. “It’s an honor to present this Purple Heart to an American war hero,” said Johnson. “For many different reasons, folks came home from war and didn’t receive the medals that they earned.” Coy started his Army career as an enlisted private first class. During his first tour in Vietnam, he worked as a crew chief in a helicopter on a Huey. During Coy’s second tour in Vietnam, he worked as the pilot of a Huey helicopter as an officer. In March 1971, the then-first lieutenant’s helicopter endured enemy fire. Coy and his crew were shot down over hostile territory in Laos. Shortly after the shoot down, a medical helicopter rescued the downed crew, including one seriously injured crew member. While Coy rated a Purple Heart for the injuries sustained during the March 1971 shoot-down, he never pinned on the medal. In addition to earning a Purple Heart, Coy also received a Bronze Star. After 20 years in the United States Army, Coy retired a Captain. During his service in the United States Army, Coy earned the National Defense Service Medal, the Republic of Vietnam Campaign Medal, the Vietnam Service Medal, an Air Medal, an Army Aviator Badge, and Aircraft Crewman Badge. For the last 13 years, Coy has as worked at the Environmental Protection Agency as a border environmental issues coordinator. Originally from Riviera, Texas, Coy’s called the Metroplex home for the last 20 years. He’s lived in McKinney for nearly four years. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. “I sure am glad Al did not join me at the Prisoner of War camp. He’s lucky to be alive and fortunate that a medical helicopter rescued him so quickly,” continued Johnson. “It’s about time he received this Purple Heart.” To honor the service of his troops, General George Washington chose a select few of his troops to receive a small purple cloth Badge of Merit, the precursor to the Purple Heart award. According to the National Purple Heart Hall of Honor, it’s tough to guess the exact number of recipients because no consistent record was kept since the award was established in 1932. The Hall of Honor does estimate the number at 1.7 million. The award was first retroactive to those who received "wound chevrons" and "certificates of merit" during World War I and to those from earlier wars who chose to apply for the award. From 1942 on it was limited to service men and women wounded or killed in combat against the enemy. Records were sometimes lost during wartime when headquarters were overrun and unfortunately many were lost during a fire at the National Personnel Records Center in 1973. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
05.31.2007	Building on the success of a top-notch military vehicle program, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) announced that Garland’s International Truck and Engine has been awarded a hefty government contract by the United States Marine Corps. share: f t Building on the success of a top-notch military vehicle program, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) announced that Garland’s International Truck and Engine has been awarded a hefty government contract by the United States Marine Corps. The military vehicles will be used for convoy operations to increase the survivability and the mobility of the troops operating in a combat area against threats like small-arms fire, rocket-propelled grenades (RPGs), and improvised explosive devices (IEDs). “International Truck and Engine has a long-standing reputation for building sturdy, solid armored vehicles for our men and women in uniform. The folks at International Truck and Engine understand the numerous hazards of today’s battlefield and work tirelessly to make sure our men and women are safe,” said Congressman Johnson. International Truck and Engine won the $623 million contract to build 1,200 armored vehicles; the vehicles will be ready for use by the Marine Corps by February 2008. The truck is a Category I Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicle; it is called the International® MaxxPro™. The chassis will be constructed in Garland which boasts over 600 employees. The final product will be assembled in Mississippi. This contract is in addition to the 4,000+ military trucks International Truck has already provided in the Global War Against Terrorism. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson fought in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
05.10.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement in response to Democrat initiatives that would immediately withdraw troops from Iraq (H.R. 2237) as well as ration funding for American troops and globally announce a two-month surrender date to America’s enemies (H.R. 2206). share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement in response to Democrat initiatives that would immediately withdraw troops from Iraq (H.R. 2237) as well as ration funding for American troops and globally announce a two-month surrender date to America’s enemies (H.R. 2206). A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson served in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars. Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. Earlier this year, Johnson authored a bill demanding Congress will fully fund all troops serving in harm’s way. Johnson filed a discharge petition to force an up-or-down vote on his measure. “Our troops want, need and deserve paychecks. They’re serving on the front lines and their families are worried sick about them. Our men and women in uniform should not have to wonder if they’ll be able to put food on the table and pay the mortgage come August because Democrats are playing politics with war funding. Our military men and women – and their loved ones - have got enough on their minds already. Congress should not be rationing troop funds. “It’s time Democrats took their responsibility to fund our service men and women seriously. They must create a real emergency troops spending bill that won’t leave our armed forces without bullets, body armor, and paychecks and their families without food and diapers! “Any bill that globally announces a potential timeline for an American troop exit amounts to surrendering Iraq to the evil forces of Al-Qaeda. Why on earth would we want help Al-Qaeda grow even more powerful and more dangerous? The last thing America needs is suicide bombers of Al-Qaeda causing more destruction on our streets.”
05.08.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (Texas-3rd Dist.) announced that Plano native, Sara Shiveley, successfully completed a spring internship in the Third District’s Texas Congressional office. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (Texas-3rd Dist.) announced that Plano native, Sara Shiveley, successfully completed a spring internship in the Third District’s Texas Congressional office. “Sara did a great job working in my District office. I’m very proud of her,” said Congressman Johnson. To serve his constituents in Dallas and Collin Counties, Johnson maintains a District office at 2929 North Central Expressway in Richardson and one office on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C.Shiveley logged numerous hours a week in the Texas Congressional office while taking a full-course load at University of Texas at Dallas. Shiveley, 18, who has earned enough credits to be considered a junior academically, has selected a Political Science major.During her internship, Shiveley joined the Congressman as he visited with editorial board members of a newspaper. She also attended various functions in the District with Mr. Johnson as well as with district staff. While in the office, Shiveley performed administrative tasks and constituent services. Shiveley attended Mendenhall Elementary School, Bowman Middle School and Williams High School before graduating from Plano East Senior High School, with honors, in 2005. At PESH, Shiveley participated in National Honors Society, Venture Crew 85 and Swim Team. Shiveley also dedicated countless hours to Camp Crucis and the Chapel of the Cross as a volunteer. In 2005, Congressman Johnson nominated Shiveley to the United States Air Force Academy. At UTD, Shiveley belongs to College Republicans and enjoys spending time with friends. In the future, Shiveley hopes to pursue a graduate degree in Political Science. This summer she’ll study under the direction of political science professor Brian Bearry examining classic Whig Republican thought as found in the writings of Algernon Sidney and Cato’s Letters.Sara is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Kim L. Shiveley of Richardson.
05.03.2007	Justin Griffin, a student in Mrs. Angela Rankin’s second-grade class at Reed Elementary in Allen, sent “Flat Stanley” to meet with U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) in his Richardson congressional office. share: f t Justin Griffin, a student in Mrs. Angela Rankin’s second-grade class at Reed Elementary in Allen, sent “Flat Stanley” to meet with U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) in his Richardson congressional office. Based on “Flat Stanley,” a children’s book by Jeff Brown, Stanley is accidentally flattened by a bulletin board that falls off of a wall. A paper-thin Stanley experiences exciting adventures that include being sent across the country through the mail. For years, students of all ages have mailed “Flat Stanley” around the world for him to return with creative pictures and captivating tales of his travels. The hand-made creation educates students about new places and different cultures. “Shirley and I were delighted to visit with Flat Stanley in the office,” said Congressman Johnson. “Maybe in a few years, Flat Stanley can help me recruit Justin and his friends to serve on the Third District’s Congressional Youth Advisory Council. That’s why Flat Stanley returned to Mrs. Rankin’s 2nd grade class with pocket Constitutions and American flags for each student.” Justin Griffin is the son of Greg & Pam Griffin. The Congressional Youth Advisory Council is a select panel of high school students who live in the Third District. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
05.01.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after the Democrats sent legislation creating timetables for U.S. troop withdrawals from Iraq to President George W. Bush for his signature. Without a veto by the President, this bill will become law. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after the Democrats sent legislation creating timetables for U.S. troop withdrawals from Iraq to President George W. Bush for his signature. Without a veto by the President, this bill will become law. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson fought in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars. Johnson spent nearly 7 years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam. This year, Johnson filed a discharge petition to force an up-or-down vote in the U.S. House of Representatives on his bill demanding that the Congress will fully fund all troops serving in harm’s way. “The Democrats sent the President a blueprint for failure. Surrendering Iraq to Al-Qaeda will create a world-wide safe haven for terrorists. “Americans want to win the war in Iraq. They don’t want America to leave with our tail between our legs – like we did in Korea…like we did in Vietnam. We must learn from our mistakes of the past. “Mr. President, veto this bill.”
04.24.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the reintroduction of his legislation to strengthen Social Security by allowing younger workers the choice of keeping their half of Social Security taxes to invest in a personal retirement account. All parties involved in the Social Security debate agree that Social Security will not be changed for seniors or near-retirees. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the reintroduction of his legislation to strengthen Social Security by allowing younger workers the choice of keeping their half of Social Security taxes to invest in a personal retirement account. All parties involved in the Social Security debate agree that Social Security will not be changed for seniors or near-retirees. Johnson, the Ranking Republican on the Social Security Subcommittee on the House Ways and Means Committee, reintroduced his bill on the same day that the Social Security Trustees issued their annual report on the financial status of the Social Security Trust Fund. The annual report stated that the Trust Fund begins to collect smaller surpluses starting in 2010 and will reach a cash-flow deficit beginning in 2017. The 2017 date is important because that is the year that, effectively, general revenues will be required to begin paying Social Security benefits. By 2041 when the Trust Fund is expected to be exhausted, Social Security benefits are expected to require the current tax of 12.4 percent of all payroll plus roughly 14 percent of general tax revenue in order to pay expected benefits. “For younger generations, Social Security needs fixing and I’ve got a simple solution. Seniors – this isn’t about you. There is money for your retirement. For younger folks – let’s share. Let’s split your 12% in payroll taxes in half… half to the government – half to you. You can keep your half and save it in your own personal retirement account. The other half will go to the government to pay Social Security benefits for near retirees, orphans, widows and the disabled,” said Johnson. The Individual Social Security Investment Program Act, H.R. 2002, will give people born after 1950 the choice to divert their share of the payroll tax (6.2 %) into a personal retirement account. Employers will continue to contribute 6.2% to assist in funding benefits under the existing program, help pay transition and administrative costs, and fund disability and survivors’ benefits. Under Johnson’s initiative, younger people would be able to invest in personal retirement accounts set up much like 401(k) plans. Johnson’s plan hinges on simplicity and uses money that already goes directly into the Social Security system. This is not additional money workers must find, it is the taxes they already pay. “Those who retire in 2035 should not be forced to live off a system created in 1935. My plan will allow younger folks to build a nest egg rather than build expectations of federal benefits that won’t be there.” This legislation builds on Johnson’s legacy of reform on what some call the most radio-active issue in Washington – Social Security. Defying the odds and confounding the critics, in 2000 Johnson wrote the bill that ended the unfair tax on seniors’ Social Security benefits just because they opted to remain in the workforce past retirement. The President signed Johnson’s bill into law later that year. “I’m not afraid to tackle tough issues because I firmly believe that strengthening Social Security for younger generations is right for America,” concluded Johnson.
04.18.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) praised the 5-4 ruling by the Supreme Court of the United States to affirm the partial birth abortion ban. The Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act outlawed the gruesome late-term abortion procedure. The law forbids an abortion, generally performed in the second or third trimester. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) praised the 5-4 ruling by the Supreme Court of the United States to affirm the partial birth abortion ban. The Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act outlawed the gruesome late-term abortion procedure. The law forbids an abortion, generally performed in the second or third trimester. In 2003, President George W. Bush signed the partial birth abortion ban into law. This marked the first meaningful change of course on abortion in America since the landmark case of Roe v. Wade. The challenges to the law prohibiting late-term abortions went all the way to the Supreme Court. “I hoped and prayed that this day would come,” said Johnson, a strong supporter of ending abortion and an original co-sponsor of the initial legislation to end late-term abortions. “This is a shining example as to how America values life.” Today’s Supreme Court ruling marks a huge victory for conservatives and family activists who have fought for years to end this abhorrent procedure. After capturing Congress in 1994, Republicans worked tirelessly to end late-term abortions, only to have then-President Clinton stifle their efforts. Then President Clinton twice vetoed similar legislation. Once elected into office, President George W. Bush signed the pro-life measure into law. In addition, Bush appointed conservative judges to the Supreme Court, sparking today’s 5-4 ruling. “Partial birth abortions in America will stop, thanks to the leadership of President George W. Bush,” concluded Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
04.04.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement. According to the publication, Military Times, “the House Armed Services Committee is banishing the global war on terror from the 2008 defense budget. This is not because the war has been won, lost or even called off, but because the committee’s Democratic leadership doesn’t like the phrase.” share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement. According to the publication, Military Times, “the House Armed Services Committee is banishing the global war on terror from the 2008 defense budget. This is not because the war has been won, lost or even called off, but because the committee’s Democratic leadership doesn’t like the phrase.” A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson served in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars. Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. In January Johnson introduced legislation calling on Congress to support all troops in harm’s way and prohibiting Congress from cutting any funding for the armed forces while deployed. Johnson’s measure, H.R. 511, has 183 co-sponsors. Recently, Johnson filed a discharge petition to bring his bill to the floor for an up-or-down vote; the petition has 182 signatures and needs 218 signatures to move forward. “Talk about absurd! Who do the Democrats think flew airplanes into the World Trade Center Towers? “What do they call those who behead innocent people and then broadcast the horrendous act on the internet for all of the world to see? What do they call those who plowed into the USS Cole? What would they call Al-Sadr? “Webster’s defines terror as ‘violence (as bombing) committed by groups in order to intimidate a population or government into granting their demands.’ “Blatantly ignoring the role of terror is just as bad as tolerating it. It’s just a shame that the Democrats in Congress can’t figure out that radical jihadists are terror defined.”
03.29.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement in the wake of the news that Iran will renege on its word and not free a female British sailor. Iran has been holding 15 sailors and marines hostage after seizing the British troops in disputed waters between Iran and Iraq earlier this month. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement in the wake of the news that Iran will renege on its word and not free a female British sailor. Iran has been holding 15 sailors and marines hostage after seizing the British troops in disputed waters between Iran and Iraq earlier this month. A former Prisoner of War for nearly seven years in Vietnam, Johnson spent more than half of that time in solitary confinement. According to the Geneva Conventions, captors are not allowed to photograph or video tape Prisoners of War. In addition, the International Red Cross must be able to access the Prisoners of War to verify that they are being treated well. Johnson is a co-sponsor of the Iran Sanctions bill. “Iran is out of control. Their commando seizure of the 15 British sailors and marines is an international outrage. “As a former Prisoner of War in Vietnam, my first concern is that hostages are being treated well. The letter released from the female hostage leads me to believe that she was forced into writing that statement and the words were not her own; I fear it was clearly a coerced confession. “Iran has a track record of deceiving the world and playing games with hostages. When will Iran allow the Red Cross to meet with these hostages? Where is the international outcry that they be released? The Red Cross must be permitted to visit with the hostages and verify that they’re being treated well. It’s a basic human right.”
03.23.2007	Today on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) spearheaded the Republican efforts against a so-called emergency troop spending bill filled with non-related spending. Specifically, the emergency bill for the armed forces in harm’s way contains: $25 million for payments to spinach producers; $120 million to the shrimp industry; and $74 million for peanut storage, among other things. The Democrat’s bill barely passed 218 to 212 with one Member of Congress voting present. share: f t Today on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) spearheaded the Republican efforts against a so-called emergency troop spending bill filled with non-related spending. Specifically, the emergency bill for the armed forces in harm’s way contains: $25 million for payments to spinach producers; $120 million to the shrimp industry; and $74 million for peanut storage, among other things. The Democrat’s bill barely passed 218 to 212 with one Member of Congress voting present. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson served in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars. Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. Johnson experienced fighting in a war for this country when the Congress pulled the plug on funding and he vowed that when he returned home, he would never, ever let that happen again. In January Johnson introduced legislation calling on Congress to support all troops in harm’s way and prohibiting Congress from cutting any funding for the armed forces while deployed. Johnson’s measure, H.R. 511, has 179 co-sponsors. This week, Johnson filed a discharge petition to force an up-or-down vote on his bill. The discharge petition is a parliamentary procedure that demands 218 signatures for a bill to go straight to the floor for full House consideration. Johnson’s remarks follow: “I rise today in support of a clean emergency spending bill for our troops…but this one is all smoke and mirrors. “We must give our men and women in uniform everything that they need to thwart the insurgency in Iraq and come home safely and soon…We must not tie the hands of the guys on the ground with timelines or benchmarks, and worse, we must not use the emergency troop spending bill as a way to finance the political gimmickry of special-interest projects. “It’s just exasperating that the Democrat leaders have turned the Emergency Troop Spending Bill into a pork-barrel project give-away. This bill gives piles of money to shrimpers, spinach farmers, and peanut storage. What does throwing money at Bubba Gump, Popeye the Sailorman, and Mr. Peanut have to do with winning a war? Nothing! “The special-interest projects added to increase the likelihood of this bill passing are an insult to the troops who want, need and deserve our full support. The Democrats are trying to buy the majority vote today one pork project at a time perhaps…. because the majority does not support their slow-bleed surrender strategy. “Since the President announced his new plan for Iraq in January, there has been measured, steady progress. He changed the rules of engagement and removed political protections. “Coalition forces nabbed more than 50 suspects and dismantled a bomb factory in Iraq over the past few days. Coalition forces in Iraq detained seven suspects with reported ties to foreign-fighter groups. “In Ramadi, troops nabbed four other suspects with alleged ties to al Qaeda. In Mosul, coalition forces captured a former paramilitary leader who allegedly is responsible for setting up al Qaeda terrorist training camps in Iraq and Syria. “During another operation, troops captured a suspected terrorist with alleged ties to an al Qaeda car-bomb and assassination cell. We must seize this opportunity to move forward and not stifle future success and harm troop morale. “More importantly, I want to know, how many of you have ever asked your constituents, ‘Do you want to lose in Iraq?’ I think if you asked that question, ‘do you want to lose in Iraq,’ Americans will whole-heartedly say no! We have smart, strong men and women serving in Iraq and they need our help. They need the full support of their country and their Congress. “Our troops don’t need 435 generals in Washington declaring, ‘we’ll send you money for bullets, but we won’t send you bullet-proof vests.’ Our troops don’t need folks in suits sitting in wood-paneled rooms on Capitol Hill saying, ‘we’ll send you armored tanks, but we won’t send you gas.’ Literally, this bill forces our guys on the ground to fight a war with one arm tied behind their backs. That’s just smacks of defeat. “Most of you in the chamber know that I spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. Well, that was during my second tour in Vietnam. “During my first tour I worked for General Westmoreland at MAC-V Headquarters, Military Assistance Command Vietnam. While working late at night we had a bunch of men involved in the first real hand-to-hand combat using bayonets. It was gory. This was war. Turns out that someone sent back footage to Washington that would match the opening scene of Saving Private Ryan. “In the middle of the night the red phone rang and I answered it. I heard an earful that is not fit for the house chamber. Something like, ‘This is the White House. What in the hell is going on over there?’ “I replied, ‘I’ll wake up General Westmoreland.’ They slammed the phone down and hung up. “Starting in 1965, we had folks in Washington trying to tell the Generals how to run things on the ground in Vietnam. A generation ago we saw what happens when you stop the funding…and America stiffs its friends. As a matter of fact, just this morning Iran captured British sailors. This bill prevents us from responding from Kuwait for our close allies, the British, in an emergency. “If you don’t believe me, just think back to the dark day in history when we saw visions of American Marines airlifting Vietnamese out of the U.S. Embassy. Do you remember that? That’s what happens when America makes a commitment, Congress cuts the funding, and we go home with our tails between our legs. “The brave Marines who died on that day in 1975 while innocent people desperately clung to life on a rope tied to a helicopter are a testimony to what happens when Congress cuts the funding and we leave without finishing the job. We can not let that happen again and I don’t think Members in this Chamber want that to happen. “Frankly, we all want our troops to come home… when the job is done. We want to win! “Internationally announcing our timelines for withdrawal literally hands the enemy our war plan….and gives them hope that they’ll win if they just wait it out. “What world-super power would do such a thing? We are the United States of America. We are the premiere military force on the globe. We are the land of the free and the home of the brave. Surely we do not go around announcing to the world how we will conduct and win a war. “Surrendering is not an option. Abandoning our troops is not an option. Look around you - we are America! “Do you want to lose in Iraq? Voting to set a hard exit date for U.S. troops in Iraq and imposing strict standards for deploying forces gives hope to the enemy and is a prescription for failure. “Worse – forcing Members of Congress to decide on this issue when the bill is cluttered with excess money for spinach and peanuts is abhorrent, infuriating and ill-advised. “My dear colleagues - if you really want to debate the merits of a timed withdrawal – give each Member of Congress an up-or-down vote so we can vote our conscience. The sweeteners in this bill are political bribery and our troops deserve so much better than this. “We can not abandon our men and women in uniform simply for politically charged benchmarks wrapped up in fat-cat constituent projects. “If we learned anything from those brave Marines who died trying to save innocent people that day at the embassy in Vietnam…it’s that the Marines never quit – neither should we!”
03.20.2007	At a news conference on Capitol Hill, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced that he will try to force a vote in the House mandating that the Congress fully fund all troops in harm’s way with a discharge petition on his bill to support the armed forces, H.R. 511. Johnson’s measure presently has 176 co-sponsors; a discharge petition needs 218 signatures to create a vote in the House of Representatives. share: f t At a news conference on Capitol Hill, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced that he will try to force a vote in the House mandating that the Congress fully fund all troops in harm’s way with a discharge petition on his bill to support the armed forces, H.R. 511. Johnson’s measure presently has 176 co-sponsors; a discharge petition needs 218 signatures to create a vote in the House of Representatives. “In Texas, we have a phrase for folks who talk a big game and fail to deliver. We call that ‘All sizzle and no steak.’ That’s sort of how I view the Members of the Congress who claim that they support men and women in uniform but fail to back permanent legislation that says Congress will fully fund all troops serving in harm’s way. The actions don’t match the words. I figure, if Members really support the brave folks in our armed forces, Members would make sure that our men and women on the ground have the bullets and tanks and helmets they need,” said Johnson. “The Democrats can’t hide behind their ‘slow-bleed’ strategy forever. Let’s call a floor vote and make the entire Congress go on the record for or against our troops,” continued Johnson. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson served in the Korean and Vietnam Wars. During Johnson’s 25th mission in Vietnam, he was shot down. Held for nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War, Johnson spent more than half of that time in solitary confinement. Johnson returned home from captivity passionately committed to learning from the mistakes of Vietnam. “Americans don’t want to lose this war! Pulling the plug is not an option,” he said. The parliamentary procedural move for a discharge petition comes during the same week the U.S. House of Representatives will debate an emergency troop spending bill. The measure dedicates funds to the troops as well as clearly non-emergency items like spinach growers, peanut storage and the shrimp industry, among other things. (The Democrat bill dedicates: $25 million for spinach (p. 112); $74 million for peanut storage costs (p. 115); and $120 million for the shrimp industry (p. 84).) The Democrats insist that money devoted to the troops only will be allocated if arbitrary deadlines are met. Otherwise the Democrat-controlled Congress will try to bring the troops home. According to the U.S. Constitution, only the President of the United States can order troops to or from a war, while the Congress directs spending levels. Many Republicans have called on House Democrats to eliminate the unrelated spending programs in the troop spending bill so Members of Congress will have an up-or-down vote on funding the troops in harm’s way. Some Democrats, like those in the “Out of Iraq Caucus” want to cut off all funding right now. Other Democrats want a timetable with assorted benchmarks. “If you really want to bring the troops home safely and soon, give them money for bullets and bullet-proof vests so they can finish the mission and return home. Just because it’s the politically popular idea of the moment, don’t hamstring our troops and make them fight with one arm tied behind their backs,” continued Johnson. “I was in Vietnam when Congress pulled the plug on funding the troops. It was a complete disaster and why we lost that war. If we don’t learn from history, we only have ourselves to blame,” Johnson concluded.
03.15.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after Democrats voted against his bill to fully fund and support all troops in harm’s way. The vote occurred as the House Appropriations Committee marked up the emergency troop spending bill, known as the supplemental. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after Democrats voted against his bill to fully fund and support all troops in harm’s way. The vote occurred as the House Appropriations Committee marked up the emergency troop spending bill, known as the supplemental. Ranking Republican Jerry Lewis (R-Calif.) offered the Johnson bill in the form of an amendment. In January Johnson introduced H.R. 511 to fully fund all troops in harm’s way. Johnson’s measure currently has 175 co-sponsors; the amendment failed 27-37. In a related matter, the entire committee voted against stopping all war funding at once. The Appropriations mark-up comes on the same day that Khalid Sheikh Mohammed confirmed he planned more than 30 terrorist attacks around the world, including the September 11th attack that killed thousands of innocent Americans. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. “What do the Democrats have against guaranteeing money for body armor and bullets for our brave men and women in the armed forces? News reports on the troop escalation indicate that there is steady progress in Iraq. That must count for something. “Frankly, micro-managing the war from a cushy committee room for all the troops serving on the front lines is absurd and infuriating. If folks really wanted to bring the troops home, they would support fully funding them so they can complete the mission and come back safely and soon. “Isn’t it ironic that on the very same day that we find out a maniacal fanatic confessed to plotting against and killing innocent Americans - the Democrats in Congress are emboldening radical Islamic terrorists by voting to hamstring our troops? “Moms and dads want to know that Congress won’t pull the plug on funding for the troops and leave their sons and daughters stranded in Iraq.”
03.12.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) attended the official groundbreaking ceremony of the Plano Courthouse, located at 7940 Preston Road in Plano. Dignitaries attending the event included: U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-Texas) and Judge Richard Schell. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) attended the official groundbreaking ceremony of the Plano Courthouse, located at 7940 Preston Road in Plano. Dignitaries attending the event included: U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-Texas) and Judge Richard Schell. “For years, Collin County has ranked among the fastest growing areas in the nation. It’s about time that we’re building a federal Courthouse in Plano,” said Johnson. “For me, this is a dream come true…even though it only took about 16 years.” In 1991 during the 102nd Congress, Johnson backed H.R. 3666 to establish a federal courthouse in Plano, making the bill one of his first legislative priorities. (Johnson won a special election in May 1991.) That year, the first bill introduced by then-Texas Congressman Jack Brooks (9th Dist.-Texas) passed the House and failed to gain momentum in the U.S. Senate. Once Brooks left Congress, Johnson took the mantle as the lead sponsor and ushered the measure through Congress. In 2003 that all changed when Senator John Cornyn championed the idea in the U.S. Senate as a strong leader for Texas on the Judiciary Committee. The Congress finally passed a version of Johnson’s initiative in 2003; the Senate followed suit soon after and President Bush signed the measure into law. For now, Collin County residents must commute just miles from the Oklahoma border to address any federal legal matters. As a result of the 2003 law change, judges in the Eastern District will split the court dockets between Plano and Sherman, where all Collin County cases are heard. Once the Plano Courthouse is completed, Judge Richard Schell will relocate full time to Collin County. “Thanks to the cooperative efforts of Senator John Cornyn and Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Congressman Sam Johnson, and Congressman Ralph Hall, the new United States Courthouse in Plano, Texas, will provide the citizens of Plano and the entire Sherman Division of the U. S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas with a new, alternative venue for the resolution of their disputes,” said Richard Schell. Johnson praised the efforts of Judge Shell, who worked tirelessly to secure a federal Courthouse in Collin County. “We would not be here without his persistence,” continued Johnson. Johnson also hailed Senator Cornyn’s activism in the Senate and commended his strong leadership as a new Senator. “The Plano Courthouse is a shining example of people coming together to make their community a better place to live. That speaks volumes about the good folks in North Texas,” said Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
03.08.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement regarding the war funding proposal that House Democrat leaders unveiled this morning. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement regarding the war funding proposal that House Democrat leaders unveiled this morning. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. Earlier this year, Johnson introduced a bill urging Congress to fully fund all troops in harm’s way. Johnson’s measure, H.R. 511, currently has 149 co-sponsors. The division within the Democrat members of the House has been widely reported. Some want Congress to cut all funding of all troops immediately – and to start with the pending supplemental bill. Others bucked party leadership when they voted against the non-binding resolution calling to stop the troop escalation in Iraq. Further demonstrating the division within the Democratic rank-and-file, Roll Call recently highlighted how Democrat House Appropriations Chairman David Obey admitted that he gave members of his own caucus false information to find out if it would end up in the press and who was leaking the material. “Globally announced time-tables are even nuttier than non-binding resolutions! “By telling the enemy when you plan to pack up and go home, you’re pretty much waving a white flag of surrender – and handing them a roadmap to victory. You can’t win a war by giving the enemy your game plan. “American’s don’t want us to lose in Iraq. Americans won’t stand for the Democrats’ slow-bleed strategy and liberal politicians micromanaging the war from Washington. “The news accounts on the serious fissure within the House Democrats has to make me wonder… If Nancy Pelosi can’t run her own caucus – how does she think she can run a war – from Capitol Hill? She shouldn’t try to end the war in the first place! That’s why we have generals! “To every single Democrat in the House who doesn’t want Nancy Pelosi to hamstring our troops while they’re serving on the front lines – there is another solution. It’s called supporting our troops. Co-sponsor my bill, H.R. 511, and let your guys on the ground know that you will fully fund them while they’re serving in harm’s way.”
03.05.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd District-Texas) invited high school students residing in the Third Congressional District to submit original artwork for the annual Congressional Art Competition. This contest is open to students enrolled in public, private or home schools. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd District-Texas) invited high school students residing in the Third Congressional District to submit original artwork for the annual Congressional Art Competition.This contest is open to students enrolled in public, private or home schools. New this year, staff from Johnson’s office will pick up completed artwork April 18th and April 19th. Teachers and parents should contact Johnson’s office on behalf of students no later than March 16th to enter the student’s name, hometown, and school.Parents, students or art teachers should call Deanna Kuykendall at 972-470-0892 or email her at Deanna.Kuykendall@mail.house.gov. Only original artwork created by Third District high school students will be judged.The winning masterpiece will be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the United States Capitol Building for an entire year.The winner and two adult chaperones will be flown to Washington, DC for the official national unveiling in June, courtesy of Southwest Airlines. The rules are as follows: artwork must be an original concept, not reproduced from an existing photo, painting or other such work. It must be two dimensional, no larger than 32" by 32" framed and no more than 4 inches in depth.The entry must fall into one of the following categories: paintings (oil, watercolor, acrylic, etc.); drawings (pastels, pencil, charcoal, ink, markers, etc.); collages (must be two dimensional); prints (lithographs, silk screens, block prints); mixed media; computer graphics; and photography. High school students wishing to participate in the 2007 Congressional Art Competition should contact their art teachers or Johnson’s office; Congressman Johnson mailed out official information to all high schools and senior high schools last week. Johnson represents the portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
02.22.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement to highlight his strong opposition to sending American troops into harm’s way in Bosnia in 1995. Johnson’s December 1995 remarks against President Clinton’s plans to commit U.S. troops for a U.N. Peacekeeping mission solely to enforce the peace accord have been circulated on the Internet. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement to highlight his strong opposition to sending American troops into harm’s way in Bosnia in 1995. Johnson’s December 1995 remarks against President Clinton’s plans to commit U.S. troops for a U.N. Peacekeeping mission solely to enforce the peace accord have been circulated on the Internet. At the time of Johnson’s remarks in 1995, roughly 200+ troops were on the ground in Bosnia. http://www.defenselink.mil/news/Dec1995/n12151995_9512152.html A 29-year Air Force veteran and former Prisoner of War, last week Johnson delivered an emotional plea to his colleagues urging them to support and fully fund the troops in harm’s way. Coincidentally, the debate to move forward in Iraq occurred around the time of Johnson’s anniversary of his departure from nearly 7 years as a Prisoner of War in Hanoi. (February 12, 1973.) On February 16th, 2007 when Johnson spoke to the Congress, an estimated 140,000 troops were serving in Iraq, with 20,000 more to arrive shortly. In January, Johnson introduced a measure to fully fund all troops in harm’s way. “Somebody had to stand up and say no to Bill Clinton’s ill-advised, half-baked plan to send American sons and daughters to Bosnia to enforce a fragile peace accord – under the charge of the United Nations of all things. “When it comes to sending American armed forces in to harm’s way, every Member of Congress should express how he or she feels about it. “In 1995, I went above and beyond to prevent our troops from being sent to Bosnia in the first place. In 2002, I supported sending our guys to Iraq and I stand by that decision today. In fact, I introduced legislation that declares Congress will fully fund all troops in harm’s way and my bill has 140+ co-sponsors. “The Democrats who voted to go to war in Iraq in 2002 and just voted against our troops are the ones who are changing their tune.” Johnson’s floor statements on Bosnia in 1995 follow. U.N. CONTROL OF U.S. FORCES UNCONSCIONABLE (House of Representatives - July 11, 1995) Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, well, here we go again. Our President, without consulting the Congress, has allowed the United Nations to make a decision to bomb in Bosnia . It is going on as I speak. The U.S. F-18's, according to the press, are over there bombing. U.N. control of U.S. forces is unconscionable, without resorting to consent from the Congress. We did not declare war. If one American life is lost because of these actions, I think it is a disgrace to American integrity. -- PRESIDENT CLINTON MUST REALIZE THERE IS NO PEACE IN BOSNIA TO KEEP (House of Representatives - July 27, 1995) Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, how many times will we have to watch President Clinton flip-flop on his Bosnian policy before we lift the arms embargo? How much more indecision and bad judgment calls, not to mention flubbed airstrikes by the United Nations will we have to endure? How many lives are we going to have to lose before common sense wins out? The President is upholding an embargo on a country that no longer exists that will further involve the United States and possibly our troops in a war that is not ours to fight. We do not need U.N. control, we need U.S. control. We keep hearing that we cannot lift the embargo because President Clinton wants to do whatever he can to keep the peace. Mr. Speaker, when is he going to realize that there is no peace to keep? -- UNITED STATES TROOP DEPLOYMENTS IN BOSNIA (House of Representatives - December 13, 1995) Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, this is not about peace and war; it is about war. That is what is going on over there, and they are not going to stop fighting just because we go in there. I wholeheartedly support withholding funds from President Clinton's Bosnia mission. Although it is a drastic step and ties the President's hands, I do not feel like we have any other choice. The President has tied our hands, gone against the wishes of the American people, and this is the last best way I know how to show my respect for our American servicemen and women. They are helpless, following orders. But we, we are in a position to stop this terrible mistake before it happens. I know how those soldiers are feeling. I was in the military for 29 years, and I recognize that we used to say `Let's go to war. Let's go fight that war, it is the only one we have got.' And that is what some of them are doing. However, I was told by Senator Hutchison that the guys down in Fort Hood did not say that. They said `Why are we going there? Can't you stop us?' She said she would try. Thirty years ago when I was sent to Vietnam in a similar situation, Vietnam started out as a peace type mission, no defined goal, no exit strategy, no idea whose side we were on, and a created incident to gain support of the Congress. A peacekeeping mission? Come on. Does this not sound just like a carbon copy? I think it is. What is going to happen when our guys get over there, and if the rules of engagement apply, and they get shot at, and we start shooting back, what are their people going to say when we start killing them, killing Bosnians, killing Croatians, killing Serbs? We will do it, and we will get chastised for it. Let me just ask one more thing for the guys over here voting against it: What are you going to do when one of our women soldiers get captured?
02.16.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) delivered the following closing statement on the floor of the House during the 36-hour debate on Iraq. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) delivered the following closing statement on the floor of the House during the 36-hour debate on Iraq. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson served in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars. Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. Coincidentally, this week in 1973 as one of the longest held captives, Johnson finally left Hanoi on February 12, 1973 and returned home to Texas on February 17, 1973. Earlier this week on Monday, Johnson spent the anniversary of his release pleading with a House panel to accept his amendment to support and fully fund the troops for the 36 hours of debate on the troop escalation in Iraq. Johnson’s floor statement follows: “You know, I flew 62 combat missions in the Korean War and 25 missions in the Vietnam War before being shot down. “I had the privilege of serving in the United States Air Force for 29 years, attending the prestigious National War College, and commanding two air bases, among other things. “I mention these stories because I view the debate on the floor not just as a U.S. Congressman elected to serve the good people of the Third District in Texas, but also through the lens of a life-long fighter pilot, student of war, a combat warrior, a leader of men, and a Prisoner of War. “Ironically, this week marks the anniversary that I started a new life – and my freedom from prison in Hanoi. “I spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. I flew out of Hanoi on February 12, 1973 with other long-held Prisoners of War – weighing just 140 pounds. And tomorrow – 34 years ago, I had my homecoming to Texas – a truly unspeakable blessing of freedom. “While in solitary confinement, my captors kept me in leg stocks, like the pilgrims… for 72 days…. “As you can imagine, they had to carry me out of the stocks because I couldn’t walk. The following day, they put me in leg irons… for 2 ½ years. That’s when you have a tight metal cuff around each ankle – with a foot-long bar connecting the legs. “I still have little feeling in my right arm and my right hand… and my body has never been the same since my nearly 2,500 days of captivity. “But I will never let my physical wounds hold me back. “Instead, I try to see the silver lining. I say that because in some way … I’m living a dream…a hope I had for the future. “From April 16, 1966 to February 12, 1973 – I prayed that I would return home to the loving embrace of my wife, Shirley, and my three kids, Bob, Gini, and Beverly… “And my fellow POWs and I clung to the hope of when – not if – we returned home. “We would spend hours tapping on the adjoining cement walls about what we would do when we got home to America. “We pledged to quit griping about the way the government was running the war in Vietnam and do something about it… We decided that we would run for office and try to make America a better place for all. “So – little did I know back in my rat-infested 3 x 8 dark and filthy cell that 34 years after my departure from Hell on Earth… I would spend the anniversary of my release pleading for a House panel to back my measure to support and fully fund the troops in harm’s way….and that just days later I would be on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives surrounded by distinguished veterans urging Congress to support our troops to the hilt. “We POWs were still in Vietnam when Washington cut the funding for Vietnam. I know what it does to morale and mission success. Words can not fully describe the horrendous damage of the anti-American efforts against the war back home to the guys on the ground. “Our captors would blare nasty recordings over the loud speaker of Americans protesting back home…tales of Americans spitting on Vietnam veterans when they came home... and worse. “We must never, ever let that happen again. “The pain inflicted by your country’s indifference is tenfold that inflicted by your ruthless captors. “Our troops – and their families – want, need and deserve the full support of the country – and the Congress. Moms and dads watching the news need to know that the Congress will not leave their sons and daughters in harm’s way without support. “Since the President announced his new plan for Iraq last month, there has been steady progress. He changed the rules of engagement and removed political protections. “There are reports we wounded the number two of Al Qaeda and killed his deputy. Yes, Al Qaeda operates in Iraq. It’s alleged that top radical jihadist Al-Sadr has fled Iraq – maybe to Iran. And Iraq’s closed its borders with Iran and Syria. The President changed course and offered a new plan …we are making progress. We must seize the opportunity to move forward, not stifle future success. “Debating non-binding resolutions aimed at earning political points only destroys morale, stymies success, and emboldens the enemy. “The grim reality is that this House measure is the first step to cutting funding of the troops…Just ask John Murtha about his ‘slow-bleed’ plan that hamstrings our troops in harm’s way. “Now it’s time to stand up for my friends who did not make it home – and those who fought and died in Iraq - so I can keep my promise that when we got home we would quit griping about the war and do something positive about it…and we must not allow this Congress to leave these troops like the Congress left us. “Today, let my body serve as a brutal reminder that we must not repeat the mistakes of the past… instead learn from them. “We must not cut funding for our troops. We must stick by them. We must support them all the way…To our troops we must remain…always faithful. “God bless you and I salute you all. Thank you.”
02.15.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement in response to Rep. John Murtha’s (D-Pa.) plan to cut funding of the troops as a way to end the war in Iraq. Murtha chairs the Defense spending subcommittee. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement in response to Rep. John Murtha’s (D-Pa.) plan to cut funding of the troops as a way to end the war in Iraq. Murtha chairs the Defense spending subcommittee. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson served in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars. Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. Coincidentally, this week in 1973 as one of the longest held captives, Johnson finally left Hanoi on February 12, 1973 and returned home to Texas on February 17, 1973. Yesterday, a DC-based publication, “The Politico” used the term “slow bleed” to describe the Democrat’s plan for Iraq. “John Murtha’s ‘slow-bleed’ strategy to cut the funds for our guys on the ground isn’t a solution, it’s a shame. “While Democrats have spent the last few days insisting that they don’t want to cut funding, John Murtha proposes a plan to do just that. John Murtha wants to hamstring their efforts and pull the rug out from underneath them. “We saw what happened to Vietnam when America cut the funding on the troops in harm’s way. We lost – a lot. The touchstone of a thriving democracy is using our past experiences as learning experiences…and not repeating the mistakes of the past.”
02.15.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) delivered the following closing statement on the floor of the House during the 36-hour debate on Iraq. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) delivered the following closing statement on the floor of the House during the 36-hour debate on Iraq. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson served in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars. Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. Coincidentally, this week in 1973 as one of the longest held captives, Johnson finally left Hanoi on February 12, 1973 and returned home to Texas on February 17, 1973. Earlier this week on Monday, Johnson spent the anniversary of his release pleading with a House panel to accept his amendment to support and fully fund the troops for the 36 hours of debate on the troop escalation in Iraq. Johnson’s floor statement follows: “I really want to know: If Democrats insist that they are supporting our troops, then why wouldn’t they let me introduce my measure that mandates that Congress would support and fully fund the men and women in uniform? “I’m positive that Democrats will attempt to cut funding as soon as the spending bills come up this spring…and fear what that means for our troops on the ground. “The reality is that President Bush realized that he needed to change course in Iraq. That is why he worked with folks on the ground in Iraq to hear fresh ideas and came up with a new plan. The President wants change and that is why he changed the rules of engagement – enabling our guys to shoot at any suspected terrorists. “The President wants change and that is why he removed political protections of all insurgents so all the bad guys would be brought to justice – regardless of who they knew or worked for. “These ideas are huge breakthroughs and real solutions. These ideas represent fresh starts and new plans. “What is the democrats’ plan to move forward and win? They don’t have one! Just 36 hours of political grandstanding, non-binding resolutions, and petty posturing. They are not proposing solutions. They are not even encouraging new ideas – in fact – they stopped them, like when they squashed my amendment. “Many hope that the troop surge is the beginning of the end. We all should want that if it gets the job done. Yet, Democrats are just saying no. “You know, the time will come when they can put the money behind these non-binding resolutions….. and you better believe that we’ll be watching them …and calling them on those funding cuts loud and clear. “America needs to know: cutting funds for our troops in harm’s way is not a remedy – it’s a ruse.”
02.13.2007	As the U.S. House prepares to debate the future of the war in Iraq for 36 hours, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) called on his colleagues to support all men and women serving in the United States military and to oppose efforts by the Democrats to undermine the fight for freedom. share: f t As the U.S. House prepares to debate the future of the war in Iraq for 36 hours, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) called on his colleagues to support all men and women serving in the United States military and to oppose efforts by the Democrats to undermine the fight for freedom. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson served in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars. Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. Johnson experienced fighting in a war for this country when the Congress pulled the plug on funding and he vowed that when he returned home, he would never, ever let that happen again. Coincidentally, today in 1973, Johnson experienced his first full day of freedom; as one of the longest held captives, Johnson finally left Hanoi on February 12, 1973. Last month Johnson introduced legislation calling on Congress to support all troops in harm’s way and prohibiting Congress from cutting any funding for the armed forces while deployed. Johnson’s measure, H.R. 511, has 140+ co-sponsors. Johnson’s prepared remarks follow: “Good morning. America, wake up and smell the freedom! “Some may not appreciate it. But as someone who lost it for seven years as a Prisoner of War, I say that with a heavy heart. On this day – 34 years ago – I was experiencing my first full day of freedom in seven years. “As some of you may remember, on February 12, 1973, the first wave of the longest held Prisoners of War left Hanoi. I was among them. Words can not fully describe the unspeakable damage of the anti-American efforts against the war back home to the guys on the ground. --MORE – Johnson release/ page 2 of 2 “Our captors would blare horrible recordings over the loud speaker of Americans protesting back home…tales of Americans spitting on Vietnam veterans when they came home.. and worse. “I promised myself many things I would do when I returned home safely to my family – and one was that I would fight to ensure America never lets down our troops in harms way again. “We did it before in Vietnam – we had that war won – yet Congress pulled the funding and the troops were forced out. Insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results….we must support our troops. We must stand up for them and for America. “The Democrat resolution to deny success in Iraq is the first step for them to cut funding for our troops in harm’s way. What do you think 36 hours of debate on whether or not we support our troops does for the morale of the Private First Class stationed in Camp Blue Diamond…for the next 11 months? Or how about the parents and families of our troops in harm’s way? What are they supposed to think? “We are elected to protect our men and women in uniform, just as they protect our freedom everyday. It’s imperative that our nation backs our troops to the hilt! “As long as we deploy men and women across the globe, we should never, ever leave a member of our military in harm’s way without support. “It is up to us to protect those who protect America and the freedoms we cherish.”
02.08.2007	To draw attention to the national program, “Valentines for Veterans,” U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will dedicate two days to lift the spirits of those who have served in the armed forces. share: f t To draw attention to the national program, “Valentines for Veterans,” U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will dedicate two days to lift the spirits of those who have served in the armed forces. Every February, Americans open their hearts to our country's hospitalized veterans by sending cards and letters to veterans in the medical centers across the country through the “Valentines for Veterans” program. America observes the National Salute to Hospitalized Veterans the week of Valentine's Day. On Friday, February 9th at 1:30pm, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will collect valentines from elementary school students in Allen as part of the national “Valentines for Veterans” program. On Sunday, February 11th at 2:00pm, Johnson will personally deliver hand-made valentines to veterans at the Dallas Veterans Affairs Medical Center. Johnson will distribute valentines to hospitalized veterans created by students of all ages from 37 Third District schools and organizations. Members of the press are encouraged to attend both events. Schools from Allen ISD, Frisco ISD, McKinney ISD, Plano ISD, two private schools, a home schoolers organization and a local girl scout troop participated in the 2007 “Valentines for Vets” drive. “I want to give a Lone Star State sized-thank you to all students who hand-made Valentines. These kids are learning early on the importance of doing something special for others,” said Johnson. Johnson retired from the U.S. Air Force after 29 years. Shot down during his 25th mission in the Vietnam War, Johnson spent seven years as a Prisoner of War (POW) with over three and a half years in solitary confinement. Johnson marks 34 years of freedom on February 12th – the 34 year anniversary of Operation Homecoming, the day the longest held POWs departed Vietnam. WHEN: Friday, February 9th at 1:30pm WHAT: Collection of valentines from elementary school students WHO: Former POW and Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) WHERE: Boon Elementary School (Allen ISD) 1050 Comanche Allen (972) 747-3331 WHEN: Sunday, February 11th at 2:00p.m. WHAT: Distribution of valentines from Third District kids to hospitalized veterans WHO: Former POW and Congressman Sam Johnson WHERE: Dallas VA Medical Center 4500 S. Lancaster Road Dallas, Texas
02.07.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) called on President George W. Bush to immediately pardon Border Patrol Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean, two border security agents in jail “for doing their jobs.” Johnson also called for the resignation of the Department of Homeland Security Inspector General because his two top aides lied to Members of Congress, perhaps dramatically changing the outcome of the case. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) called on President George W. Bush to immediately pardon Border Patrol Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean, two border security agents in jail “for doing their jobs.” Johnson also called for the resignation of the Department of Homeland Security Inspector General because his two top aides lied to Members of Congress, perhaps dramatically changing the outcome of the case. “We’ve got two border security agents sitting in jail because they were unjustly prosecuted for doing their jobs. President Bush should pardon these agents and the Inspector General should step down immediately,” said Johnson, a co-sponsor of legislation calling for the immediate pardon of the border agents. Border Patrol Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean are serving 11 and 12 year prison terms, respectively. The agents were charged with shooting a fleeing illegal drug smuggler during an altercation after 740 pounds (over $1 million street value) of marijuana was discovered in his van near the border. The drug-smuggling illegal immigrant was given immunity to testify against the agents. Yesterday, Department of Homeland Security Inspector General Richard Skinner testified before a House Homeland Security panel that his two top deputies lied in earlier testimony to Members of Congress. This news comes on the heels of the revelation that one of the border agents, Ignacio Ramos, was beaten while in prison after fellow inmates saw a story about the agent on America’s Most Wanted. “When are we going to start protecting our borders and stop prosecuting our border agents,” said Johnson. “Border patrol agents are our first line of defense against illegal immigrants. It’s imperative that our agents know that they can do their jobs without being thrown in jail for it – or worse – thrown under the bus by top government officials,” continued Johnson. “The Inspector General should resign immediately! These border agents deserve a fair case when they don’t have high-ranking government officials stacking the deck against them,” concluded Johnson. A member of the Immigration Reform Caucus, Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
02.07.2007	Victory in Iraq Caucus Members today responded to Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman John Murtha’s reported plan to “fence money” for the war effort. share: f t Victory in Iraq Caucus Members today responded to Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman John Murtha’s reported plan to “fence money” for the war effort. As reported by CQ Today: “Murtha…said he is considering a recommendation to the full committee that it redirect the money to equipment instead of additional troops for the surge. ‘We’re going to fence money if we have to,’ Murtha said.” “Members of Congress certainly have a responsibility to debate war policy. Tying the Pentagon’s hands in the middle of battle, however, is not a viable strategy. “President Bush is Commander-in-Chief. He has indicated his intention to move forward with troop reinforcements in an effort to stabilize Baghdad. Refusing to fund this mission not only undermines U.S. national security but also endangers our men and women on the battlefield. This approach will cut funding for troops on the ground, as the reinforcements will be in place by the time the supplemental is enacted. “Should Congressman Murtha make such a recommendation, we urge the House Democratic leadership to dismiss it outright.” The above statement was released by Reps. Joe Wilson (R-SC-02), John Carter (R-TX-31), Jeff Miller (R-FL-01), Phil Gingrey (R-GA-11), Sam Graves (R-MO-06), Mike Conaway (R-TX-11), Steve King (R-IA-05), Gresham Barrett (R-SC-03) and Sam Johnson (R-TX-03).
02.07.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) congratulated two students of Plano Senior High School for receiving appointments to the nation’s service academies in conjunction with commitments to play a sport. Audrey Hansen will play tennis at the United States Military Academy and Gregory (Greg) Harrell will play football for the United States Naval Academy. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) congratulated two students of Plano Senior High School for receiving appointments to the nation’s service academies in conjunction with commitments to play a sport. Audrey Hansen will play tennis at the United States Military Academy and Gregory (Greg) Harrell will play football for the United States Naval Academy.“I am very impressed by the leadership record, academic credentials, and athletic talent of Audrey and Greg. I am especially impressed by their strength of character. These are talented students who have chosen to dedicate their lives to defend the values and liberties we hold dear through service to our nation,” said Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran who served in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars. Recently, Johnson announced the nominations from his office for each of the service academies. The nominations are for the U.S. Air Force, Naval, Military and Merchant Marine Academies. From here, each academy narrows the field by granting an appointment to the most qualified nominees. The academies will make formal offers of appointment this spring. The Coast Guard Academy does not require a congressional nomination.In some cases, several students have already accepted appointments. This spring, Johnson will announce all of the Third District students heading to the service academies this fall.To learn contact information for either of the students, please contact McCall Avery at 202-225-4201.Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
02.06.2007	To better serve his constituents, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) launched a public service announcement (PSA) radio campaign to inform Texans of the state sales tax deduction when filing 2006 federal income tax returns. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) had to go to print with all federal income tax forms before the U.S. Congress renewed the state sales tax deduction. share: f t To better serve his constituents, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) launched a public service announcement (PSA) radio campaign to inform Texans of the state sales tax deduction when filing 2006 federal income tax returns. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) had to go to print with all federal income tax forms before the U.S. Congress renewed the state sales tax deduction. Johnson distributed the short radio PSA instructing Texans how to take advantage of the state sales tax deduction with hopes that every Texan would know to use this important tax benefit. Presently, six states rely on state sales tax, not a state income tax, to collect revenue.“Texans need to know that they can deduct their state sales tax again when they file their 2006 federal income tax returns,” said Johnson, the highest-ranking Republican on the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee. Since 1986, only state income tax could be deducted on federal income tax returns. However, Johnson championed the state sales tax deduction on the Ways and Means Committee, and worked tirelessly to renew the once-popular state sales tax deduction. “This is about fairness. We had to level the playing field for all tax payers and give those who reside in states that have a state sales tax instead of a state income tax the exact same treatment.” While many taxpayers file electronically – making it easy to deduct state sales tax instead of state income tax – those who do file using paper forms may want to have this important information.Constituents may listen to the Congressman’s PSA by visiting the Congressman’s website at www.SamJohnson.house.gov. The text of the PSA follows:Congressman Sam Johnson’s state sales tax deduction radio PSATRT :58“Hi. I’m Congressman Sam Johnson.“Did you know that Texans are allowed to deduct state sales taxes since we don’t have a state income tax? The forms went to print at the I.R.S. before the Congress renewed this tax benefit. As a result, your form does not specifically mention the state sales tax deduction. “Instead, on Schedule A, where you claim itemized deductions, you should enter “ST” (for sales tax) on the dotted line to the left of line 5 which is labeled state and local income taxes. Then claim the amount of your sales tax deduction.“Be sure to talk to your personal tax planner and make sure that this is the best option for you. To learn more about the state sales tax deduction and how you can take advantage of it, visit www.irs.gov...again that’s www.irs.gov.“Thank you.”Click here to visit the IRS website
01.26.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the names of students he has nominated to U.S. Service Academies for the Class of 2011. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson nominated a range of the best and brightest students from all across the Third District. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the names of students he has nominated to U.S. Service Academies for the Class of 2011. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson nominated a range of the best and brightest students from all across the Third District. “One of the most positive and rewarding things that I do in Congress is nominating the future leaders of our armed forces,” said Johnson. The nominations are for the U.S. Air Force, Naval, Military and Merchant Marine Academies. From here, each academy narrows the field by granting an appointment to the most qualified nominees. The academies will make formal offers of appointment this spring. The Coast Guard Academy does not require a congressional nomination.With the significant number of applicants each year, Congressman Johnson employs the “competitive” method of nomination. An independent selection board, appointed by Congressman Johnson and comprised of Air Force, Naval, Merchant Marine and Military Academy graduates, selects ten candidates for each vacancy. Third District residents between the ages of 17 and 23 were eligible to apply to service academies if they met eligibility requirements in leadership, physical aptitude, scholarship and character. The selection of nominees was based on academic performance, exhibited by class rank, SAT or ACT scores and grade point average. Other important factors evaluated by the board included participation in extracurricular and civic activities as well as athletic aptitude. Students interested in learning more about the service academies for the class starting in August 2008 or beyond should contact Ashlea Quinonez in the Congressman’s office at 972-470-0892. In addition, every fall the Congressman hosts an Academy Information Session with all branches represented.The Third Congressional District includes portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.2007 ACADEMY NOMINEESALLEN INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICTALLEN HIGH SCHOOL - 2 nomineesCourtney Clement, Allen, Tx United States Military AcademyGrace St. Clair, Allen, Tx United States Air Force AcademyGARLAND INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICTGARLAND HIGH SCHOOL – 1 nomineeEthan Lozano, Garland, Tx United States Air Force AcademyROWLETT HIGH SCHOOL – 1 nomineeKane Kimrey, Rowlett, Tx United States Military AcademySACHSE HIGH SCHOOL – 1 nomineeDaniel Whiteman, Sachse, Tx United States Military AcademySOUTH GARLAND HIGH SCHOOL – 1 nomineeBrooke Wiley, Rowlett, Tx United States Air Force AcademyMCKINNEY INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICTMCKINNEY HIGH SCHOOL – 1 nomineeRyan Szymaniak, McKinney, Tx United States Military Academy United States Naval AcademyMCKINNEY NORTH HIGH SCHOOL – 3 nomineesAnne Nagy, McKinney, Tx United States Merchant Marine Academy United States Military AcademyPhilip Niche, McKinney Tx United States Naval AcademyMichael Willcox, McKinney, Tx United States Air Force Academy United States Merchant Marine Academy United States Naval AcademyPLANO INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICTPLANO EAST SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL – 2 nomineesRyan Schubert, Plano, Tx United States Military AcademyCalvin Truong, Plano, Tx United States Merchant Marine Academy United States Naval AcademyPLANO SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL – 8 nomineesDavid Bulkeley, Richardson, Tx United States Military AcademyBryce Doganer, Plano, Tx United States Merchant Marine AcademyIan Fullington, Plano, Tx United States Merchant Marine AcademyAudrey Hansen, Plano, Tx United States Military AcademyGregory Harrell, Plano, Tx United States Naval AcademyWade Wheeler, Plano, Tx United States Merchant Marine AcademyEvan Wise, Plano, Tx United States Air Force AcademyTianyi Xin, Plano, Tx United States Military AcademyPLANO WEST SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL – 2 nomineesErik DeSousa, Plano, Tx United States Merchant Marine Academy United States Naval AcademyMelanie Pribich, Plano, Tx United States Air Force Academy United States Naval AcademyWYLIE INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICTWYLIE HIGH SCHOOL – 1 nomineeBrian Dethloff, Murphy, Tx United States Naval AcademyPrivate SchoolsBISHOP LYNCH HIGH SCHOOL – 1 nomineeStephanie Stanford, Plano, Tx United States Air Force AcademyCANYON CREEK CHRISTIAN ACADEMY – 2 nomineesTimothy Gentry, Plano, Tx United States Naval Academy Taylor Soster, Allen, Tx United States Air Force AcademyJESUIT PREPARATORY SCHOOL - 1 nomineeDrew Warwick, Plano, Tx United States Merchant Marine AcademyJOHN PAUL II HIGH SCHOOL – 1 nomineeThomas McNabb, Plano, Tx United States Merchant Marine Academy United States Naval AcademyNORTH STAR ACADEMY – 1 nomineeJared Ray, Dallas, Tx United States Merchant Marine Academy United States Military AcademyURSULINE ACADEMY – 1 nomineeMadison Schottleutner, McKinney, Tx United States Air Force Academy
01.24.2007	At a news conference on Capitol Hill, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) criticized the White House policy on illegal immigration. In particular, Johnson dismissed the State of the Union address as “blanket amnesty” and called, once again, for the pardon of the two border agents “sitting in jail for doing their jobs.” share: f t At a news conference on Capitol Hill, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) criticized the White House policy on illegal immigration. In particular, Johnson dismissed the State of the Union address as “blanket amnesty” and called, once again, for the pardon of the two border agents “sitting in jail for doing their jobs.”“In most cases I agree whole-heartedly with President Bush, except when it comes to combating illegal immigration,” said Johnson. “He used to serve as the Governor of Texas. The White House knows how bad things are…and yet, the White House ideas are empty and implausible.”“Our borders are out of control! They are lawless,” continued Johnson.This morning Members of the Congressional Immigration Reform Caucus swiftly reacted to the State of the Union Address President George W. Bush delivered last night. Members of the group took issue with the President’s policy for a guest-worker program, in essence calling it a “six-year old amnesty proposal.” In addition, Johnson reiterated his unwavering support for Border Patrol Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean, who are currently serving 11 and 12 year prison terms, respectively. The plight of the jailed border agents has garnered intense scrutiny because of the severe prosecution and unfair conviction of the agents for shooting a fleeing illegal drug smuggler during an altercation after 740 pounds (over $1 million street value) of marijuana was discovered in his van near the border. The drug smuggler has yet to be indicted.“Illegal immigrants are running free into this country, while two border security agents are in jail for doing their jobs. That just does not make any sense and I wish that the President would pardon them for trying to protect our borders,” stated Johnson. “I think border security agents are part of our national security and they should be treated well, not like this.”In a related matter, Johnson mentioned a recent news story highlighting the fact that illegal immigrants who are “departed” remain in America. Of the 24 illegal immigrants picked up at a convenience store parking lot in Baltimore, among those arrested, six had criminal records in the United States; eight had been deported or ushered to the border to leave the country voluntarily, only to return; and one had been caught six times trying to enter the country from Mexico, according to the office of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). “This is just wrong and clearly we’ve got major illegal immigration problems. This has got to stop!”“The reality is that a ‘temporary guest worker program’ just means ‘blanket amnesty.’ People should not be rewarded with American citizenship for breaking the law,” Johnson concluded.Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
01.23.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) called on his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives to co-sponsor his new measure and support all men and women serving in the United States military, especially those serving in the Global War Against Terrorism. Last week, Johnson introduced legislation calling on Congress to support all troops in harm’s way and prohibiting Congress from cutting any funding for the armed forces while deployed. Today, eleven Members of Congress also spoke on the floor in support of the Johnson initiative; Johnson’s bill has 75 co-sponsors. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) called on his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives to co-sponsor his new measure and support all men and women serving in the United States military, especially those serving in the Global War Against Terrorism. Last week, Johnson introduced legislation calling on Congress to support all troops in harm’s way and prohibiting Congress from cutting any funding for the armed forces while deployed. Today, eleven Members of Congress also spoke on the floor in support of the Johnson initiative; Johnson’s bill has 75 co-sponsors. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson served in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars. Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. Johnson experienced fighting in a war for this country when the Congress pulled the plug on funding and he vowed that when he returned home, he would never, ever let that happen again.Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties in North Texas. Johnson’s floor statement follows.“I rise in support of THIS country and THIS Congress backing our brave men and women in uniform 100%!“I fear what all of the talk in Washington about pulling funding for our troops does to the Private First Class stationed in Camp Blue Diamond…for the next 11 months. “We are elected to protect our men and women in uniform, just as they protect freedom everyday. All of this talk of doom and gloom hurts mission success and stifles troop morale. It’s imperative that our nation backs our troops to the hilt!“As long as we deploy men and women across the globe, we will never, ever leave a member of our military in harm’s way without support, so help me God.“Our troops are not the enemy! They deserve our full support and that is why I hope folks will co-sponsor my bill and back our armed forces.”
01.23.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statements in response to the State of the Union address President George W. Bush gave on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statements in response to the State of the Union address President George W. Bush gave on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. Health Care“President Bush deserves a lot of credit for suggesting such a bold, new approach to increasing the number of Americans with health insurance. It is a worthy goal and I look forward to working with the President on this. Frankly, I fear what policy we’ll debate in a Democrat-controlled Congress – and I’ll be backing the President’s common-sense idea to make health insurance more affordable and more accessible.” Immigration“Our borders are out of control! They are lawless! Illegal immigrants are running free into this country – while two border security agents are in jail for doing their jobs! That just does not make any sense. We’ve asked that President Bush to pardon the two border security agents serving time for protecting our borders.”National Security“Our troops need our full support. That is why I introduced legislation declaring that Congress will always fund troops in harm’s way – no matter what! Washington can not pull the plug on money going to our armed forces deployed to dangerous places. We are America and we don’t do that to our own. I swore that when I returned home from Vietnam – I would make sure that Congress never, ever stopped funding a war when we’ve got guys in the field. I plan to keep that promise.”
01.22.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement on new legislation he co-sponsored, the Right to Life Act. Introduced today, the Act would provide constitutional protection to all unborn children from the moment of conception. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement on new legislation he co-sponsored, the Right to Life Act. Introduced today, the Act would provide constitutional protection to all unborn children from the moment of conception. The bill introduction coincides with the annual March for Life and the anniversary of the landmark case of Roe. v. Wade, the Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion.According to the Pro-Life Action League, the estimated total number of abortions since the 1973 decision is over 46 million; there are currently 1.3 million abortions performed each year in the United States.“It’s time we stand up for life and stand up for the unborn. The Right to Life Act does what the Supreme Court refused to do in Roe v. Wade; the Right to Life Act protects the unborn. “I firmly believe that life begins at conception….and it’s a child, not a choice. The Right to Life Act will end the culture of abortion as we know it and overturn Roe v. Wade once and for all.”
01.17.2007	Today, Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-CA) and Republicans on the U.S. House Armed Services Committee voiced strong support for legislation introduced by Rep. Sam Johnson (R-TX) to ensure the Congress does not cut off or restrict funding for America’s warfighters deployed in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom. share: f t Today, Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-CA) and Republicans on the U.S. House Armed Services Committee voiced strong support for legislation introduced by Rep. Sam Johnson (R-TX) to ensure the Congress does not cut off or restrict funding for America’s warfighters deployed in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom. “Our troops, who are currently in harm's way, want, need, and deserve our support. As a former fighter pilot who served in two wars, I know that the full support of the nation is critical for troop morale and mission success,” said Rep. Sam Johnson (R-TX). The following statements were provided by Republicans on the House Armed Services Committee: Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-CA) Ranking Republican on the House Armed Services Committee “I stand beside Sam Johnson in his efforts to block any reprehensible attempts to cut off or block reinforcements from being sent to our forces in Iraq.” Rep. Terry Everett (R-AL) "I can think of nothing more demoralizing to our brave men and women in uniform than for Congress to limit funding to our troops while claiming to be supporting their mission. You cannot have it both ways. American soldiers and Marines on the front lines of the War on Terror in Iraq and Afghanistan are making every sacrifice to keep us all safe at home. We owe them our assurance that they will have what they need to win this critical war." Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC) “While we may disagree about the best way to proceed in Iraq, our troops’ safety should not be a topic for debate. President Bush has committed our forces, and it is the responsibility of Congress to ensure these men and women receive the best resources possible for fulfilling their mission. As the father of four sons in the military, I appreciate Congressman Johnson’s efforts to protect our soldiers.” Rep. Phil Gingrey (R-GA) “Adequate funding for our troops is critical to victory in Iraq, and withholding these funds is just a sheepish way of giving up in the last round of the fight. We have to cut through the politics of this issue, because our resolve in Iraq isn’t a matter of President Bush’s popularity or legacy. It’s a matter of national security and stability in the Middle East.” Rep. Trent Franks (R-AZ) “If we allow terrorists to take over Iraq, we are subjecting Americans and the entire human family to inexpressible danger. Democrats in Congress seem to be in denial of this fact, and for them to threaten to cut the funding for our warriors in the field, in this critical time of war, is unconscionable.” Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX) “Now is the time to put aside partisanship and come together in support of our men and women in uniform. Regardless of whether you supported the initial reasons for engaging in military action in Iraq, the fact of the matter is that we are there and we should not punish the men and women of the armed forces by engaging in partisan tactics to restrict funding of the war. Our mission in Iraq is challenging; but winning the war is more critical than ever, and will require the unwavering efforts of a unified country.” Rep. Geoff Davis (R-KY) “As Congress considers proposals on a way forward in Iraq, there are many ideas that are worthy of discussion and debate. We must ensure success in Iraq. Stability in the Middle East is critical to our national security. I understand some of my Democrat colleagues’ concerns about the direction of the war, however I believe efforts to cut off funding are counterproductive. We should be evaluating and debating plans to succeed in Iraq. Cutting off funding is a plan for failure.”
01.12.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the annual “Valentines for Veterans” drive and encouraged Third Congressional District students of all ages to hand-make Valentines for those who have served in our armed forces. Valentines will be picked up the first week of February; teachers must schedule a pick-up by February 5th. Last year over 40 Third District schools made Valentines for Veterans. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the annual “Valentines for Veterans” drive and encouraged Third Congressional District students of all ages to hand-make Valentines for those who have served in our armed forces. Valentines will be picked up the first week of February; teachers must schedule a pick-up by February 5th. Last year over 40 Third District schools made Valentines for Veterans. Every February, Americans open their hearts to our country's hospitalized veterans by sending cards and letters to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical centers across the country through the "Valentines for Vets" program. Once again, local veterans organizations are partnering with local schools to help deliver the valentines in conjunction with the office of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson. The National Salute to Hospitalized Veterans Week will be observed the second week of February, which includes Valentine's Day. Each year, the week of February 14 is an opportunity to say thank you to a special group of men and women, the veterans of the U.S. armed services who are cared for every day in Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical centers, outpatient clinics, and nursing homes. This year, staff and volunteers will pick up valentines from schools on February 7th and 8th. To schedule a pick-up, contact Susan Fischer by February 5th at Susan.Fischer@mail.house.gov or by phone at 972-470-0892. “Teachers have always been extremely helpful and supportive. They should try once more to make this a class project. Those handmade valentines are real heart-warmers. Please encourage your students to be creative, and let them learn firsthand the satisfaction that comes from doing something for others. It won't cost a lot, and this simple gesture will bring enormous pleasure to our veterans, to whom we owe so much,” said Johnson.“We can never repay these valiant veterans for the sacrifices they have made, but we can do something to cheer them up and let them know that they have not been forgotten. I know of nothing you can do that would cost so little and bring so much happiness to the men and women who were willing to lay down their lives for us,” concluded Johnson.According to the Department of Veterans Affairs, of the 25 million veterans currently alive, nearly three of every four served during a war or an official period of hostility.A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson served in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars. He spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War, more than half of that time in solitary confinement.Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
01.11.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement in support of the two border agents unfairly prosecuted for doing their jobs, urging the local U.S. Attorney to allow the men to remain free on bond. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement in support of the two border agents unfairly prosecuted for doing their jobs, urging the local U.S. Attorney to allow the men to remain free on bond. Border Patrol Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean are currently scheduled to serve 11 and 12 year prison terms, respectively, this month. The case has drawn international media coverage because of the harsh prosecution and unjust conviction of the agents for shooting a fleeing illegal drug smuggler during an altercation after 740 pounds (over $1 million street value) of marijuana was discovered in his van near the border. Yesterday, Johnson signed a high-profile letter to Attorney General Alberto Gonzales requesting the Justice Department to direct the federal prosecutors not to oppose a motion filed in court to keep the agents free on bond during the appeals process. Many, including Johnson, fear that forcing these men to go to jail while awaiting their sentence could prove fatal, as many people that they helped put in prison, would go after them. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties. “This case just makes me sick. These men are being punished for doing their jobs. They worked their tails off to ensure that drug dealers couldn’t cross our border into America – and the border patrol agents are being punished. It’s a gross miscarriage of justice and I hope and pray that the U.S. Attorney permits the men to stay out of prison for as along as possible – preferably their lifetimes. “At the very minimum, we owe those who protect our borders a fair trial.”
01.11.2007	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 3, the Expanding Stem Cell Research Act. A well-known pro-life supporter and a member of the Pro-Life Caucus, Johnson voted against the measure. The Act passed 253 to 174. The Republicans offered a motion to prohibit federal support of human cloning, which failed 189 to 238. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 3, the Expanding Stem Cell Research Act. A well-known pro-life supporter and a member of the Pro-Life Caucus, Johnson voted against the measure. The Act passed 253 to 174. The Republicans offered a motion to prohibit federal support of human cloning, which failed 189 to 238. Earlier this week, scientists announced that stem cells from amniotic fluid provide are just as effective, if not more so, in preventing and curing diseases. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties in North Texas. “I have a long record of pro-life votes because I believe human life and dignity should be valued at any age, in any form. Because of that, I’ve consistently opposed destroying human embryos and using federal dollars to do so. “With the recent successful use of adult stem cells and cord blood cells in the treatment of diseases, the debate over stem cell research has turned a new corner. “This week provided even more hope for the ethical advance of science when we learned that stem cells found in the amniotic fluid can be just as helpful as regular stem cells…if not more helpful…and human embryos are not destroyed in the process. “This is an example of the new frontier of stem cell research we should be exploring to find cures to diseases and preventing them in the first place. “I am opposed to this bill and hope that we can visit this issue again using the new breakthrough as the cornerstone of the proposal.”
01.11.2007	Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after the President of the United States addressed the nation to spotlight aggressive new tactics in the war against terrorism. share: f t Today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after the President of the United States addressed the nation to spotlight aggressive new tactics in the war against terrorism.A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson flew combat missions in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars. Shot down on his 25th mission during his second tour of duty, Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam, more than half of that time in solitary confinement.On Tuesday, Johnson joined a handful of Members of Congress to meet with President George W. Bush in the White House. The President detailed his action plan for Iraq. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties in North Texas. “This week I had the distinct honor to meet with the President at the White House. I had the opportunity to hear him share his solutions for aggressively rooting out terrorism in Iraq.“I respect the President for listening to others and I must give him credit for examining his policies, upping the ante, and changing the rules of engagement. We’ll finally be getting help from the Iraqi government to hunt down insurgents. As a former fighter pilot, I support his resolve to boost firepower and increase manpower. “More important, as a former Prisoner of War, it’s heartening to see that no matter if people live in a Red State or Blue, or like donkeys or elephants, Americans support the troops 110%! It’s critical for mission success that the troops know that we Americans respect and admire our men and women in uniform. “Our nation remains free because of the sacrifices of brave and selfless men and women in our armed forces – and their families too. I know freedom isn’t free – and I salute them all for their hard work and sacrifices.”
01.10.2007	Last night, the House Ways and Means Committee Republicans voted for U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) to serve as the Subcommittee’s top Republican, also known as the “Ranking Member,” to Subcommittee Chairman Democrat Michael McNulty (21st Dist.-N.Y.). share: f t Last night, the House Ways and Means Committee Republicans voted for U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) to serve as the Subcommittee’s top Republican, also known as the “Ranking Member,” to Subcommittee Chairman Democrat Michael McNulty (21st Dist.-N.Y.). “Strengthening Social Security has been one of my top priorities for some time. It is a true honor to lead the Republican efforts on this important issue,” said Johnson. The jurisdiction of the Ways and Means Committee includes: taxes, Social Security, Medicare, welfare, trade, and the national debt. Johnson will be exchanging his chairmanship on the Employer – Employee Relations Subcommittee at the Education and the Workforce Committee for the top Republican slot on the Social Security Subcommittee. Johnson has been at the center of the retirement policy debate for the last several years. A member of the prestigious Ways and Means Committee since 1995, Johnson has a long record of success to improve the retirement security of Americans. In 2000, Johnson authored the law that ended the so-called “earnings limit” for seniors who wanted to stay in the workforce and collect Social Security; Bill Clinton signed Johnson’s measure into law. For years, Johnson spearheaded efforts to allow employees to collect a company pension and keep working for the company as a part-time employee to promote what is called “phased retirement.” This also would encourage people over 62 to work past retirement. Johnson’s initiative passed as part of the pension overhaul of 2006. Prior to Johnson’s action, employees either had to retire to collect the pension they earned – or keep working for a current paycheck. In addition, Johnson has long supported common-sense conservative proposals to create personal retirement accounts for younger generations as one solution for strengthening the Social Security system.In the new capacity as Ranking Member on the Social Security Subcommittee, Johnson hopes to have a constructive role in the debate on waste, fraud and abuse as well as review the current disability policy. Johnson also will sit on the Health Subcommittee. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties in North Texas.
12.08.2006	Today Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) hailed last-minute legislation to help North Texas families struggling with the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) and their incentive stock options (ISO). share: f t Today Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) hailed last-minute legislation to help North Texas families struggling with the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) and their incentive stock options (ISO). For years, Johnson has championed eliminating the Alternative Minimum Tax all together – and at the very least – fixing a particularly thorny problem at the intersection of AMT and ISOs. A major re-write of the AMT law will have to wait until next Congress, but a major step forward in fixing the AMT-ISO problem was added to a larger tax bill that passed the House today. A scaled-down version of Johnson’s legislation, H.R. 3385, the AMT Credit Fairness Act, has been included in H.R.6111, the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006. When it comes to laws dealing with AMT and ISOs, many American families have been required to pay taxes on paper gains, also known as “phantom gains”, from stock option transactions where they never received any economic gain and in some cases suffered economic losses. The taxes paid on these phantom gains were “pre-paid” taxes and were supposed to earn the taxpayers pre-paid tax credits against future tax liability. However, because the law never worked as intended, the pre-paid credits earned have not been usable. For many Texans, the pre-paid taxes have become long-term interest-free loans to the government. The new law will rebate the pre-paid taxes over a period of roughly five years. “The time has finally come for the federal government to rebate these interest-free loans from working families. The phantom gains were money my constituents never saw, never spent, and yet they had to pay taxes on. That’s a crying shame! It’s heartbreaking to hear stories of people who had to get a second mortgage on their home or empty retirement savings or education savings accounts all because of a tax technicality on a phantom gain,” exclaimed Johnson. The highest-ranking Texan on the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, Johnson has championed legislation to end the AMT-ISO penalty for several years. “Getting in early on incentive stock options was an employee’s dream-come-true in Texas’ Telecom Corridor in the 1990s. However, the heavy-handed tax on incentive stock options turned people’s personal financial situations into something worse than Nightmare on Elm Street. This new tax bill will help fix that,” said Johnson. The alternative minimum tax was created to prevent high-income individuals from using special tax breaks to pay little or no taxes. The AMT is a parallel tax system that requires taxes to be calculated twice, using different rules each time; the higher of the two tax bills must be paid. But for several reasons, the AMT reaches more people each year, including moderate-income families. Under the current AMT scenario, if an employee exercises an ISO to buy 2,000 shares at $10 a share, the employee pays $20,000 for his stock. If the market price is $100 per share, the $90 spread produces $180,000 of paper gain, also called a ‘phantom gain,’ that is included in income for tax purposes that year. At a 28% tax rate, the tax on the $180,000 gain would be $50,400. If the price of the stock fell from $100 to $25, the stock would be worth only $50,000, which if sold, would not cover the taxes due on the paper gain that never materialized. Under AMT rules, the taxpayer has now prepaid $50,400 of taxes, which amounts to an interest-free loan to the government. Johnson’s legislation rebates the pre-paid taxes in 20% installments. The pending comprehensive tax bill mirrors the Johnson measure except that it includes an income cap on those eligible for the rebates to $218,950 for married taxpayers filing jointly. “I want to thank the numerous constituents who brought this issue to my attention. This bill would not have been possible without their help,” said Johnson. Several residents and employees of the Third District contacted the Congressman, urging him to remedy the problem. Similarly, Johnson worked with Members of Congress from other hard-hit areas, like Silicon Valley. “This AMT-ISO situation demonstrates once again why we should repeal the AMT altogether, but this particular problem deserves attention now” said Johnson. “I’m glad that we took the first bite of the apple and got to help the rank-and-file employees hurt by the AMT-ISO inequity. I hope that we can build on that success and next year end this problem for everyone.” Efforts to address the AMT-ISO problem have been bipartisan, with 60 cosponsors of Johnson’s bill, split roughly equally between Republicans and Democrats. The lead Democratic cosponsor of the bill has been Rep. Richard Neal (D-MA), a long-time advocate of AMT reform. “I hope that our bipartisan work on this bill will continue next Congress,” said Johnson. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
12.07.2006	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement in support of pending legislation on the state sales tax deduction and the research and development credit (R&D). In the last few hours of the 109th Congress, the U.S. House will take up the measures tonight as part of HR 6408, the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement in support of pending legislation on the state sales tax deduction and the research and development credit (R&D). In the last few hours of the 109th Congress, the U.S. House will take up the measures tonight as part of HR 6408, the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006. “I am glad to support this bill that will extend two tax measures important to my constituents and all Texans. The first is the deduction for state and local sales taxes and the second is the research and development (R&D) credit. “Texans want, need and deserve the state sales tax deduction. For all of 2006, Texans have not had certainty in the tax system because the deduction for state and local sales taxes expired at the end of last year. The tax forms have gone to print and do not contain a line allowing them to take this deduction. The bill we will pass today will reinstate the sales tax deduction and for that I am grateful. “However, there will be mass confusion by taxpayers in Texas and the six other states that finance their government through sales taxes rather than income taxes. I will be working with the IRS to make sure that Texans are given the best information possible on how to claim the sales tax deduction for 2006. “The extension of the R&D credit is vital to keeping high paying, high tech jobs. For companies in my Congressional District, this credit is an important factor in determining where research projects are sourced. With foreign governments seeking to have these jobs located in their countries, it is important to have Federal tax policy strongly on the side of having R&D done domestically. I am proud of how much research is done in the Third District of Texas – we need to support it!”
12.06.2006	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement on the election for the new Chairman of the conservative Republican Study Committee. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (5th Dist.-Texas) defeated Congressman Todd Tiahrt (4th Dist.-Kans.). In the 109th Congress, Hensarling handled all budget issues for RSC. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement on the election for the new Chairman of the conservative Republican Study Committee. Congressman Jeb Hensarling (5th Dist.-Texas) defeated Congressman Todd Tiahrt (4th Dist.-Kans.). In the 109th Congress, Hensarling handled all budget issues for RSC. For your information, The Spoetzl Brewery is located in Shiner, Texas. As the oldest independent brewery in Texas, the Spoetzl Brewery has been brewing up Shiner beer since 1909. “I offered Jeb my congratulations and then I offered him a cold Shiner. “I’ve said this before and I’ll say it again. Jeb’s a solid conservative and a good Texan. He’ll do a fine job leading RSC in the 110th Congress.”
12.01.2006	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) called on Congress to get back to work and pass the state sales tax deduction and the Research and Development (R&D) tax credit, both of which expired at the end of 2005. Congress has been playing politics with these important tax policies for too long. Johnson fears that Congress may adjourn in the coming days without completing these top tax priorities. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) called on Congress to get back to work and pass the state sales tax deduction and the Research and Development (R&D) tax credit, both of which expired at the end of 2005. Congress has been playing politics with these important tax policies for too long. Johnson fears that Congress may adjourn in the coming days without completing these top tax priorities. “Texans want, need and deserve the state sales tax deduction. For a year, Texans have not had the certainty they need regarding whether they will be able to deduct their 2006 state sales taxes on their Federal returns. How confusing! Texans – and the residents of six other states that have sales taxes as their primary revenue source instead of an income tax – should not be punished because Congress could not do its job,” exclaimed Johnson, the highest-ranking Texan on the tax-writing committee. The state sales tax deduction on federal taxes sprang back to life in 2004 after a several year absence. Because of the inaction of Congress, residents of seven states with a state sales tax will not be able to deduct their state taxes on their federal returns. Also caught in this political mess is the research and development tax credit that acts as an incentive for companies to invest in new technologies. “The R&D credit is important to make research more affordable and to encourage that this research be done in this country, rather than off-shore. The high-tech jobs that we depend upon for strong families and a growing economy are fueled by the R&D credit. It is just non-sense that the R&D credit expired a year ago because Congress hasn’t gotten its job done.” “I hope that Congress can get its act together and get off the dime,” said Johnson. “We still have a lot of work to do.” Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
12.01.2006	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas), a Founder of the Republican Study Committee (RSC), released the following Dear Colleague to RSC members. Fellow Founders, Congressmen Dan Burton (R-Ind.) and John Doolittle (R-Calif.) also signed the letter of endorsement of Congressman Todd Taihrt (R-Kan.) to serve as the next RSC Chairman. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas), a Founder of the Republican Study Committee (RSC), released the following Dear Colleague to RSC members. Fellow Founders, Congressmen Dan Burton (R-Ind.) and John Doolittle (R-Calif.) also signed the letter of endorsement of Congressman Todd Taihrt (R-Kan.) to serve as the next RSC Chairman. Currently, Congressman Mike Pence (R-Ind.) serves as the RSC Chairman for the 109th Congress. The RSC will hold an election for the Chairman of the 110th Congress this Wednesday. To learn more about the RSC, visit http://www.house.gov/pence/rsc. The text of the Dear Colleague letter follows. “As conservatives, we value fiscal restraint, freedom and free-enterprise. “As conservatives, we advocate less government and more liberty. “As conservatives, we honor life, of both the born and unborn, as well as the sanctity of marriage as a union between one man and one woman. “The 110th Congress poses a unique opportunity for the Republican Study Committee to serve as the lone voice of common-sense -- touting fiscal responsibility, less government, lower taxes, and families first. By adhering to our bedrock principles, we can and will hold the new leadership accountable for their actions. We can draw attention to the plight of the average American family who fears being overtaxed, over-burdened, and over-whelmed by the government intrusion of the Democrat’s ‘cradle to the grave’ mantra. “Over the years, the Founders have selected strong, innovative, and uncompromising leaders like David McIntosh, John Shadegg, Sue Myrick and Mike Pence. Now, more than ever, we must stand behind our core values so that we change our status of the majority of the minority to the majority of majority. For that reason, we unanimously nominate Todd Tiahrt to serve as the Chairman of the Republican Study Committee for the 110th Congress. “Todd possesses the stature, experience and vision necessary to lead this grand caucus. Todd knows that it is his duty to hold the Republican Leadership accountable to our conservative principles. Todd Tiahrt was elected to Congress as part of the class of 1994 and embodies that reformist spirit. Replacing Chairman Pence will not be an easy task, but one which must be confronted out of duty to our ideals. “We urge you to support Congressman Todd Tiahrt to boldly lead the Republican Study Committee into the future.”
11.17.2006	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the students who have received appointments to the Third District Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC). Over forty students were invited to join the exclusive panel; roughly 100 students applied. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the students who have received appointments to the Third District Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC). Over forty students were invited to join the exclusive panel; roughly 100 students applied.“The members of this year’s Congressional Youth Advisory Council represent the ‘Gold Standard’ of today’s North Texas students. I think of them as Young Ambassadors to Congress and look forward to working with them,” said Johnson. “Based on our first meeting together, I have a feeling that this will be a lively, interactive group.” New this year to the CYAC, freshmen, sophomores, juniors and seniors may participate. The addition of freshmen marks one of the changes to increase the diversity and broaden the perspectives of the group. High school students residing or attending school in the Third Congressional District were considered. To compete for an appointment to the CYAC, students submitted a one-page application and a recommendation from an adult. Of those selected, roughly half attend public school, half attend private school, and two participate in home school. Several students returned to the CYAC for a second term of service. This year marks the first time that siblings have served on the CYAC together. Members from the community volunteered to serve on an advisory panel that selected the CYAC members on behalf of the Congressman. The CYAC held its first meeting late last month and will meet again several more times this school year. At the first meeting, Congressman Johnson invited returning CYAC member, Ben Oppenheim, to detail his experiences on Capitol Hill as part of the prestigious Page program this past summer. In addition, students peppered the Congressman with questions on current events. The Committee’s goal is two-fold. First, the Council will provide Johnson with greater student perspective on issues that directly affect them. Second, Council activities will serve to boost activism among high school students. For example, this year students will submit a patriotic essay. Last year, members had to interview a veteran and chronicle that person’s military service. To increase the chances that as many students as possible will be able to serve on the CYAC, now students may only serve two of the four years while attending high school and senior high school. Students not selected this year are encouraged to apply again next fall, provided that they meet the age requirements. 2006 – 2007 CYAC Membership Roster Lucas Christian Academy Lynzee Benoit Shepton High School James “Wil” Callison Richardson High School Caroline Alvarez Home School Meredith Morgan Jennifer Smart McKinney High School Morgan Bailey McKinney Christian Academy Amanda Lipscomb John Lipscomb Frisco Centennial High School Anna Bashmakov Andrew Graham Luke Gunderson John Hollingsworth Emily Kaufman Nirjhor Rahman Frisco High School (2) Mellissa Stepczyk Spencer Wood Plano East Senior High School Alyssa DeLorenz David Paxman Hannah Sedlet Plano Senior High School Kelli Lafferty James MacGibbon David Michael McCleary Brendan O’Kelly Andrew Pedigo Jordan Schmittou Evan Wise Plano West Senior High School Yoojin Cho Susie Choi Erik De Sousa Kristy Luk Benjamin Oppenheim Jason Palmatary Catherine Russell Hansini Sharma Jasper High School Evan Rosenfield Trinity Christian Academy Patrick Dyer Britney Thomas Ursuline Academy Rachel Reichenbach Garland Christian Academy Abigail Dekle Richland Collegiate High School Charlie Manion Sachse High School Elizabeth Sanford St. Marks Sharan Shetty Prestonwood Christian Academy Ian Webber
10.18.2006	On Friday, October 20th at 10:30am, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will participate in the All Saints Catholic School Blue Ribbon ceremony. The event will take place in the cafeteria of the school, located at 7777 Osage Plaza Parkway in Dallas. All Saints Catholic School is located in the Plano Independent School District boundaries. share: f t On Friday, October 20th at 10:30am, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will participate in the All Saints Catholic School Blue Ribbon ceremony. The event will take place in the cafeteria of the school, located at 7777 Osage Plaza Parkway in Dallas. All Saints Catholic School is located in the Plano Independent School District boundaries.The No Child Left Behind – Blue Ribbon Schools Program recognizes outstanding public and private schools that are either academically superior in their states or that demonstrate dramatic and consistent gains in student achievement. During the award-recognition assembly, Johnson will present a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol in honor of the school’s prestigious Blue Ribbon designation. Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Education and the Workforce.WHEN: Friday, October 20th at 10:30amWHO: U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) WHAT: The Blue Ribbon Assembly WHERE: Cafeteria All Saints Catholic School 7777 Osage Plaza Parkway Dallas 214-217-3300
10.04.2006	On Thursday, October 5, 2006 at 2:30pm, McKinney-resident Paula Chambers will return a Prisoner of War (P.O.W.) bracelet engraved with Sam Johnson’s name and shoot-down date to Congressman Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) in Richardson. share: f t On Thursday, October 5, 2006 at 2:30pm, McKinney-resident Paula Chambers will return a Prisoner of War (P.O.W.) bracelet engraved with Sam Johnson’s name and shoot-down date to Congressman Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) in Richardson. Chambers has never met Congressman Johnson, but she attended school with his children in Plano while he was in captivity. Members of the media are invited to attend a photo opportunity at the top of the meeting. Chambers graduated from Plano High School in 1972 and bought the bracelet around that time. Paula’s mother, Doris Alexander, worked for James P. Melton, the brother of Shirley Johnson, the wife of then-P.O.W. Johnson. Shirley Johnson helped create the National League of Families that started the P.O.W. bracelet campaign as a way to draw international attention to the cruel treatment of the Prisoners of War in Vietnam. People wore the bracelets bearing the name of a P.O.W. as a reminder to pray for the person in captivity, even if the person did not know the serviceman personally. Many proudly wore these bracelets, and some still do, as a symbol of hope that the P.O.W.s and Missing In Action (M.I.A.s) would return to their families alive. Shot down on April 16, 1966, Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. This January, accompanied by his wife, Sam Johnson returned to the Hanoi Hilton for the first time since his release in February 1973.After Johnson’s 1973 homecoming, thousands of bracelets were returned to him in person or in the mail. However, 33 years later, the traditional return of the P.O.W. bracelet has become much more infrequent. Over the last several years, Johnson estimates that he has accepted one every other year or two.Recently Chambers came across the P.O.W. bracelet in her jewelry box and contacted the Congressman to return it to him. Engraved in the bracelet reads: “Lt. Col. Samuel Johnson 4-16-66.” WHEN Thursday, October 5, 2006 at 2:30pmWHO McKinney-resident Paula Chambers Congressman Sam Johnson – Former P.O.W. in Vietnam Shirley Melton Johnson – Founder of National League of FamiliesWHAT P.O.W. bracelet presentation to Johnson photo-opportunityWHERE The office of Congressman Sam Johnson 2929 North Central Expressway, Ste 240 in Richardson Phone: (972) 470-0892
10.02.2006	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the new Preston Road location for the federal Plano Courthouse. The U.S. General Services Agency (GSA) estimates a Fall 2007 occupancy date. Currently Collin County residents must commute to Sherman to address any federal legal matters. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the new Preston Road location for the federal Plano Courthouse. The U.S. General Services Agency (GSA) estimates a Fall 2007 occupancy date. Currently Collin County residents must commute to Sherman to address any federal legal matters. “What terrific news for the people of Collin County,” exclaimed Johnson, who authored legislation in the U.S. House to create a federal courthouse in Plano. “I’m thrilled that the GSA was able to find a good location for the new courthouse.” According to GSA, the lease for the District Courts and US Marshal Service in Plano has been awarded. The courthouse will be located at 7940 Preston Road in Plano. This build-to-suit lease construction project encompasses 34,310 rentable square feet for 15 years. Johnson worked tirelessly with Judge Richard Schell and the two Senators from Texas to pass legislation to create a federal courthouse in Plano. In 2003 President Bush signed the bill into law to authorize the Eastern Judicial District to hold Federal court in Plano. Since 2004 the GSA has worked to find a cost-effective, secure location for the Plano Courthouse. Judge Richard Schell of Sherman stated, “I am very pleased that after two and a half years since Congressional approval of the Plano Courthouse that we have reached the point that we have a signed lease. I am looking forward to the design phase of the project.” Under the law championed by Johnson, judges in the Eastern District will split the court dockets between Plano and Sherman, where all Collin County cases are heard. This creates a tremendous relief for up to 75 percent of all cases in the Sherman division come from Plano. To help balance the case load, the law shifts Fannin, Lamar, Delta and Hopkins Counties to the Sherman division from Tyler. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
09.28.2006	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) voted for the Military Commissions Act of 2006. The initiative guarantees many legal protections to Americans who gather intelligence against terrorists and/ or work on the legal proceedings. The measure also clarifies and codifies broad Geneva Conventions wording to streamline the process for trying suspected terrorists. The House passed the measure 253-168. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) voted for the Military Commissions Act of 2006. The initiative guarantees many legal protections to Americans who gather intelligence against terrorists and/ or work on the legal proceedings. The measure also clarifies and codifies broad Geneva Conventions wording to streamline the process for trying suspected terrorists. The House passed the measure 253-168. “I am backing this bill to support our troops. My top priority is making sure that our men and women in uniform have every single protection available to them. If we do not establish the legal boundaries, someone else will. We can not let that happen. I’ve seen it before and it wasn’t pretty,” said Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran who spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam. Johnson’s mangled body is living proof that his captors did not adhere to the Geneva Conventions. “The reality is that our armed forces face new enemies on a new battlefield,” continued Johnson. “We must not hamstring our troops with legal-mumbo jumbo to preserve the rights of terrorists! The terrorists are the enemy! Before they were captured, they were trying to kill innocent Americans – and in many cases – innocent civilians and their own countrymen and women.” “If we are going to win the Global War on Terrorism, we must give our troops in the field the tools that they need to gather the best intelligence possible – and guarantee them complete safety and protection when we are trying the terrorists in court.” The Military Commissions Act of 2006 protects our military and intelligence personnel by codifying violations of Common Article 3 of the Geneva Convention. Currently, the article’s vague provisions are open to a variety of interpretations, potentially rendering American personnel liable to prosecution without just cause. In addition, the Act creates a system of military tribunals to try foreign enemy combatants who have engaged in or supported terrorist activities. The substantive findings of classified evidence will be admissible in an unclassified form, but the classified evidence itself is protected and is privileged from disclosure to accused terrorists—as well as the panel of jurists—if the disclosure of the information would be detrimental to national security. House Majority Leader John Boehner (R-Ohio) declared, “To stop terrorist attacks before they happen, we need to be able to interrogate terrorist suspects, find out what they know, and put them on trial. This bill will allow us to continue to gather important intelligence information from foreign terrorists caught in battle, or caught while plotting attacks on America. And it will help put terrorists such as alleged 9/11 mastermind Khalid Shaikh Mohammad on trial for their crimes.” “When this becomes law, these terrorists finally will have to face justice for their actions,” concluded Johnson.
09.26.2006	On Saturday, September 30th at 9:30 am, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will host the annual Service Academies Forum for young people and their families interested in pursuing an education at one of the nation’s prestigious service academies. The free informational event will take place in the Conference Center of the Collin County Community College Spring Creek Campus located at 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway in Plano. No R.S.V.P is needed. share: f t On Saturday, September 30th at 9:30 am, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will host the annual Service Academies Forum for young people and their families interested in pursuing an education at one of the nation’s prestigious service academies. The free informational event will take place in the Conference Center of the Collin County Community College Spring Creek Campus located at 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway in Plano. No R.S.V.P is needed.Students interested in seeking a nomination to the U.S. Military, Naval, Air Force, Merchant Marine or Coast Guard Academies are encouraged to attend. At the event, representatives will present highlights of each Service Academy and provide details on student evaluation, nomination and appointment procedures. Following this overview, people will break into groups. This allows students and parents to speak directly with representatives from each academy. Students who attend the forum are under no obligation to apply or enroll in an Academy.Students must be nominated for the U.S. Air Force Academy (Colorado Springs, CO), the U.S. Military Academy (West Point, NY), the U.S. Naval Academy (Annapolis, MD), and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (Kings Point, NY). Students applying to the U.S. Coast Guard Academy (New London, CT) do not need a congressional nomination.In exchange for the price of college tuition, students attending an academy pledge to dedicate a pre-determined time commitment to one branch of the armed forces. That time frame varies by service. Those wishing to learn more about this event may call the Congressman’s office at 972-470-0892.Saturday, September 30th9:30 amService Academies Forum – a free informational session Conference Center Collin County Community College Spring Creek Campus 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway Plano
09.20.2006	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) delivered the following statement on immigration reform on the floor of the House. Tomorrow the U.S. House of Representatives will vote on strict border security measures. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) delivered the following statement on immigration reform on the floor of the House. Tomorrow the U.S. House of Representatives will vote on strict border security measures. “You know….if you’re here legally, you ought to be rewarded. If you’re here illegally, you ought to be deported.“My constituents constantly complain to me that illegal immigration is a huge problem. “In some instances, local officials have to use the so-called ‘catch-and-release’ policy when they apprehend an illegal immigrant. That person should be sent home or put in jail. “Why would we want someone -- who was just picked up by police – and is here illegally - - still out in the community… and potentially free to flee? That just doesn’t make any sense. “It’s time America ends the catch-and-release policy when it comes to illegal immigration. Texans – and Americans - want, need and deserve real immigration reform.” This week Johnson will support the three get-tough initiatives on illegal immigration. First, he’ll vote for the Border Tunnel Prevention Act of 2006, which punishes those who make tunnels for smuggling illegal immigrants into America. He’ll also vote for the Illegal Immigrant Deterrence and Public Safety Act. This bill promotes detaining dangerous illegal immigrants. The bill allows the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to detain beyond six months dangerous illegal immigrants if their release would threaten national security, threaten the safety of the community, or have serious adverse foreign policy consequences. It also enhances state and local law enforcement authority. Last, he’ll vote for the Effective Immigration Enforcement and Community Protection Act. This measure ends the catch-and-release policy and allows DHS to detain and deport illegal immigrants who are members of a gang and bar them from receiving asylum or temporary protected status.
08.30.2006	The votes are in and the September 2006 Washingtonian Magazine has ranked the best and worst of Congress. The publication dubbed U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) “straightest shooter” in the U.S. House of Representatives. share: f t The votes are in and the September 2006 Washingtonian Magazine has ranked the best and worst of Congress. The publication dubbed U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) “straightest shooter” in the U.S. House of Representatives. This marks the first year that Johnson has captured a Washingtonian slot among his 434 colleagues in the U.S. House. Johnson tied for second for “straightest shooter.” Congressman David Obey (D-Ohio) and Majority Leader John Boehner (R-Ohio) tied for first. The 26 categories included: best and worst leader, workhorse, show horse, brainiest, just plain nice, meanest, gutsiest, best dressed, Member of Congress most likely to win the presidency in 2008, and hottest temper, among others.Just like every election year, Washingtonian mailed out 1,700 fill-in-the blank surveys to high-level Capitol Hill staff working for Republicans and Democrats. The publication reports that roughly the same amount of questionnaires came back from both parties. For each completed response, the magazine donated $1 to So Others Might Eat (a local soup kitchen) or the Metropolitan Police Boys and Girls Clubs.Johnson was one of three Texas Republicans to make the list. North Texas Congressman Ralph Hall (4th Dist.-Texas) placed third for “funniest” and Congressman Ron Paul (14th Dist.-Texas) took first for “worst follower.”Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
08.09.2006	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) invited high school students living in the Third District to apply for the Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC). Students enrolled in the 9th, 10th, 11th and 12th grades have until September 15th to apply. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) invited high school students living in the Third District to apply for the Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC). Students enrolled in the 9th, 10th, 11th and 12th grades have until September 15th to apply. “Over the last few years students on the Congressional Youth Advisory Council have continued to amaze me. They’re smart, they’re savvy, and they sure do have a lot to say. I want to encourage young people in the Third District to apply for the CYAC so they can weigh in on issues important to them,” said Johnson.For the last two years, Johnson has hosted the CYAC with two goals in mind. First, the Council provides Johnson with greater student perspective and insight on issues that directly affect the young people of North Texas. Second, the Council promotes youth civic participation. In fact, a member of the 2005 – 2006 CYAC, Ben Oppenheim of Plano, served as a Page on Capitol Hill this summer after learning about the prestigious program at a CYAC meeting.New to the CYAC this year, students in the 9th grade will be able to apply for the CYAC. All interested students must apply for the CYAC. Once selected, the members of the Council will meet approximately two times each school semester in the Third District. Members will be selected based on leadership ability, academic performance, and public service. Returning CYAC members must submit a completed application to return to the group.In the meetings, students will learn about the development of public policy and explore the role of citizens, lawmakers, and experts and their impact on the world’s most successful democracy. “We are a nation rooted on ‘of the people, by the people, for the people.’ This group of young students is ‘for the people.’ I encourage Third District students to apply so they can make their voices heard,” said Johnson.Anyone interested in applying can access a CYAC application form on Johnson’s website Sam Johnson.house.gov. The CYAC is open to students enrolled in public, private and home schools. Johnson serves on the Education and Workforce Committee.
08.02.2006	On the heels of a successful hearing on immigration reform in Plano, today Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced that Third District residents will have the opportunity to make their voices heard on this important issue. On August 3rd, 4th, and 5th during the day, voters in the Third District may receive a phone call at home asking them to express their views on immigration in a quick, four-question phone survey. share: f t On the heels of a successful hearing on immigration reform in Plano, today Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced that Third District residents will have the opportunity to make their voices heard on this important issue. On August 3rd, 4th, and 5th during the day, voters in the Third District may receive a phone call at home asking them to express their views on immigration in a quick, four-question phone survey. “Immigration reform is a huge issue before Congress. It’s important that I know where constituents stand so I can better represent them,” said Johnson. “While a congressional hearing in Plano on immigration was very important, House rules prohibited public comment. Therefore, I am reaching out to my constituents to learn their views on this high-profile issue.”Congressman Johnson’s pre-recorded message will seek input on four issues dealing with immigration reform. Specifically, constituents will weigh in on the so-called catch-and-release policy for illegal immigrants, border security enforcement, paying Social Security benefits to illegal immigrants, and granting American citizenship to people working illegally in America for over two years, also known as blanket amnesty. Voters will be selected at random and must have a home phone number on their most current voter-registration file. Constituents wishing to express their opinions on immigration may send the Congressman an email by logging onto his website, SamJohnson.house.gov. In addition, those who finished the survey are encouraged to elaborate on their answers by sending the Congressman an email via his website, SamJohnson.house.gov.“I hope folks take time out of their busy day to complete the immigration survey when they’re called,” concluded Johnson.Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
07.31.2006	Testifying today before the U.S. House Employer-Employee Relations Subcommittee, a Dallas-based federal immigration enforcement official shed light on flaws in employer-related provisions in an often-criticized 1986 immigration law, while employers told the panel of their willingness to accept greater responsibility as Congress works to send President Bush legislation to strengthen penalties against those who knowingly hire illegal immigrants. The hearing marked the first planned during Congress’ summer district work period. More than 20 hearings are planned by House committees over the next five weeks. share: f t Testifying today before the U.S. House Employer-Employee Relations Subcommittee, a Dallas-based federal immigration enforcement official shed light on flaws in employer-related provisions in an often-criticized 1986 immigration law, while employers told the panel of their willingness to accept greater responsibility as Congress works to send President Bush legislation to strengthen penalties against those who knowingly hire illegal immigrants. The hearing marked the first planned during Congress’ summer district work period. More than 20 hearings are planned by House committees over the next five weeks. “Our economic opportunities are legendary,” said Sam Johnson (R-TX), who represents Plano in the House and chairs the subcommittee. “A legal workforce is welcome, but an illegal workforce undermines our nation’s security. It’s safe to assume that many illegal aliens in our country are doing what we’re all doing: working hard to make a good life for themselves and their children. What is different about them is they have broken the law to do so.” Subcommittee Member Joe Wilson (R-SC) highlighted the importance of holding border security hearings outside the Washington, D.C. beltway, noting, “I believe that as House Republicans take our case to the American people in August with such hearings as we are conducting today, we will hear the same response: the American people understand the stark differences between the House bill and the Reid-Kennedy (Senate) bill.” Johnson and Wilson both underscored the responsibility of employers to ensure those they hire are, in fact, legal to work on American soil. Under current law, employers are required to inspect government-issued identification to assure that an individual is eligible to work and must require that an employee complete an I-9 form to attest to their work eligibility. In addition to the paper-based system, employers may elect to participate in an electronic-based system established in 1996. Participants in this “Basic Pilot Program” electronically verify employees’ work eligibility through the Social Security Administration and Department of Homeland Security. A border security and enforcement bill passed by the U.S. House last December would strengthen financial penalties and increase the potential for jail for employers who knowingly violate the law. John Chakwin, special agent in charge of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency’s Dallas office, detailed flaws in current employment verification practices and enforcement. “In the past, immigration investigators, to different degrees over the course of time, focused on worksite violations by devoting a large percentage of investigative resources to enforcement of the administrative employer sanctions provisions of [1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act],” Chakwin told the subcommittee. “The resulting labor-intensive inspections and audits of employment eligibility documents only resulted in serving businesses with a Notice of Intent to Fine or a compliance notice. Monetary fines that were routinely mitigated or ignored had little to no deterrent effect. The results were far from effective and the process involved endless attorney and agent hours in discovery and litigation to adjudicate and resolve cases. Egregious violators of the law viewed the fines as just a ‘cost of doing business’ and therefore the system did not serve as a true economic inducement for them to change their business model.” To help overcome these flaws, the House-passed border security and enforcement bill would increase the number of employers who would be required to use the electronic-based Basic Pilot Program. Jon Luther, chief executive officer of Dunkin’ Donuts, told the panel of his company’s success in using the currently-voluntary Basic Pilot Program to ensure it is hiring authorized workers. “As of June 1, the use of the Basic Pilot Program has been required of all of our franchisees, and we have gotten broad-based acceptance,” noted Luther. “We do not have a wealth of experience so far, but based on preliminary canvassing of our system, the franchisees are finding the tool easy to learn and use. They have not experienced any real difficulty with resolving tentative non-confirmations (mismatches). Usually, the issue is caused by an input error by the franchisee, perhaps mixing up a first and middle name. In those situations in which there is a genuine mismatch, the circumstances strongly suggest that the employee was not a documented worker, meaning that they do not contest the results and do not return to work.” While embracing added responsibility for ensuring potential employees are legal to work in the U.S., Geri Simmons – a human resources officer testifying on behalf of the Society for Human Resources Management (SHRM) – expressed concern about a provision of the Senate immigration bill passed in May. The provision – called “burdensome” and “unnecessary” by Simmons – would hold employers liable for illegal immigrants hired by their subcontractors. In contrast, the House-passed border security and enforcement bill requires the employer to have “actual knowledge” that a subcontractor is using unauthorized workers in order to be fined or sanctioned. “[The Senate bill] places a new, untested standard on employers by requiring employers to attest in a contract with a subcontractor that the employer is not using the subcontractor to ‘knowingly or in reckless disregard’ hire labor irrespective of the individual’s work status,” said Simmons. “In addition to the new undefined standard, the Senate bill will place additional data collection and reporting requirements on employers to collect information from each of their subcontractors. SHRM believes these requirements are burdensome, unnecessary, and expose the employer to unwarranted penalties and fines for the actions of another employer.” Simmons’ characterization of the Senate bill was consistent with that of other witnesses in previous Education & the Workforce Committee immigration hearings, some of whom deemed various Senate provisions “troubling.” Today’s hearing marked the third in an Education & the Workforce series of hearings on immigration issues impacting American workers and students. The next hearing – on the impact of illegal immigration on worker wages – will be held by the Workforce Protections Subcommittee on Monday, August 14, 2006 in Gainesville, Georgia.
07.20.2006	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) voted to protect “under God” in the Pledge of Allegiance. The Pledge Protection Act passed 260-167. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) voted to protect “under God” in the Pledge of Allegiance. The Pledge Protection Act passed 260-167.“We have a foundation of faith in America. Turning our backs on that is not an option,” said Johnson. The Pledge Protection Act ensures that the phrase “under God” in the Pledge remains safe from “politically-correct police” and activist judges. An overwhelming majority of Americans believe “under God” should remain in the Pledge of Allegiance. In 2002, the infamous 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the pledge is unconstitutional when recited in public schools. This new legislation would deny jurisdiction to federal courts, and appellate jurisdiction to the Supreme Court, to decide questions pertaining to the interpretation or constitutionality of the Pledge. State court could still decide whether the pledge is valid within the state.“In Texas, the people have spoken. Starting in 2003, all school districts required students to recite the pledge to the United States and Texas flags daily. This bill is essential to ensuring that the will of the people of Texas isn’t circumvented by some unelected judge in another state,” concluded Johnson.Johnson represents portions of Collin and Dallas Counties.
07.20.2006	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced that Plano resident, Ben Oppenheim, served as a Page in the U.S. House of Representatives in Washington, D.C., during the summer session. A member of the Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) hosted by Congressman Johnson for Third District high school students, Oppenheim will be a senior this fall at Plano West Senior High School. share: f t U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced that Plano resident, Ben Oppenheim, served as a Page in the U.S. House of Representatives in Washington, D.C., during the summer session. A member of the Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC) hosted by Congressman Johnson for Third District high school students, Oppenheim will be a senior this fall at Plano West Senior High School. “Each one of the 435 Members of Congress may nominate a student for the Page program. Only 70 students made the cut for the summer. The young people selected represent the gold standard of today’s high school students. Ben should be very proud of this tremendous achievement. I’ve already invited him to speak next year to the Congressional Youth Advisory Council about his experiences on Capitol Hill,” said Johnson.In addition to serving on the Congressional Youth Advisory Council for students residing in the Third District, Oppenheim works on the Student Congress and belongs to the Future Business Leaders of America. He played on the Plano West lacrosse team and students elected him the President of the Student Council while in tenth grade. Oppenheim took second place in the 2005 Clark High School Science Fair and received a United States Environmental Protection Agency Award of Excellence. In addition, he was selected to participate in the 2005 Dallas Regional Science Fair. The highlight of Ben’s summer Page experience included having a private breakfast with Congressman Sam Johnson and his wife, Shirley. Ben is the son of Sally Lunday of Plano. The Page program is extremely selective. Every Member of Congress (435) may nominate one teen for the program for each session. The Speaker of the House makes the final decision and just 70 students served this summer. To be eligible for the school year, applicants must be at least 16 years of age at the time their appointment begins, be a junior in high school, and have a cumulative grade point average of “B” or better in all major courses to date. Interested youth must submit an application to their Member of Congress.For a Page in the summer, the workday begins immediately at 9:00 a.m. and extends to at least 5:00 p.m., or until the House adjourns for the day—which ever is later. The Pages serve primarily as messengers delivering legislative material between the various buildings of Capitol Hill. During the course of the day, Pages accumulate points for “runs” (or deliveries). Those with highest number of points may be excused early when the House goes into late-night sessions. All Pages must stay at the Page Residence Hall, located on Capitol Hill. They live under the supervision of a resident manager and five proctors who reside on the premises. The first floor is set aside for males and the second floor for females. The Pages agree in writing to abide by a strict Code of Conduct, which includes a curfew of 10 p.m. on weeknights and 12 midnight on weekends. The triple rooms are furnished with twin beds, night stands, dressers, desks and chairs. Each room has a large walk-in closet, a study area, toll-controlled telephone, a small refrigerator, private bathroom and two air-conditioning units. A community room with color television and a microwave oven is available on each floor as well as a laundry room in the basement.Pages are paid a small stipend and fed dinner five times a week. Students are responsible for their transportation to and from Washington, their uniform, breakfast and lunch on weekdays, weekend meals, school supplies and all incidental expenses.Young residents of the Third Congressional District in Texas wishing to learn more about the programs should go to www.samjohnson.house.gov.
07.18.2006	U.S. Senators Lamar Alexander (R-TN) and John Ensign (R-NV) and U.S. Representatives Howard “Buck” McKeon (R-CA) and Sam Johnson (R-TX) today introduced bicameral legislation to implement the Bush administration’s America’s Opportunity Scholarships program to give children who are trapped in under-performing schools more choices and opportunities to improve their educational experience. share: f t U.S. Senators Lamar Alexander (R-TN) and John Ensign (R-NV) and U.S. Representatives Howard “Buck” McKeon (R-CA) and Sam Johnson (R-TX) today introduced bicameral legislation to implement the Bush administration’s America’s Opportunity Scholarships program to give children who are trapped in under-performing schools more choices and opportunities to improve their educational experience. “America’s Opportunity Scholarships give meaning to the promise of No Child Left Behind,” said Sen. Alexander, Chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Education and Early Childhood Development. “This is about giving low-income families whose children are stuck in low-performing schools the same opportunities as other families. A recent poll found that 62 percent of public school parents have transferred a child out of one school into a better school or have decided where to live based on the schools in that district. This offers a way out for students whose families don't have the money for tuition or the luxury of moving.” “Educating America’s youth must be a priority for the people of our nation, and our government,” said Sen. Ensign. “America’s Opportunity Scholarships program opens greater avenues to make certain that all children in our nation are given a chance to succeed. This legislation will help to ensure that our most disadvantaged children can receive a better education and will ensure that our nation’s next generations have the skills they need to succeed in the future.” “Not only does the America’s Opportunity Scholarship for Kids Act expand upon the great success of No Child Left Behind by increasing parental choice, but it also shines a brighter light than ever on the need for more educational opportunities and – ultimately – higher achievement in our classrooms,” said Rep. McKeon, Chairman of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Children may be a fraction of today's society but they are 100% of our future. It's time we empower students - and their parents. I want to give these children a choice and a chance,” said Rep. Johnson. The America's Opportunity Scholarships for Kids Act would authorize the Department of Education to provide $100 million in fiscal year 2007 for competitive grants to states, school districts, and non-profit organizations to provide scholarships of up to $4,000 to low-income children in persistently under-performing schools to attend the private school of their choice. States, school districts, and non-profit organizations would also be authorized to provide up to $3,000 to low-income students for intensive, sustained supplemental educational services if students don’t want to attend a different school. This would include high-quality tutoring, after-school or summer school programs designed to help improve the student’s academic achievement. Under the bipartisan No Child Left Behind Act, schools are identified for restructuring after failing to meet their Adequate Yearly Progress goals for six years. The U.S. Department of Education reports that in the 2004-05 school year, 1,065 schools were identified for restructuring. Preliminary estimates suggest that an additional 1,000 schools will be identified for restructuring in the 2005-06 school year. “You shouldn't need to win the lottery to send your child to a high-performing school,” said U.S. Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings who joined the bill sponsors at a press conference on Capitol Hill to announce the legislation. “President Bush believes we must give parents options, and the America’s Opportunity Scholarships program will empower parents to demand more from our schools and enable them to make choices for their kid’s education and future.” The bill’s sponsors noted a pair of studies that illustrate the effectiveness of school choice: a Harvard-Georgetown-University of Wisconsin study published in 2000 found that African-American students receiving private scholarships in three regions – Ohio, New York, and Washington, D.C. – scored significantly better than their public school peers; and according to the 2002 book, “The Education Gap: Vouchers and Urban Schools” by William Howell and Paul Peterson, African-American students using vouchers in New York cut their achievement gap in half over three years.
07.17.2006	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after a recent development in the Wright Amendment debate. The Wright Amendment restricts travel from Dallas Love Field Airport to a handful of states near Texas. Last May, Johnson introduced the Right to Fly Act to immediately repeal the Wright Amendment. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after a recent development in the Wright Amendment debate. The Wright Amendment restricts travel from Dallas Love Field Airport to a handful of states near Texas. Last May, Johnson introduced the Right to Fly Act to immediately repeal the Wright Amendment. Today local leaders involved with negotiations crafted a compromise solution that would create an eight-year phase-out of the Wright Amendment. Specifically, the new agreement declared that cities that fall within an 80-mile perimeter of Love Field may initiate commercial air service without potential action from Dallas Fort Worth Airport (DFW).“What terrific news! I was confident a good-faith effort would be made and a solution would be reached to make sure that the cities surrounding Dallas and Fort Worth, like McKinney, would not get dragged into the legalese of the eight-year Wright Amendment repeal. “The Mayor of Dallas assured me that was not her intent. The Mayor of Fort Worth assured me that was not his intent. Thank heavens commonsense prevailed and a compromise could be reached.“I’m thrilled to hear the news of an agreement between the folks involved with the Wright Amendment repeal and the good folks of McKinney. Having the blessing of all of the parties involved will provide a tremendous advantage as the measure works its way through Congress. “I look forward to supporting this new agreement and seeing President Bush sign it into law this year.”
06.28.2006	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after the Supreme Court of the United States ruled on a high-profile case dealing with congressional redistricting in Texas. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after the Supreme Court of the United States ruled on a high-profile case dealing with congressional redistricting in Texas. “What a win for Texas! I’m glad to hear the Supreme Court ruled in favor of redistricting Texas to reflect the values and voters of the Lone Star State.“For years, Texans have voted Republican. Every statewide office is held by a Republican. We’ve elected two Republicans to the U.S. Senate. Of course, the Congressional delegation should reflect that – it’s the people’s House.”
06.15.2006	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) delivered the following statement on the floor of the House in support of the global war on terrorism. (Remarks as prepared may deviate from remarks delivered.) share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) delivered the following statement on the floor of the House in support of the global war on terrorism. (Remarks as prepared may deviate from remarks delivered.) “The question of the day is this – do you support the war against terrorism or don’t you? “You know – our enemy brutally attacked the World Trade Center in 1993 and we did nothing. “In 1998, they attacked 2 American embassies in East Africa, killing 80 people, and we did nothing. “We were attacked again on the U.S.S. Cole…and we did nothing. “Well, now we have a strong president with courage and conviction who was bold enough to say, enough is enough. If you are going to attack the United States, then we are going to fight back – and we will not tolerate terror. “You know, I devoted 29 years of my life to the Air Force. I flew 62 missions in the Korean War and 25 missions in Vietnam. I spent seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam…more than half of that time in solitary confinement. When I say I revere freedom – I mean that with my whole heart. I know what it’s like not to have it …and every single day since I left that Godforsaken place I’ve thanked God for that freedom. “Sometimes people here in America take the countless blessings of this nation for granted. However, freedom is the touch-stone of democracy. And America means business when we say we want to help people in Iraq experience the rich taste of freedom. When we say we’re with you, our word is golden. “It is through the lens of a life-long fighter pilot that I step back today and marvel at some of the tremendous accomplishments of the last several years in the promising democracy of Iraq. It gives me hope and provides just a glimpse of how the best is yet to come. “Mr. Speaker – we’re making great progress in Iraq. I’ve been there and I’ve seen it. What a difference a few years makes. “For generations, the people of Iraq only knew hate, fear and death. The former leader of Iraq gassed his own people by the thousands and hanged people in his very own death chambers. “Remember waking up that Sunday morning in shock as we watched Saddam Hussein cowering in a rat-hole? Now he’s gone. “Remember just days ago looking at the image on the television of Zarqawi, the leader of Al-Qaeda in Iraq? He was cornered and killed. “Better yet, from that raid came a slew of information. We are hunting down terrorists – and they’re going to pay. “According to the Associated Press, American and Iraqi forces have carried out 452 raids since last week’s killing of Al-Zarqawi, and 104 insurgents were killed during those raids. The raids also resulted in the capture of 759 “anti-Iraqi elements.” As a result, we discovered a treasure trove of Zarqawi’s information, almost ensuring a defeat against the evil forces of Al Qaeda. “Americans are training and working with Iraqi forces. Nationwide, there are over 260,000 Iraqi security forces serving their country. “Another exciting facet of the development in Iraq is the budding democracy. Remember last January when we saw those pictures from the first election? The news media predicted gloom and doom. What did we see? We saw bold images of people patiently waiting in lines for hours – defying death threats – just to cast a vote. “Remember the picture of the woman in the black head scarf, flashing her purple finger in the sign of the V after voting in the first Iraqi elections. It was a breakthrough for democracy and that was just the beginning. “Today the people of Iraq are working tirelessly to guarantee their freedoms. Participation in many Sunni areas of Iraq went from as little as 25% in the January 05 election to 75% in the December 05 election. That’s tremendous. Wouldn’t it be nice if we had 75% participation in our elections here in America? “The people of Iraq have created a framework for the future – their very own constitution. They have announced a new unity government. The people of Iraq refuse to allow those who rule by hate and fear to stop them from forging ahead for the future. “While Iraqi confidence in the new government flourishes, the people of Iraq know their strong resolve will pay off in the long run. “They are already tasting the fruits of our freedom. “They know what’s in store for them. “They know what a difference several years of a budding democracy makes. “This is what democracy looks like today in Iraq. “There are now 3,700 schools renovated and rehabilitated. “Six hospitals have been renovated and nearly 98% of Iraqi children have been immunized. “May oil production was over 2.1 million barrels a day. “In 2003 barely anyone had a cell phone in Iraq. Now there are 6.4 million telephone users and 1 million landline connections. “There are over 100 privately owned newspapers and magazines and more than two dozen radio and television stations. “This is just the beginning. “Our men and women in uniform are doing a tremendous job bolstering this new democracy and planting the tree of freedom in tyranny’s backyard. Our men and women are making a difference and making progress – and they’re lifting up the people of Iraq so ultimately, the people of Iraq can help themselves. “We must stay the course and see this through. We must be patient. We must persevere. “President Bush said it best: ‘This is going to be freedom’s century.’ God bless you and God bless America. “I yield back the balance of my time.”
06.13.2006	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the introduction of a new common-sense health savings accounts bill. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the introduction of a new common-sense health savings accounts bill. The Health Savings Accounts Premium Affordability Act of 2006 builds on the successes of the popular health savings accounts (HSAs) that became law under the Medicare bill. Used in conjunction with a high-deductible health plan, HSAs help people save for future qualified medical and retiree health expenses tax-free. H.R. 5586, Johnson’s new bill, would help those who buy health insurance on their own and use health savings accounts. Under Johnson’s measure, families who buy health insurance on the individual market would be able to use the money saved tax-free in a health savings account to pay for their health insurance premiums. People who buy or receive health insurance through an employer already enjoy this benefit. “Why should those who buy their own health insurance continue to be penalized? It’s time to level the playing field and allow people who buy their own health insurance to have the same tax benefit as those who receive their health insurance through an employer. It’s just common sense,” said Johnson.Another feature of Johnson’s measure is that once a person with an individual policy lands a job that offers to pay for health insurance, the employer may deposit money tax-free into the new employee’s existing health savings account, rather than craft a new plan for the employee.Since the creation of HSAs, more than three million Americans have selected HSAs as their choice for health insurance coverage. According to the Administration, 40 percent of those who own HSAs have family incomes below $50,000. More than one-third of those who bought HSAs on their own had previously been uninsured. According to Ehealthinsurance.com, a young couple in Collin County, Texas, could purhcase a high-deductible health plan ($2,500) for $163 a month. Under Johnson’s bill, the couple could use their tax-free savings from the HSA to make that monthly payment. In a related matter, Johnson is an original cosponsor of the Tax Free Health Savings Act, a comprehensive health-savings accounts bill introduced by Congressman Eric Cantor (7th Dist.-Va.).Johnson represents Collin and Dallas Counties.
05.09.2006	Today Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) stood up for the troops in combat on the floor of the House. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson led the debate on a measure to allow troops in harms way to better save for retirement. The Heroes Earned Retirement Opportunities (H.E.R.O.) Act passed 412 to 0. share: f t Today Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) stood up for the troops in combat on the floor of the House. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson led the debate on a measure to allow troops in harms way to better save for retirement. The Heroes Earned Retirement Opportunities (H.E.R.O.) Act passed 412 to 0. “Our combat troops are putting their lives on-the-line in very dangerous situations and, to recognize this service, their pay is not subject to taxation. It is a way for Congress, and the American people, to say ‘thank you’ every pay day,” said Johnson. The H.E.R.O. Act is a common-sense bill that will change tax law to allow members of the Armed Forces earning hazard pay to be eligible to make retirement account contributions. Presently, hazard-duty income is not taxed. Current tax law states that one must at least earn $4,000 a year to contribute up to that amount to an Individual Retirement Account or Roth IRA. As a result, some in harm’s way may not earn enough taxable wages to qualify for these savings plans.“There are a lot of young service members who come home at the end of a tour in a combat zone with a nice little nest egg. Once we get this bill signed into law, it will be a great for these young men and women to put some of that money into a Roth I.R.A for the purchase of a home, to spend on school, or for their long-term retirement. While there are plenty of other tantalizing things for these young people to spend their money on – like news cars and big vacations - we need to at least give them the opportunity to save some of it for the future,” continued Johnson.A similar version of the H.E.R.O. Act passed the House last year. The Senate passed its own version. The bill passed today means that the Senate must agree to this updated version before it goes to the President.The H.E.R.O. Act has many supporters; the Military Officers Association of America and the Reserve Officers Association endorsed the legislation.
05.04.2006	Today Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) delivered the following opening statement at a hearing titled, “Examining the impact of state mandates on employer-provided health insurance.” Johnson chairs the Employer-Employee Relations Subcommittee on the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. share: f t Today Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) delivered the following opening statement at a hearing titled, “Examining the impact of state mandates on employer-provided health insurance.” Johnson chairs the Employer-Employee Relations Subcommittee on the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “GOOD MORNING. LET ME EXTEND A WARM WELCOME TO ALL OF YOU, TO THE RANKING MEMBER, MR. ANDREWS, AND TO MY OTHER COLLEAGUES.“MOST FOLKS HERE KNOW I HAVE A DEVOUT RESPECT FOR DEMOCRACY.SOME OF THE CORNERSTONES OF DEMOCRACY INCLUDE FREEDOM AND FREE ENTERPRISE. ANOTHER HALLMARK OF DEMOCRACY IS EMPOWERING STATES – AND CITIES – AND COUNTIES – TO BE THE LABORATORIES OF IDEAS.“AND AS LOCAL AREAS EXPERIMENT, THE BEST IDEAS ALWAYS SEEM TO RISE TO THE TOP. TODAY I WANT TO HEAR WHAT LOCAL AREAS ARE DOING TO FIND HEALTH INSURANCE SOLUTIONS. ARE THEY INCREASING THE INSURED? ARE THEY PROTECTING PATIENTS? ARE THE COSTS RISING OR DECLINING? “WE CAN USE THESE TEST CASES, IF YOU WILL, TO SEE WHAT WORKS – AND WHAT DOESN’T.“IN CONGRESS, WE HAVE A CIVIC OBLIGATION TO MAKE SURE THAT THE PROPOSALS DEVELOPING IN THE STATES DON’T OVERRIDE ANY FEDERAL LAWS.“THAT’S ESPECIALLY TRUE WHEN IT COMES TO HEALTH INSURANCE BECAUSE: ONE - PEOPLES LIVES ARE ON THE LINE AND, TWO - THE LAWS THAT GOVERN MANY HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS ARE PROTECTED BY A FEDERAL LAW, CALLED E.R.I.S.A. “AS YOU KNOW, THE VAST MAJORITY OF AMERICANS WITH HEALTH INSURANCE HAVE THEIR COVERAGE THROUGH AN EMPLOYER. “LET’S BE CLEAR: EMPLOYER-PROVIDED HEALTH INSURANCE IS A BENEFIT TO THE EMPLOYEE; IT’S NOT MANDATORY. GOVERNMENTS WHO VALUE FREEDOM AND FREE ENTERPRISE DO NOT TELL BUSINESSES HOW TO OPERATE.“IF STATES ARE TINKERING WITH E.R.I.S.A. – WE MUST MAKE SURE THAT THE RESULTS ARE FAIR AND HAVE NO UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCES – OR WORSE – GIANT PROBLEMS IN THE FUTURE.“CLOSE TO CAPITOL HILL, WE ALL WATCHED THE STATE OF MARYLAND CHART A NEW COURSE. IN MARYLAND, SOME BELIEVE THAT EMPLOYERS MUST BE FORCED, NOT ONLY TO PROVIDE HEALTH COVERAGE TO THEIR EMPLOYEES, BUT ALSO TO PROVIDE A SPECIFIC SET OR LEVEL OF BENEFITS. “FOR EXAMPLE, THE MUCH-DISCUSSED LAW THAT RECENTLY PASSED IN MARYLAND SEEKS TO PENALIZE COMPANIES, WELL, AT THIS POINT ONLY A “SINGLE COMPANY, THAT DO NOT PROVIDE WHAT POLITICIANS DEEM ‘ADEQUATE’ HEALTH INSURANCE FOR EMPLOYEES. “IN SHORT – THE FOLKS IN THE STATE CAPITAL OF MARYLAND ARE LEGISLATING WHAT ONE COMPANY MUST DO FOR ITS EMPLOYEES. “IN MY MIND – MANDATING CERTAIN HEALTH BENEFITS ON ONE COMPANY FROM A STATE CAPITAL IS NOT FREEDOM AND FREE ENTERPRISE. AND I’M VERY CONCERNED ABOUT WHAT THAT WOULD MEAN IN THE FUTURE – FOR PEOPLE … FOR STATES …AND FOR COMPANIES.“COULD YOU IMAGINE IF MARYLAND TOLD MCDONALDS THAT THEY COULD ONLY FEED THEIR EMPLOYEES BIG MACS? THERE IS SUCH A THING AS GOOD GOVERNMENT. OVER-REACHING GOVERNMENT IT IS NOT. “LISTEN, AS A FORMER STATE LEGISLATOR IN TEXAS, I AM HAPPY TO SEE STATE LEGISLATURES WORKING ON SOLUTIONS FOR THE UNINSURED.“HOWEVER, I AM DEEPLY ALARMED THAT SOME OF THESE PROPOSALS OVER-RIDE THE GOOD INTENTIONS E.R.I.S.A.—THE FEDERAL LAW THAT GOVERNS EMPLOYER BENEFITS. “I AM ALSO CONCERNED THAT THESE PROPOSALS LARGELY IGNORE THE PROBLEM OF SKY-ROCKETING INSURANCE COSTS AND INSTEAD SIMPLY ADD ADDITIONAL BURDENS ON EMPLOYERS – AND THEIR EMPLOYEES WHO MAY END UP WITH THE SHORT END OF THE STICK.“AS SUCH, TODAY WE WILL HEAR FROM LARGE- AND SMALL-BUSINESS OWNERS ON HOW LEGISLATION IN THE STATES WOULD AFFECT THEIR EMPLOYEES’ LIVELIHOOD AND THEIR BUSINESSES.“IN ADDITION, WE’LL HEAR FROM SOMEONE WHO CAN LOOK AT THE ISSUE FROM A 30,000-FEET LEVEL AND TALK ABOUT POTENTIAL RESULTS OF ENACTING SUCH MANDATES. “I WELCOME OUR WITNESSES AND LOOK FORWARD TO THEIR TESTIMONY TODAY.”
05.03.2006	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced his sponsorship of new legislation to improve the already successful health savings accounts (HSAs). share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced his sponsorship of new legislation to improve the already successful health savings accounts (HSAs). “With all things – when your money is on the line, you’re more aware of what goes in and what goes out. More important, you make smarter, more informed decisions. HSAs operate on that same premise. People are making their own health insurance decisions and they are demanding more value for their money. Since they’re the ones calling the shots, they have better control of their health care spending,” said Johnson.Today Congressman Johnson became an original cosponsor of the Tax Free Health Savings Act. The measure would enhance the benefits of health savings accounts.Health savings accounts became law under the Medicare bill. Used in conjunction with a high-deductible health plan, HSAs are designed to help individuals save for future qualified medical and retiree health expenses tax-free. Since the creation of HSAs, an estimated three million Americans have selected HSAs as their choice for health insurance coverage.According to the Administration, 40 percent of those who own HSAs have family incomes below $50,000. More than one-third of those who bought HSAs on their own had previously been uninsured. The Act builds on the successes of HSAs by making this tax-free health savings account more appealing, more affordable and more readily available. This measure enhances the wildly popular health program in several ways, by:• Increasing HSA contribution limits; • Making premiums for HSA-compatible insurance tax-deductible; • Providing a low-income tax credit the purchase of HSA-compatible insurance; • Allowing employers to make greater HSA contributions for chronically ill employees; • Allowing flexibility to coordinate HSAs with existing health coverage options like Flexible Spending Accounts (FSAs) and Health Reimbursement Arrangements (HRAs); • Allowing early retirees to use HSA savings to pay for insurance coverage premiums; • Providing an income tax credit equal to amount of payroll taxes paid on HSA-compatible insurance premiums; • Providing an income tax credit equal to the amount of payroll taxes paid on HSA contributions, and • Providing pre-tax treatment of health care expenses incurred under HSA-compatible health plans before an individual establishes an HSA.“We’ve seen Americans select health savings accounts because they want control over their health coverage. It’s time to build on those successes and increase the number of Americans with health insurance,” concluded Johnson.Johnson represents Collin and Dallas Counties.
04.26.2006	Today Richardson Independent School District Superintendent Jim Nelson testified before Congress on how his school district is faring in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) who represents part of RISD, commended Nelson for his hard work and thanked him for his leadership. share: f t Today Richardson Independent School District Superintendent Jim Nelson testified before Congress on how his school district is faring in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) who represents part of RISD, commended Nelson for his hard work and thanked him for his leadership.“As many of you know, after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita ravaged the Gulf Coast, many families found comfort and shelter in North Texas. Richardson stepped up to the plate and rolled out the welcome mat. Jim Nelson has a record of success in education and leadership. It’s an honor to have him here today and he’s very equipped to come up with solutions to the new challenges of Texas schools,” said Johnson.Nelson testified before the House Education and the Workforce Committee on a panel discussing how schools on the gulf coast region have responded to Katrina and Rita.RISD – a school district with 34,000 students usually – processed and enrolled 1,790 hurricane evacuees. There are 790 students still in RISD – who may or may not go home. According to the Texas Education Agency, nearly 36,000 Hurricane Katrina students are still enrolled in Lone Star State schools. “I want to thank Jim Nelson for his insight and expertise. It was invaluable,” concluded Johnson.Nelson has a long and distinguished career in education and leadership. Then-Governor George W. Bush of Texas appointed him to the newly-created State Board for Educator Certification (SBEC). After that, Bush tapped Nelson to serve as the Texas Commissioner of Education.In the spring of 2003, at the request of the White House and Department of Defense, Mr. Nelson traveled to Baghdad, Iraq as a Senior Advisor to the Iraqi Ministry of Education to assist with the rebuilding of the Iraqi school system. Nelson started his duties as Richardson ISD Superintendent in the summer of 2004.Professionally, Mr. Nelson is a member of the Texas Association of School Administrators and serves on its Legislative Committee. He is a life member of the Texas Business and Education Coalition (TBEC) board of directors, and a board member for StandardsWorks, a Washington, D.C.-based nonprofit organization committed to improving standards-based education in American schools. He presently serves on the AVID State Advisory Board.For more information on Mr. Nelson, visit www.risd.net. For a copy of Nelson’s testimony, go to http://edworkforce.house.gov after Thursday afternoon.Johnson represents portions of Collin and Dallas Counties.
04.17.2006	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement in response to several retired military officers who called for the Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld to resign. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement in response to several retired military officers who called for the Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld to resign. A 29-year Air Force fighter pilot and veteran, Johnson ran two bases before retiring as a Colonel. Johnson served as a wing commander at one and as an air division commander at another. Johnson served in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars. “So a handful of ‘has-beens’ want to make headlines? Hearing from six retirees out of the thousands and thousands who have served honorably means absolutely nothing. Instead of pointing fingers, the retirees should be thanking Secretary Rumsfeld for eliminating the Taliban and deposing Saddam Hussein. “I firmly believe retired senior officers have no grounds to speak out against our top leaders. Their baseless banter only invigorates the enemy and weakens the resolve of the younger troops on the ground. That in turn, could have horrible effects for the mission success. The retirees know that and they should know better. “More important, they’re missing the mark. They’re way off base. I know Secretary Rumsfeldto be a strong and respected leader who listens to all eager to participate. I’ve watched him meet with folks at all levels – and he heard from captains and majors – and colonels and generals. To him, everyone in the battle counts and everyone makes a difference. He knows that we’ll win the war against terrorism together. “He has my full support. “Sure, he’s not immune to criticism. But, last time I checked, former Members of Congress can’t vote, former NFL players can’t play and former generals can’t call the shots.”
04.04.2006	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released following statement after former Majority Leader Tom DeLay announced he would retire from Congress this June. Johnson served with DeLay in Austin before coming to Congress. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released following statement after former Majority Leader Tom DeLay announced he would retire from Congress this June.Johnson served with DeLay in Austin before coming to Congress.Tom DeLay helped create Rio Bend, a foster care community built by the DeLay Foundation for Kids, in Texas. Presently, 27 formerly abused and neglected children have permanent, loving, and stable families as a result of Rio Bend.“Tom DeLay is a talented and tireless leader for Texas and America. He gives his all to the values of freedom, free-enterprise and smarter-government. His gift for leadership, love of America, and passion for democracy helped make him one of the best leaders I’ve ever met.“He will be missed.“Shirley and I look forward to spending more time with Tom and Christine and hearing how needy children are thriving at Rio Bend, because of his dedication to the foster-care community.”
03.30.2006	Outraged that a new “democracy” would condemn a man to death for converting to Christianity, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd District-Texas) backed a measure calling on Afghanistan to enforce and protect the rights of all of its citizens to freely choose and openly practice their own religion. Abdul Rahman, an Afghani Christian, faced death several days ago for converting from Islam. share: f t Outraged that a new “democracy” would condemn a man to death for converting to Christianity, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd District-Texas) backed a measure calling on Afghanistan to enforce and protect the rights of all of its citizens to freely choose and openly practice their own religion. Abdul Rahman, an Afghani Christian, faced death several days ago for converting from Islam. “Freedom of religion is the cornerstone of a strong democracy,” said Johnson. “Brave Americans gave their lives to help liberate the people of Afghanistan…and now they go and persecute Christians,” continued Johnson. “Condemning a man to die for converting to Christianity is barbaric.”“I don’t know what’s more alarming about this entire ordeal: the fact that a fledgling democracy would even consider killing someone for converting to Christianity – or the deafening silence from the Middle East? Leaders across the globe should be outraged – and frankly, it’s terribly disappointing when only America and a handful of other countries denounce this gross intolerance.”According to law in Afghanistan, abandoning Islam for Christianity is considered a crime punishable by death. Rahman has since moved to Italy to seek asylum. This is understandable given that back in his homeland Muslim clerics insisted the people of Afghanistan would “pull him to pieces” for this terrible capital offense.House Resolution 736 requires the President to continue to work with the Government of Afghanistan to establish better protections for religious minorities, including converts to minority religions. Additionally, the measure condemns, in the strongest possible terms, the enforcement of laws against leaving one’s religion for another.The provision also calls upon the Afghani government, and especially President Hamid Karzai, to continue to conform Afghan laws to Afghanistan’s international human rights treaty obligations, thereby protecting its citizens who have converted or plan to convert to other religions from prosecution.House Resolution 736 passed 427 to 0.
03.29.2006	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd District-Texas) congratulated the Plano West Senior High School girls basketball team for winning the state championship – making them the first Plano ISD team to clinch the coveted title. They won the Girls Basketball 5A State Championship on Saturday, March 4, at UT's Frank Erwin Center in Austin. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd District-Texas) congratulated the Plano West Senior High School girls basketball team for winning the state championship – making them the first Plano ISD team to clinch the coveted title. They won the Girls Basketball 5A State Championship on Saturday, March 4, at UT's Frank Erwin Center in Austin. Johnson delivered the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives and had every single name of the varsity girls basketball team printed in the official Congressional Record. “Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate the Plano West Senior High School girls basketball team for being the first Plano ISD team to capture a state basketball championship. “Go Wolfpack! (howl) “Earlier this month, the Lady Wolves of Plano West routed the Rockwall Yellowjackets to earn the Texas state title. The girls in blue and black were trailing at halftime 18-13. That all changed when they rallied in the second half to capture the lead and win…and not just win – but win big 54 to 47! “Congratulations Lady Wolves! Girls – we are proud of you. Your parents are proud of you. Plano is proud of you and America is proud of you…and I salute you. God bless you and God bless America. “I’d like to insert the names of the players in to the record and congratulate them one and all.” Number Class Height Becca Feagin 10 Junior 5'2" Mary Rich 11 Junior 5'6" Rachel Hester 13 Senior 5'6" Alexis Morgan 15 Senior 5'2" Lindsay Hughes 20 Senior 5'10" Katie Makanani 21 Sophomore 5'6" Taylor Shead 23 Junior 5'9" Tawni Ichimura 24 Senior 5'8" Kristen Nash 33 Senior 6'2" Kathleen Nash 34 Junior 6'2" Micah Garoutte 42 Junior 6'2" Principal Phil SavianoWatch the Speech
03.15.2006	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd District-Texas) went to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to congratulate the Plano boys basketball team for winning the state championship. Johnson delivered the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives and had every single name of the varsity basketball team printed in the official Congressional Record. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd District-Texas) went to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to congratulate the Plano boys basketball team for winning the state championship. Johnson delivered the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives and had every single name of the varsity basketball team printed in the official Congressional Record. “Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate the Plano Senior High School boys basketball team. Under the leadership of Coach Inman, they made history on March 11th as the first Plano ISD team to capture a state basketball championship. The Wildcats come-from-behind victory over the defending state champs, Kingwood, on Saturday, in overtime, will down as one of the most exciting basketball games in Texas high school history. They won 60-58 to clinch the coveted state title. “Congratulations Wildcats! Y’all embody the school motto: A Tradition of Excellence. God bless you and God bless America. Boys – we are proud of you. Plano is proud of you and America is proud of you…and I salute you.” 2005-2006 Plano Varsity Roster No. Player Position Height Class 00 Anton Korolev Post 7-0 Junior 1 Chris Hsiao Point 5-9 Senior 2 Nathan Christian Wing 6-4 Sophomore 3 Anteus Mann Wing 5-11 Junior 4 Eric Zastoupil Post 6-8 Senior 5 Tyler Roof Wing 6-1 Senior 10 Landon Skinner Point 6-2 Junior 15 Rex Burkhead Wing 5-10 Freshman 21 John Roberson Point 5-11 Junior 22 Robert Jackson Wing 6-2 Senior 23 Michael Daniel Point 5-10 Sophomore 24 Joseph Fulce Wing 6-7 Senior 25 Raahul Ramakrishnan Post 6-4 Junior 32 Lawrence Mann Post 6-5 Senior 34 Cody Jones Post 6-7 Senior Coach Tom Inman Principal Dr. Doyle DeanClick Here to Watch the Floor Speech ###
03.06.2006	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) hailed a unanimous decision by the U.S. Supreme Court to protect the rights of military recruiters seeking access to colleges and universities that accept federal funding. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) hailed a unanimous decision by the U.S. Supreme Court to protect the rights of military recruiters seeking access to colleges and universities that accept federal funding. According to the Associated Press, “The ruling upheld a law that requires colleges that take federal money to accommodate recruiters. In addition, justices said that Congress could directly demand military access on campus, even without the threat of losing federal money.” A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson serves at the highest-ranking Texan on the House Education and the Workforce Committee.“This is a victory for the military and a victory for the American people. Our armed forces must be able to draw from the nation’s best and brightest – and that includes recruiting on college campuses.”
03.01.2006	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) cosponsored a bill to halt the Dubai Ports deal and demand a thorough investigation. The Foreign Investment Security Improvement Act of 2006 would ensure Congress’ oversight role in the investigation of Dubai Ports (DP) World’s acquisition of P&O Worldwide. On Sunday, DP World announced that it would submit to a more thorough, 45-day investigation by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS). share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) cosponsored a bill to halt the Dubai Ports deal and demand a thorough investigation. The Foreign Investment Security Improvement Act of 2006 would ensure Congress’ oversight role in the investigation of Dubai Ports (DP) World’s acquisition of P&O Worldwide. On Sunday, DP World announced that it would submit to a more thorough, 45-day investigation by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS). “Winning the war against terror begins here at home. Maintaining the security of America’s ports must be a top national security priority. That means that a deliberate, thorough and thoughtful investigative process must be used to evaluate whether the DP World-P&O Worldwide deal makes us vulnerable to harm and weakens homeland security efforts,” said Johnson.The measure would require the investigation to include: (1) a review of U.S. Coast Guard assessments of foreign ports where DP World operates, (2) background checks of DP World officers and security personnel,(3) an evaluation of the impact on port security by DP World’s control of U.S. port operations, and(4) consultation with the U.S. Coast Guard, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the Secretary of Homeland Security and State and local officials, regarding the impact on national security of DP World operations at affected U.S. ports. The bipartisan bill was introduced with 81 original cosponsors.“To say that my constituents are mad as hell about this is an understatement. People in Texas want, need and deserve to know if our ports will one day be used against us. We must investigate the security ramifications of this port deal,” said Johnson.“Congress must use every tool and capability to do what is best for the American people. If the CFIUS investigation reveals that national security will be compromised by this deal, we need to know about it – and we must stop it,” concluded Johnson.Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
02.28.2006	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the names of students he has nominated to U.S. Service Academies for the Class of 2010. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson nominated a range of the best and brightest students from all across the Third District. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the names of students he has nominated to U.S. Service Academies for the Class of 2010. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson nominated a range of the best and brightest students from all across the Third District. “I am proud to once again recommend an excellent slate of candidates for selection by a service academy. Every year the Third District nominates an extraordinarily impressive list of candidates and these recipients are truly deserving,” said Johnson. Johnson nominated two students from the Allen Independent School District (ISD), five students from Garland ISD, three students from McKinney ISD, nine students from Plano ISD, and one student from Richardson ISD. Six students who reside in the Third District who attend Metroplex private schools also received nominations. In addition, one home school student received a nomination.The nominations are for the U.S. Air Force, Naval, Military and Merchant Marine Academies. From here, each academy narrows the field by granting an appointment to the most qualified nominees. The academies will make formal offers of appointment this spring.With the significant number of applicants each year, Congressman Johnson employs the “competitive” method of nomination. An independent selection board, appointed by Congressman Johnson and comprised of Air Force, Naval, Merchant Marine and Military Academy graduates, selects ten candidates for each vacancy. Third District residents between the ages of 17 and 23 were eligible to apply to service academies if they met eligibility requirements in leadership, physical aptitude, scholarship and character. The selection of nominees was based on academic performance, exhibited by class rank, SAT or ACT scores and grade point average. Other important factors evaluated by the board included participation in extracurricular and civic activities as well as athletic aptitude. Students interested in learning more about the service academies for the class starting in August 2007 or beyond should contact Mary Lynn Murrell in the Congressman’s office at 972-470-0892. In addition, every fall the Congressman hosts an Academy Information Session with all branches represented.The Third Congressional District includes portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.--MORE--2006 ACADEMY NOMINEESALLEN INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICTALLEN HIGH SCHOOL – 2 nomineesAndrew Bickford, Allen, Texas United States Merchant Marine AcademyUnited States Military Academy United States Naval Academy Lauren Lakvold, Allen, Texas United States Air Force Academy United States Merchant Marine Academy United States Naval Academy GARLAND INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICTGARLAND HIGH SCHOOL – 2 nomineesSaviour Achilike, Garland, Texas United States Military AcademyRyan Parker, Garland, Texas United States Air Force Academy NAAMAN FOREST HIGH SCHOOL – 1 nomineeTimothy Leigh, Garland, Texas United States Merchant Marine Academy United States Naval Academy NORTH GARLAND HIGH SCHOOL – 2 nomineesKatherine Ly, Garland, Texas United States Merchant Marine Academy United States Military AcademyLindsay Atwood, Garland, Texas United States Naval AcademyMCKINNEY INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICTMCKINNEY NORTH HIGH SCHOOL – 3 nomineesBeau Burns, McKinney, Texas United States Merchant Marine Academy United States Naval AcademyJohn Kottlowski, McKinney, Texas United States Merchant Marine Academy United States Military AcademyPhilip Niche, McKinney, Texas United States Military Academy PLANO INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICTPLANO EAST SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL – 4 nomineesDavid Gehlhausen, Plano, Texas United States Air Force Academy Sara Shiveley, Richardson, Texas United States Air Force Academy Colin Skowronski, Plano, Texas United States Military Academy Anil Tilbe, Plano, Texas United States Military Academy PLANO SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL – 2 nomineesDaniel Fulcoly, Plano, Texas United States Air Force AcademyPreston Pham, Plano, Texas United States Military Academy PLANO WEST SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL – 3 nomineesAustin Ayres, Dallas, Texas United States Naval AcademyRidge Flick, Plano, Texas United States Air Force Academy Jacqueline Juhn, Plano, Texas United States Naval Academy RICHARDSON INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICTBERKNER HIGH SCHOOL – 1 nomineeAndrew Lewis, Dallas, Texas United States Merchant Marine Academy United States Naval Academy PRIVATE SCHOOLSBISHOP LYNCH HIGH SCHOOL – 2 nomineesWilliam Collins, Plano, Texas United States Military AcademyJohn Tosetto, Plano, Texas United States Merchant Marine AcademyPECAN ORCHARD ACADEMY – 1 nomineeMallory Morgan, Parker, Texas United States Air Force Academy TRINITY CHRISTIAN ACADEMY – 1 nomineeCharles Clark, Richardson, Texas United States Air Force Academy United States Military AcademyPRESTONWOOD CHRISTIAN ACADEMY – 1 nomineeBrett Gaines, Plano, Texas United States Merchant Marine Academy United States Naval AcademyJESUIT PREPARATORY SCHOOL – 1 nomineeBrennen Anderson, Plano, Texas United States Air Force AcademyURSULINE ACADEMY – 1 nomineeVanessa Warwick, Plano, Texas United States Air Force Academy United States Naval Academy United States Merchant Marine Academy
02.15.2006	At a hearing on Capitol Hill, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) lauded the Administration’s plans to expand access to consumer-driven health savings accounts (H.S.A.s). share: f t At a hearing on Capitol Hill, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) lauded the Administration’s plans to expand access to consumer-driven health savings accounts (H.S.A.s). Created as part of the recent Medicare law, H.S.A.s allow people to accrue money in a tax-deductible health savings account in conjunction with a typically less expensive high-deductible health insurance plan. Since the creation of H.S.A.s in 2003, nearly 3 million Americans already have enrolled.“Health savings accounts increase the number of Americans with health insurance. Further, H.S.A.s are an innovative way to help control rising health insurance spending in America by allowing consumers to act like they do in every other market in America – wisely,” said Johnson, who has his own H.S.A. bill, H.R. 1872.President George W. Bush touted health savings accounts in his State of the Union speech late last month as a premiere way to help control skyrocketing health-care costs. Today Secretary of the Treasury John Snow testified before the House Ways and Means Committee to highlight the Administration’s plan to increase access to H.S.A.s. The Administration’s H.S.A. proposals are projected to increase the number of Americans with H.S.A.s from the currently projected 14 million to 21 million by 2010, a 50-percent rise.Secretary Snow outlined a broad policy agenda, including giving individuals who purchase H.S.A.s on their own the same tax advantages as those with employer-sponsored insurance. This is one of the things that H.R. 1872, a proposal introduced by Sam Johnson, would do. Snow also mentioned the importance of making Association Health Plans (AHPs) law in his testimony. AHPs allow small businesses to band together to purchase health insurance at a discounted group rate. Johnson introduced H.R. 525 to create AHPs and the measure awaits action in the U.S. Senate.“I look forward to working with the Administration to make sure we can increase the number of Americans with health insurance with the help of health savings accounts,” said Johnson.“Health savings accounts have been an answered prayer for many. It is my hope that more people learn about them and enroll,” concluded Johnson.
02.10.2006	On Monday, February 13th at 2pm, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will deliver valentines to veterans at the Dallas Veterans Affairs Medical Center as part of the national “Valentines for Vets” program. Johnson will distribute valentines to hospitalized veterans hand-made by students of all ages from 28 Third Districts schools. Members of the press are encouraged to attend. Fellow Congressman Jeb Hensarling (5th Dist-Texas) will join Johnson. share: f t On Monday, February 13th at 2pm, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will deliver valentines to veterans at the Dallas Veterans Affairs Medical Center as part of the national “Valentines for Vets” program. Johnson will distribute valentines to hospitalized veterans hand-made by students of all ages from 28 Third Districts schools. Members of the press are encouraged to attend. Fellow Congressman Jeb Hensarling (5th Dist-Texas) will join Johnson.Schools from Allen ISD, Frisco ISD, Garland ISD, McKinney ISD, Plano ISD and two private schools participated in the 2006 Valentines for Vets drive. Johnson kicked-off Valentines for Vets in Rowlett at Rowlett Elementary. Andrews Elementary School in Plano ISD donated 700 Valentines to this worthy cause. “On Valentines Day, we often tell people how much we appreciate them. I can’t think of a better way to say thank you to all of those who gave so much for something we truly love and value – our freedom,” said Johnson. “The students also deserve a Lone Star State sized-thank you for their enthusiasm, patriotism and creativity,” continued Johnson.Every February, Americans open their hearts to our country's hospitalized veterans by sending cards and letters to veterans in the medical centers across the country through the “Valentines for Vets” program. America observes the National Salute to Hospitalized Veterans the week of Valentine's Day. Johnson retired from the U.S. Air Force after 29 years. Shot down during his 25th mission in the Vietnam War, Johnson spent seven years as a Prisoner of War (POW) with over three and a half years in solitary confinement. Johnson marks 33 years of freedom on February 12th – the 33 year anniversary of Operation Homecoming, the day the longest held POWs departed Vietnam.WHEN: Monday, February 13th at 2:00p.m.WHAT: Distribution of valentines from Third District students to hospitalized veteransWHO: Former POW and Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) Congressman Jeb Hensarling (5th Dist.-Texas)WHERE: Dallas VA Medical Center 4500 S. Lancaster Road Dallas, Texas
02.09.2006	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) made the following speech on the war in Iraq. He delivered the following remarks before the premiere conservative convention, CPAC: The Conservative Political Action Conference. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) made the following speech on the war in Iraq. He delivered the following remarks before the premiere conservative convention, CPAC: The Conservative Political Action Conference. The event is hosted by the American Conservative Union (ACU). ACU gave Johnson a life-long voting record of 99%, meaning Johnson has voted with ACU 99% of the time. Visit www.conservative.org to learn more about ACU and the CPAC three-day conference.A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam. Johnson represents the Third Congressional District of Texas, including portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.“Good afternoon. It’s great to be here surrounded by real American conservatives in Washington – let me tell you – it’s a lot different from Capitol Hill. “I’ve been asked to talk about the big picture of the global war on terrorism – and how it is seen through the eyes of a lifelong Air Force fighter pilot. “As Suhail said, I spent 29 years in the Air Force – served in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars… and spent seven years as a POW in Vietnam – more than half in solitary confinement. I went to Iraq last fall and my visit came at just the right time. Little did I know it would prepare me for a highly-charged debate on the floor of the House.“Most of you know, at the end of last year, a liberal Congressman from Pennsylvania insisted we immediately withdraw our troops from Iraq. When I heard this, it made my blood boil.“It hurt to think what the men and women in harm’s way would believe when they heard the news that someone in Congress was not behind America’s mission. It hurt to think what the military families here at home would believe when they learned that people in Washington did not support the troops. And it hurt me to think that some people would just give up on our men and women in uniform. Our military boasts the best and the brightest – and we in the Congress must keep giving them the tools for ultimate success.“Ladies and gentlemen, I do know what it’s like to be far from home – serving your country – risking your life – and hearing that America doesn’t care about you… Your Congress doesn’t care about you. Your Congress just cut all funding for your war. They’re packing up and going home – and leaving you.“When I was a P.O.W., I was scared to death when our Congress talked about pulling the plug that we all would be left there forever. I know what it does to morale – I know what it does to the mission – and so help me God, I will never, ever let our nation make those mistakes again.“Our men and women in uniform need our full support. They need to know that when they’re in Iraq driving from Camp Blue Diamond to Camp Victory that the Congress is fully behind them – “to give them the best armored trucks they can drive, “the best weapons they can fire, “and the best ammunition they can use.“They need to have full faith that a few nay-sayers in Washington won’t cut and run – and leave them high and dry. They need to know these things because that’s mandatory for mission success and troop morale. America – and the Congress – must stand behind our men and women in uniform because they stand up for us every minute of every day! “Any talk – even so much as a murmur – of leaving now or political timelines – just emboldens the enemy and weakens the resolve of our of troops in the field. “We were attacked! We are at war against terrorists. We need to stay there for as long as it takes if we want democracy to take root in tyranny’s backyard. The area just got rocked by the election of Hamas to leadership. Iraq shares a border with Iran – that’s a nation ruled by someone who calls the Holocaust a myth. Right now, most of the neighbors of Iraq are not going to help us. Now more than ever, we must stand firm and resolute. “What makes me angry at the critics is that we are making great progress in Iraq. Remember last January how we saw pictures from Iraq of that first election. For weeks the media predicted gloom and doom. You remember that. What did we see? We watched people as they waited in lines for hours – defying death threats – just to cast their vote for democracy.“Remember the picture of the woman in a black head cover flashing her purple finger in the V after voting in the first Iraqi elections. It was a breakthrough for democracy – and it was just the beginning.“Remember the December vote on the constitution -- when people came out in droves to make their voice heard. You wouldn’t have known about it because there was so little mention of it here in the American press. People got out there and they voted – they showed their support for democracy –a new government, fresh hope and a future.“The people of Iraq are thirsting for something more – they are risking their lives in the name of a new government. We must stay the course if we want to foster a stable Iraq and create hope for millions in the Middle East. “And our work is paying off -- not just at the ballot box. Remember when we were waking up that Sunday morning in shock as we caught Saddam Hussein cowering in a rat-hole. He’s gone. “And you know what, at least 46 of Hussein’s 55 most wanted regime members are either dead or incarcerated. Just last week we handed over another base to Iraqi control. We’re making progress daily. “It’s just going to take time – but our guys on the ground are working with other nations to make inroads to create leadership and inspire democracy in a country that has only known hate, fear, torture and oppression.“I have to ask – What would Iraq be like if the United States pulled out? What would Iraq be like if we left and allowed dangerous people like the head of Al-Qaida, Zarqawi, to run the country? “Just as Bin Laden said in his recent video, Al Qaida rules with death, fear, terror and blood. Al Qaida takes innocent people hostage – then beheads them – and then brags about it on the internet.“Al Qaida has no respect for human life. They prey on innocent people to do their dirty work – because they know we don’t target schools and hospitals and mosques – yet those are the exact places that they’re using for safe cover. “What part of Al Qaida do you want operating here in America? Al Qaida is a world-wide organization and a world-wide threat. There are confirmed reports of cells plotting here on U.S. soil. Americans don’t want, need or deserve Al Qaida. Our troops are in Iraq fighting not just for our freedom and protection – but freedom for the world. “As President Bush said: We must fight the bad guys over there – not over here. We must support our troops to the hilt so they don’t go to bed at night – covered in talcum-powder thin white sand wondering – ‘Does America really support me.’“In case people have forgotten, this Democrat nonsense back home is a lot like what happened in Vietnam. Peaceniks and people in Congress – and America - started saying bad things about what was going on over there. Let me tell you what it did for troop morale. It’s a real downer. I just pray our troops and their families can block this noise out and know that I will fight like mad to make sure our troops have everything they need - for as long as they need - to win this global war on terrorism.“We must and we will win.“Withdrawal is not an option!“God bless you and I salute you.”
02.06.2006	Last Friday afternoon in Rowlett, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) presented long-overdue Purple Heart and Bronze Star medals, among others, to Rowlett World War II veteran Mr. Robert J. Blatnik. Johnson also launched the local “Valentines for Vets” drive. share: f t Last Friday afternoon in Rowlett, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) presented long-overdue Purple Heart and Bronze Star medals, among others, to Rowlett World War II veteran Mr. Robert J. Blatnik. Johnson also launched the local “Valentines for Vets” drive. In the cafeteria of Rowlett Elementary School, second- through fifth-grade students watched as Blatniks’s two daughters pinned on the long-overdue medals Blatnik earned while serving in the United States Army in World War II. Blatnik, who dressed in a military uniform for the occasion, should have received a Purple Heart and a Bronze Star for his service at the end of the War.“He defines duty, honor, and country. He was overwhelmed with the medal presentation and lavish praise because he’s a humble guy. The students remained absolutely silent as they looked on with awe. It was a privilege to be a part of such a special occasion,” said Johnson.Blatnik joined the United States Army in 1938 and then went on to serve with the world famous First Infantry Division, known as the “Big Red One.” To learn about the history and the service of the group, visit http://www.bigredone.org. Blatnik fought in the North Africa invasion where he was injured and left behind enemy lines for four days. He went on to Sicily where he was injured again several times. He then was a part of the heroes who stormed the beaches of Omaha. Later, while in Germany he came under enemy fire. He woke up four days later in a hospital bed in Belgium. This started his nine-month hospital stay. He was never awarded his Purple Heart or his Bronze Star for his heroic acts and bravery.For his actions in World War II, Blatnik received various medals (minus the Bronze Star and Purple Heart). A 1980 hurricane ripped through South Padre Island, destroying Blatnik’s home and all of his possessions. The additional medals presented last Friday will replace the medals lost in the 1980 hurricane. Blatnik was joined by his wife and other family members and friends.Johnson presented Mr. Robert J. Blatnik with the following awards: Silver Star, Bronze Star Medal, Purple Heart, Good Conduct Medal, Presidential Unit Citation, American Defense Service Medal, American Campaign Medal, European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal, World War II Victory Medal, Combat Infantryman Badge, and an Honorable Service Lapel Button WWII. Reporters interested in speaking with Blatnik should contact McCall Cameron at 202-225-4201. In a related matter, every February Americans open their hearts to our country's hospitalized veterans by sending cards to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical centers across the country through the “Valentines for Vets” program. Local veterans organizations are partnering with area schools to help deliver the valentines in conjunction with the office of U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson will deliver Valentines to Veterans at the Dallas VA Hospital on Monday, February 13th. Local veterans organizations have kindly volunteered to pick up valentines from schools. Teachers interested in scheduling a pick-up should contact Jerry Durham by February 8th at Jerry.Durham@mail.house.gov or by phone at 972-470-0892.
02.02.2006	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after Congressman John Boehner (8th Dist.-Ohio) won the race for Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, making him the second most powerful man in Congress. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after Congressman John Boehner (8th Dist.-Ohio) won the race for Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, making him the second most powerful man in Congress.Congressman Johnson serves on the Committee on Education and the Workforce, formerly chaired by Boehner, and backed Boehner early on the race for the number-two spot.Boehner defeated acting Majority Leader Roy Blunt of Missouri by a vote of 122 to 109.“This is a great day for America and a great day for Republicans.“My friend, John Boehner, is a man of vision, hope, and action. He’ll do a tremendous job as Majority Leader and will serve the Members of Congress – and the country – well.“Since coming to Congress, John has made a name for himself as a reformer, a leader, and as a fiscal conservative. In fact, he’s never once accepted a federal special spending project for his district back home. I wish more Members of Congress had John’s fiscal restraint and common sense. This country would be a lot better off.”
12.15.2005	After more than two years of working to strengthen the employer-provided pension system, Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced that the U.S. House of Representatives passed his bill to revamp the pension system to protect employees and taxpayers. The House passed the Pension Protection Act 294 – 132. share: f t After more than two years of working to strengthen the employer-provided pension system, Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced that the U.S. House of Representatives passed his bill to revamp the pension system to protect employees and taxpayers. The House passed the Pension Protection Act 294 – 132. “This is a good and tough bill that makes companies put their money behind their promises and gives employees good information on the health of their pension plan,” said Johnson. Johnson chairs the Subcommittee that oversees pension law, the Subcommittee on Employer-Employee Relations and serves on the other committee with authority over this issue, the Ways and Means Committee. The measure balances reforms to ensure employers more accurately measure and fund their short-term and long-term pension promises, creates tough new funding requirements to ensure plans are adequately and consistently funded, and establishes meaningful disclosure provisions about the financial status of pension benefits. “It’s a shame that our pension laws have allowed those most affected – workers and retirees – to be left in the dark and that there may be little money behind the pension promises of a secure retirement fund. The proposed change couldn’t come at a better time as it comes on the heels of the United Airlines Pilots’ pension plan collapse which was only 30% funded. Those pilots and their families didn’t know how bad off the situation was and they are the ones trying to figure out how to live on one-third of that they planned to receive,” said Johnson. The bill also creates “phased retirement,” a much-need reform given the pending retirement of the Baby Boomer generation. This provision would allow people to continue working but also collect their employer-based pension after the age of 62. Current rules prohibit working for the same employer while also collecting a pension. This prohibition simply forces many people to change jobs and work for a competitor or stop working all together. “My constituents believe that this is a better way to step into retirement,” continued Johnson. The bill also tightens funding rules so that under-funded plans are not dumped on the government – The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC). The PBGC estimates to be $28 billion in the red. Companies need to fund their promises, not rely on the government to do it. We can not leave the taxpayers holding the bag,” concluded Johnson. The measure will now go to Conference with the Senate. Johnson represents the Third Congressional District which includes portions of Dallas and Collin Counties
11.18.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) delivered the following closing statement on the floor of the House of Representatives in opposition to a resolution calling for the immediate withdrawal of American troops in Iraq. The day before U.S. Rep. John P. Murtha of Pennsylvania, a House Democrat, advocated pulling out U.S. troops from Iraq by introducing his own resolution. The bill failed by a vote of 403-3. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) delivered the following closing statement on the floor of the House of Representatives in opposition to a resolution calling for the immediate withdrawal of American troops in Iraq. The day before U.S. Rep. John P. Murtha of Pennsylvania, a House Democrat, advocated pulling out U.S. troops from Iraq by introducing his own resolution. The bill failed by a vote of 403-3. Watch the video. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam. “Mr. Speaker – I rise today on behalf of the American men and women in uniform – and their families. “I spent 29 years in the Air Force – served in Korea and Vietnam… and spent seven years as a POW in Vietnam – more than half of that time in solitary confinement. “I know what it’s like to be far from home – serving your country – risking your life – and hearing that America doesn’t care about you… Your Congress doesn’t care about you. Your Congress just cut all funding for your war. They’re packing up and going home – and leaving you here. “When I was a POW, I was scared to death when our Congress talked about pulling the plug that I would be left there forever. “I know what it does to morale – I know what it does to the mission – and so help me God, I will never, ever let our nation make those mistakes again. Never. “Our men and women in uniform need our full support. They need to know that when they’re in Iraq driving from Camp Blue Diamond to Camp Victory that the Congress is behind them – to give them the best armored trucks they can drive, the best weapons they can fire, and the best ammunition they can use. “They need to have full faith that a few nay-sayers in Washington won’t cut and run – and leave them high and dry. They need to know these things because that’s mandatory for mission success and troop morale. “America – and the Congress – must stand behind our men and women in uniform because they stand up for us every minute of every day! “Any talk – even so much as a murmur – of leaving now– just emboldens the enemy and weakens the resolve of our of troops in the field. That’s dangerous! If you don’t believe me – check out Al Jazeera. This story is on the front page. We can’t do that to our fellow Americans over there. “Mr. Speaker – we’re making great progress in Iraq. “Remember in January how we saw pictures from Iraq of that first election. For weeks the media predicted gloom and doom. Remember that? What did we see? We watched people as they waited in lines for hours – defying death threats – just to cast their vote for democracy. “Remember the picture of the woman in a black head cover flashing her purple finger in the V after voting in the first Iraqi elections. It was a breakthrough for democracy – and it was just the beginning. “Remember the recent vote on the referendum -- when people came out in droves to make their voice heard. You wouldn’t have known about it because there was so little mention of it here in the American press – but people got out there and they voted – they showed their support for a democracy –a new government, hope and a future. “These people are thirsting for something more – they’re risking their lives in the name of a new government – and we must stay the course if we want to foster a stable Iraq and create hope for millions in the Middle East. “And our work is paying off -- not just at the ballot box. Remember when we were waking up that Sunday morning in shock as we caught Saddam Hussein cowering in a rat-hole. He’s gone. And you know what, at least 46 of Hussein’s 55 most wanted regime members are either dead or incarcerated. “Nationwide, thousands and thousands of police officers have been hired and nearly 200,000 Iraqi soldiers are trained and serving their country. “It’s going to take time – but our guys on the ground are working with other nations to make inroads to create leadership and inspire democracy in a country that has only known hate, fear, and death from a ruler. “However, sadly – some here want to embolden the enemy by saying we just cut and run. That’s just irresponsible and unconscionable. “I have to ask – What would Iraq be like if the United States pulled out -- allowing dangerous people like the head of al-Qaida, Zarqawi, to run the country? What would that mean for the region? The world? “Al Qaida rules with death, fear, terror and blood. Al Qaida takes innocent people hostage – then beheads them – and then brags about it on the internet. “Al Qaida has no respect for human life. They prey on innocent people to do their dirty work – because they know we don’t target schools and hospitals and mosques – yet those are the exact places that they’re using for safe cover. “Al Qaida will kidnap loved ones – especially very young children - of people trying to build democracy – like local leaders – to scare them out of helping out the new country. They’re taking kids hostage – because parents want a new life and a better future for their children. Why is that such a crime? “What part of Al Qaida do you want operating here in America? “Al Qaida is a world-wide organization and world-wide threat. I don’t want any part of this. Americans don’t want, need or deserve al Qaida. Our troops are over in Iraq fighting not just for our freedom and protection – but freedom for the world. “We must fight the bad guys over there – not over here. WE must support our troops to the hilt so they don’t go to bed at night – covered in talcum-powder thin white sand wondering – “Does America really support me.” “In case people have forgotten, this is the same thing that happened in Vietnam. Peaceniks and people in Congress – and America - started saying bad things about what was going on over there. Let me tell you what it did for troop morale. It’s a real downer. I just pray our troops and their families can block this noise out and know that I will fight like mad to make sure our troops have everything they need - for as long as they need - to win the global war on terrorism. “Withdrawal is not an option! “I hope and pray every Member of Congress stands up and says to our troops ‘THANK YOU’ and ‘AMERICA SUPPORTS YOU.’ To them I say, God bless you and I salute you.”
11.17.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement in response to U.S. Rep. John P. Murtha of Pennsylvania, a House Democrat, who called for the immediate withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq today. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement in response to U.S. Rep. John P. Murtha of Pennsylvania, a House Democrat, who called for the immediate withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq today. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam. “Pulling our troops out of Iraq now is unconscionable and irresponsible. “We’ve got to support our troops to the hilt and see this mission through. “I bet Abu Musab al-Zarqawi is high-fiving his buddies and praising Allah after hearing these news reports. Immediate withdrawal- and the conflict sparked by this debate - is just what al-Zarqawi wants. “I was just in Iraq and our troops told me that they are motivated to spread democracy. They’re fighting for freedom and they mean business. “We need to get the job done in support of freedom and to eliminate Al-Qaeda terrorists around the world. “In case people have forgotten, this is the same thing that happened in Vietnam. Peaceniks and people in Congress – and America - started saying bad things about what was going on over there. Let me tell you what it did for troop morale. It’s a real downer. “I just pray our troops and their families can block this noise out and know that I will fight like mad to make sure our troops have everything they need - for as long as they need - to win the global war on terrorism.”
11.10.2005	At a pension bill markup on Capitol Hill today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) urged swift passage of an initiative to create “phased retirement” so employees may collect retirement from their traditional defined benefit pension plan and work part time simultaneously after age 62. share: f t At a pension bill markup on Capitol Hill today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) urged swift passage of an initiative to create “phased retirement” so employees may collect retirement from their traditional defined benefit pension plan and work part time simultaneously after age 62. “This is a victory for employees and employers – especially as we prepare for the retirement of the Baby Boomers,” said Johnson, referring to those born between 1946 and 1964. Present law forbids pension plan distributions, but permits 401(k) distributions after age 59 ½. This prohibition has the effect of encouraging those who have traditional plans to go work for a competitor. “With people living longer, healthier lives, the natural off-shoot of that is that they’re staying in the workforce longer. For many people though, they don’t want to continue to work full time. Phased retirement will allow older workers to maintain employee health plans, work reduced hours, and maintain their standard of living with pension distributions. It’s time for the common-sense idea of allowing people to collect a pension and a paycheck from the same employer,” continued Johnson. Johnson made the case for “phased retirement” at the pension bill markup in the Ways and Means Committee. Johnson has built a name for himself on Capitol Hill for changing laws dealing with those who want to work and collect Social Security benefits beyond age 65. In 2000, Johnson defied the critics when he introduced legislation to repeal the “earnings limit” tax on seniors who wanted to work past retirement and collect Social Security benefits simultaneously. Then-President Clinton signed Johnson’s bill into law that year. Present law allows people to collect Social Security at age 65 while working without additional taxes, thanks to Johnson’s efforts. However, they may not collect a pension and a paycheck from the same employer. This initiative would change that. Currently, one may collect 401(k) and IRA distributions at 59½; “early” Social Security at 62; and full Social Security at 65. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
11.08.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to salute the “behind-the-scenes war heroes” in the Global War on Terrorism, those who employ people serving in the National Guard and Reserve. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) took to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to salute the “behind-the-scenes war heroes” in the Global War on Terrorism, those who employ people serving in the National Guard and Reserve. From the “mom-and-pop” shop small-business owners to the Wall Street executives, our nation’s private and public sector employs over 1.1 million members of the National Guard and other reserve components. Since September 11, 2001, more than 433,000 members of the National Guard and reserve have been called upon to serve in combat and humanitarian missions overseas and State missions at home. The Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA) maintains Guard and Reserve members’ employment when they are serving away from home. The law maintains that employers must keep an employee’s position available for up to five years and guarantees some level of pay and health insurance. As Chairman of the Employer-Employee Relations Subcommittee and a 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson managed the debate on the measure, H. Res. 302: Recognizing and commending the continuing dedication and commitment of employers of the members of the National Guard and the other reserve components who have been mobilized during the Global War on Terrorism and in defense of the United States. Just in time for Veterans’ Day, November 11th, the initiative passed by a vote of 395 to 0. Johnson delivered the following opening statement: “MR. SPEAKER, SINCE SEPTEMBER 11, 2001, WE HAVE BEEN A CHANGED NATION. THE HORRIFIC EVENTS OF THAT DAY – IN NEW YORK, IN OUR NATION’S CAPITAL, AND OVER THE SKIES OF PENNSYLVANIA, CHANGED US AS A PEOPLE. THAT DAY, WE BECAME A NATION AT WAR, AND THE DEFENSE OF OUR HOMELAND BECAME OF TOP PRIORITY. “OUR UNIFORMED YOUNG MEN AND WOMEN ANSWERED THE CALL. BUT IN ADDITION TO THESE SOLDIERS, SAILORS, MARINES, AIRMEN, AND CORPSMEN, MORE THAN 460,000 MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL GUARD AND OTHER RESERVISTS HAVE BEEN MOBILIZED FOR ACTIVE DUTY OVER THE LAST TWO YEARS. “THEIR SACRIFICE AND ASSISTANCE HAVE BEEN ESSENTIAL IN OUR FIGHT FOR FREEDOM. NOW IT IS IMPORTANT TO REMEMBER THAT IT IS NOT ONLY ON FOREIGN SOIL, OR IN DEFENSE OF OUR NATION AGAINST TERRORISM, THAT WE HAVE ALL BENEFITED FROM THE SACRIFICE OF THESE MEN AND WOMEN. “JUST WEEKS AGO, AS WE ALL SAW, WHEN NATURAL DISASTERS DEVASTATED OUR GULF COAST REGION, RESERVE PERSONNEL AND NATIONAL GUARD COMPONENTS WERE AT THE FOREFRONT OF RELIEF AND RESCUE EFFORTS. “WHILE EACH OF US BENEFITS FROM THE SACRIFICE OF THESE MEN AND WOMEN CALLED TO SERVICE, IT IS SOMETIMES TOO EASY TO FORGET THE CONTRIBUTION MADE BY ‘BEHIND THE SCENES’ WAR HEROES – THAT IS, THE EMPLOYERS AND BUSINESS OWNERS – MANY OF WHICH ARE SMALL BUSINESSES – WHO EMPLOY THESE GUARDSMEN AND RESERVISTS. “I AM SURE EACH OF US HAS HEARD HOW IN OUR TOWNS AND COMMUNITIES, THE BUSINESSES WHO EMPLOY OUR GUARD AND RESERVE HAVE GONE ABOVE AND BEYOND WHAT IS REQUIRED TO SUPPORT OUR TROOPS AND ENSURE THAT THEIR JOBS ARE WAITING FOR THEM WHEN THEY RETURN. “AS WE HONOR THE SERVICE OF OUR MEN AND WOMEN, ALSO WE SHOULD COMMEND THE PATRIOTISM AND EFFORT OF ALL THOSE WHO PROVIDE THEM THEIR LIVING. “I WOULD ALSO TAKE THIS OPPORTUNITY TO COMMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FOR BRINGING ITS RESERVE CIVILIAN EMPLOYER INFORMATION DATABASE ONLINE THIS YEAR. “THIS SYSTEM REPRESENTS THE CULMINATION OF A YEAR-LONG EFFORT TO ESTABLISH A DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE-WIDE SYSTEM TO CAPTURE AND UNDERSTAND WHO EMPLOYS THE 1.2 MILLION MEMBERS OF THE SEVEN RESERVE COMPONENTS. “I WOULD URGE THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO CONTINUE TO DEVELOP THIS SYSTEM, AND OTHER LONG-TERM STRATEGIES SO THAT WE CAN MAINTAIN THE HISTORIC LEVEL OF SUPPORT BETWEEN THE DEPARTMENT AND THE EMPLOYERS OF OUR RESERVISTS. “MR. SPEAKER, AT THE END OF THIS WEEK WE WILL HONOR OUR NATION’S VETERANS. “AS WE DO SO, IT IS EQUALLY FITTING TO HONOR OUR NATION’S ARMED FORCES AND RESERVES, AND AS WE DO TODAY, COMMEND THOSE ON THE HOME FRONT WHO HAVE GIVEN SO MUCH IN THEIR SUPPORT. “I THANK MY COLLEAGUE FOR SPONSORING THIS RESOLUTION, AND ASK MY COLLEAGUES THAT IT BE ADOPTED.”
11.02.2005	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) has launched a new public service announcement radio campaign to alert seniors to sign up for the new prescription drug benefit available to them through Medicare beginning on November 15, 2005. share: f t U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) has launched a new public service announcement radio campaign to alert seniors to sign up for the new prescription drug benefit available to them through Medicare beginning on November 15, 2005. “It is time for seniors to learn about this new voluntary prescription drug benefit,” said Johnson. “If you are a senior or know a senior or someone with a disability who needs help paying for their prescriptions, then I urge you to learn more about the new voluntary prescription drug insurance options available through Medicare.” To learn more about voluntary prescription drug benefit plans available to Texas seniors, visit www.medicare.gov or call 1-800–MEDICARE. Below is a transcript of the public service announcement Congressman Sam Johnson released to radio stations in North Texas: Attention Seniors PSA Script :30 Attention seniors and those with loved ones over age 65: This is Congressman Sam Johnson. Starting November 15th, all seniors and people with a disability will be able to signup for Medicare’s new VOLUNTARY prescription drug plan. That means Texas seniors will have access to more affordable prescription drugs. To learn about the new prescription drug benefits and to see if there is a plan that fits your needs, call 1800-MEDICARE or www.medicare.gov.
10.21.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the members of the Third District Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC). Of the 42 students, most attend public school, while six attend private schools, and four participate in home school. Five sophomores, 20 juniors, and 17 seniors comprise the second-ever Third District Congressional Youth Advisory Council; only sophomores, juniors and seniors may participate. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the members of the Third District Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC). Of the 42 students, most attend public school, while six attend private schools, and four participate in home school. Five sophomores, 20 juniors, and 17 seniors comprise the second-ever Third District Congressional Youth Advisory Council; only sophomores, juniors and seniors may participate. “Congratulations are in order for each of these students. They are the voice of the future and they’re not letting anyone else speak for them. I commend them for taking an interest in government and learning more about Congress,” said Johnson. “What a tremendous group of dynamic young people and I look forward to hearing what matters most to them.” Heralded by the Dallas Morning News editorial page as, “a win-win program that gives voice to students and boosts their civic participation,” the Council’s goal is two-fold. First, the members of the Council will provide Johnson with a wide cross-section of opinions on issues important to young people. Second, Council activities will serve to boost community activism among high-school students. The CYAC held its first meeting on October 15th and will convene again at least three more times this school year. At the first meeting, students visited with the Congressman in a casual town-hall format. Students probed the Congressman on hot-button issues, like Social Security and the elections in Iraq. In turn, Johnson detailed his most recent trip to Iraq and discussed current issues before Congress. Based on feedback from students who participated in the first-ever CYAC last year, this program will offer issue-specific meetings. Topics of meetings will include school finance, the Wright Amendment, and the Global War on Terrorism. In addition, this year, students will interview a veteran for a special project, called Preserving History. People from the community volunteered to serve on the Advisory Panel that selected the CYAC members on behalf of the Congressman. Seventeen students served on the CYAC last year and re-applied as a formality to return to the CYAC this year. A complete list of students participating, as well as their schools and hometowns, follows. CYAC list 2005-2006 Congressional Youth Advisory Council Sophomores Morgan Bailey McKinney McKinney High School Patrick Dyer Richardson Trinity Christian Academy Meredith Morgan Parker Home School Elliot Post Plano Vines High School Spencer Wood Frisco Frisco High School Juniors Bryan Blair Plano Plano Senior High School Brandon Boyd Allen Allen High School* Yoojin Cho Plano Plano West Senior High School Alyssa DeLorenz Garland Plano East Senior High School* Erik DeSousa Plano Plano West Senior High School Kelli Lafferty Plano Plano Senior High School Amanda Lipscomb McKinney McKinney Christian Academy* Austin Lutz Dallas Trinity Christian Academy* Kristy MacDonell Plano Plano West Senior High School David Michael McCleary Plano Plano Senior High School Benjamin Oppenheim Plano Plano West Senior High School Jordan Schmittou Plano Plano Senior High School Andrew Schreiber Plano Plano West Senior High School Michael Scott Dallas Home School* Aatman Shah Plano Plano Senior High School* Hansini Sharma Plano Plano West Senior High School Jennifer Smart Plano Home School Kristen Stout Plano Plano East Senior High School Britney Thomas Richardson Trinity Christian Academy Evan Wise Plano Plano Senior High School Seniors Ashlea Banick Plano Plano East Senior High School Heather Blizzard Plano Centennial High School* Christina Buss Plano Ursuline Academy* Albert Chang Dallas Plano West Senior High School* Andrew Clark Plano Plano West Senior High School* Douglas Hermann Allen Allen High School* Lauren Huber Plano Plano West Senior High School Jeff Nanney Plano Plano East Senior High School* Joe O’Neill Plano Plano Senior High School* David Raboy Plano Plano Senior High School Becky Reid McKinney McKinney High School Adam Rosenfield Plano Plano West Senior High School* Kristin Schneider Richardson Home School* Jocelyn Sedlet Plano Plano East Senior High School Trey Smith Richardson Bishop Lynch High School Katie Willman Frisco Frisco Centennial High School* Anna Zhang Plano Plano West Senior High School* * Returning member
10.21.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced that the Department of Homeland Security has awarded the City of Plano $2,156, 328 for sheltering evacuees from Hurricane Katrina. The money will go to pay for rent and utilities for housing roughly 1,500 people in 700 units. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced that the Department of Homeland Security has awarded the City of Plano $2,156, 328 for sheltering evacuees from Hurricane Katrina. The money will go to pay for rent and utilities for housing roughly 1,500 people in 700 units. The funding comes as part of a U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) federal grants for the State of Texas associated with Hurricane Katrina. “This is great news for the City of Plano. Texans really welcomed folks with open arms. I’m very proud of my constituents and I’m very proud for local communities that went above and beyond to help those devastated by Hurricane Katrina,” said Johnson. “Plano continues to work diligently to assist the efforts in housing evacuees from both Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita. These funds will be used to reimburse the City's budget for those expenditures covered from these efforts,” said William Peterson, Director of Homeland Security for the City of Plano. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
10.20.2005	A firm believer in the Second Amendment, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) voted today to prevent law-abiding firearms dealers and manufacturers from being held responsible for the criminal acts of third parties. The measure, S. 397, Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act, now heads to President Bush’s desk for his signature to become law. share: f t A firm believer in the Second Amendment, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) voted today to prevent law-abiding firearms dealers and manufacturers from being held responsible for the criminal acts of third parties. The measure, S. 397, Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act, now heads to President Bush’s desk for his signature to become law. “Should GM or Ford be held responsible if a drunk driver hurts someone? Most Americans say ‘no’, and that's what this bill is all about,” said Johnson, an original co-sponsor of the House version of this bill, H.R. 800. The measure passed 283 to 144. The bill does not shield dealers or manufacturers who violate existing law or act negligently, nor does it protect the makers of a faulty product. “This is a huge victory for Second Amendment supporters and those who value common-sense in the courtroom,” concluded Johnson. In addition, Johnson is an original co-sponsor of a bill to allow law-abiding people to use guns to protect their homes and families in the nation’s capital. Under H.R. 1288, D.C. citizens would enjoy the same self-defense rights as residents of the 50 states. The bill would allow honest citizens to own rifles, shotguns and handguns, without the current bureaucratic registration requirements. Johnson represents Dallas and Collin Counties.
10.18.2005	Asserting consumers have to realize they cannot blame others for the consequences of their actions, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) voted for a bill that would prevent lawsuits against the food industry from those who overeat. The so-called Cheeseburger Bill bans frivolous lawsuits against producers and sellers of food and non-alcoholic drinks stemming from obesity claims. share: f t Asserting consumers have to realize they cannot blame others for the consequences of their actions, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) voted for a bill that would prevent lawsuits against the food industry from those who overeat. The so-called Cheeseburger Bill bans frivolous lawsuits against producers and sellers of food and non-alcoholic drinks stemming from obesity claims. According to the Texas Department of Health, 36% of Texas adults are overweight and 24% of Texas adults are obese. Obesity is defined by a body mass index, or BMI, of more than 30. BMI is a commonly used height and weight comparison. “I’m fat because I ate too many Big Macs should not be cause for a lawsuit. This bill is about adding common sense and personal responsibility to the everyday diet of Americans,” stated Johnson. The 306 to 120 vote on the Personal Responsibility in Food Consumption Act comes on the heels of a new study that shows that about 65% of adults are overweight or obese, which increases their risk of heart disease, type 2 diabetes, cancer and many other diseases. In 2000, a New Yorker filed the first-ever U.S. fast-food lawsuit, insisting his frequent visits to McDonald's caused his obesity, diabetes and related health costs. Since then, several copy-cat lawsuits have popped up across the country. “What has happened to personal responsibility? What has happened to common-sense and consequences for your actions? Filing crazy lawsuits doesn’t make you lose weight. Exercising coupled with making good, healthy food decisions cause you to lose weight,” said Johnson. The new bill has the backing of the White House and much of the food industry. The bill still has to be approved by the Senate.
10.07.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) introduced legislation to help students displaced by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita enrolled in public, private and charter schools. With approximately 372,000 students displaced from Louisiana alone, presently, the Texas Education Agency reports that an additional 46,000 students are enrolled in Texas public schools as a result of the hurricanes. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) introduced legislation to help students displaced by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita enrolled in public, private and charter schools. With approximately 372,000 students displaced from Louisiana alone, presently, the Texas Education Agency reports that an additional 46,000 students are enrolled in Texas public schools as a result of the hurricanes. “The aftermath of Hurricane Katrina has shown us what Americans are made of. We want to help those who can’t help themselves. There are countless Hurricane Hero stories. Our schools are no different. It’s time we say thank you for all they are doing to help folks rebuild their lives,” said Johnson. The Hurricane Education Assistance Act would reimburse public schools for enrolling students displaced by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. To qualify, a school district would have to enroll at least 10 students and would be reimbursed up to 90% of the state’s per-pupil cost, with a maximum amount of $7,500 per child. This policy also applies to charter school districts. These funds could be used for expenses related to educating children, like staff salaries, materials and equipment, building maintenance, student transportation, special services and instruction, student counseling, and after-school programs, among other things. This money can not be used for school construction. Assistance also would be made for parents wishing to send their children to private schools. The same $7,500 per-child limit would apply. To ensure money goes where it is most needed, Johnson’s bill requires the Secretary of Education to create income criteria for private-school aid eligibility. Johnson’s initiative reflects the key conservative priority that federal education assistance for hurricane-impacted schools will not discriminate between public and private schools. “The hurricanes didn’t distinguish between public and private schools. The federal government shouldn’t either.” This bill, reflecting the President’s proposal to aid the public and private schools affected by the hurricanes, is a starting point upon which Congress will build. In the coming weeks, Congress will continue its efforts to develop comprehensive solutions to meet the needs of the students and schools impacted by the Gulf Coast hurricanes. The highest-ranking Texan on the House Education and the Workforce Committee, Johnson represents Dallas and Collin Counties in North Texas. Presently, thousands of students have relocated to Johnson’s Third Congressional District. Dallas Independent School District (ISD) has enrolled 2,316 students since Katrina and 76 since Rita. Richardson ISD has enrolled 1,114 students from Louisiana. Plano ISD has enrolled 682 students from Katrina and 21 from Rita. Frisco ISD has taken 180 students. Wylie ISD has taken in 91 students, roughly 1% of total enrollment.
09.29.2005	At a news conference on Capitol Hill, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) unveiled new legislation to focus on “enforcement first” to help stem the tide of illegal immigration. The bill introduction comes on the heels of a new report that notes that illegal immigration is on the rise. share: f t At a news conference on Capitol Hill, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) unveiled new legislation to focus on “enforcement first” to help stem the tide of illegal immigration. The bill introduction comes on the heels of a new report that notes that illegal immigration is on the rise. “We cannot have a secure nation without secure borders,” said Johnson. The Enforcement First Immigration Reform Act proactively addresses several issues. The bill would: initiate strong, vigorous interior enforcement of laws against illegal immigration; reduce identification fraud; enhance security by using military enforcement the border; eliminate the hiring of illegal aliens; reform current work visa programs to be more employer and immigrant friendly; and defend citizenship. Specifically, the initiative ends the practice of granting citizenship to any child born in the United States unless at least one parent is in the U.S. legally. A new report from the Pew Hispanic Center shows that more immigrants enter this country illegally than legally, despite increased security in the wake of 2001 attacks on America. “In my mind, if you’re here legally, you should be rewarded. If you’re here illegally, you should be deported.” “Don’t just send illegal immigrants home. Let’s stop them before they get here. This bill does that,” continued Johnson. Johnson vehemently opposes any blanket amnesty programs. Johnson hopes that the Congress will address illegal immigration in the 109th Congress. Last week Johnson joined Texas lawmakers in declaring a State of Emergency along the border with Mexico. To view a copy of the letter the Lone Star State lawmakers sent to President Bush, visit SamJohnson.House.gov. In addition, to view a summary of the bill or the text, visit SamJohnson.House.gov. Johnson represents portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
09.28.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released following statement in response to Democrat-activist Ronnie Earle’s indictment of Majority Leader Tom DeLay. Johnson served with DeLay in Austin before coming to Congress. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released following statement in response to Democrat-activist Ronnie Earle’s indictment of Majority Leader Tom DeLay. Johnson served with DeLay in Austin before coming to Congress. “Majority Leader Tom DeLay is a tremendous leader of the Republican party. His only interest is a better America. “Ronnie Earle and his Democrat cronies set out three years ago to bring Tom down at all costs. “The bogus charge today is nothing more than a Democrat partisan plan to ruin Tom DeLay. It was widely reported that Ronnie Earle attended a Democrat Party fundraising event when he publicly bragged about his efforts to get the Majority Leader. Why wasn’t Ronnie that forthcoming with information during his secret investigation? “Sadly, Ronnie Earle’s political ambition has blinded him from seeking the real truth. “I know Tom DeLay will emerge from this stronger than ever. I’m convinced justice will prevail and Tom will be vindicated.”
09.16.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) supported H.R. 3768, the Katrina Emergency Tax Relief Act of 2005. By providing fast-track tax relief, the bill will give people affected by Hurricane Katrina more flexibility and resources. In addition, the bill will encourage cash donations to help victims and will provide incentives for housing assistance. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) supported H.R. 3768, the Katrina Emergency Tax Relief Act of 2005. By providing fast-track tax relief, the bill will give people affected by Hurricane Katrina more flexibility and resources. In addition, the bill will encourage cash donations to help victims and will provide incentives for housing assistance. “So many people have lost so much. This is just one more way to help those who are literally facing the very daunting task of starting their lives all over again. By providing tax relief for housing assistance, personal loss and individual debts, victims of Hurricane Katrina will be able to focus their time and efforts on building a future, not future tax bills,” said Johnson. For those people affected by Katrina in Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama, the bill provides tax relief for housing assistance to dislocated persons. The measure also waives 10-percent tax on early distributions from IRAs and pensions for individuals affected by the hurricane, among other things. For a more comprehensive list of tax relief, visit SamJohnson.house.gov. The bill also helps the countless people assisting the evacuees out of the goodness of their hearts. The Act encourages cash donations by people, encourages cash donations by corporations, and increases the mileage reimbursement rate for charitable donation deductions. “Since Hurricane Katrina rocked the Gulf, the people of Dallas have welcomed evacuees with open arms. They have opened their hearts and homes to make sure kids are enrolled in schools, parents can find jobs, and families are reunited. It’s no wonder a local news paper has devoted an entire section to ‘Hurricane Heroes.’ They’re everywhere! This bill helps both the victims and the volunteers.” The measure passed by voice vote and heads to the U.S. Senate. Johnson represents Dallas and Collin Counties.
09.01.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) encouraged rising high school sophomores, juniors and seniors to make a difference and to apply for the Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC). Students have until Friday, August 26th to apply and may download the application at SamJohnson.house.gov. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) encouraged rising high school sophomores, juniors and seniors to make a difference and to apply for the Congressional Youth Advisory Council (CYAC). Students have until Friday, August 26th to apply and may download the application at SamJohnson.house.gov. “To the young people in North Texas, I want to challenge you: Make a difference and make your voice heard. Apply for the Congressional Youth Advisory Council today. You’re the faces of the future and I want Congress to know what’s important to you,” said Johnson. Last year, Johnson created the Third District Congressional Youth Advisory Council. Nearly 150 students applied and an independent board of community leaders selected 39 participants. This year, the application will include a new 250-word essay detailing what the student hopes to learn by serving on the council, on top of two letters of recommendation. Students who reside in the Third Congressional District enrolled in public, private or home schools may apply for the Congressional Youth Advisory Council; there is no charge to apply or participate. Once again, an independent board of community leaders will nominate students to the Council. Members of last year’s CYAC must re-apply as a formality; however, submission of a completed application will automatically place the returning student on the CYAC. High school sophomores, juniors and seniors will be selected based on leadership ability, academic performance, public service, written recommendations and essay submission. Once confirmed, the members of the Council will meet several times throughout the school year in the Third District. The Council’s goal is two-fold. First, the Council will provide Johnson with greater student perspective and insight on issues that directly affect them. Second, Council activities will serve to boost youth civic participation. Last fall, the Collin County edition of the Dallas Morning News weighed in on this program. “In many other congressional districts, this kind of interaction with representatives is reserved for adult voters with checkbooks, so teenagers in Collin County should embrace this opportunity. “A seasoned veteran of Congress wants their help and wants to help them get involved. They should jump at this offer.” Those interested in applying can access a CYAC application form on Johnson’s website www.samjohnson.house.gov. Applications must be returned to Johnson’s Richardson office by Friday, August 26th at 4pm. For more information, call 972-470-0892. Johnson represents Dallas and Collin counties.
08.30.2005	On Saturday, September 10th at 9:30 am, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will host the annual Service Academies Forum for young people and their families interested in pursuing an education at one of the nation’s five service academies. The free informational event will take place in the Conference Center of the Collin County Community College Spring Creek Campus located at 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway in Plano. No R.S.V.P needed. share: f t On Saturday, September 10th at 9:30 am, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) will host the annual Service Academies Forum for young people and their families interested in pursuing an education at one of the nation’s five service academies. The free informational event will take place in the Conference Center of the Collin County Community College Spring Creek Campus located at 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway in Plano. No R.S.V.P needed. Students interested in seeking a nomination to the U.S. Military, Naval, Air Force, Merchant Marine or Coast Guard Academies are encouraged to attend. At the event, representatives will present highlights of each Service Academy and provide details on student evaluation, nomination and appointment procedures. Following this overview, people will break into groups. This allows students and parents to speak directly with representatives from each academy. Students who attend the forum are under no obligation to apply or enroll in an Academy. Students must be nominated for the U.S. Air Force Academy (Colorado Springs, CO), the U.S. Military Academy (West Point, NY), the U.S. Naval Academy (Annapolis, MD), and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (Kings Point, NY). Students applying to the U.S. Coast Guard Academy (New London, CT) do not need a congressional nomination. Saturday, September 10th 9:30 am Service Academies Forum – a free informational session Conference Center Collin County Community College Spring Creek Campus 2800 E. Spring Creek Parkway Plano
08.10.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) blasted Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson’s (30th Dist.-Texas) efforts to close Dallas Love Field to commercial traffic as “reckless and wrong.” Earlier today the Dallas Morning News online edition reported that Eddie Bernice Johnson “would help sponsor legislation to close Dallas Love Field to commercial traffic if the Wright amendment is repealed.” Eddie Bernice Johnson represents Dallas Love Field. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) blasted Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson’s (30th Dist.-Texas) efforts to close Dallas Love Field to commercial traffic as “reckless and wrong.” Earlier today the Dallas Morning News online edition reported that Eddie Bernice Johnson “would help sponsor legislation to close Dallas Love Field to commercial traffic if the Wright amendment is repealed.” Eddie Bernice Johnson represents Dallas Love Field. “Talk about a dumb idea! How can someone who represents Dallas Love Field support legislation to shut it down? That is reckless and wrong. In Congress, we take an oath to protect and serve the people, not hurt them,” said Sam Johnson. In May, Johnson introduced the Right to Fly Act, H.R. 2646, with Congressman Jeb Hensarling (5th Dist-.Texas). The Act immediately repeals the Wright Amendment that restricts air travel out of Dallas Love Field to most states outside of Texas. Their bill has 31 cosponsors. “It’s one thing to support the Wright Amendment. It’s another thing to support shutting down your home-district airport. What about the people who work at Dallas Love? What about the people who travel from Dallas Love? What about the companies that operate out of Dallas Love? Her decision smacks of heavy-handed government at its absolute worst,” continued Sam Johnson. The introduction of H.R. 2646 marked the first time in the ban’s nearly three-decade existence that a Member of Congress has taken a full-on swipe at the Amendment, inspiring a flurry of activity and discussion. Since then, Senator John McCain (R-Ariz.) introduced similar legislation in the Senate. In response, U.S. Senator James M. Inhofe (R-Okla.) proposed shutting down Dallas Love Field to commercial traffic. “Eddie Bernice incorrectly alleges that repealing the Wright Amendment may take away jobs at Dallas Fort Worth Airport. Last time I checked, she represents Dallas Love Field,” said Sam Johnson. “Shouldn’t she be more concerned about keeping and creating jobs in her own district?” “I hope her constituents make their voices heard. They can call her at (202) 225-8885 or (214) 922-8885 and tell her how they feel about her desire to protect jobs somewhere else at their expense,” concluded Sam Johnson. Congressman Sam Johnson represents Dallas and Collin Counties.
08.02.2005	Knowing that the Lone Star State’s continued growth places higher demands on our state’s transportation infrastructure, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) today announced new funding for a high priority transportation project in North Texas. Johnson successfully secured $12.8 million for State Highway 121 as part of the highway bill that just passed Congress and awaits the President’s signature to become law. share: f t Knowing that the Lone Star State’s continued growth places higher demands on our state’s transportation infrastructure, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) today announced new funding for a high priority transportation project in North Texas. Johnson successfully secured $12.8 million for State Highway 121 as part of the highway bill that just passed Congress and awaits the President’s signature to become law. “As more people move to Texas, our roads and transit systems must be upgraded and expanded to assure safety and meet the higher demand,” said Johnson. “This transportation bill provides critical funding to meet our state’s growing needs. It will also put people to work on beneficial public projects…further strengthening our robust economy.” The $12.8 million will go directly to Texas Department of Transportation (TXDoT) to be used for construction on the north-bound lanes and interchanges on SH 121 from Hillcrest to US 75. In addition the State Highway 121 funding, Johnson also worked to ensure that the government may work with private-sector companies as a cost-effective way to build new methods of transportation. As a result of Johnson’s behind-the-scenes negotiating, Johnson changed tax law to permit state governments to issue up to a total of $15 billion worth of Private Activity Bonds (PABs) to privately finance road construction while the federal government would spend about $1 billion. While $15 billion will not go directly to Texas, the Lone Star State is well positioned to quickly apply for this money. Johnson represents Dallas and Collin counties.
07.29.2005	Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill that includes a cost effective way to build roads. The “Highway Bill” contains $15 billion of bonds to finance new toll roads. This provision substantially resembles U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson’s (3rd Dist.-Texas) bill H.R.3857, the Private Bonds for Modern Roads Act (108th Congress). Johnson’s proposal would change tax law to permit state governments to issue up to a total of $15 billion worth of Private Activity Bonds (PABs) to privately finance road construction while the federal government would spend about $1 billion. Johnson worked tirelessly behind the scenes to guarantee his transportation initiative made it into the final highway bill. share: f t Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill that includes a cost effective way to build roads. The “Highway Bill” contains $15 billion of bonds to finance new toll roads. This provision substantially resembles U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson’s (3rd Dist.-Texas) bill H.R.3857, the Private Bonds for Modern Roads Act (108th Congress). Johnson’s proposal would change tax law to permit state governments to issue up to a total of $15 billion worth of Private Activity Bonds (PABs) to privately finance road construction while the federal government would spend about $1 billion. Johnson worked tirelessly behind the scenes to guarantee his transportation initiative made it into the final highway bill. “Bring on the bulldozers! This is terrific news for Texas! What a cost-effective way to build roads,” said Johnson, a strong fiscal conservative. “With the unprecedented growth in Texas, governments can’t build our roads fast enough. This infusion of private sector dollars will definitely help.” Johnson’s position on the Ways and Means Committee helped him change the tax portion of the transportation bill to make this happen. Toll roads have been a significant part of the road building in North Texas to speed construction, move commuters and spur economic growth. Texas Department of Transportation has been very supportive of enacting Private Bonds for Modern Roads. “About the best way there is to bring more resources into Texas infrastructure is through tax-exempt debt. We ask the private sector to build airports, schools, and water projects this way and thanks to Sam Johnson, now we can use it to start building roads. We will use this extensively in our campaign to bring private capital to our highway system.” said Ric Williamson, Chairman of the Texas Transportation Commission. State and local governments can issue regular tax-exempt bonds to finance projects as long as the bond proceeds are repaid with government funds. They can also issue tax exempt “private activity bonds” (PABs) to be repaid by a private entity to finance projects such as airport terminals, shipping ports or public housing. Each state is allocated an amount based on population – state legislatures or executive branch offices allocate these funds to projects. In many states, public housing is allocated the vast majority of the cap every year. Privately financed toll roads have not been among the eligible uses of PABs because historically roads have always been financed by State or Federal tax dollars directly. State and Federal spending has not been able to keep pace with demand for such projects. The provision in the “highway bill” provides $15 billion outside of the current volume cap allocated to states. While $15 billion will not go directly to Texas, the Lone Star State is well positioned to quickly apply for this money. Congressman Sam Johnson has been working since the late 1990s to expand federal efforts at public-private partnerships for road building. A similar provision was included in a 1999 tax bill that was vetoed by then-President Bill Clinton. Johnson fought to ensure this provision made it into the transportation bill. Organized labor had been working to expand its grip on the labor force in construction financed with federal funds. Labor unions sought to expand to tax exempt bonds the “prevailing wage” provisions of law that require all labor to be paid on union wage scale. As Chairman of the Employer-Employee Relations Subcommittee of the House Committee on Education and Workforce, which has jurisdiction over this labor law, Johnson proved instrumental in negotiating the language of this section of the bill so that no expansion of “prevailing wage” would apply to either tax exempt bonds or to “right to work” states such as Texas. The House passed the conference report on H.R. 3, Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users. The Transportation bill, H.R. 3, is reauthorized every six years. The President is expected to sign the agreement into law soon.
07.26.2005	Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation authored by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) to increase the number of working Americans with health insurance. Presently, 27 million working people are uninsured; 63 percent are either self-employed or work for a small business that has less than 100 employees. share: f t Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation authored by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) to increase the number of working Americans with health insurance. Presently, 27 million working people are uninsured; 63 percent are either self-employed or work for a small business that has less than 100 employees. “Due to the significant number of service and retail jobs in the Lone Star State, 27% of working Texans don’t have health insurance. Association Health Plans would change that,” said Johnson. “It’s time to increase the insured and give small business the same access to affordable health care that big business already enjoys. As I like to say, ‘If it’s good enough for Wall Street, it’s good enough for Main Street.’” Johnson’s bill, the Small Business Health Fairness Act, H.R. 525, passed by a vote of 263 to 165. The Act would give millions of small-business owners, their employees and families access to more affordable, quality health insurance through the creation of Association Health Plans (AHPs). Small businesses would be allowed to band together to purchase affordable health insurance. The group purchasing power would lower costs and protect employers from the high-priced small-group market and cost-driving state-mandates. A private study estimates if AHPs became law, 8 ½ million Americans would have health insurance. The Small Business Health Fairness Act contains strict patient protections, tough consumer safeguards and numerous oversight requirements that are tougher than those now required by current corporate plans and even some states. Under the law, only bona-fide associations existing for at least three years, for the purpose of OTHER than providing AHPs, may offer the plans. In addition, the Department of Labor (DoL) would monitor the associations to protect people, their money and their plans. Presently, DoL oversees corporate health plans in America. Johnson chairs the Subcommittee on Employer-Employee Relations on the Committee on Education and the Workforce. Both committees passed the bill this spring with strong bipartisan support. “Small business owners and their employees are clamoring for relief from the high costs of health insurance. It’s high time Congress did something about it,” concluded Johnson. A top White House health care priority, Johnson’s bill boasts numerous supporters. A broad and diverse coalition of more than 160 groups have endorsed the AHP bill, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Federation of Independent Business, the American Farm Bureau Federation, the Associated Builders and Contractors, The Latino Coalition, National Black Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of Women Business Owners, and the National Restaurant Association. Johnson represents Dallas and Collin counties.
07.22.2005	After a two days of intense deliberation, a house panel approved a sweeping education bill that included a proposal by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) to eliminate waste in the popular Pell Grant program. Pell Grants provide free federal assistance to students they do not have to repay. The measure passed as part of the College Access & Opportunity Act (H.R. 609), comprehensive higher education reform legislation. share: f t After a two days of intense deliberation, a house panel approved a sweeping education bill that included a proposal by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) to eliminate waste in the popular Pell Grant program. Pell Grants provide free federal assistance to students they do not have to repay. The measure passed as part of the College Access & Opportunity Act (H.R. 609), comprehensive higher education reform legislation. “Believe it or not, one student has collected free Pell Grant money for 17 years! That’s absurd! Congress should encourage students to complete their degrees in a reasonable amount of time. Our focus should be on assisting students who are serious about completing their education and entering the workforce. This is a common-sense solution that will ultimately free up more grants for more students who are committed to graduating,” said Johnson. “The federal taxpayers should not subsidize slackers.” After little debate, last week a Subcommittee on Education and the Workforce adopted Johnson’s common-sense resolution to eliminate waste in the Pell Grant program. Unlike a loan, a Pell Grant doesn’t have to be repaid. Until 1992, a six-year limit existed for how long a student could receive free federal tuition assistance. Not having a limit has allowed a small population of students to abuse the program by receiving Pell Grants for great amounts of time. There are cases of students receiving Pell Grants for 10, 11, and 12 years. In fact, one student collected Pell Grant money for 17 years. Johnson’s measure ends this unlimited access to free funds for education and caps the amount of time a student may accept free federal tuition assistance to nine years. Also included in the giant reform bill, H.R. 609, are efforts to help our military men and women and the creation of the Academic Bill of Rights. First, this bill would help the troops and waive student loan interest payments by allowing student loan deferments for active duty military personnel. “Our deployed men and women who continue to make great sacrifices to protect our nation should not have to forfeit the right to an affordable education in order to serve their country in uniform. Waiving the interest on federal subsidized student loans for all troops is the right and fair thing to do,” said Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran. Second, the legislation initiates an Academic Bill of Rights. This will protect students’ free speech to guarantee students are not persecuted based on viewpoints, political perspectives, or ideologies. Specifically, students should be graded solely on their answers and knowledge of subjects, without regard to their political, religious, or ideological beliefs. In addition, student group funds used for guest speakers should be allocated to include diverse viewpoints.
07.21.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) reintroduced critical tax-relief legislation that would virtually end the injustice of people floating interest-free loans to the government. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) reintroduced critical tax-relief legislation that would virtually end the injustice of people floating interest-free loans to the government. “No one should have to float the government an interest-free loan forever,” said Johnson. Throwing people a “financial life line,” Johnson’s bill would fix a portion of the alternative minimum tax (AMT) problem for those who purchased, rather than sold, incentive stock options (ISOs) from their employer. Johnson’s initiative, the AMT Credit Fairness Act, would allow taxpayers with AMT credits that are more than four years old to begin to rebate them either at 20% per year, or at $5,000 per year, whichever is greater. These AMT credits currently amount to an interest-free loan to the government. Many North Texas families experienced this financial drama as a result of tech companies offering incentive stock options. For a great majority of the employees, things went south fast when the so-called “tech bubble” burst and families have been digging out ever since as a result of “phantom gains.” “Phantom gains” are financial gains experienced only on paper, but not pocketed. In most cases, to pay for AMT-ISO liability, families had to put second mortgages on their homes, cash out retirement savings, sell assets and struggle to work out payment plans with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Created to tax the extremely wealthy, the alternative minimum tax was established to prevent high-income individuals from using special tax breaks to pay little or no taxes. The AMT is a parallel tax system that requires taxes to be calculated twice, using different rules each time. Ultimately, the higher of the two tax bills must be paid. But for various reasons, the AMT, which eliminates many deductions, reaches more people each year, including some moderate-income people and some who don't use special tax breaks. In most cases, upon purchasing ISOs, which constitutes income, people were automatically thrown into AMT. Critics argue the wisdom of companies granting ISOs, with all their complications, to middle managers and rank-and-file employees who did not routinely use tax professionals and financial planners to manage their affairs. Yet, this problem occurred, and Johnson wants to see people get their money back. “I want to thank the numerous constituents who brought this issue to my attention. This bill would not have been possible without their help,” said Johnson. Several residents and employees of the Third District contacted the Congressman, urging him to find a solution. Several fellow Ways and Means Members are original cosponsors of the bill. For a list, contact the office. “This AMT-ISO situation demonstrates once again why we should repeal the AMT altogether,” said Johnson, the highest-ranking Texan on the Ways and Means Committee. Outside groups like Reform AMT and Coalition for Tax Fairness have endorsed Johnson’s proposal. To learn more about ReformAMT, visit www.reformamt.org. To learn more about Coalition for Tax Fairness, visit www.fair-iso.org.
07.19.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) issued the following statement on the passing of retired General William Westmoreland. Westmoreland died Monday at the age of 91. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) issued the following statement on the passing of retired General William Westmoreland. Westmoreland died Monday at the age of 91. A combat veteran of North Africa, Sicily and Europe during World War II, Westmoreland earned the rank of Colonel by the age of 30. Promoted to Brigadier General during the Korean War, he then served in the Pentagon under Army Chief of Staff Maxwell Taylor. In 1960 he became the Superintendent of West Point. Starting in 1964, he served as the three-star General commanding American troops in Vietnam. In 1965 during Johnson’s first tour of duty in Vietnam, then-Major Sam Johnson worked for Westmoreland at MCVN (Pro: Mac-V) helping orchestrate B-52 bombing campaigns out of Saigon. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson made two tours in Vietnam. Shot down by the enemy during his second tour in Vietnam, he spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War. “General Westmoreland embodied character, duty, honor and country. A real leader and inspiration, he served his country like no other. “His determination to lead and love of country helped define him as a military man through and through. “It was an honor to work for him and I’ll always remember his passion for his troops. “Shirley and I offer our prayers and condolences to his entire family.”
07.15.2005	Four members of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security introduced H.R. 3304, the GROW Accounts Act, yesterday in the U.S. House of Representatives (Growing Real Ownership for Workers). share: f t Four members of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security introduced H.R. 3304, the GROW Accounts Act, yesterday in the U.S. House of Representatives (Growing Real Ownership for Workers). Congressmen Jim McCrery (4th Dist.-La.), Clay Shaw (22nd Dist.-Fl.), Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas), and Paul Ryan (1st Dist.-Wis.) call the proposal “a first step towards larger reform by stopping the raid on Social Security.” The measure, which already boasts 38 original cosponsors, protects the Social Security surplus by creating accounts that workers would own and that would be fully inheritable. Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Jim McCrery, said, "The creation of GROW accounts is a simple, common-sense, first step in protecting Social Security for the next generation of retirees and beyond." Congressman Clay Shaw, the immediate-past Chairman of the Social Security Subcommittee said, “This piece of reform is a good first step toward putting Social Security on a sustainable path. The GROW Accounts Act will stop the raid on Social Security by ensuring that Social Security taxes are spent the way they should be - only on Social Security.” "It's time to start spending Social Security money on Social Security and stop spending it on other government programs," said Congressman Sam Johnson. "We should all be able to agree that Social Security tax dollars should only go to Social Security. This is a fundamental step toward protecting Social Security for all generations and we're moving forward to make this happen," Congressman Paul Ryan said.
07.06.2005	According to the Department of the Navy, Retired Vice Admiral James B. Stockdale, Medal of Honor recipient, former Viet Nam prisoner of war (POW), Naval aviator and test pilot, academic, and American hero passed away on July 5 in Coronado, California at the age of 81 years old. share: f t According to the Department of the Navy, Retired Vice Admiral James B. Stockdale, Medal of Honor recipient, former Viet Nam prisoner of war (POW), Naval aviator and test pilot, academic, and American hero passed away on July 5 in Coronado, California at the age of 81 years old. Fellow POW cellmate and current U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement mourning “Jim” Stockdale’s death. During Stockdale’s seven-and-one-half-year imprisonment, he endured torture and was forced to wear vise-like heavy leg irons for two years and spent four years in solitary confinement in a place called “Alcatraz.” As the highest-ranking officer in captivity for large periods of time, Stockdale created the POW culture that helped establish a cohesive set of rules governing prisoner behavior. Codified in the acronym, BACK U.S. (Unity over Self), these rules gave POWs a sense of hope, which many credited with giving them the strength to endure their ordeal. While held in captivity, POWs “said” goodnight with a cough-hack-spit code using the letters “G-B-U” for “God bless you.” Vice Adm. James B. Stockdale’s biography and additional photos are located on the following web site: www.admiralstockdale.com. Stockdale earned 26 combat awards including two Distinguished Flying Crosses, three Distinguished Service Medals, two Purple Hearts and four Silver Star Medals. “It’s a sad, sad day. America has lost a true hero and real patriot. Words fail to describe how Jim was a shining example of duty, honor, and country. “His legacy of leadership and life of service will live on in our hearts. He made such a difference in so many lives and I know many POWs have Jim to thank for his encouragement, dedication, and in some cases, their lives. He was one tough son of a gun and I know he gave his captors hell. “Shirley and I offer our deepest condolences and count ourselves blessed to have known such a fine American.” “Cybil and the family are in our thoughts and prayers. To them, we can only say, God Bless You.”
06.30.2005	Today a House panel passed legislation aimed to update and improve pension laws to protect employees, employers and taxpayers. The House Education and the Workforce Committee passed the Pension Protection Act without opposition. Johnson introduced the bill earlier this month. share: f t Today a House panel passed legislation aimed to update and improve pension laws to protect employees, employers and taxpayers. The House Education and the Workforce Committee passed the Pension Protection Act without opposition. Johnson introduced the bill earlier this month. “It’s time to tell employers if you’re going to make pension promises, then you need to put your money where your mouth is. When this bill passes, companies can no longer make promises they can’t keep,” said Johnson, who unveiled the measure earlier this month with Education and the Workforce Chairman John Boehner (8th Dist.-Ohio), Ways and Means Committee Chairman Bill Thomas (22nd Dist.-Calif.) and John Kline (2nd Dist.-Minn.). First, the bill creates certainty for companies and those who have pensions by providing a permanent interest rate to accurately calculate employers’ pension funding promises to their employees. Second, the bill ensures employers properly fund their plans. Specifically, the measure gives incentives to employers to better fund their pension plans during good economic times. The legislation also forbids employers and unions from making promises to workers they know cannot be kept. The initiative also creates clarity by providing workers with meaningful disclosure about the status of their retirement plans. “This makes sure that employees know how their pension plans are doing financially and don’t retire to a bunch of surprises, like a dwindling retirement fund.” The Act also protects the interests of taxpayers who could otherwise be forced to fund a multi-billion dollar bailout of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) should its financial condition continue to deteriorate. With a PBGC deficit that now exceeds $23 billion, a taxpayer bailout of the agency remains a possibility unless comprehensive reform is enacted. The Act now heads to the Ways and Means Committee. Johnson also serves on this Committee.
06.23.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) issued the following statement blasting a recent decision by the United States Supreme Court that cities may confiscate land, essentially repealing the Fifth Amendment of the United States Constitution, also known as eminent domain. According to the Associated Press, “A divided Supreme Court ruled Thursday that local governments may seize people's homes and businesses against their will for private development in a decision anxiously awaited in communities where economic growth often is at war with individual property rights.” share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) issued the following statement blasting a recent decision by the United States Supreme Court that cities may confiscate land, essentially repealing the Fifth Amendment of the United States Constitution, also known as eminent domain. According to the Associated Press, “A divided Supreme Court ruled Thursday that local governments may seize people's homes and businesses against their will for private development in a decision anxiously awaited in communities where economic growth often is at war with individual property rights.” In this case, the ruling impacts Connecticut families whose homes are on the chopping block so a hotel, health club and office complex may be built. Of those slated to be moved is a married couple in their 80s who have lived in the same house for over 50 years. The Constitution states one may not “be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation.” Today’s decision deserves special attention because of the reach of the Fifth Amendment, which allows governments to take private property through eminent domain if the land is for “public use.” “Today’s ruling is absurd, unjustified and illogical. “Since when can you lose your home in this country because of a court ruling? This was in Connecticut, not Cuba! “Talk about power grab! The Supreme Court has gone too far. “It will be interesting to see how this decision plays out in communities across America.”
06.22.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) delivered the following statement at a markup of the Pension Protection Act, H.R. 2830. Earlier this month, Johnson helped to introduce the sweeping pension reform legislation that strengthens pension plans for employees and employers. Johnson chairs the Subcommittee on Employer-Employee Relations on the Committee on Education and the Workforce. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) delivered the following statement at a markup of the Pension Protection Act, H.R. 2830. Earlier this month, Johnson helped to introduce the sweeping pension reform legislation that strengthens pension plans for employees and employers. Johnson chairs the Subcommittee on Employer-Employee Relations on the Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Thank you all for being here. As the daily headlines across America show us, the federal laws that govern worker pension plans are badly outdated. Over the last year and a half, we’ve held 10 hearings on the under-funding crisis affecting defined benefit pension plans, so we’ve studied this problem in a careful, deliberative manner. “The time for hearings is over, and the time for legislative action to confront this problem is now. Two weeks ago, I joined my colleagues in introducing the Pension Protection Act, comprehensive reform legislation to strengthen pension plans for employees and employers. “The pension terminations in the airline industry highlight the uncertainty many employees face in today’s private pension system, and they demonstrate the failure of outdated pension laws to protect the interests of employees, retirees, and taxpayers. When the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) is forced to take on responsibility for paying pension benefits, both employees and taxpayers stand to lose. With a PBGC deficit that now exceeds $23 billion, a taxpayer bailout of the agency remains a possibility unless comprehensive reform is enacted. “We understand pensions are a voluntary benefit provided by employers. We understand the current rules are burdensome and outdated and have caused some employers to simply stop offering these benefits altogether. There is a balance we need to strike here, but retaining the current system is not acceptable. The bill before us simply says if you offer a defined benefit pension plan, you need to put your money where your mouth is. “The Pension Protection Act meets these objectives, and is consistent with the proposal put forth by the Bush Administration. It reforms badly outdated funding rules to ensure employee pensions are properly funded. “The bill also provides employees with meaningful information about the status of their pension plans. And I think that this may be the most important change we make. Too often, employers and union leaders in both single employer and multi-employer plans have negotiated benefit increases when pension plans are severely under-funded – misleading employees, digging a deeper financial hole, and increasing the odds that plans will be terminated and taken over by the PBGC. The bill before us prohibits this practice. It is time we put the brakes on over-promising and under-funding. “Lastly, this bill allows employers to provide employees with access to investment advice as an employee benefit so they can be better investors in their 401(k) plans. This provision has tough fiduciary standards and disclosure protections. This proposal has passed the House three times in the last four years with significant Democrat support. “While the bill as introduced does not include cash balance protections, we are working to resolve details and expect to finalize this issue before we report the bill from Committee. “This markup represents the first action in what is going to be a long process. Pension plans are just now getting information from their actuaries on how this bill affects them. I am hearing from my constituents and am going to be involved at full committee and at the Ways and Means committee as this bill moves forward. “I look forward to working with members on both sides of the aisle as we move forward. With that, I yield to my friend Mr. Andrews.”
06.22.2005	At a news conference on Capitol Hill today, four Members of the Social Security Subcommittee of Ways and Means announced new legislation to “Spend Social Security dollars on Social Security.” The new measure protects the Social Security surplus by creating accounts that workers would own and that would be fully inheritable. share: f t At a news conference on Capitol Hill today, four Members of the Social Security Subcommittee of Ways and Means announced new legislation to “Spend Social Security dollars on Social Security.” The new measure protects the Social Security surplus by creating accounts that workers would own and that would be fully inheritable. Calling it a “first step towards stopping the raid on Social Security,” Congressmen Jim McCrery (4th Dist.-La.), Clay Shaw (22nd Dist.-Fl.), Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas), and Paul Ryan (1st Dist.-Wis.) discussed their intent to introduce the GROW Accounts Act (Growing Real Ownership for Workers). The bill works to achieve three goals: 1) the Social Security surplus should only be used for Social Security, 2) the surplus should not be used to fund other government programs; and 3) the surplus should not be used to mask the true size of the national debt. Ultimately, the proposal walls off Social Security surplus money from other government spending through the creation of GROW Accounts. According to the Social Security Trustees, Social Security will run a surplus until 2017. Currently Social Security taxes pay for retiree benefits, as well as benefits for widows, orphans and the disabled. Any funds left over, known as the Social Security surplus, are used for other government spending. This measure would change that by directing money from the surplus to fund newly created GROW Accounts. People under the age of 55 will have GROW accounts, or can choose to opt out. The accounts will initially be invested in marketable Treasury bonds. This allows a safe and prudent transition period for the development of personal accounts to protect the Social Security surplus. An independent Board, similar to the one which manages the retirement plan for Federal workers, will manage and administer GROW Accounts. In January 2009, the board will submit a plan to Congress that would allow for workers to choose other prudent investment options or stay in low-risk marketable treasury bonds. When a person retires, the account balance will be used to help pay Social Security benefits. Chairman McCrery said, “This bill will provide future retirees with fully inheritable Social Security accounts that can't be spent by Congress, ensuring that taxes paid into Social Security are used for Social Security.” Congressman Clay Shaw, the immediate-past Chairman of the Social Security Subcommittee said, “This new idea is a good first step toward putting Social Security on a sustainable path. We can all agree that Social Security dollars should be spent on Social Security. I believe that time has come to lay our best thoughts on the table and work towards a clear bipartisan solution, with only the motivation of leaving the Social Security system better than how we found it. It is past time to start thinking about the next generation, not the next election.” Congressman Sam Johnson said, “It’s just common sense that the funds in the Social Security surplus are spent on Social Security. I am for that and this bill is a first step in that direction. It’s like when you sit down to eat a 28 ounce prime porterhouse steak in Dallas. You just have to do it one bite at a time. This bill is our first bite at bigger reform.” Congressman Paul Ryan said, “We should all be able to agree that Social Security’s surplus should go to Social Security. By giving workers the choice to put their Social Security surplus in their personal account to be saved for their retirement, this proposal does just that.”
06.22.2005	At a news conference on Capitol Hill today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson announced his second Social Security proposal this session. This new legislation aims to “spend Social Security dollars on Social Security.” The initiative protects the Social Security surplus by creating accounts that workers would own and that would be fully inheritable. share: f t At a news conference on Capitol Hill today, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson announced his second Social Security proposal this session. This new legislation aims to “spend Social Security dollars on Social Security.” The initiative protects the Social Security surplus by creating accounts that workers would own and that would be fully inheritable. “People are outraged to hear that right now the federal government spends the Social Security surplus on other government programs. That’s just wrong. Our bill changes that,” said Johnson. “It’s just common sense to save the Social Security surplus for Social Security. I am for that and this bill is a first step in that direction. It’s like when you sit down to eat a 28 ounce prime porterhouse steak in Dallas. You just have to do it one bite at a time. This bill is our first bite at bigger reform,” continued Johnson. Calling it a “first step towards stopping the raid on Social Security,” Johnson discussed the GROW Accounts Act (Growing Real Ownership for Workers). The bill works to achieve three goals: 1) the Social Security surplus should only be used for Social Security, 2) the surplus should not be used to fund other government programs; and 3) the surplus should not be used to mask the true size of the national debt. Ultimately, the proposal walls off Social Security surplus money from other government spending through the creation of GROW Accounts. According to the Social Security Trustees, Social Security will run a surplus until 2017. Currently Social Security taxes pay for retiree benefits, as well as benefits for widows, orphans and the disabled. Any funds left over, known as the Social Security surplus, are used for other government spending. This measure would change that by directing money from the surplus to fund newly created GROW Accounts. People under the age of 55 will have GROW accounts, or can choose to opt out. The accounts will initially be invested in marketable Treasury bonds. This allows a safe and prudent three-year transition period for the development of personal accounts to protect the Social Security surplus. An independent Board, similar to the one which manages the retirement plan for Federal workers, will manage and administer GROW Accounts. In January 2009, the board will submit a plan to Congress that would allow for workers to choose other prudent investment options or stay in low-risk marketable treasury bonds. When a person retires, the account balance will be used to help pay Social Security benefits. Johnson introduced the legislation with three other Members of the Social Security Subcommittee, Chairman Jim McCrery (4th Dist.-La.), Congressman Clay Shaw (22nd Dist.-Fl.), and Congressman Paul Ryan (1st Dist.-Wis.). Ways and Means Committee Chairman Bill Thomas (22nd Dist.-Ca.) hailed the proposal and discussed its future saying “This proposal will likely form the basis for one of the components of a developing retirement security package.” Earlier this year Johnson introduced his own Social Security proposal to create personal retirement accounts, H.R. 530.
06.20.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) voted for sweeping United Nations (UN) reform, but signaled that the measure did not go far enough and dubbed today’s action as “just the tip of the iceberg.” The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the Henry Hyde United Nations Reform Act of 2005 by a vote of 221 to 184. The dramatic changes focus on budget cuts, prioritizing programs, watchdog efforts, peace keeping and human rights. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) voted for sweeping United Nations (UN) reform, but signaled that the measure did not go far enough and dubbed today’s action as “just the tip of the iceberg.” The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the Henry Hyde United Nations Reform Act of 2005 by a vote of 221 to 184. The dramatic changes focus on budget cuts, prioritizing programs, watchdog efforts, peace keeping and human rights. “What kind of accountability is there to the UN right now? None! That’s absurd. Everyone knows I fully support getting the United States out of the UN and kicking the taxpayer-subsidized UN out of America. The U.S. should not be sending any money to a totally inept, scandal ridden, money grubbing, power abusing place like the UN,” said Johnson. “While I’d prefer we stop all funding to the UN, today’s reforms are just the tip of the iceberg. If I had my druthers, it would go much further. However, we can not let the perfect be the enemy of the good.” The cornerstone of today’s UN reform bill is financial. The Act tightens the reins on the UN by making contributions to the United Nations from American taxpayers contingent upon actual reforms being put into place. Specifically, if the UN fails to implement reform by 2007, the U.S. will withhold 50 percent of its assessed dues. In addition, the bill withholds U.S. support for expanded and new peacekeeping missions until certifications are made that reforms have been enacted. It has been reported that the United States, the biggest financial contributor to the United Nations, pays a little under 25 percent of the annual $2 billion general budget. That doesn't include money for peacekeeping, international tribunals, or programs like the UN Development Program and UNICEF, which are funded separately. The UN reform bill also takes a strong stand against countries recognized world wide as blatant violators of human rights, yet continue to serve on the UN Commission of Human Rights. The bill mandates that the UN adopt criteria for membership on any human rights body so countries like Libya, China, Zimbabwe, Cuba and Sudan can no longer serve on those committees. In addition, the bill directs the U.S. representative to pursue expansion of the Western Europe and Others Group to permanently include Israel. Currently, Israel is the only country excluded from a permanent regional grouping, thus denying it the rights and privileges of membership afforded to every other country in the UN. “I hope that these reforms plus the nomination of Bolton to serve in the UN will help restore some law and order to that place,” concluded Johnson. Earlier this year, Johnson signed on as on original co-sponsor of H.R. 1146. This legislation seeks to end all U.S. participation in the United Nations. In addition, it would expel the UN from its palatial New York City headquarters, currently subsidized by U.S. taxpayers. Johnson takes issue with several major problems at the UN, namely repeated misconduct by so-called peace keepers, ranging from minor offenses to rape and forced prostitution, the appointment of people from well-known terrorist nations to key international communities as well as anti-Israel sentiments. Plus, the Oil-For-Food Program, created to help starving, penniless people struggling under the ruthless dictatorship of Saddam Hussein’s Iraq, has come under major scrutiny for gross mismanagement. In a related matter, Johnson supports a resolution saying that Kofi Annan should resign from the position of Secretary General of the United Nations to help restore confidence in the organization. (H.Res. 277)
06.16.2005	Today Reps. Kay Granger (R-TX), Sam Johnson (R-TX), Joe Wilson (R-SC), John Kline (R-MN) and Geoff Davis (R-KY) called on U.S. Senator Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) to apologize for his remarks smearing the reputation of America’s military men and women, likening them to Nazis. share: f t Today Reps. Kay Granger (R-TX), Sam Johnson (R-TX), Joe Wilson (R-SC), John Kline (R-MN) and Geoff Davis (R-KY) called on U.S. Senator Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) to apologize for his remarks smearing the reputation of America’s military men and women, likening them to Nazis. The Associated Press reported, “During a speech Tuesday, the Senate’s No. 2 Democrat quoted from an FBI agent’s report describing detainees at the Naval base in Guantanamo Bay… ‘…You would most certainly believe this must have been done by Nazis, Soviets in their gulags, or some mad regime - Pol Pot or others - that had no concern for human beings,’ Durbin said.” Several House Republicans called on Senator Durbin to apologize for his disparaging remarks against the men and women who are bravely serving in the U.S. Armed Forces: “Sen. Durbin’s comments yesterday, where he likened U.S. servicemen and women to Nazis, is outrageous, disrespectful and anti-American,” said Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX). “Our men and women in the military are putting their lives on the line every day to protect this country at home and abroad and are working tirelessly to help stabilize Iraq and Afghanistan so that democracy will flourish in the Middle East. It’s despicable for a U.S. Senator to speak this way and so show such lack of respect for their work and lack of regard for the truth.” “Why did Dick Durbin say this and why aren’t Democrats outraged? They should demand an apology from one of their most-vocal leaders. Aren’t they ashamed for him and embarrassed that he’s smearing the reputation of our brave men and women in uniform? Dick Durbin’s comments were reckless and irresponsible and he should apologize,” said Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX). “By likening US soldiers to brutal dictators, Senator Durbin is empowering terrorists who seek to murder thousands of innocent Americans. His irrational and careless remarks undermine the important service of America’s soldiers and encourage terrorists who seek to damage the United States,” said Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC). “I am appalled by that a member of the Senate minority leadership would make such comments. He should be embarrassed and should apologize immediately.” “The comments of Senator Durbin on the floor of the United States Senate are an outrage,” said Congressman John Kline (R-MN). “By comparing the questioning and treatment tactics employed by our men and women in uniform to the genocide and atrocities committed by the “Nazis, Soviets in their Gulags, or some mad regime – Pol Pot or others that had no concern for human beings,” he has dishonored our servicemen and women, and has diminished the true suffering of the victims of those regimes of terror. "Senator Durbin's regrettable comments about the conditions at Guantanamo have led to a predictable backlash by people who don't agree with our nation's policies in the first place,” said Congressman Geoff Davis (R-KY). "The detainees being held at Guantanamo are suspected terrorists who would like nothing better than to continue the heinous acts that began Sept. 11, 2001. The detainees are in jail -- not at Club Med -- and should expect to be treated as such. But they receive three healthy meals a day, beds in which to sleep and prayers are announced five times a day. They are living better than our men and women in uniform who are fighting for freedom and liberty in the desert.” From the intelligence retrieved at Guantanamo Bay, the military has been able to prevent numerous attacks planned against the U.S. and dismantle vast terrorist networks. Detainees at Guantanamo Bay include terrorist trainers and financiers, recruiters and bomb-makers, and body guards of Usama Bin Laden. Since September 11th, more than 70,000 detainees have been captured in Afghanistan and Iraq, the majority of whom have been released. Approximately 800 suspected Al Qaeda or Taliban operatives have been sent to Guantanamo, including an intended 9/11 hijacker, and of that approximately 520 remain, 235 have been released or transferred to other countries and 61 are awaiting release or transfer. Each case is reviewed at least annually for possible release. There are almost a dozen incidents where detainees have been released from Guantanamo and then taken part in anti-Coalition activities in Iraq.
06.14.2005	For the first time, possibly ever, today a Texas lawmaker advocated immediate repeal of the Wright Amendment on the floor of the United States House of Representatives. share: f t For the first time, possibly ever, today a Texas lawmaker advocated immediate repeal of the Wright Amendment on the floor of the United States House of Representatives. In a one-minute speech on the floor of the House, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) urged his colleagues to co-sponsor bipartisan legislation to eliminate the Wright Amendment, entitled the Right to Fly Act. Introduced last month by Johnson and Congressman Jeb Hensarling (5th Dist-Texas), the Right to Fly Act would immediately repeal the 26-year ban on flights between Love Field and most destinations outside Texas. “You know, I love freedom and I think that Americans should have the freedom to fly whenever they want to, wherever they want to, and on whatever airline they want to,” said Johnson, a 28-year Air Force veteran and a Prisoner of War in Vietnam for nearly seven years. “The Wright Amendment has outlived its usefulness and it's time to repeal it. I urge my colleagues to FREE LOVE Field and to co-sponsor the Right to Fly Act,” Johnson concluded. To watch the floor speech, visit Johnson’s website at www.SamJohnson.house.gov. A Windows Media high-resolution version and low-resolution version are available. In the statement, Johnson refers to a syndicated column by George Will titled, “The Wrongs of the Wright Rule.” Since the bill’s introduction, sixteen Members of Congress have added their names to the bill as co-sponsors and Senator Ensign of Nevada has announced plans to introduce similar legislation in the Senate. FULL TEXT OF THE ONE MINUTE “You know, I love freedom and I think that Americans should have the freedom to fly whenever they want to, wherever they want to, and on whatever airline they want to. “Right now - that's against the law in Dallas because of the Wright Amendment. This outdated law restricts flights out of Dallas Love Field to just those states near Texas. It is NOT the federal government's job to dictate to passengers how, when and where they can fly. That's why Jeb Hensarling and I introduced the Right to Fly Act. This bill immediately repeals the Wright Amendment. “George Will noted Ronald Reagan's take on government saying ‘Washington's approach to intervening in industries is If it moves, tax it; if it keeps moving, regulate it. If it stops moving, subsidize it.’ “Will continues, ‘Regarding airlines, the policy is: If they are failing, keep them flying; if they are prospering, burden them.’ “Well, the Wright Amendment has outlived its usefulness and it's time to repeal it. “I urge my colleagues to FREE LOVE Field and to co-sponsor the Right to Fly Act.”
06.07.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after a new study revealed that consumers face the biggest penalty with the Wright Amendment restricting flights and if this decades-old law were repealed, the Dallas-Fort Worth area stands to gain $1.7 billion annually in increased air travel. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) released the following statement after a new study revealed that consumers face the biggest penalty with the Wright Amendment restricting flights and if this decades-old law were repealed, the Dallas-Fort Worth area stands to gain $1.7 billion annually in increased air travel. To view the study commissioned by Southwest Airlines and Campbell-Hill Aviation group, visit http://www.southwest.com. Last month, Johnson and Congressman Jeb Hensarling (5th Dist-Texas) introduced the Right to Fly Act. The Right to Fly Act would immediately repeal the 26-year ban on flights between Love Field and most destinations outside Texas. If passed, this study shows consumers could see lower fares as a result of increased competition between air carriers. With the exception of federally owned Reagan National Airport in Washington, DC, Dallas Love Field is the only airport in the United States subject to “perimeter rules” imposed by Congress to restrict air travel. Since the bill introduction, six Members of Congress have signed-on as co-sponsors and Senator Ensign of Nevada has signaled his desire to introduce similar legislation in the Senate. “This is about giving people the freedom to fly how they want to, when they want to, where they want to. Once again, what business does Congress have telling people what airlines they may fly and where. This study shows that it’s the consumers who lose when Congress gets involved. It should be up to the consumers to decide how they want to fly, not Congress. “It’s time to repeal the Wright Amendment. That extra $1.7 billion a year sure would be appreciated.”
05.27.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced “Outrageou$ Expense of the Month.” Exclusive to the Sam Johnson Journal – the monthly E-newsletter – this new monthly segment will spotlight unconscionable waste, fraud and abuse in Washington. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced “Outrageou$ Expense of the Month.” Exclusive to the Sam Johnson Journal – the monthly E-newsletter – this new monthly segment will spotlight unconscionable waste, fraud and abuse in Washington. “What happened to a smarter government, lower taxes, less spending, and more local control and freedom to live your life without the intrusion of Washington? Expenses and earmarks are out of control! This has got to stop. I hope if we put enough pressure of people and programs, that some of this pork-barrel spending will stop,” said Johnson. The inaugural “Outrageou$ Expense of the Month” unveils wasteful Washington spending at its worst -- paying someone $136,000 a year – plus benefits – to work as the Homeland Security liaison to Hollywood. “Now you tell me – what does working in Hollywood have to do with national security and ensuring our safety? “You’ll be glad to know I voted recently to zero out this program, eliminate this job, and transfer the money to buy equipment for first responders, like hazardous material protective suits, bullet proof vests and more. To subscribe to the Sam Johnson Journal, log on to SamJohnson.house.gov.
05.26.2005	Today, Dallas-area Congressmen Sam Johnson (R- TX-3) and Jeb Hensarling (R-TX-5) introduced legislation to repeal the Wright Amendment that unfairly restricts flights at Dallas Love Field. share: f t Today, Dallas-area Congressmen Sam Johnson (R- TX-3) and Jeb Hensarling (R-TX-5) introduced legislation to repeal the Wright Amendment that unfairly restricts flights at Dallas Love Field. “Airline consumers should have the freedom to fly where they want without unnecessary restrictions,” said Congressman Hensarling. “It is right to repeal the Wright Amendment. It is wrong for the federal government to play favorites between airlines or airports. Repealing the Wright Amendment will help promote competition, which will provide greater choices and lower fares to passengers and generate more travel to the Metroplex.” The Right to Fly Act would immediately repeal the 26-year ban on flights between Love Field and most destinations outside Texas. If passed, consumers could see lower fares as a result of increased competition between air carriers. “The real debate is about this -- shouldn’t people have the right to choose which airport and which airline they’ll use for their travel needs – and not have the government decide that for them? Why should the federal government enforce strict standards on one airport – and punish one airline? What right does the federal government have to do that? That’s unfair and unjust. The Wright Amendment has outlived its usefulness and it needs to be repealed. That’s what freedom, democracy and competition are all about,” concluded Johnson. With the exception of federally owned Reagan National Airport in Washington, DC, Dallas Love Field is the only airport in the United States subject to “perimeter rules” imposed by Congress to restrict air travel.
05.24.2005	At a hearing on Capitol Hill, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) invited 4th – 12th grade students to make their voice heard and participate in a Social Security essay contest. At the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee hearing, Social Security Actuary Stephen Goss testified on how any reform proposals would affect the long-term standing of the program. share: f t At a hearing on Capitol Hill, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) invited 4th – 12th grade students to make their voice heard and participate in a Social Security essay contest. At the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee hearing, Social Security Actuary Stephen Goss testified on how any reform proposals would affect the long-term standing of the program. “While I appreciate hearing from an expert on Social Security, I also want to hear from younger generations. Let’s face it – today’s Social Security debate is about the future. We must learn how future retirees feel about the upcoming debate. They’re the ones who will be affected the most,” said Johnson, a strong advocate of strengthening Social Security with personal retirement accounts. “I urge young people to share why they want Social Security strengthened,” continued Johnson, one of a handful of members of Congress to introduce his own Social Security legislation. Earlier this year, Johnson introduced H.R. 530, the Individual Social Security Investment Program Act of 2005. Modeled after the CATO “6.2 % Solution,” Johnson’s bill splits the 12.4% of an employee’s payroll tax and says – “let’s share – half to the government, half to you.” Under Johnson’s bill, people would keep 6.2 percent to invest in a personal retirement account – and take advantage of the miracle of compound interest. They would have a sizeable retirement fund and a real asset to pass on to loved ones. The government receives 6.2 percent to meet its obligations to those over 55 and to the disabled, widows, and orphans. The most differentiating aspect of Johnson’s bill is that people also would get back the benefits they’ve already earned in a tradeable bond. To learn more about his proposal, visit SamJohnson.house.gov. Hosted by the grassroots organization, Americans For Prosperity, essays must be submitted by June 30, 2005. To learn more or to download the application form, visit www.AmericansforProsperity.org. Essays should be between 250 - 750 words. Please address some of these questions: • Why does Social Security matter to you and your family? • What will happen if nothing is done to fix Social Security’s financial problems? • What kind of Social Security system would you hope for in the future? • What would you change about the current Social Security system? • What is your view of the proper relationship between a citizen and the government? How does Social Security affect this? Essay Prizes: There will be two divisions in the contest: the Senior Division will be for students in Grade 9 through 12, and the Junior Division for Grades 4 through 8. The following prizes will be awarded: Junior Division (Grade 4-8) Senior Division (Grade 9-12) First Prize: $250 First Prize: $250 Runner-Up: $100 Runner-Up: $100 Third Place: $50 Third Place: $50 Judging: The Board of Directors of the Americans for Prosperity will review the essays and determine winners. Winners will be announced on July 31st on the Americans for Prosperity website: www.AmericansforProsperity.org.
05.24.2005	Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation to help troops serving in harms way save for retirement by a voice vote. U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) managed the debate on the floor of the House for the Heroes Earned Retirement Opportunities Act, or HERO Act, H.R. 1499. share: f t Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation to help troops serving in harms way save for retirement by a voice vote. U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) managed the debate on the floor of the House for the Heroes Earned Retirement Opportunities Act, or HERO Act, H.R. 1499. “Our service men and women work to protect us. It’s time we worked to protect them and their retirement savings,” said Johnson. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson spent nearly seven years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam. Currently, Americans may save up to $4,000 a year in an Individual Retirement Account, or IRA. When one serves in the military in harms way, that combat pay is tax-free. “The theory behind that is that if you’re going to volunteer to risk your life, serve your country, and protect freedom, you shouldn’t be taxed. As a result, some men and women in uniform come home from duty and would like to put some of that money into an individual retirement account, but can’t because of current tax restrictions,” continued Johnson. The HERO Act changes that unintended tax law so soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines can save some of that money for retirement in an Individual Retirement Account. Introduced by Virginia Foxx of North Carolina, the HERO Act applies to money accumulated in traditional IRAs and ROTH IRAs. “These men and women come home from serving their country with disposable income. Now they’re not allowed to save some of it in an IRA, but they can spend it on fast cars, new clothes and family vacations. Yes, all of these things are nice – especially when you’ve been in the desert for nine months and you just want the creature comforts and simple luxuries from home for you and your family -- but these things are temporary. By putting this money aside – and letting the miracle of compound interest take its course – these servicemen and women could be saving for their retirement. This simple change is just common sense,” said Johnson. A leading advocate of improving retirement security and supporting our troops, Johnson spearheaded the debate on behalf of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee. According to the Ways and Means Committee, the HERO Act would treat tax-free combat pay as taxable compensation for the purpose of making annual IRA contributions starting in 2005. The provision makes IRA savings available to our troops and provides them with $31 million in tax benefits over the next 10 years.
05.19.2005	With the national savings rate hovering in the low-single digits, today before a house panel U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) urged Congress to seriously examine the ailing pension system if they hope to successfully address retirement security. share: f t With the national savings rate hovering in the low-single digits, today before a house panel U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) urged Congress to seriously examine the ailing pension system if they hope to successfully address retirement security. “Study after study shows Americans are not financially prepared for retirement. I applaud Chairman Thomas for scheduling this hearing that opens the doors to a broader discussion of all retirement planning decisions. We need to think creatively so that Americans will be able to prepare,” said Johnson before the Ways and Means Committee. Johnson - who is currently working on a comprehensive pension bill - is the only Member in the House to serve on both the Ways and Means Committee and the Education and the Workforce committee, giving him dual authority over the pension issue. According to Watson Wyatt Worldwide, Fortune 100 companies offering a fixed-benefit pension dropped from 68 percent in 1998 to 50 percent in 2002. With more companies moving from pension plans to the popular 401(k) plans, federal information shows a constant drop in private-sector employees with pensions: from 38 percent in 1980 to 21 percent in 1998. “If we want to strengthen retirement security, we must examine these statistics and figure out what can we learn from them and how we can propel more Americans to be better prepared for retirement,” said Johnson. Johnson also encouraged Congress to enact personal retirement accounts to boost American savings as part of Social Security reform. Earlier this year, Johnson introduced H.R. 530, the Individual Social Security Investment Program Act of 2005. Modeled after the CATO “6.2 % Solution,” Johnson’s bill splits the 12.4% of an employee’s payroll tax and says – “let’s share – half to the government, half to you.” Under Johnson’s bill, people would keep 6.2 percent to invest in a personal retirement account – and take advantage of the miracle of compound interest. They would have a sizeable retirement fund and a real asset to pass on to loved ones. The government receives 6.2 percent to meet its obligations to those over 55 and to the disabled, widows, and orphans. The most differentiating aspect of Johnson’s bill is that people also would get back the benefits they’ve already earned in a tradeable bond. To learn more about his proposal, visit SamJohnson.house.gov. Today’s hearing explored retirement security and financial savings habits of average Americans.
05.17.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) delivered the following opening statement at a hearing titled, “Examining Pay-for-Performance Measures and Other Trends in Employer-Sponsored Health Care.” Johnson chairs the Employer-Employee Relations Subcommittee on the Education and the Workforce Committee. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) delivered the following opening statement at a hearing titled, “Examining Pay-for-Performance Measures and Other Trends in Employer-Sponsored Health Care.” Johnson chairs the Employer-Employee Relations Subcommittee on the Education and the Workforce Committee. The hearing explored efforts by employers and health insurers to reward doctors and hospitals for delivering high quality results for patients, rather than paying them the same amount regardless of how well they deliver services to patients. According to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, several well-publicized studies by the Institute of Medicine (IOM) have identified significant gaps and variations in the quality and safety of health care patients receive and have revealed a startling gap between what science suggests medical practitioners should do and what they actually do. This suggests that relevant and meaningful information fails to reach many clinicians and patients. For example, recent studies have found that preventable medical errors were not uncommon. In recent years, employers and insurers have sought to address concerns raised by the IOM reports, including developing incentive systems that are commonly known as pay-for-performance. Under these plans, employers and insurers commonly offer incentives to doctors and hospitals that use better technology and abide by clinical standards. The hearing will focus on these pay-for-performance measures and review the latest evidence on whether it results in improving health care services offered to patients. “GOOD AFTERNOON. THANKS FOR BEING HERE TODAY. “EMPLOYERS SERVE AS THE BACKBONE OF HEALTH INSURANCE IN THE UNITED STATES, VOLUNTARILY PROVIDING HEALTH COVERAGE TO NEARLY TWO-THIRDS OF AMERICANS WITH HEALTH INSURANCE UNDER THE AGE OF 65. “WITHOUT THEIR COMMITMENT TO KEEP THEIR EMPLOYEES HEALTHY, THE POPULATION OF UNINSURED WOULD SURELY CHANGE DRAMATICALLY. “THIS MORNING’S HEARING WILL FOCUS ON WAYS THAT EMPLOYERS ARE MOVING – AND IN SOME CASES DRAGGING – THE HEALTH CARE INDUSTRY INTO THE 21ST CENTURY. “THE FACT IS, EVEN WITH ALL OF TODAY’S TECHNOLOGY, ALL TOO OFTEN PEOPLE ARE GETTING THE WRONG CARE AT THE WRONG TIME. MOST OF US --MORE— Page 2 of 2/ Johnson open “HAVE HEARD WHAT THE INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE INFERRED BASED ON AVAILABLE DATA IN 1999: THAT AS MANY AS 98,000 PEOPLE DIE IN HOSPITALS EACH YEAR BECAUSE OF PREVENTABLE MEDICAL ERRORS. “I CAN’T THINK OF A SINGLE INDUSTRY WHERE IT’S A STANDARD BUSINESS PRACTICE TO PAY THE SAME RATE TO PEOPLE WHO PROVIDE GOOD SERVICES AND PEOPLE WHO PROVIDE BAD ONES. “BUT THAT IS THE WAY THE GOVERNMENT AND OTHER PURCHASERS OF HEALTH CARE DO BUSINESS – WHICH DOES NOT PROVIDE MUCH OF AN INCENTIVE TO IMPROVE YOUR CARE. “SHOULDN’T WE REWARD DOCTORS AND HOSPITALS FOR DELIVERING HIGH QUALITY RESULTS FOR PATIENTS, RATHER THAN PAYING THEM THE SAME AMOUNT REGARDLESS OF HOW WELL THEY DELIVER SERVICES TO PATIENTS? “SOME INNOVATIVE EMPLOYERS AND INSURERS DECIDED TO DO JUST THAT-- TO BECOME BETTER PURCHASERS OF THEIR HEALTH CARE, AND TO SEEK OUT THE PROVIDERS THAT HAD FIGURED OUT HOW TO INCREASE QUALITY, WHILE KEEPING COSTS AT A MINIMUM. “OUR WITNESSES TODAY WILL TELL US ABOUT A FEW OF THE PROGRAMS THAT CAME OUT OF THAT DECISION TO BECOME SMARTER SHOPPERS. “IT IS WORTH MENTIONING THAT THIS MOVE TOWARDS BETTER PURCHASING COMES AT A CRUCIAL TIME IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF CONSUMER-DRIVEN HEALTH INSURANCE PRODUCTS. “SINCE WE’VE PUT THE SPOTLIGHT ON QUALITY, WE’VE FOUND OUT THAT HOSPITALS THAT SPEND MORE MONEY AREN'T NECESSARILY THE ONES WITH THE HIGHEST QUALITY. “IN FACT, MORE MONEY IS A PRETTY GOOD INDICATION OF A LACK OF EFFICIENCY. OUR CONSUMERS NEED TO KNOW INFORMATION LIKE THAT IN ORDER TO GET THE MOST OUT OF THEIR ABILITY TO CHOOSE. “THE BEST THING ABOUT PAY-FOR-PERFORMANCE, THOUGH, IS NOT THAT IT SAVES MONEY. IT SAVES LIVES. “MEDICARE IS ONE EXAMPLE OF SUCCESS OF IMPROVED QUALITY IMPROVEMENT. MARK MCCLELLAN -- THE MAN RESPONSIBLE FOR MAKING SURE MEDICARE AND MEDICAID ARE WORKING PROPERLY (NOT AN ENVIABLE JOB!) -- RECENTLY ANNOUNCED THAT ALL OF THE 270 HOSPITALS PARTICIPATING IN THEIR PREMIER PAY-FOR-PERFORMANCE DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM REPORTED IMPROVED QUALITY OF CARE -- AND THAT’S JUST IN THE FIRST YEAR. “TODAY WE WANT TO HEAR FROM A FEW OF THE PIONEERS OF PAY-FOR-PERFORMANCE AND FIND OUT WHAT YOUR EXPERIENCE HAS BEEN--INCLUDING ANY PREDICTED OR UNFORESEEN CHALLENGES THAT YOU’VE FACED.”
05.17.2005	For the second time in two weeks, a congressional panel discussed legislation to strengthen Social Security authored by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas). Mike Tanner of the CATO Institute testified how reform with personal accounts can benefit vulnerable populations and specifically discussed H.R. 530, the Individual Social Security Investment Program Act of 2005, before the Subcommittee on Social Security on the House Ways and Means Committee. share: f t For the second time in two weeks, a congressional panel discussed legislation to strengthen Social Security authored by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas). Mike Tanner of the CATO Institute testified how reform with personal accounts can benefit vulnerable populations and specifically discussed H.R. 530, the Individual Social Security Investment Program Act of 2005, before the Subcommittee on Social Security on the House Ways and Means Committee. “It’s a tremendous honor to have Mike speak before the Social Security panel. He’s a real expert in his field. In my humble opinion, I think he’s advocating the best Social Security solution,” said Johnson. Earlier this year Johnson re-introduced his proposal, H.R. 530, modeled after the CATO “6.2 % Solution.” Johnson’s bill splits the 12.4% of an employee’s payroll tax and says – let’s share – half to the government, half to you. Under Johnson’s bill, people would keep 6.2 percent to invest in a personal retirement account – and take advantage of the miracle of compound interest. They would have a sizeable retirement fund and a real asset to pass on to loved ones. The government receives 6.2 percent to meet its obligations to those over 55 and to the disabled, widows, and orphans. The most differentiating aspect of Johnson’s bill is that people also would get back the benefits they’ve already earned in a tradable bond. Last month at the U.S. Senate Finance Committee, Michael Tanner, the Director of the Project on Social Security Choice for Cato Institute, advocated solutions like H.R. 530. Tanner noted how the Social Security Actuaries recently determined that the Johnson bill is the most affordable way to strengthen Social Security. Last week, Tanner testified before the full committee as past of a panel exploring Social Security proposals. Tanner touted the Johnson bill and fielded questions from the entire panel. Today, Tanner pointed to the fact that Johnson’s measure provides a safety net to those who need it. He also mentioned that lower-income people will create a real nest egg and do better under personal retirement accounts compared with the current Social Security system. “My bill is simple – half to the government – half to you. My bill gives you your money back you’ve earned in the current system. My bill is optional. My bill provides a safety net. Fifteen Members of the House have backed my bill - the most of any Social Security legislation. And, my bill is the most affordable way to strengthen Social Security. I’m honored that the Ways and Means Committee could learn more about this proposal before we move forward with this important issue,” concluded Johnson. Johnson serves on the Ways and Means Committee and the Social Security Subcommittee. To view testimony by Michael Tanner of the CATO Institute, visit waysandmeans.house.gov. In a related matter, last week Johnson launched “Social Security Central” on his website. Visit www.SamJohnson.House.gov to learn more.
05.12.2005	For the second time in three weeks, a congressional panel discussed legislation to strengthen Social Security authored by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas). Mike Tanner of the CATO Institute testified in favor of H.R. 530, the Individual Social Security Investment Program Act of 2005, before the House Ways and Means Committee. share: f t For the second time in three weeks, a congressional panel discussed legislation to strengthen Social Security authored by U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas). Mike Tanner of the CATO Institute testified in favor of H.R. 530, the Individual Social Security Investment Program Act of 2005, before the House Ways and Means Committee. “Let’s face it – my bill puts Social Security in the black right around the time Democrats are willing to acknowledge we have a problem. We must do something now while there is still time,” said Johnson. Experts believe the Social Security Trust Fund will be exhausted around the year 2041. Earlier this year Johnson re-introduced his proposal, H.R. 530, modeled after the CATO “6.2 % Solution.” Johnson’s bill splits the 12.4% of an employee’s payroll tax and says – let’s share – half to the government, half to you. Under Johnson’s bill, people would keep 6.2 percent to invest in a personal retirement account – and take advantage of the miracle of compound interest. They would have a sizeable retirement fund and a real asset to pass on to loved ones. The government receives 6.2 percent to meet its obligations to those over 55 and to the disabled, widows, and orphans. The most differentiating aspect of Johnson’s bill is that people also would get back the benefits they’ve already earned in a tradable bond. Three weeks ago at the U.S. Senate Finance Committee, Michael Tanner, the Director of the Project on Social Security Choice for Cato Institute, advocated solutions like H.R. 530. Tanner noted how the Social Security Actuaries recently determined that the Johnson bill is the most affordable way to strengthen Social Security – and produces surpluses around 2046. “My bill is simple – half to the government – half to you. My bill gives you your money back you’ve earned in the current system. My bill is optional. There are 15 Members of the House who have backed my bill - the most of any Social Security legislation. And, my bill is the most affordable way to strengthen Social Security. I’m honored that the Ways and Means Committee could learn more about this proposal before we move forward with this important issue,” concluded Johnson. To learn more about his proposal, visit SamJohnson.house.gov. Today marks the second in a series of Ways and Means Committee hearings on this issue. Next week the Social Security Subcommittee will further explore this topic. Johnson serves on the Ways and Means Committee and the Social Security Subcommittee. To view today’s testimony by Michael Tanner of the CATO Institute, visit waysandmeans.house.gov.
05.11.2005	At a news conference on Capitol Hill, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) unveiled new legislation to enhance and encourage affordable health coverage for uninsured and low-income individuals, as well as small-business owners and their employees. share: f t At a news conference on Capitol Hill, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) unveiled new legislation to enhance and encourage affordable health coverage for uninsured and low-income individuals, as well as small-business owners and their employees. “People are working hard and trying to get ahead. They just aren't working in jobs that offer health insurance - and today we have a solution,” said Johnson. “This legislation is perfectly targeted to help the 27% of working Texans who don't have health insurance.” The Health Coverage for the Uninsured Act of 2005 builds on the successes of the popular innovative Health Savings Accounts (HSAs). Signed into law in 2003, HSAs enable people to pay for current health expenses and save for future qualified medical and retiree health expenses tax-free in conjunctions with high deductible health plan. The Act will help address a long-standing barrier to affordable health insurance by eliminating the unfair tax bias against people who purchase their own health coverage on the individual market. All Americans could deduct the premium cost of their individual high-deductible health plans associated with HSAs, regardless of whether an individual itemizes deductions on his or her return. Small businesses would also be eligible to receive a tax credit for contributions made into their employees’ HSAs: $200 for an individual, and up to $500 for a family. At the news conference, a spokeswoman for Ronnie Miles, who owns his own business, shared what happens when Congress creates affordable and attractive options for the uninsured. Mr. Miles was laid off from his job in 2002 and, consequently, lost his health insurance. To continue his company coverage through COBRA, he would have had to pay $350 per month for the premium. As a result, Miles went without coverage for two years. Six months ago, he learned about Health Savings Accounts through eHealthInsurance.com. Instead of paying $350 a month, Ronnie is now covered with an HSA-qualified plan for $104 per month; and he puts away $50 each month into his HSA account. “I took a risk that no one should take, being without health insurance,” said Miles’ spokeswoman. “Now, I have my own management consulting business and health insurance has become affordable because of HSAs. It’s a big enough risk to start your own business; I don’t think people like me who are self-employed or own small businesses should also have to take the risk of going without health insurance.” Miles’ representative, Laura Trueman, spoke on behalf of the Coalition for Affordable Health Care. Johnson teamed up with Congressmen Eric Cantor (7th Dist.-Va.), J.D. Hayworth (5th Dist.-Ariz.) and Paul Ryan (1st Dist.-Wis.) to introduce this new legislation. U.S. Senator Rick Santorum (R-Pa.) proposed a companion bill in the Senate.
05.11.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) issued the following statement on the evacuation of the U.S. Capitol and the White House due to a small plane entering restricted airspace over Washington, D.C. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) issued the following statement on the evacuation of the U.S. Capitol and the White House due to a small plane entering restricted airspace over Washington, D.C. Leaving the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives after a vote, Johnson had just arrived on the first floor of the U.S. Capitol. Soon loud sirens went off and Capitol Hill police ordered the immediate evacuation of the Capitol and surrounding buildings. Following orders, Johnson left promptly. Around the same time, both the emergency alert system and sirens sounded in Johnson’s congressional office, 1211 Longworth House Office Building. Johnson’s staff quickly evacuated the building. They returned after the “all-clear” announcement. “Today was a big reminder of how we must take every potential threat seriously. Freedom isn’t free and we must be vigilant. “I’m just thankful that everything worked out O.K. Capitol Hill police did a terrific job. They led and performed under pressure when every minute counted.”
05.09.2005	As part of Military Appreciation Month (May), today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) announced a program for Texans to support our troops at home and overseas, “America Supports You.” Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense Eric Ruff joined Johnson for the Plano event at the Casey Joyce All American VFW. share: f t As part of Military Appreciation Month (May), today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) announced a program for Texans to support our troops at home and overseas, “America Supports You.” Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense Eric Ruff joined Johnson for the Plano event at the Casey Joyce All American VFW. “You know, during Vietnam the American public really turned on our troops. Some folks came home from Vietnam and were spat on – and worse. America must do better – and we must do better for our troops. Showing our men and women in uniform that we appreciate their sacrifice and we support them to the hilt truly makes a big difference,” said Johnson. A 29-year Air Force veteran, Johnson spent nearly 7 years as a Prisoner of War in Vietnam. America Supports You is a nationwide program launched by the Department of Defense to recognize citizens’ support for our military men and women and to communicate that support to members of our Armed Forces at home and abroad. People can join America Supports You and receive a free dog tag and information kit to spread the word about this important program. To learn more, visit AmericaSupportsYou.mil. At the event, Johnson thanked two North Texas groups for their hard work on behalf of military men and women in their families. Specifically, Johnson praised Kathy Blank of Plano’s Custer Road United Methodist Church, which runs a family assistance ministry for the families of deployed soldiers. He also hailed Jill Boyce with the Deployed Soldiers Family Foundation. Johnson also recognized local Chambers of Commerce that have agreed to join the America Supports You team: Richardson, Frisco, Allen, Plano and Rowlett.
05.04.2005	House Education & the Workforce Committee Chairman John Boehner (R-OH) and Employer-Employee Relations Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX) today called attention to a letter sent from the U.S. Department of Labor to the AFL-CIO which cautioned the labor organization about its concerted efforts to pressure financial firms to withdraw their support of the President’s proposal to reform Social Security and stated the organization’s activities may violate federal law. share: f t House Education & the Workforce Committee Chairman John Boehner (R-OH) and Employer-Employee Relations Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX) today called attention to a letter sent from the U.S. Department of Labor to the AFL-CIO which cautioned the labor organization about its concerted efforts to pressure financial firms to withdraw their support of the President’s proposal to reform Social Security and stated the organization’s activities may violate federal law. The May 3 letter, from Alan Lebowitz, the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Program Operations at the Employee Benefits Security Administration to Jonathon Hiatt, general counsel for the AFL-CIO, confirmed that the use of pension plan assets for political purposes likely violates the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) and cautioned the AFL-CIO that it should widely disseminate that fact to its affiliates across the county. “[T]he Department reiterates its view that plan fiduciaries may not increase expenses, sacrifice investment returns, or reduce the security of plan benefits in order to promote collateral goals,” the letter said. “A fiduciary’s reconsideration of its current service providers based solely upon the service provider’s views on Social Security would raise grave concerns about the prudence and loyalty of the fiduciaries’ actions. Similarly, a fiduciary could not, consistent with the duties of prudence and loyalty, simply exclude qualified service providers from consideration in hiring based solely upon their views on Social Security policy.” The action yesterday follows a letter sent on March 18 by Boehner and Johnson calling on the Labor Department to investigate whether organized labor’s efforts to pressure financial firms over their position on the President’s Social Security reform proposal was in fact violating federal labor and pension law. “The Department has made clear that union leaders violate federal law if they threaten to withdraw pension assets from a financial firm simply because it has a differing view on the importance of reforming Social Security,” said Boehner. “We should have an open and honest discussion over how to save Social Security for future generations, but no special interest should be breaking federal law in its quest to influence the debate.” “This letter suggests that union leaders may have violated federal law, and I expect the Department to follow up on this matter and investigate it vigorously,” added Boehner. “I’m pleased the Department confirmed that union leaders may not use their members’ pensions for purely political reasons to pressure employers into opposing Social Security reform legislation they know would benefit their employees,” said Johnson. “It’s time for labor bosses to stop acting in their own interests and start acting in the best interests of their hard-working members.”
05.03.2005	U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) has reintroduced legislation to strengthen Social Security with big personal retirement accounts. share: f t U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) has reintroduced legislation to strengthen Social Security with big personal retirement accounts. “Let’s get this straight. Social Security will be there for current and near-retirees. For every American who is 55 or older, do not let anyone mislead you. For you, the Social Security system will not change in any way. You deserve the peace of mind of knowing you will get full benefits for your entire retirement. We need to strengthen Social Security today so tomorrow’s retirees can receive the same benefits current seniors enjoy. Social Security reform is all about generational fairness,” said Johnson. In the last Congress, Johnson’s proposal gained the most co-sponsors of any Social Security reform legislation. This measure, the Individual Social Security Investment Program Act of 2005, H.R. 530, strengthens Social Security by allowing younger generations to invest the Social Security taxes they pay (6.2% of salary) in a personal retirement account. The employer’s share of the tax would be sent to the current Social Security system to fund continuing retiree and near-retiree benefits for those currently 55 and older, transition costs and the disability and survivors program. Johnson’s plan does not impact current or near retirees. Social Security was built for a different America. Created in 1935, the pay-as-you-go system worked well. Current taxes covered current benefits. The average working male lived to age 60, when the retirement age was 65. At the time, 42 people supported one retiree. In 1950, 16 workers supported one retiree. Now 3.3 workers support one retiree. That number is on a downward path to two. By 2018, current taxes will no longer cover current benefits. “Think taxes are too high now? Imagine what they will be in the future if we don’t make the necessary changes in the present,” asked Johnson. “To make matters worse, there is a horrible rate of return and Americans deserve better. Young people entering the workforce today will earn almost no interest on their lifetime of hard work. That’s right. No interest. And even workers in their forties will receive a paltry two percent. If your financial advisor earned you zero percent on your investment, you’d fire him,” said Johnson. “There has got to be a better way. It’s time to give the American people a say in how their retirement money is invested and an opportunity to do better,” said Johnson. “You should have the right, if you wish, to invest YOUR Social Security taxes in safe, diversified funds like the program federal employees and Members of Congress have because the return has been proven to be better than with any government fund. If it’s good enough for Congress, surely it’s good enough for the American people.” “I just ask people to focus on the facts, and then make up their own mind. When it comes to financial literacy and Social Security, the more you know, the better off we’ll be,” concluded Johnson. Johnson serves on the Ways and Means Committee which will address Social Security reform before any proposal goes before the House of Representatives. Introduced with Congressman Jeff Flake of Arizona, the bill has been welcomed by the Cato Institute, the Heritage Foundation, the Alliance for Worker Retirement Security, Citizens Against Government Waste, the Independent Women’s Forum, the American Legislative Exchange Council, the National Center for Policy Analysis, the National Taxpayers Union, the 60 Plus Association, Americans for Tax Reform, and others.
04.26.2005	As Democrats today held a rally celebrating their obstruction to strengthening Social Security, House Republican Ways and Means members, Rep. Clay Shaw (R-FL), Rep. Sam Johnson (R-TX), Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI), and Rep. Bob Beauprez (R-CO) challenged the Party of “no” to act more constructively and work toward a solution. share: f t As Democrats today held a rally celebrating their obstruction to strengthening Social Security, House Republican Ways and Means members, Rep. Clay Shaw (R-FL), Rep. Sam Johnson (R-TX), Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI), and Rep. Bob Beauprez (R-CO) challenged the Party of “no” to act more constructively and work toward a solution. Rep. Shaw stated: “Now is the time to put Social Security on a path to permanent solvency and stability. The longer we wait to address the coming crisis, the more difficult and expensive the job will be down the line. Progress toward solving the social security crises is only achieved through bipartisan cooperation, and we will need bipartisan commitment in the months ahead. It’s long past time for us to lay all our best thoughts on the table and work together to build on our success to make a stronger Social Security system that is an asset to all, not a liability to our children and grandchildren.” Rep. Johnson agreed, noting: “We’re the party of proposals. They’re the party of protests. Ironically, my bill puts Social Security in the black and starts to run a surplus right around the time that Democrats are willing to acknowledge we have a problem.” Johnson reintroduced his proposal, H.R. 530, the Individual Social Security Investment Program Act of 2005, earlier this year. Rep. Ryan added: “Our constituents sent us to Congress to propose solutions to problems – not to simply criticize. We have yet to see one substantive solution coming from the Democratic critics of Social Security reform. Every year that passes without addressing the program’s demographic and financial challenges, roughly $600 billion is added to the debt the government owes Social Security. We have a responsibility to fix the program now, rather than letting the situation worsen for future generations.” Rep. Beauprez also stated: “I'm absolutely perplexed by the ‘borrowed time’ mentality of many of our Democrat colleagues when it comes to Social Security. There are many challenges created by this issue, but the math just isn’t one of them. Social Security as it currently exists simply isn’t sustainable, and we need the other party to join us in providing solutions rather than roadblocks that only delay the inevitable.”
04.13.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) fought to help Texas family businesses and family farms to survive after a death of a loved one. The House of Representatives today passed the Death Tax Repeal Act of 2005 by a vote of 272 to 162. The measure permanently repeals the death tax. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) fought to help Texas family businesses and family farms to survive after a death of a loved one. The House of Representatives today passed the Death Tax Repeal Act of 2005 by a vote of 272 to 162. The measure permanently repeals the death tax. “Believe it or not, the government gives you a certificate at birth, a license at marriage and a tax bill when you die. That’s just a shame,” said Johnson. “Taxing people when they die smacks of all of the things that are wrong with the government and Washington.” Studies show that more than 70% of family businesses do not survive the second generation; 87% do not make it to the third generation. Repealing the unfair death tax permanently would change these statistics. “When we passed the tax cut bill in 2001, Republicans insisted death tax repeal be included. We made progress. We phased it out. The problem is that it springs back to life in 2011 unless Congress passes laws to make the death tax repeal permanent.” As a result of the 2001 tax cut bill, over time the amount of assets exempt from the federal death tax is gradually increased to $3.5 million. The death tax comes back in 2011 – returning to 2001 rates. The practical effect for Texans is that if a loved one dies in 2009, families will face a 45 percent death tax rate. In 2010, families will pay no death tax. But in 2011, the law reverts back to what it was prior to passing the tax cut. Families who lose a loved one in 2011 or after will face a 60 percent rate and an exemption of less than $1 million. “The death tax was created to target people like the Vanderbilts and the Rockefellers with the original intent of paying for – and winning – World War I. Now the death tax hits hard-working Americans. The Death Tax hurts Mom-and-Pop shops on Main Street and that’s just not fair. The death tax has outlived its purpose and should be repealed permanently.” “We did the best we could in 2001, but we must do better,” Johnson said. “People can't count on the law the way it is right now. We must make death tax repeal permanent so people can prepare and plan and not leave big tax bills for their loved ones,” concluded Johnson.
04.07.2005	Yesterday U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) reintroduced legislation to end the double tax on Social Security benefits. share: f t Yesterday U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist-Texas) reintroduced legislation to end the double tax on Social Security benefits. “Social Security seems to be in the news a lot lately. However, not a lot is being said about the double tax on Social Security benefits. It’s time that we stop double taxing Social Security. My bill does that,” said Johnson. Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the Ways and Means Committee and a Member of the Social Security Subcommittee. There are three levels or “tiers” of tax on Social Security benefits. For married couples, with a total income of $32,000 or less, there is no tax on their benefits. For couples with income between $32,000 and $44,000 half of their benefits are subject to tax. Then for couples with income over $44,000, 85% of their benefits are subject to income tax. For individuals, these levels are set at $25,000, $34,000 and greater than $34,000. The tier that imposes income taxes half of Social Security benefits was first imposed in 1984, the last time Social Security faced a major funding crisis. These taxes were thought to be justified based on the fact that only half of the money being paid into Social Security had previously been taxed. However in 1993, then-President Bill Clinton and a Democrat Congress imposed another layer of income tax on Social Security benefits; this layer imposes income taxes on 85 percent of benefits. These taxes amount to double taxation of these benefits. INCOME LEVEL TAX STATUS Less than $32,000 married ($25,000 individual) Benefits not taxable Between $32,000 and $44,000 ($25,000 / $34,000) 50% of benefits taxable (Tier I tax) Greater than $44,000 ($34,000) 85% of benefits taxable (Tier II tax) Johnson’s bill, H.R. 1517, Social Security Benefits Tax Relief Act, repeals the double tax on Social Security benefits. Recently, the Senate included an identical proposal to Johnson’s in its budget blueprint. “The double tax on Social Security must end,” concluded Johnson. In the last Congress (108th), over 100 Representatives co-sponsored Johnson’s legislation.
03.18.2005	This morning U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) delivered the following statement at a Committee markup of his bill, the Small Business Health Fairness Act (H.R. 525). Johnson’s legislation – aimed at significantly expanding access to health coverage for many of the 45 million Americans who are currently uninsured – would allow small businesses to band together through association health plans (AHPs) and purchase quality health care at a lower cost for their workers. share: f t This morning U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) delivered the following statement at a Committee markup of his bill, the Small Business Health Fairness Act (H.R. 525). Johnson’s legislation – aimed at significantly expanding access to health coverage for many of the 45 million Americans who are currently uninsured – would allow small businesses to band together through association health plans (AHPs) and purchase quality health care at a lower cost for their workers. Last month Johnson re-introduced the proposal cosponsored by Education & the Workforce Committee Chairman John Boehner (R-OH), Rep. Nydia Velazquez (D-NY), and Rep. Albert Wynn (D-MD), among others. The House passed the measure last year by a vote of 252-162 with the support of 37 Democrats. President Bush supports the legislation, as do 93 percent of Americans according to a poll conducted in March 2004 for Federation of American Hospitals. “THANK YOU FOR YIELDING MR. CHAIRMAN. “TODAY WE WILL VOTE ON AN IMPORTANT COMPONENT OF THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION’S HEALTH CARE AGENDA – MAKING HEALTH INSURANCE MORE AFFORDABLE AND MORE ACCESSIBLE FOR AMERICANS. “MY BILL, HR 525 – THE SMALL BUSINESS HEALTH FAIRNESS ACT, WOULD ALLOW THE ESTABLISHMENT OF CERTIFIED, FEDERAL, ASSOCIATION HEALTH PLANS (AHP'S). I’D ESPECIALLY LIKE TO THANK MY FRIENDS ON BOTH SIDES OF THE AISLE FOR THEIR SUPPORT-- ESPECIALLY NYDIA VELAZQUEZ, ALBERT WYNN AND CHAIRMAN BOEHNER. “AS WE’VE DISCUSSED FOR MANY YEARS NOW, AHPS WILL SIGNIFICANTLY EXPAND ACCESS TO HEALTH COVERAGE FOR UNINSURED AMERICANS BY: 1) INCREASING SMALL BUSINESSES’ BARGAINING POWER WITH HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, AND 2) GIVING EMPLOYERS FREEDOM FROM COSTLY STATE-MANDATED BENEFIT PACKAGES. “AHPS WILL INCREASE THE NUMBER OF INSURED AMERICANS BY UP TO 8 MILLION PEOPLE! THAT’S GREAT NEWS FOR MY HOME STATE OF TEXAS, WHERE ONE IN FOUR EMPLOYED OR SELF-EMPLOYED PEOPLE ARE UNINSURED. “HEALTH INSURANCE COSTS ARE STILL RISING AND MANY SMALL EMPLOYERS ARE FORCED TO DROP HEALTH COVERAGE - AND SOME CAN NOT OFFER IT IN THE FIRST PLACE. CLEARLY WE NEED A SOLUTION. “AHP’S GIVE SMALL BUSINESS THE SAME BARGAINING POWER OF BIG BUSINESS IN THE HEALTH CARE ARENA. AS I’VE SAID BEFORE, IF IT’S GOOD ENOUGH FOR WALL STREET, IT’S GOOD ENOUGH FOR MAIN STREET. “NOW, TO MAKE SURE THAT WE PASS THE BEST BILL POSSIBLE, FOR THE PAST FEW YEARS WE HAVE LISTENED TO THOSE WHO HAVE VOICED LEGITIMATE CONCERNS AND ACTED ON MANY OF THEIR SUGGESTIONS. “JUST LAST YEAR I OFFERED, AND THE COMMITTEE ACCEPTED, AN AMENDMENT TO THIS BILL THAT MADE A NUMBER OF IMPROVEMENTS. “FOR ONE, STRICT STANDARDS WERE PUT IN PLACE TO MAKE SURE ONLY FINANCIALLY STRONG, VERY REPUTABLE ORGAINZATIONS OFFER AHP’S. --MORE— Page 2 of 2 / AHP “THIS WAY, SHOULD THE AHP FAIL FOR SOME REASON, EMPLOYEES AREN’T LEFT WITH UNPAID CLAIMS. “THIS BILL ALSO CONTAINS A NUMBER OF OTHER CONSUMER PROTECTIONS. FOR EXAMPLE, IT GRANTS THE STATES AND THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR GREATER ENFORCEMENT TOOLS -- INCLUDING CRIMINAL SANCTIONS THAT CAN BE USED TO SHUT DOWN BOGUS PLANS. “ALSO, DURING CONSIDERATION OF THE BILL IN THE LAST CONGRESS WE ACCEPTED AN AMENDMENT FROM REP. VAN HOLLEN, WHICH CLARIFIED THAT THE INTENT OF THIS COMMITTEE WAS TO HAVE STATE LAWS DEALING WITH THE PROMPT PAYMENT OF CLAIMS APPLY TO FULLY-INSURED AHPS. “LET’S FACE THE FACTS. COSTS ARE RISING, BUSINESSES ARE DROPPING COVERAGE AND MORE PEOPLE ARE GOING UNINSURED. “CONGRESS MUST ADDRESS THE UNINSURED PROBLEM WITH GOOD SOLUTIONS AND MOVE FORWARD WITH ASSOCIATION HEALTH PLANS. “IT’S THE LEAST CONGRESS CAN DO TO ENSURE THAT THE AMERICAN PEOPLE WILL RECEIVE BETTER HEALTH CARE AT A MORE REASONABLE PRICE.”
03.18.2005	House Education & the Workforce Committee Chairman John Boehner (R-OH) and Employer-Employee Relations Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX) today sent a letter to U.S. Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao, calling on the Labor Department to investigate whether the concerted efforts of organized labor to pressure financial firms and brokerage institutions to withdraw their support of the President’s proposal to reform Social Security have in fact violated federal labor and pension law. share: f t House Education & the Workforce Committee Chairman John Boehner (R-OH) and Employer-Employee Relations Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX) today sent a letter to U.S. Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao, calling on the Labor Department to investigate whether the concerted efforts of organized labor to pressure financial firms and brokerage institutions to withdraw their support of the President’s proposal to reform Social Security have in fact violated federal labor and pension law. “Recent media reports have raised serious legal questions about whether union leaders are in fact violating federal labor and pension laws by pressuring employers to withdraw their support for President Bush’s Social Security reform plan,” said Boehner. “The debate over how to ensure the solvency of Social Security for future generations should be open and honest, but it shouldn’t be influenced by special interests who may be breaking federal law.” “If labor bosses are violating federal labor and pension laws by pressuring employers into opposing Social Security reform legislation they know would benefit their workers, we believe it should be investigated by the proper authorities,” added Johnson. “It is shameful – and may well violate the law – if union leaders are jeopardizing their members’ pensions for purely political reasons.” The letter raises serious concerns about specific legal questions, as excerpts indicate below: “The activities recounted in these reports raise serious questions as to their legality under a variety of federal laws, including the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), which governs the permissible use by labor organizations of their members’ dues, and restricts the ability of labor organizations to engage in secondary activity (such as picketing or protesting). Perhaps more troubling are the questions these activities raise with respect to the fiduciary duties owed to union members by their leadership, and to union pension plan participants by their plans’ trustees, under the Labor-Management Reporting and Disclosure Act of 1959 (LMRDA) and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). “As you well know, under LMRDA and ERISA, union leaders and union pension plan trustees owe fiduciary duties to their constituencies (be they members or participants) to hold, manage, and invest their assets solely in the best pecuniary interests of these beneficiaries. The threat – whether explicit or tacit – that any labor organization will reassess its investment decisions (which, presumably have been and legally must be calculated to maximize the financial return for participants) for political considerations on its face raises the question of whether fiduciary duties are being breached. Put more simply, when union leaders and pension plan trustees base investment decisions on politics, we question how they can do so lawfully in the face of statutory requirements that such decisions be based on the economic and fiduciary best interests of beneficiaries and participants.”
03.08.2005	At a public Social Security Forum in Collin County, Texas, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) urged the 250+ attendees to play a role in the national Social Security debate and to start thinking about the future. Johnson invited Third District constituents to “put a face on this debate” by sending pictures of their children and grandchildren to samjohnsonnewsletter@mail.house.gov; the pictures will be posted on the congressional website as a display of “real people who want real reform.” share: f t At a public Social Security Forum in Collin County, Texas, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) urged the 250+ attendees to play a role in the national Social Security debate and to start thinking about the future. Johnson invited Third District constituents to “put a face on this debate” by sending pictures of their children and grandchildren to samjohnsonnewsletter@mail.house.gov; the pictures will be posted on the congressional website as a display of “real people who want real reform.” “If you support strengthening Social Security with personal retirement accounts, then I want you to send me pictures of your kids and grandkids. We need to put a face on this debate. We need to show the nay-sayers and those who advocate that we do nothing that there are real people who want real reform,” said Johnson. “If you want to strengthen Social Security with personal retirement accounts, then email me pictures at SamJohnsonnewsletter@mail.house.gov.” Johnson serves on the Ways and Means Committee, which is the only House Committee to have authority over this issue. “The Social Security debate can get mind-numbing with numbers, facts and figures. The reality of the debate is that Social Security will be there for people born before 1950. This debate is about the future. This debate is about our kids and grandkids. We need to strengthen Social Security for future generations,” said Johnson, the only North Texan on the committee of jurisdiction and the only Texan with a solution to strengthen Social Security. Earlier this year, Johnson re-introduced legislation to strengthen Social Security with personal retirement accounts. In the last Congress, Johnson’s proposal gained the most co-sponsors of any Social Security reform legislation. This measure, the Individual Social Security Investment Program Act of 2005, H.R. 530, calls on the government and the individual to split the 12.4% of salary the employee pays in Social Security taxes. The employee will keep 6.2% to invest in a personal retirement account – and take advantage of the miracle of compound interest. Then he or she will have a sizeable retirement fund and a real asset to pass on to loved ones. The government will take 6.2% to meet its obligations to those over 55 and to the disabled and widows and orphans. In addition, nationally known expert Leanne Abdnor, Executive Director of For Our Grandchildren, helped detail the looming Social Security problems. For Our Grandchildren is a grass-roots activist organization based on educating the American public about the looming Social Security money issues and proposing solutions that include personal retirement accounts. In 2001, President Bush appointed Abdnor to serve as a member of the President’s Commission to Strengthen Social Security. The bipartisan Commission was co-chaired by former Senator Patrick Moynihan (D-NY) and Richard Parsons, CEO of AOL/TimeWarner. In December of 2001, the Commission finalized a report to the President recommending detailed approaches for reforming Social Security. “When it comes to financial literacy and Social Security, the more you know, the better off we’ll be. I just ask folks to look at the facts and then make up their own mind,” concluded Johnson.
03.08.2005	At a news conference on Capitol Hill, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) joined forces with U.S. Senator Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) to unveil new legislation to simplify and promote saving. share: f t At a news conference on Capitol Hill, today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) joined forces with U.S. Senator Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) to unveil new legislation to simplify and promote saving. “Only in America is a penny saved a penny taxed. It’s time we simplify the savings process and encourage people to save. We must change this now if we want more Americans to save,” said Johnson. Johnson and Thomas serve on the House and Senate tax-writing committees respectively. With Treasury Secretary John Snow by their sides, Johnson and Thomas announced a three-pronged approach to savings. Under Lifetime Savings Accounts people could contribute up to $5,000 a year and withdraw money at any time penalty free. After-tax contributions are made into a LSA and earnings would accumulate tax-free and withdrawals would not be taxed. People also could convert existing education accounts into the new Lifetime Savings Accounts. Withdrawals could be used for anything, not just education, medical or retirement expenses. People may use the money to save for auto repairs, phone bills, kids’ braces, home improvements, or any other need or want. In addition, there will be no limitations on income or age as to who may contribute to this type of account. Under Retirement Savings Accounts, people could contribute up to $5,000 a year and withdraw money after age 58. Non-deductible contributions of up to $5,000 can be made into a RSA. Earnings would accumulate tax-free and withdrawals would not be taxed. People also could convert existing Individual Retirement Accounts into the new Retirement Savings Accounts. Under RSAs, there are no age requirements mandating when people must start withdrawing money. Employer Retirement Savings Accounts would streamline and combine 401(k) plans and other defined contribution plans. These accounts would be available to all employers. President George W. Bush first advocated these accounts in his Fiscal Year 2004 budget. Earlier this year, Bush included the initiative in his budget for Fiscal Year 2006.
03.04.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd District-Texas) encouraged high school students from the Third Congressional District to participate in the annual Congressional Art Competition. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd District-Texas) encouraged high school students from the Third Congressional District to participate in the annual Congressional Art Competition. Original artwork created by Third District high school students will be judged and the winning piece displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the United States Capitol Building. Each year, Members of Congress host art competitions to showcase the talent of their creative high school constituents. “I always enjoy the wonderful artwork of the talented high school students displayed in the Cannon Tunnel,” said Johnson. “It is important that we show the rest of the country the outstanding artwork of the Third District. Therefore, I encourage all students who are interested to submit their artwork in the competition.” The rules are as follows: artwork must be an original concept, not reproduced from an existing photo, painting or other such work. It must be two dimensional, no larger than 32" by 32" framed and no more than 4 inches in depth. The entry must fall into one of the following categories: paintings (oil, watercolor, acrylic, etc.); drawings (pastels, pencil, charcoal, ink, markers, etc.); collages (must be two dimensional); prints (lithographs, silk screens, block prints); mixed media; computer graphics; and photography. The completed artwork should be delivered to Johnson’s office at 2929 North Central Expressway, Suite 240 in Richardson by Friday, April 22nd by 4pm. High school students wishing to participate in the Congressional Art Competition should inquire with their art teachers. Parents, students or art teachers who require information about the competition should contact Deanna Kuykendall at 972-470-0892 or Deanna.Kuykendall@mail.house.gov. Johnson represents the portions of Dallas and Collin Counties.
02.18.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the members of the first ever Third District Congressional Youth Advisory Council. Nearly forty students were invited to join the exclusive council; over 150 students applied. Of those selected, roughly half attend public school, half attend private school, and two participate in home school. Only sophomores, juniors and seniors may participate. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced the members of the first ever Third District Congressional Youth Advisory Council. Nearly forty students were invited to join the exclusive council; over 150 students applied. Of those selected, roughly half attend public school, half attend private school, and two participate in home school. Only sophomores, juniors and seniors may participate. “There are some terrific students on the Congressional Youth Advisory Council. I’m sure they will represent the Third District well,” said Johnson. “These students are the Cream of the Crop.” “Nearly every single application had outstanding achievements – honor society, student government, proven leadership, public service, and outside interests. All who applied really demonstrated a sincere interest,” said Johnson. “I had no idea there would be such a response. I hope every single one of those applicants continues to keep in touch and follow current events. I bet there may even be a few future elected officials in that bunch. If they are still in high school, I hope they’ll reapply. Members from the community volunteered to serve on the Advisory Panel that selected the CYAC members on behalf of the Congressman. The CYAC held its first meeting earlier this month and will convene again two more times this school year. At the first meeting, students asked informative questions on a host of current events: Social Security reform, foreign policy with Iran, pending gun legislation, the successful election in Iraq and the Congressman’s opinion of the SMU football program. The Committee’s goal is two-fold. First, the Council will provide Johnson with greater student perspective and insight on issues that directly affect them. Second, Council activities will serve to boost activism among high school students. Students selected this year will have the option to continue on the Council next year. Students not selected this year are encouraged to apply again next fall. --LIST FOLLOWS— 2005 Congressional Youth Advisory Council Sophomores Merinda Anne Brooks Plano Jasper High School Alyssa DeLorenz Garland Williams High School Amanda Lipscomb McKinney Dallas Academy Austin Lutz Dallas Trinity Christian Academy Michael Burke Scott Dallas Plumtree Homeschool Academy Aatman Shah Plano Vines High School Juniors Nathaniel Alcorn Frisco Centennial High School Mindy Bell McKinney McKinney Christian Academy Heather Blizzard Plano Centennial High School Brandon Boyd Allen Allen High School Christina Elizabeth BussPlano Ursuline Academy of Dallas Lauren Elyse Carlisle Murphy Plano East Senior High Albert Chang Dallas Plano West Senior High Andrew Clark Plano Plano West Senior High Joe Dickerson Frisco Frisco Centennial High Allison Goldman Dallas Plano West Senior High Douglas Hermann Allen Allen High School Jordan Chandler Hirsch Plano Yavneh Academy of Dallas Katie Laughlin Plano Plano Senior High School Alison Lyon Allen Plano East Senior High Natalie Myers Plano Plano Senior High School Jeff Nanney Plano Plano East Senior High Joe O’Neill Plano Plano Senior High School Adam Rosenfield Plano Plano West Senior High Kristin M. Schneider Richardson Home School Heather Webb Plano Plano West Senior High Katie Willman Frisco Centennial High School Anna Zhang Plano Plano West Senior High Seniors John Coleman McKinney McKinney High School Jenny Davis Richardson Canyon Creek Christian Academy Dana K. Hansen Plano Canyon Creek Christian Academy Jordan Herskowitz Plano Plano West Senior High School Alison Houpt Rowlett Naaman Forest High School Ashley E. Mergen Frisco Frisco High School Mathew Martinez McKinney McKinney High School Parth Shah Garland Naaman Forest High School Christina Shams Sachse Sachse High School Brittany Whitstone McKinney McKinney North High School Elliot Winters Plano Frisco High School
02.17.2005	As you know, one of the hot topics right now is Social Security. President Bush made the case for why we need reform in his State of the Union Address. It’s up to Congress to take the debate to the next level with action. share: f t Strengthening Social Security As you know, one of the hot topics right now is Social Security. President Bush made the case for why we need reform in his State of the Union Address. It’s up to Congress to take the debate to the next level with action. Let’s be clear -- Social Security will be there for current retirees and near retirees. This debate is about the future. As a grandfather to ten, I want to make sure my grandchildren don’t get left holding the bag. Social Security was built for a much different America. Created in 1935, the pay-as-you-go system worked well. Current taxes more than covered current benefits. The average working male lived to age 60, when people retired at age 65. When Social Security started, 42 people supported one retiree. Now 3.3 workers support one retiree. That number is on a downward path to two. We must work on solutions while there is still time. I propose strengthening Social Security by allowing younger Americans to invest half of their Social Security taxes (6.2% of salary) in a personal retirement account. The other half, the employer’s share of the tax (6.2%), would be sent to the government to fund retiree benefits, near-retiree benefits, transition financing and the disability and survivors program. These accounts give working people control and confidence that the money will be there for them when they retire. Personal retirement accounts will help people build a nest egg to pass on to their loved ones. This solution is about the future. I just ask people to focus on the facts, study the issue, and then make up their own mind. When it comes to financial literacy and Social Security, the more people know, the better off we’ll be. Check out how you would fare with a personal retirement account by logging on to http://www.heritage.org/research/features/socialsecurity/ Decide for yourself if personal retirement accounts would be right for you and your love ones. Improving Health Care Improving access to health insurance to 45 million Americans who go without remains a top priority. That is why I re-introduced The Small Business Health Fairness Act of 2005, H.R. 525. The Act would allow reputable associations to band together to purchase health insurance through Association Health Plans. By taking advantage of group purchasing power, those involved would be subject to lower insurance rates than if buying health insurance on their own in the private market. Reforming our Broken Immigration System An original cosponsor of The Restrict Enemy Aliens from Licenses and Identity Documents Act, or the REAL ID bill, I support dramatically changing the way the nation handles immigration, specifically in the critical areas of drivers’ licenses, state identity cards, asylum reform, terrorist deportation and border enhancements. This bill, H.R. 418, cracks down in all areas mentioned above and protects our national security interests. This bill passed last week and heads to the Senate. Reigning in Government Spending In the coming weeks, the federal budget will be a front-burner issue. If we expect American families to balance their own budget, surely the federal government should be expected do the same. We’ve got to hold the line on out-of-control federal spending! Expect to see me on the front lines rattling the cages of over-zealous spenders of your hard-earned money. I will not stand for that and will fight for cutting spending every day of the week! As you can see, there is an aggressive agenda planned for the upcoming months in Washington. Please feel free to contact me to learn more about any of these issues or policies important to you. Thank you for signing up for my E-newsletter. If you enjoyed it, please encourage your friends to subscribe on my website at samjohnson.house.gov. God bless you and God bless America.
02.17.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) invited constituents to subscribe to his free new monthly E-newsletter “The Sam Johnson Journal: A Third District Update” by logging on to samjohnson.house.gov. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) invited constituents to subscribe to his free new monthly E-newsletter “The Sam Johnson Journal: A Third District Update” by logging on to samjohnson.house.gov. “One of the roles of government is to serve the people. This E-newsletter will bring what’s happening in Washington to Texas. I hope people like what they read and encourage their friends to sign up as well,” said Johnson. The inaugural edition features updates on Johnson’s top legislative priorities presently before Congress: strengthening Social Security, improving access to health care, and reforming America’s immigration policies. Johnson will continue to send monthly updates to subscribers detailing policies and other matters important to the Third District of Texas. The Third District web site, samjohnson.house.gov, contains Johnson’s monthly columns, press releases as well as information on Capitol tours, ordering flags and number of other services he provides to constituents. In addition, there are various links for students in the “Just for Kids” section. Johnson represents the Third Congressional District of Texas which includes portions of Collin and Dallas Counties.
02.15.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced that the Social Security Administration has determined the cost of his bill to strengthen Social Security with personal retirement accounts. Johnson’s initiative ranks as the most affordable way to improve the ailing program share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced that the Social Security Administration has determined the cost of his bill to strengthen Social Security with personal retirement accounts. Johnson’s initiative ranks as the most affordable way to improve the ailing program. “This is great news,” said Johnson, a fiscally conservative member on the Social Security Subcommittee of the Ways and Means Committee. “Why put off until tomorrow what we should today? We must fix Social Security now while there is still time and not saddle future generations with tremendous debt and a broken system,” said Johnson. The Individual Social Security Investment Program Act of 2005, H.R. 530, strengthens Social Security by allowing younger generations to deposit their half of the Social Security taxes they pay (6.2% of salary) in a personal retirement account. The employer’s share of the tax would be sent to the government to fund continuing retiree benefits, near-retiree benefits for those currently 55 and older, transition financing and the disability and survivors program. Johnson’s plan does not impact current or near retirees. Introduced with Congressman Jeff Flake of Arizona, in the last Congress the proposal garnered the most co-sponsors of any Social Security reform legislation. Currently, there are ten co-sponsors in the 109th Congress. The cost to fund the current benefits promised if paid today would be $10.4 trillion. Johnson’s plan would cost $6.8 trillion over 75 years. Johnson’s plan costs less than any other proposal and puts Social Security on sound financial footing starting in 2045. “My Social Security plan is like investing in your mortgage. You pay down a little at a time until you own your home. Up front we borrow a lot of money. At the end of the day, Social Security becomes fully funded forever and ever,” said Johnson. To view the specifics on the cost estimate, go to http://www.ssa.gov/OACT/solvency/index.html. According to the Social Security Administration, the cost estimate assumes 100% participation for those under age 40 and phasing down to 10% for those who are 54. The estimate assumes a rate of return of 3% on government securities, 3.5% on corporate bonds, and 6.5% on equity investments. “It’s time to give the American people personal retirement accounts to help them build a nest egg they can pass on to their loved ones. My bill does that,” concluded Johnson. In a related matter, Johnson joined the Retirement Accounts Public Affairs Action Team. Johnson will be one of the congressional leaders who will aggressively advocate the creation of personal retirement accounts to strengthen Social Security across the country through various media outlets and speaking engagements.
02.14.2005	Today, Dallas-area Congressmen Sam Johnson (TX-3) and Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) delivered handmade Valentine’s Day greetings on behalf of 1,000 North Texas school children to hospitalized veterans at the Dallas Veterans Administration Medical Center. share: f t Today, Dallas-area Congressmen Sam Johnson (TX-3) and Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) delivered handmade Valentine’s Day greetings on behalf of 1,000 North Texas school children to hospitalized veterans at the Dallas Veterans Administration Medical Center. “We can never repay these valiant veterans for the sacrifices they have made, but we can do something to cheer them up and let them know that they have not been forgotten,” said Congressman Johnson, a 29-year Air Force veteran. The Valentines for Vets program is an annual program held in conjunction with National Salute to Hospitalized Veterans Week. Every February, Americans open their hearts to our country's hospitalized veterans by sending cards and letters to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical centers across the country. “These valentines are a great way to say thank you to the brave men and women who have made tremendous sacrifices to protect our freedom,” said Congressman Hensarling. “We need to let them know that we appreciate all that they have done for our country. I know each veteran who receives one of these cards will be happy to see how much our children care about them and care about America.” National Salute to Hospitalized Veterans Week is an annual, nationwide program that promotes activities designed to pay tribute and express appreciation to America’s hospitalized veterans. In addition to the Valentines for Vets program, activities during the week include special ward visits, school essay contests, special recreation activities and veteran recognition programs. First established as an official VA program in 1978, National Salute to Hospitalized Veterans Week serves as a valuable public awareness program to help people understand the important role of VA medical facilities and encouraging volunteer activities to help veterans. More than 3.8 million veterans of the U.S. armed services are cared for every day in Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers, clinics and nursing homes.
02.11.2005	Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed strong border security and immigration reforms by a vote of 261 to 161. An original cosponsor of The Restrict Enemy Aliens from Licenses and Identity Documents Act, or the REAL ID bill, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) voted for the measure that closes the immigration loopholes in the recently passed intelligence reform bill. share: f t Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed strong border security and immigration reforms by a vote of 261 to 161. An original cosponsor of The Restrict Enemy Aliens from Licenses and Identity Documents Act, or the REAL ID bill, U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) voted for the measure that closes the immigration loopholes in the recently passed intelligence reform bill. “Why did the nineteen 9/11 hijackers somehow secure 63 valid drivers’ licenses and use them to board U.S. airplanes? Why were eight hijackers registered to vote? People who want to harm us have used our broken immigration system against us. This has to stop,” urged Johnson, a member of the Immigration Reform Caucus. The REAL ID bill dramatically changes the way the nation handles immigration, specifically in the critical areas of drivers’ licenses, state identity cards, asylum reform, terrorist deportation and border enhancements. This bill, H.R. 418, cracks down in all areas mentioned above and protects our national security interests. These important provisions were stripped from the final intelligence bill that became law late last year. Specifically, the REAL ID bill accomplishes the following: The measure creates stronger security standards for the issuance of drivers’ licenses and state ID cards. As a result, a temporary drivers’ license expires when a visitor’s visa expires. The initiative tightens asylum system abused by terrorists by allowing immigration judges to determine witness credibility in asylum cases. This will keep terrorists out of the U.S. by ensuring all terrorism-related grounds for inadmissibility are grounds for deportation. The bill also closes the 3-Mile Hole in the U.S./Mexico Border Fence near San Diego. “Last December I voted against the intelligence reform bill because it failed to include the 9/11 Commission recommendations on illegal immigration. We must act now,” concluded Johnson. In a related matter, Johnson is a co-sponsor of two proposals attempting to block a Social Security agreement with Mexico. The agreement, known as a “totalization agreement,” the Bush Administration signed with Mexico, would allow Mexicans who have worked in the United States, including some illegal immigrants, to receive Social Security payments. First, Johnson backed a measure calling on President Bush not to submit the controversial agreement to Congress. Second, Johnson signed on to an initiative to block the deal entirely if and when the White House submits it Congress for approval.
02.10.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) reintroduced legislation to empower seniors who want to pay for their own health care. Under current law, seniors are prohibited from seeing their own doctor and paying for services they want or need. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) reintroduced legislation to empower seniors who want to pay for their own health care. Under current law, seniors are prohibited from seeing their own doctor and paying for services they want or need. “The law prohibiting seniors from paying for medical care out of their own pocket is a shining example of government over-regulation at its WORST,” exclaimed Johnson. “This wacky law just makes no sense. If a senior wants to pay out of his pocket to visit his doctor, he should have that right. This common-sense bill empowers seniors to get the care they want, when they want, from whom they want,” said Johnson. The Medicare Beneficiary Freedom to Contract Act of 2005 repeals the current law that forbids seniors from seeing doctors outside of the Medicare system. Now, if a doctor chooses to see a senior outside of the system, that doctor must refrain from receiving payments from Medicare for two years. In addition, the doctor must deal with enormous bureaucratic burdens. Because almost all doctors treat Medicare patients, very few of them would be willing to give up this part of their practice for a small number of private clients. Johnson advocates people getting the care they need, when they need it, not when Medicare mandates. “Seniors routinely tell me that they should be able to pay for their own medical care out of pocket if they want to. But the law won’t let them! It’s up to Congress to change that,” said Johnson. “If people want to pay for their own medical care, let them. The federal government shouldn’t have to pick up the tab just because of an over-zealous law,” said Johnson. Johnson re-introduced the legislation the day before the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health will hear from doctors about their Medicare payments under current law.
02.02.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) reintroduced his legislation to increase the number of Americans with health insurance by creating Association Health Plans (AHPs). share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) reintroduced his legislation to increase the number of Americans with health insurance by creating Association Health Plans (AHPs). “It’s high time Congress took some real action to make health insurance more affordable and more accessible. Association Health Plans would do just that,” said Johnson. Johnson Chairs the Subcommittee on Employer-Employee Relations and serves on the Health Subcommittee on the Ways and Means Committee. Johnson’s bill, The Small Business Health Fairness Act of 2005, H.R. 525, would allow reputable associations to band together to purchase health insurance through Association Health Plans. By taking advantage of group purchasing power, those involved would be subject to lower insurance rates than if buying health insurance on their own in the private market. An estimated 41 million Americans do not have health insurance. Private studies report an additional eight million American employees and their families would have health insurance through AHPs. Johnson’s initiative particularly enjoys strong backing from the small-business community. An estimated 60 percent of those without health insurance are from working families. In addition to increasing the number of insured, Johnson’s proposal goes to great lengths to ensure that people not only find affordable health insurance, but that they keep it, through common-sense government oversight and strict standards governing who may run AHPs. In particular, the legislation contains strong protections mandating only reputable professional and trade associations, which have existed for “substantial purposes” other than providing health insurance for at least three years, can sponsor an AHP. In addition, under AHPs, federal and state authorities would have new and better enforcement tools to prevent health insurance fraud. For example, AHPs must register with the state where they are based, abide by strict disclosure and reporting procedures, and face new criminal and civil penalties to combat fraud. “Together, these proactive measures safeguard people from ‘fly-by-night’ organizations scamming to make a quick buck,” said Johnson. Original cosponsors include Representatives John Boehner (R – Ohio) and Nydia Velazquez (D-N.Y.). Presently, the Associated Builders and Contractors, the National Federation of Independent Business, the National Restaurant Association and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce along with 160 groups, supports the bill. For a complete list, contact McCall Cameron at 202-225-4201.
01.27.2005	Yesterday U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) introduced tough new border security and immigration reform legislation that closes the immigration loopholes in the recently passed intelligence reform bill. share: f t Yesterday U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) introduced tough new border security and immigration reform legislation that closes the immigration loopholes in the recently passed intelligence reform bill. “Everyone knows that the nineteen 9/11 hijackers somehow secured 63 valid drivers’ licenses and used them to board U.S. airplanes. As many as eight hijackers were even registered to vote. What we have here is an immigration crisis. This is unacceptable,” said Johnson, a member of the Immigration Reform Caucus. “People are constantly plotting and planning to bring us down and our immigration system is one of our weakest links. Something must be done because our immigration problem is a national security problem,” Johnson continued. The Restrict Enemy Aliens from Licenses and Identity Documents Act, or the REAL ID bill, would dramatically change the way the nation handles immigration, specifically in the critical areas of drivers’ licenses, state identity cards, asylum reform, terrorist deportation and border enhancements. This bill, H.R. 418, cracks down in all areas mentioned above and protects our national security interests. Advocates for illegal immigration stripped these important provisions from the final intelligence bill that became law last month. Highlights of the REAL ID bill include: -Creating stronger security standards for the issuance of drivers’ licenses and state ID cards. * Proof of lawful presence in the U.S. * A temporary drivers’ license expires when an alien’s visa expires -Tightening the asylum system abused by terrorists. * Allow immigration judges to determine witness credibility in asylum cases * Keep terrorists out of U.S. by ensuring all terrorism-related grounds for inadmissibility are grounds for deportation -Closing the 3-Mile Hole in the U.S./Mexico Border Fence near San Diego. “Last December I voted against the intelligence reform bill because it failed to include the 9/11 Commission recommendations on illegal immigration. We must act now. This issue is not going away,” concluded Johnson. House leaders promised a vote on the 9/11 Commission immigration reforms early this year. H.R. 418 has 118 cosponsors. Johnson represents Collin and Dallas Counties.
01.10.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced that efforts to locate a U.S. court in Plano passed another hurdle. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) announced that efforts to locate a U.S. court in Plano passed another hurdle. “This is great news for the people of North Texas,” said Johnson. “This is a quality of life issue. Now people won’t have to drive nearly 100 miles roundtrip to Sherman to conduct business.” After years of trying, in December 2003 both the House of Representatives and U.S. Senate finally passed an initiative that named Plano as a place to hold court. The measure then became law. Shortly thereafter, the Judicial Conference – the judiciary policy-making body - imposed a moratorium on new space requests for cost-containment reasons. The moratorium aims to help the judiciary address the continued growth in rent it must pay for occupying courthouses. The Conference’s policy-making body has stopped virtually every new space request. To overcome this obstacle, Plano had to apply for a special exemption from the moratorium. Because of the unique circumstances there, a waiver was just granted so the project can now move forward. The next step will include working with the General Services Administration to evaluate all of the space and security needs of a new facility before making final plans. “Citing the unusual combination of four judges dividing their time between two cities and too few courtrooms serving one of the fastest growing areas of the country, Collin County, we are pleased that the courts will be able to expand to Plano. I am thrilled that they understood this special situation and acted on it,” said Johnson. Judge Richard Schell of the Eastern Judicial District of Texas made the case time and again for the Plano project to the federal higher-ups. “The caseload in the Sherman Division of the Eastern District is shared by four judges - three district judges: Judge Paul Brown, Judge Richard Schell and Judge Michael Schneider, who divides his time between Sherman and Tyler, and one magistrate judge, Judge Don Bush. However, only two federal courtrooms exist in Sherman.” “As a result, it has become increasingly difficult to schedule courtroom time in a manner that allows the Court to efficiently handle the separate dockets. There was a compelling need for additional space to efficiently process the rising caseload in this division of our court. Further, because Plano is the district’s largest city, the new space should be constructed there. The federal judiciary recognized the pressing need in Plano by granting the exemption,” continued Schell. “We are very fortunate that, during this period of tight budgets, the Plano project has been given the green light to proceed,” continued Judge Richard Schell. Presently, people from Collin County must drive to Sherman or Tyler to handle all federal court matters. Once completed, Judge Schell will relocate full time to Collin County. “I want to thank Judge Schell for his hard work. He’s been a real force behind moving a court to Plano. I look forward to seeing the Plano facility being a reality,” said Johnson.
01.06.2005	Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) invited Third District residents to attend two “Constituent Coffees” in his Capitol Hill office while they are in Washington DC for the Inauguration. On Tuesday, January 18th from 2pm to 3pm and on Wednesday, January 19th from 10am to 11am, Johnson will host informal Constituent Coffees in 1211 Longworth House Office Building. share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (3rd Dist.-Texas) invited Third District residents to attend two “Constituent Coffees” in his Capitol Hill office while they are in Washington DC for the Inauguration. On Tuesday, January 18th from 2pm to 3pm and on Wednesday, January 19th from 10am to 11am, Johnson will host informal Constituent Coffees in 1211 Longworth House Office Building. Constituents are welcome to stop by to warm up with coffee and meet fellow Texans. Light refreshments will be served while supplies last. People are encouraged to take the Metro (Capitol South/ orange or blue line) or take a cab as parking will be very limited. “For freedom-loving Americans, the Inauguration of the President of the United States is a time-honored tradition. Well, Texans have one more thing to celebrate – the re-election of President George W. Bush! People are welcome to stop on by for a slice of Texas hospitality, a cup of hot coffee and lots of Texas friends,” said Johnson. For a complete listing of official Inaugural events, visit http://www.inaugural05.com. Inauguration Tickets There are no more public tickets available for the official swearing in ceremony. People who secured tickets in advance and received a confirmation through Johnson’s office may pick up their tickets anytime on Tuesday between 10am and 4pm and on Wednesday between 10am and noon. Those inquiring about the popular Black Tie and Boots tickets should contact the Texas State Society of Washington at 301-809-8989. Those inquiring about the official Inaugural Parade or any Inaugural Ball, should visit http://www.inaugural05.com. Johnson’s office does not have tickets to any of these events. The Inauguration is a federal holiday. Accordingly, on January 20, 2005, Johnson’s office will be closed. The office will reopen on Friday, January 21st. Tuesday, January 18th Constituent Coffee 2pm to 3pm The Office of Congressman Sam Johnson 1211 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC Wednesday, January 19th Constituent Coffee 10am to 11am The Office of Congressman Sam Johnson 1211 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC
