04.23.2019	GARDEN CITY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice announced today that the National Science Foundation has awarded $1,199,752 in federal grant funding to Adelphi University’s Adelphi's Scholar Teacher Education Program to recruit, support, and prepare 24 science teachers, including those from typically underrepresented groups, to take STEM teaching positions in high-needs school districts. This project is a partnership between Adelphi University, Mineola Public Schools, New York City Department of Education/Queens High School for Teaching, Global Kids, Operation SPLASH, and Nassau Community College. Undergraduates working to obtain baccalaureate degrees in biology, chemistry, biochemistry, physics or environmental studies will be recruited through Adelphi's Scholar Teacher Education Program, a five-year, combined baccalaureate and master's program for students preparing to teach at the adolescent level. They will receive support from the Robert Noyce Teacher Scholarship Program (Noyce) for their junior, senior, and master's years. In addition, one year of support will be provided to STEM Professionals (i.e. graduates from STEM programs and/or career changers from STEM fields) as they earn Master of Arts in Education degrees with teacher certification. This grant aims to address an acute shortage of well-prepared grade 7-12 science teachers on Long Island and in Queens, New York. “Right now, we’re facing a national shortage of educators who are equipped to teach Science, Technology, Engineering and Math – subjects that are critical to preparing students for college and the 21st-century economy,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “That’s why this grant program is so important – it will allow Adelphi University to recruit, train and support new STEM teachers for our local schools. This vital funding will ensure that our students receive an education today that will prepare them for the job market of tomorrow.” "As Principal Investigator, I am delighted to see this project funded,” said Dr. Tracy Hogan, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Science Education. “This grant serves to unite the efforts of the Ruth S. Ammon School of Education and College of Arts and Sciences at Adelphi University, Mineola School District, Queens High School of Teaching/NYCDOE, Global Kids and Operation SPLASH. We see this as a great opportunity to advance the vision and mission of Adelphi University in its commitment to supporting the development of science teachers working in our underserved school districts on Long Island and in the metropolitan area.” ###
04.18.2019	GARDEN CITY, NY - U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today released the following statement on the redacted Special Counsel report: "The Special Counsel's report presents clear and startling evidence that the President repeatedly tried to hinder the investigation into his presidential campaign – findings that were made all the more glaring by the Special Counsel's explicit decision to not exonerate the President of obstruction of justice. And in stark contrast to Attorney General Barr's previous characterizations, the report clearly states that President Trump did not adequately cooperate with the investigation, the Special Counsel’s conclusion was in fact influenced by the Justice Department’s opinion that a sitting President cannot be indicted, and that Congress has a clear role to play in holding the President accountable for his actions. Now, more than ever, I believe Congress must exercise its constitutional oversight responsibilities and further investigate the report's findings. "It’s also critically important that we do not lose sight of the report’s core conclusion: Russia launched a sophisticated and successful campaign to influence the 2016 presidential election. This was an attack on the United States of America by a hostile foreign power and there is no doubt that Russia will try to repeat it’s success in 2020. Congress must act now to defend our democratic institutions – we need to implement a comprehensive strategy to secure our election infrastructure, strengthen our cyber security capabilities and stop future attacks before they happen. But most of all, we need this administration to finally acknowledge this threat as the urgent national security issue it is, rather than politicize and dismiss it, as they have done for the past two years." ###
04.11.2019	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice yesterday introduced H.Res. 305, which designates April as “Alcohol Responsibility Month” and expresses the U.S. House of Representatives’ commitment to support efforts to prevent drunk driving and underage drinking. The resolution is endorsed by the National Chapter of Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) and the Foundation for Advancing Alcohol Responsibility (Responsibility.org). Original cosponsors of Rep. Rice’s resolution include Reps. Carolyn Maloney (NY-12), Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), and Donald Payne Jr (NJ-10). The full text of H.Res. 305 is available here. In Spring 2015, Rep. Rice received MADD’s Lifetime Achievement Award for her nationally-recognized efforts to combat drunk driving as the district attorney of Nassau County, NY. Dubbed “the state’s toughest DWI prosecutor” by the New York Daily News, Rice secured Long Island’s first DWI-related murder convictions and helped enact state-wide changes in New York’s DWI laws. In 2008, CBS’s 60 Minutes profiled Rice’s work to reduce drunk driving, helping to spur renewed attention to the role of local law enforcement in DWI prevention, prosecution and education. “Preventing drunk driving requires active collaboration at every level, from law enforcement officials to lawmakers and industry leaders to mothers and fathers, teachers and community activists,” said U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice. “That collaboration is what has allowed us to make so much progress reducing drunk driving fatalities over the past 30 years, and it’s crucial that we continue to work together to keep that progress going and to keep saving lives. This expresses our commitment to be fully engaged in that effort, to promote alcohol responsibility and do all that we can to put an end to drunk driving.” “MADD and Rep. Rice have worked together for years to help fight drunk driving which continues to be the number one cause of death on the roadways,” said MADD National President Helen Witty. “MADD commends Rep. Rice’s leadership on this issue.” “Parents are the leading influence on a teen’s decision to drink, or not to drink, alcohol. Alcohol Responsibility Month is a perfect time for parents and caregivers in New York and across the nation to talk to kids about the dangers of underage drinking,” said Chris R. Swonger, president and CEO, Responsibility.org. “We all have a role to play to keep our kids safe and alcohol-free.” ###
03.27.2019	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today introduced H.R. 1903, the bipartisan Younger Onset Alzheimer’s Disease Act, which would amend the Older Americans Act to serve individuals who are under the age of 60 years-old but living with younger-onset Alzheimer’s disease or other degenerative diseases. Joining Rep. Rice in introducing this legislation are Reps. Maxine Waters (CA-43), Chris Smith (NJ-04), Pete King (NY-02), Elise Stefanik (NY-21), and David Trone (MD-06). Senators Susan Collins (ME), Bob Casey (PA), Shelley Moore Capito (WV) and Doug Jones (AL) today introduced a companion version of the bill in the Senate. “Too often, people living with younger-onset Alzheimer’s are shut out from vital services and programs simply because of their age,” said U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice. “These individuals begin to show symptoms as early as their 30s, 40s, and 50s, when they have young children, new homes and growing careers. Virtually overnight, their families are faced with unimaginable hardship, and right now, they aren’t eligible for the critical support offered under the Older Americans Act. This bill will fix that. It’ll ensure that people living with younger-onset Alzheimer’s and their caregivers have access to the resources they need and deserve, regardless of their age.” “Whether someone is older than 60 or younger than 60 when he or she is diagnosed with Alzheimer’s, the progression of this terrible disease is the same,” said Senator Susan Collins, a founder, and co-chair of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease. “Since Alzheimer’s is not restricted by age, neither should the programs designed to assist these Americans and their families. Our legislation would ensure access to these critical services to patients younger than 60 so that all Americans with Alzheimer’s have access to the care, support, and resources they need.” The Older Americans Act (OAA) was originally enacted in 1965 and supports a range of home- and community-based programs for the elderly, including meals-on-wheels and other nutrition services, in-home care, adult day-care, transportation services, legal aid, elder abuse prevention, and vital assistance and support for family caregivers. OAA programs, which are only available to Americans age 60 and older, have proven to be particularly essential to people living with Alzheimer’s. However, right now five percent of Americans living with Alzheimer’s – approximately 200,000 people – have younger-onset Alzheimer’s, for which symptoms usually begin in a person’s 50s, but can start as early as their 30s or 40s. As a result, this population and their caregivers do not have access to the vital OAA-funded programs and services that many older people living with the same disease have grown to rely on. The Younger-Onset Alzheimer’s Disease Act would address this issue by changing the OAA to make its funding and programming available to Americans under the age of 60 who are living with Alzheimer’s or similar degenerative diseases. “As the Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease, I am proud to join my colleagues to introduce the Younger Onset Alzheimer’s Act. More than five million Americans are living with Alzheimer’s, and about 200,000 of them suffer from younger-onset Alzheimer’s. This bill will ensure that all Americans living with Alzheimer’s, including those who are diagnosed at a young age, have access to the services of the Older Americans Act,” said U.S. Representative Maxine Waters. “As co-chair of the Alzheimer’s Caucus, I have spoken too many individuals with younger-onset Alzheimer’s and their families who are dealing with the agony that they know it is progressing, and I know they need all the support they can get,” said U.S. Representative Chris Smith. “This legislation will ensure that they will have access to services that have proven beneficial and vital to elderly individuals with Alzheimer’s and their families. Early intervention has proven beneficial in so many medical challenges, and Alzheimer’s is no different.” “The Younger Onset Alzheimer’s Disease Act is an important piece of legislation that amends the Older Americans Act to include services for a fast-growing population – younger individuals diagnosed with early onset Alzheimer’s,” said U.S. Representative Elise Stefanik. “This heartbreaking disease, which touches so many families, deserves equal recognition and protection under the law, and I’m proud to be a co-lead of this long-overdue, bipartisan bill and to stand up for the Alzheimer’s community.” “My father died from Alzheimer’s, and I have seen firsthand how this horrible disease affects a family,” said U.S. Representative David Trone. “Not only do we need to pass this legislation to allow access for those with younger-onset Alzheimer’s to access vital services, but we also need to make sure we invest more in funding for medical research to find a cure for devastating diseases like Alzheimer’s and dementia.” “I am pleased to introduce this bipartisan bill to help ensure our communities are able to meet the needs of anyone living with Alzheimer’s, no matter their age,” said Senator Bob Casey. “I will also keep fighting to secure robust funding for research that will improve care and lead to a cure for Alzheimer’s Disease.” “It’s essential that all Alzheimer’s patients—including those with early onset of the disease—have access to the resources and protections provided by the Older Americans Act. I’m proud to join this bipartisan group to ensure this important law is expanded to include those under 60 years of age living with this devastating disease,” said Senator Shelley Moore Capito. “I have seen firsthand how Alzheimer’s disease can forever change a person’s quality of life, and the tremendous emotional toll it takes on loved ones. This is a disease that can take hold regardless of someone’s age, and we need to make sure that our law reflects that reality. By updating the Older Americans Act, this bipartisan legislation will ensure that every American suffering from Alzheimer’s or other dementia diseases has the opportunity to receive the same level of quality care,” said Senator Doug Jones. “The Alzheimer’s Association and its advocacy arm, the Alzheimer’s Impact Movement (AIM), commend Rep. Rice for fighting for the hundreds of thousands of Americans living with younger-onset Alzheimer’s,” said Robert Egge, Alzheimer's Association chief public policy officer, and AIM executive director. “Regardless of age, anyone who receives and is living with an Alzheimer’s diagnosis faces unimaginable physical, emotional and financial challenges. But when this diagnosis comes at 30, 40 or 50, these challenges are compounded by other challenges facing many in the younger-onset population, such as raising young children, buying new homes or maintaining their livelihoods. By passing the Younger-Onset Alzheimer’s Disease Act, Congress can ensure these individuals and their families are not denied many of the services they desperately need.” The full text of the bill is available here. ###
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed H.R. 428, the Homeland Security Assessment of Terrorists’ Use of Virtual Currencies Act, introduced by Rep. Kathleen Rice. The bill would require the Homeland Security Assessment of Terrorists’ Use of Virtual Currencies Act would require DHS’ Office of Intelligence and Analysis to develop and submit a threat assessment report on the use of virtual currencies by terrorist organizations. The bill, which was co-sponsored by Rep. Peter King, passed by a bipartisan vote of 422-3. In recent years, there have been several instances in which terrorist organizations have turned to virtual currencies to support and finance their operations. In December 2017 for example, a woman in New York was arrested and pled guilty after she obtained $62,000 in Bitcoin and other virtual currencies to send to ISIL. Using those virtual funds, she was able to send the money via shell entities in Pakistan, China, and Turkey that were fronts for ISIL. Virtual currencies offer high-speed, low-cost financial networks with access to users across the globe. And many forms of virtual currencies also offer their users anonymity. These factors have made virtual currencies an increasingly appealing tool for terrorists seeking to circumvent American law enforcement and financial institutions. As terrorist organizations and lone-wolf attackers become more technologically sophisticated, and virtual currencies become more widely accessible, this threat is only likely to grow. “There’s no question that threat of terrorism has evolved with the advent of new technology, and it’s critical that we stay ahead of these threats at all times,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “Virtual currencies have exposed deep vulnerabilities in our counterterrorism efforts, creating new opportunities for terrorist organizations to finance their operations using the darkest corners of the Internet. And right now, our government lacks a comprehensive strategy with which to respond. This bill will give law enforcement officials at all levels the 21st-century solutions, information and resources they need to counter this emerging threat.” This legislation follows a May 2017 report from the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) that explored the potential threat of the use of virtual currencies to finance terrorist activities. Two of the report’s authors wrote an article in The Hill reiterating the report’s recommendations that Congress and the Administration develop a comprehensive national strategy for virtual currencies and foster innovation in the private sector to help address the threat of terror financing. ###
01.04.2019	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, the U.S. House of Representatives passed Representative Kathleen Rice’s resolution prohibiting Members of Congress and their staffs from serving on the boards of publicly-held companies. The resolution passed as part of the House Rules package for the 116th Congress. The measure creates a similar, yet stronger version of Senate Rule 37.6(a), which states no Senator “shall serve as an officer or member of the board of any publicly-held or publicly regulated corporation, financial institution, or business entity.” Currently, the Senate rule prohibits Members and staff from serving on corporate boards but includes certain exceptions for those who were serving on a board for at least two years prior to their election. The House measure would eliminate this exception and require members and staff who serve on corporate boards to resign from their position by no later than January 1, 2020. “The American people made it clear that they want Congress to clean up corruption and restore integrity to Washington,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “This resolution is long overdue. I applaud Chairman McGovern and the Rules Committee for making it a priority and ensuring that we finally close this gaping ethics loophole. I’m also incredibly pleased to see the passage of several other measures strengthening sexual harassment rules, protecting whistleblowers, and requiring annual ethics training for Members.” Rep. Rice first introduced the resolution in August 2018. Last fall, Rep. Rice testified before the House Rules Committee to advocate on behalf of her resolution, as well as another measure that would require all Members of Congress to undergo annual ethics training, which also passed as part of the Rules Package. New Members and all House staff are already required to undergo annual ethics training. ###
12.13.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representatives Kathleen Rice (D-NY), Mike Gallagher (R-WI), and Derek Kilmer (D-WA), three of the co-chairs of the Congressional Reformers Caucus, today introduced a bipartisan bill to increase disclosure and accountability of political spending. The Political Accountability and Transparency Act, H.R. 7267, would strengthen coordination rules between super PACs and individual campaigns to ensure that super PACs truly operate independently from candidates, require political advertisements to disclose the top donors to the organization paying for the advertisements, and would apply the “personal use” restriction on campaign funds to all political committees, including leadership PACs. “For too long, we’ve allowed outside money to play an outsized and arcane role in our politics, blurring the lines between special interest groups and the candidates they support,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “The Political Accountability and Transparency Act will close some of the most gaping loopholes in our campaign finance laws by increasing restrictions and reporting requirements for outside groups. This bipartisan bill will help restore integrity and trust in our nation’s political process.” “The American people deserve to know who is spending hundreds of millions of dollars every election cycle to influence their vote and muddy our politics,” said Representative Gallagher. “This bipartisan bill is critical to injecting more transparency into our campaign finance system and helping reduce the corrosive influence of dark money in our elections. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support this important piece of legislation.” “Sunlight is the best disinfectant,” Rep. Derek Kilmer said. “Americans deserve to know who is paying for the political ads they see regardless of how those ads are purchased. The Political Accountability and Transparency Act slams shut campaign finance loopholes and shines a light on the murky world of dark money.” “The Political Accountability and Transparency Act addresses some of the most obvious flaws in federal campaign law that repeatedly frustrate members of Congress on both sides of the aisle. We are pleased to see these leaders of the bipartisan Congressional Reformers Caucus put forward solutions to help fix America’s broken political system,” said Issue One Executive Director Meredith McGehee. “The Political Accountability and Transparency Act will address some of the worst loopholes in our campaign finance system while giving Americans much-needed transparency about who’s trying to influence the policy-making process in Washington. We’re proud to support this bill to increase integrity and accountability in our elections,” said Tiffany Muller, president of End Citizens United Action Fund. “Strengthening the law requiring independence of candidates from outside groups is critical to loosening the influence that megadonors who fund super PACs holdover candidates and officeholders,” said Trevor Potter, President of the Campaign Legal Center, and a former Republican Chairman of the Federal Election Commission. “Similarly, increasing political spending transparency and stopping politicians from using leadership PACs as slush funds are broadly popular bipartisan reforms. Voters have a right to know who is bankrolling campaign ads. And it would seem obvious that lawmakers shouldn’t be using donors’ PAC money to fund golf memberships, trips to five-star resorts, and Disney World vacations.” “The Political Accountability and Transparency Act represents a much-needed step toward strengthening a culture of transparency and accountability in our politics. Stand Up Republic is proud to support this bipartisan initiative,” said Greg Spenchian, Director of Policy and Partnerships for Stand Up Republic. H.R. 7267 tightens coordination rules between Super PACs and individual campaigns in several ways. For one, the bill would apply to the coordination that happens before a candidate is officially running for office if the spending occurs after the candidate is running for office. The bill would also apply broadly to any ads paid for by super PACs that promote, attack, support or oppose a candidate. Further, H.R. 7267 would apply to any communications that mention a candidate starting 120 days before a primary and going through the general election, and it explicitly covers all types of activity in addition to mass-broadcast communications, including mail and canvassing literature. Lastly, this bill strengthens the restriction on staff moving from a campaign or official office to an outside spender and, in the case that it does happen, requires a robust firewall. Another goal of H.R. 7267 is to provide voters with additional information on who pays for political advertisements. The bill would require television, radio, and internet advertisements to display, within the advertisement itself, the three largest donors to the organization paying for the advertisement. This would apply to super PACs, 501(c) nonprofits, and other corporate entities. Finally, H.R. 7267 aims to limit the widespread abuse of leadership PAC funds. Issue One and the Campaign Legal Center revealed widespread abuse of leadership PACs by Members of Congress, who are increasingly using these funds for five-star dinners, high-end vacations, and country club memberships, all under the guise of “fundraising expenses.” H.R. 7267 has been endorsed by Issue One, the Campaign Legal Center, Stand Up Republic, and End Citizens United Action Fund. The full text of the bill is available here. ###
11.16.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representatives Kathleen Rice (NY-04) and Brian Mast (FL-18), both members of the House Committee on Veterans Affairs, today introduced a new bill to revise the mission statement for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to be more inclusive of women veterans and surviving family members. The current VA mission statement is a quotation from President Abraham Lincoln that reads: “To care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow, and his orphan.” As it stands, this mission statement fails to recognize the service and sacrifice of the thousands of women in uniform who have served the United States. The bill would change the mission statement to read: “To fulfill President Lincoln’s promise to care for those ‘who shall have borne the battle’ and for their families, caregivers, and survivors.” Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) will be introducing companion legislation in the U.S. Senate. The number of women serving on active duty has grown substantially in recent decades – over 345,000 women have deployed since 9/11 – and as a result, the number of women veterans is expected to reach a record high. “As women continue to play an increasingly vital role in our armed forces, they’ve become a larger and more prominent part of our veteran community,” said Representative Rice. “But unfortunately, the Department of Veterans Affairs mission statement simply does not reflect that reality. The brave women who have worn our nation's uniform and their families deserve to be equally embraced by the motto of the very agency meant to support them. This bill will finally give women veterans the recognition they deserve for their service and sacrifice – it’s long overdue and anything less is unacceptable.” “There’s no doubt that female veterans face unique challenges and healthcare needs that the VA has not yet been able to successfully address. Fixing this critical failure starts at the top and changing the mission statement is a needed first step,” Representative Mast said. “I also know personally that when I deployed to Afghanistan and was injured, it wasn’t just a challenge for me, but it deeply impacted my wife and our entire family. Acknowledging the ongoing needs of families, caregivers and survivors is another critical improvement.” “The tone of every organization is set at the top. With its motto, the US Department of Veterans Affairs is telling women veterans and survivors of fallen women service members that they aren't seen. That they don't matter,” said Allison Jaslow, Iraq War Veteran and former Executive Director of IAVA. “Modernizing the VA's motto isn't a matter of political correctness, but respect for the over 2 million women veterans in America today. It’s time for the VA to follow the likes of West Point and the Air Force Academy by updating its language to be more inclusive of those it serves.” “A long overdue motto change would recognize and support women veterans, their families, caregivers, and survivors on the biggest level possible," said Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America Founder and CEO Paul Rieckhoff. “This new legislation retains the heart of Lincoln’s historic statement while placing the outdated statement in the history books. IAVA profoundly appreciates the leadership of Sen. Gillibrand, Rep. Rice and Rep. Mast, and we call on Congress to immediately act to make this historic change into law.” In addition to changing the mission statement, the bill will also require that within 30 days of enactment, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs publish a notification on the department’s website explaining the mission statement change, update each department website, and issue guidance and a timeline to the entire department for updating all previous mission statement references. Within six months, the Secretary will be required to submit a report to Congress on the department’s compliance. The VA’s current mission statement underscores larger feelings of disenfranchisement and inequality among women veterans. A study recently published by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine on mental health care services at VA provided insight into women veterans’ experiences at VA facilities and the challenges they face in accessing mental health services. The study found that women veterans: Are significantly more likely to believe that they are not entitled to or eligible for VA mental health services; Face unique barriers to VA care, largely related to challenges associated with being a woman in a traditionally male-dominated system, as well as issues that are specific to military sexual trauma (MST); and Experience frustration with both having to prove they are veterans and combat veterans to VA doctors who question or belittle their war experience. Earlier this year, Representative Rice proposed an amendment to the FY 2019 Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act that would change the mission statement. However, Republican House Leadership refused to debate or vote on the amendment. ###
11.08.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice, a member of the House Committee on Veterans Affairs, and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand announced they will introduce a new bill to revise the mission statement for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to be more inclusive of women veterans and surviving family members. The current VA mission statement is a quotation from President Abraham Lincoln that reads: “To care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow, and his orphan.” As it stands, this mission statement fails to recognize the service and sacrifice of the thousands of women in uniform who have served the United States. The bill Rice and Gillibrand are introducing would change the mission statement to read: “To fulfill President Lincoln’s promise to care for those ‘who shall have borne the battle’ and for their families, caregivers, and survivors.” The number of women serving on active duty has grown substantially in recent decades – over 345,000 women have deployed since 9/11 – and as a result, the number of women veterans is expected to reach a record high. “As women continue to play an increasingly vital role in our armed forces, they’ve become a larger and more prominent part of our veteran community,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “But unfortunately, the Department of Veterans Affairs mission statement simply does not reflect that reality. The brave women who have worn our nation's uniform and their families deserve to be equally embraced by the motto of the very agency meant to support them. As we prepare to observe Veterans Day, this bill will finally give women veterans the recognition they deserve for their service and sacrifice – it’s long overdue and anything less is unacceptable.” “Women have served in our military and given their lives to defend our nation since the founding of the country, and that includes the thousands of women who have made the brave and selfless decision to serve in our armed forces around the world today. It’s time for the VA’s motto to formally reflect that fact,” said Senator Gillibrand. “I’m proud to introduce this legislation to recognize the extraordinary sacrifice of all of our veterans, including women veterans, and I urge my colleagues to fight with me to quickly pass it into law. Our women veterans were willing to give their lives to this country, and I will always do everything in my power to make sure their service and sacrifices are given the respect they deserve.” “The tone of every organization is set at the top. With its motto, the US Department of Veterans Affairs is telling women veterans and survivors of fallen women service members that they aren't seen. That they don't matter,” said Allison Jaslow, Iraq War Veteran and former Executive Director of IAVA. “Modernizing the VA's motto isn't a matter of political correctness, but respect for the over 2 million women veterans in America today. It’s time for the VA to follow the likes of West Point and the Air Force Academy by updating its language to be more inclusive of those it serves.” In addition to changing the mission statement, the bill will also require that within 30 days of enactment, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs publish a notification on the department’s website explaining the mission statement change, update each department website, and issue guidance and a timeline to the entire department for updating all previous mission statement references. Within six months, the Secretary will be required to submit a report to Congress on the department’s compliance. "A long overdue motto change would recognize and support women veterans, their families, caregivers, and survivors on the biggest level possible," said Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America Founder and CEO Paul Rieckhoff. “This new legislation retains the heart of Lincoln’s historic statement while placing the outdated statement in the history books. IAVA profoundly appreciates the leadership of Sen. Gillibrand and Rep. Rice, and we call on Congress to immediately act to make this historic change into law.” The VA’s current mission statement underscores larger feelings of disenfranchisement and inequality among women veterans. A study recently published by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine on mental health care services at VA provided insight into women veterans’ experiences at VA facilities and the challenges they face in accessing mental health services. The study found that women veterans: Are significantly more likely to believe that they are not entitled to or eligible for VA mental health services; Face unique barriers to VA care, largely related to challenges associated with being a woman in a traditionally male-dominated system, as well as issues that are specific to military sexual trauma (MST); and Experience frustration with both having to prove they are veterans and combat veterans to VA doctors who question or belittle their war experience. Rice and Gillibrand plan to introduce this legislation next week. Earlier this year, Representative Kathleen Rice proposed an amendment to the FY 2019 Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act that would change the mission statement. However, Republican House Leadership refused to debate or a vote on the amendment. ###
10.30.2018	LONG BEACH, NY – U.S. Representatives Kathleen Rice (NY-04) and Peter King (NY-02) today introduced a new bill to amend the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act and the Small Business Act to better inform disaster survivors about which forms of federal assistance could be considered duplicative and result in a recoupment or, claw-back. The bill also requires the federal government to automatically provide disaster survivors with clear information on how they determine recoupment amounts. The proposed legislation has been endorsed by the Touro Law Center Disaster Relief Clinic, which has been assisting Long Islanders affected by Superstorm Sandy since 2012. The announcement was made on the six-year anniversary of Superstorm Sandy on the Long Beach Boardwalk, where Rep. Rice was joined by local elected officials and several Sandy survivors from New York’s fourth congressional district. “Victims of disasters like Superstorm Sandy use whatever assistance they receive to rebuild their homes and put their lives back together,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “But right now, FEMA fails to inform survivors of which benefits could be duplicative and result in a recoupment. It’s not fair to subject these survivors to claw-backs after they followed the rules. It should be incumbent upon the federal government to provide survivors with clear instructions and comprehensive information so that they can make well-informed decisions. As hurricanes become more frequent and more powerful, the number of Americans applying for disaster relief will only increase. We need to implement these reforms now to protect future storm survivors from encountering this same issue.” “It is terrible that Long Islanders subjected to the devastation of Superstorm Sandy have to also be subjected to an unclear and convoluted relief process,” said Representative Peter King. “I am proud to co-lead this legislation, which will make disaster aid more transparent and efficient.” In the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy, a difficult recovery process was made even worse for many survivors when they learned that they had used duplicative benefits and would have to repay the government for money already spent. A common scenario was when survivors used New York Rising funding for the same recovery purposes as other forms of federal assistance, such as Small Business Administration (SBA) loans or Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) grant funding. Following a major weather disaster like Sandy, FEMA encourages survivors to apply for both FEMA funding and SBA loans, which often arrive quickly, in order to begin the recovery process as soon as possible. After Sandy, Congress also appropriated an additional $4 billion in funding to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to further support New York State’s ongoing recovery effort. This funding was eventually distributed through NY Rising. Eager to rebuild their homes and communities, many Sandy survivors accepted NY Rising funding unaware that it would be considered duplicative to the FEMA funds and SBA loans that they already received and used. As a result, FEMA and NY Rising have sought to recoup millions of dollars in assistance funding from homeowners on Long Island who were simply following the rules. Currently, the Stafford Act does not require federal assistance programs to provide survivors with information on duplicative benefits nor does it provide them with the explicit option to refuse SBA loans. The Transparent Disaster Relief Act of 2018 would ensure that anyone receiving federal assistance signs an acknowledgment statement that includes a comprehensive list of resources that could be considered duplicative benefits. The bill also requires that the SBA clearly notifies all approved loan applicants that they are not required to accept the loan. Finally, the bill requires that anyone who is subject to a claw-back is automatically provided with all the information used by the federal government to determine the recoupment amount. This information is critical to individuals who are challenging a claw-back but is currently only available upon request. “What we saw in the aftermath of Sandy was a lack of proper information and education being provided to homeowners, especially regarding SBA Loans,” said Melissa H. Luckman, Esq. Director of the Disaster Relief Clinic Touro Law Center. “Still to this day, six years after the storm, my organization receives calls from homeowners who simply do not understand how or why an SBA Loan — which must be paid back with interest — counts as a duplication of benefits against the NY Rising grant program. I want to thank Rep. Rice and Rep. King for working together on this Bill, and for continuing to work hard for those affected by Sandy. We completely endorse this bi-partisan Bill being introduced today and look forward to a more educated future for those affected by natural disasters in the future.” Last Year, Rep. Rice was the lead Democrat on the Disaster Assistance Fairness and Accountability Act with Rep. Tom MacArthur (R-NJ), which prohibits FEMA from clawing back disaster assistance funding after three years of initially distributing it to recipients. This bill was included in the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 which the President signed into law on October 5, 2018. he full text of the bill is available here. ###
09.21.2018	GARDEN CITY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today introduced a new bill that would help ease student loan debt for millions of recent college graduates and their families. The Students and Families Empowerment Act would amend the Internal Revenue Code to effectively remove the $2,500 cap on deductions for student loan interest. Borrowers would be able to deduct all their interest for student loan amounts up to $750,000 – the same loan threshold as mortgage interest deductions. The bill would also eliminate the income limits on student loan interest deductions, allowing individuals earning more than $80,000 annually ($165,000 for couples filing jointly) to take these deductions on their taxes, and end the phase-out for individuals earning more than $65,000 ($135,000 for couples). Additionally, the Students and Families Empowerment Act amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to extend the grace period from 6 months to 12 months before recent graduates must begin to pay back their loans; this grace period also applies to parent borrowers, who are generally not afforded a grace period. Further, the bill prohibits interest from accruing during this 12-month grace period for most undergraduate, parent, and graduate student borrowers. The changes in this bill would apply to federal loans only. The announcement was made today at Adelphi University in Garden City, where Rep. Rice was joined by Adelphi University Provost and Executive Vice President Steve Everett, Assistant Vice President of Student Financial Services Sheryl Mihopulos and NY-04 residents. “College graduates are one of our country’s greatest assets,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “But instead of building financial security, starting businesses and buying homes, most recent graduates today are leaving college with crippling debt. As Congress prepares to reauthorize the Higher Education Act, we need to prioritize serious reforms to this process. My bill would help ease the burden of student loans by expanding interest deductions and extending the grace period for repayment – so that students actually have a chance to get on their feet and start their careers. These are commonsense changes that would make this process infinitely more manageable for millions of families across our country.” According to a 2015 study, seven in 10 college seniors who graduated from public and private nonprofit colleges had student loan debt, averaging $30,000. In New York State, 72% of graduates leave college with an average of nearly $30,000 in debt. Today, student loan debt in the United States has skyrocketed to $1.5 trillion. And with one in three parents saying they will assist their children with repayments, student loans are no longer just threatening the financial stability of recent graduates, they are also affecting older Americans who have had to dip into their savings and postpone retirement. Not only will this bill help alleviate this burden for students and parents, but by increasing the deductions on student loan interest to match those of home mortgages, this bill will also encourage more young Americans to enroll in higher education in the same way that our current tax policy encourages home ownership. “Affordability is top-of-mind at Adelphi – the very reason we provide millions of dollars in institutional aid every year to 95 percent of our undergraduate students,” said President Christine Riordan, President of Adelphi University. “It is so encouraging that Congresswoman Kathleen Rice is taking a significant step to help students and families better afford the costs associated with paying for college and ultimately paying off student debt.” “A college degree remains the most effective way for individuals to improve their career prospects and safeguard their economic futures,” said Mary Beth Labate, President of the Commission on Independent Colleges & Universities. “The repayment incentives in this bill will encourage more students to make that all-important investment in a college degree. We applaud Rep. Kathleen Rice’s efforts to make investing in a college degree easier for New York’s students and families.” The full text of the bill is available here. ###
08.27.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice, Ranking Member on the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Counterterrorism and Intelligence, announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has awarded more than $15 million for security enhancements to nonprofit organizations in the greater New York City area, including nearly $1.2 million to eight Jewish organizations, synagogues, and schools in New York’s fourth congressional district. The funding was awarded through DHS’s FY 2018 Nonprofit Security Grant Program (NSGP), which supports target hardening and physical security enhancements at nonprofit organizations that are at a higher risk of a terrorist attack. The Merrick Jewish Centre, the Hebrew Academy of the 5 Towns and Rockaway, Rambam Mesivta, the Hebrew Academy of Long Beach, Yeshiva Gedola of the Five Towns, The Hebrew Academy for Special Children in Woodmere, and the Brandeis School in Lawrence were each awarded $150,000 in NSGP funds. The Friedberg JCC in Oceanside was awarded $149,998. “As the threat of terrorism continues to evolve, we need to remain vigilant and take the necessary steps to protect potential targets in our community,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “I am pleased that we secured this funding to help enhance security measures and emergency response capabilities at several Jewish nonprofits in our district, and I’ll continue working to ensure that all of our communities have the resources and support they need to keep people safe.” Howard Segal, President of the Merrick Jewish Centre said, “Our congregation is extraordinarily grateful to Congresswoman Kathleen Rice and to the Department of Homeland Security for this grant. This funding will allow us to continue our efforts to protect and secure our building and the members of our community who are here with us each and every day.” “The Rambam Mesivta joins other institutions in expressing our deep appreciation for this grant, which will be used to provide our students with an additional level of security,” said Rabbi Zev Friedman, Dean of Rambam Mesivta. “I’d also like to express a special thanks to our local Representative, Congresswoman Kathleen Rice, as well as to the Orthodox Union and Teach NYS for their tireless efforts to ensure the safety and security of all students in New York State.” “These funds will help secure the three campuses of the Hebrew Academy of Long Beach and ensure the safety of our students and parents for many years to come,” said Richard Hagler, Executive Director of the Hebrew Academy of Long Beach. “We would like to take this opportunity to thank Representative Kathleen Rice for her leadership and guidance in helping us acquire these crucial funds.” “The Friedberg JCC is grateful to Congresswoman Rice for her continued support of Jewish Community Centers and non-profit organizations, said Roni Kleinman, Associate Executive Director of the Friedberg JCC. “This much-needed security funding will make a significant impact on improving the quality of life for our members, staff, and community. In FY 2017, Rep. Rice helped secured $450,000 for six non-profit Jewish organizations in New York’s fourth congressional district. In FY 2016, Rep. Rice helped secure a total of nearly $575,000 in NSGP funds for eight local organizations. ###
08.21.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representatives Tom Reed (NY-23) and Kathleen Rice (NY-04) today introduced a resolution to prohibit Members of the House from serving on the boards of publicly-held companies. The resolution creates a similar, yet stronger version of Senate Rule 37.6(a), which states no Senator “shall serve as an officer or member of the board of any publicly-held or publicly regulated corporation, financial institution, or business entity.” Currently, the Senate rule prohibits members from serving on corporate boards but includes certain exceptions for members who were serving on a board for at least two years prior to their election. The proposed House resolution would eliminate this exception and require newly-elected members who serve on corporate boards to resign from their position. “I care deeply about improving the public’s trust in Congress,” Representative Tom Reed said. “This is a common-sense proposal to further strengthen our ethics rules. By preventing Members of Congress from keeping one foot in the boardroom and the other on the House floor we hope to limit potential conflicts of interests and the appearance of impropriety.” “There is no reason why Members of Congress should ever be allowed to serve on the boards of publicly-traded companies,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “If we want to maintain the public’s trust in Congress, then we need to change our rules and close gaping ethics loopholes like this one. Our constituents should never have a doubt in their mind that their Representative could be corrupted, incriminated or conflicted because of their financial interests or their position in a private company. The Senate addressed this loophole nearly 30 years ago and a House measure is long overdue. This is a common-sense, bipartisan resolution and I urge my colleagues in the House to support it.” The full text of the bill is available here. ###
08.09.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representatives Kathleen Rice (NY-04) and Tom Reed (NY-23) today announced that they will introduce a resolution to amend the current Rules of the House of Representatives to prohibit Members of the House from serving on the boards of publicly-held companies. The resolution would create a House equivalent to Senate Rule 37.6(a), which states that no Senator “shall serve as an officer or member of the board of any publicly-held or publicly regulated corporation, financial institution, or business entity.” Reps. Rice and Reed said jointly: “We must change the rules to prevent members from serving on corporate boards in order to improve the public’s trust in Congress. There should never be a doubt in the public’s mind to lead them to think their Representative could be corrupted or incriminated because of their stake or position in a private company. We owe the American people this fair assurance. Today, we are announcing a resolution to amend the House Rules to match those of the Senate, which strictly prohibit members of the Senate from serving ‘as an officer or member of the board of any publicly-held or publicly-regulated company.’ This change is important and long overdue, and we urge our colleagues in the House to pass this resolution.” ###
08.06.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today announced she will re-introduce legislation that would improve the screening of transgender persons at airport security checkpoints. The Screening with Dignity Act of 2018 would require the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to develop new procedures and officer training protocols on how to appropriately and respectfully screen self-identified transgender passengers. While often unintentional, in recent years several shortcomings within TSA’s screening procedures have subjected transgender passengers to inequitable and improper treatment by security personnel. TSA’s advanced imaging technology currently requires officers to identify each passenger as either “male” or “female” before one enters the screening unit. As a result, transgender passengers are often flagged as “anomalies” if they trigger an alarm, and could potentially be “outed” as transgender before being required to undergo additional screening. This has led to several reported incidents of public humiliation, discrimination and harassment. “The transgender community deserves to be treated with fairness and respect in all aspects of life, including travel,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “Maintaining high safety standards and screening all passengers with dignity should not be mutually exclusive. It is clear that TSA needs to reassess its technological capabilities and improve its screening procedures to be more inclusive and ensure that no American is ever humiliated or discriminated against while going through security.” The Screening with Dignity Act also requires TSA to conduct two critical studies: the first would assess the cost and feasibility of retrofitting advanced imaging technology screening equipment, or of developing new equipment, to operate in a manner that is effectively gender neutral. The second study would evaluate the particular impact that TSA’s screening has on self-identified transgender and gender nonconforming passengers as opposed to the general population. Additionally, this bill codifies vital protections to affirm all passengers’ rights to privacy and anti-discrimination, including prohibiting the retention of individual passenger imaging data and discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. Last month, Rep. Rice joined 31 of her Democratic colleagues in a letter to TSA requesting information on its most recent efforts to reform the screening process for transgender passengers. The Screen with Dignity Act of 2018 has 15 original cosponsors and has been endorsed by the National Center for Transgender Equality, the American Civil Liberties Union, the Human Rights Campaign, Transgender Law Center and National LGBTQ Task Force Action Fund. The full text of the bill is available here. ###
07.30.2018	WESTBURY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today announced she will introduce the Younger-Onset Alzheimer’s Disease Parity Act, which would amend the Older Americans Act to serve individuals who are under the age of 60 years-old but living with younger-onset Alzheimer’s disease or other degenerative diseases. The announcement was made at the Long Island Alzheimer’s Foundation (LIAF) headquarters in Westbury, NY, where Rep. Rice was joined by representatives from LIAF, the Alzheimer's Association, Sid Jacobson JCC and NY-04 residents whose lives have been touched by younger-onset Alzheimer’s. The Older Americans Act (OAA) was originally enacted in 1965 and supports a range of home- and community-based programs for the elderly, including meals-on-wheels and other nutrition services, in-home care, adult day-care, transportation services, legal aid, elder abuse prevention, and vital assistance and support for family caregivers. OAA programs, which are only available to Americans age 60 and older, have proven to be particularly essential to people living with Alzheimer’s. However, right now five percent of Americans living with Alzheimer’s, or approximately 250,000 people, have younger-onset Alzheimer’s, for which symptoms usually begin in a person’s 50s, but can start as early as their 30s or 40s. As a result, this population and their caregivers do not have access to the vital OAA-funded programs and services that many older people living with the same disease have grown to rely on. The Younger-Onset Alzheimer’s Disease Parity Act would address this issue by changing the OAA to make its funding and programming available to Americans under the age of 60 who are living with Alzheimer’s or similar degenerative diseases. “Every American living with Alzheimer’s disease deserves access to the best available care, regardless of their age,” said U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice. “Those with younger-onset Alzheimer’s often begin to show symptoms in their 30s, 40s and 50s, when they still have young children, new homes and growing careers. Virtually overnight, these individuals and their families face unimaginable financial strain. But right now, they don’t qualify for the vital and affordable services offered under the Older Americans Act that many people with the same exact disease use and rely on every day. These families should not be denied help simply because of their age – they need access to these resources and this bill would make that possible by amending the OAA to finally serve younger Americans living with this disease.” “If this bill were to become law, it would provide much needed relief to families coping with Alzheimer’s disease,” said Tori Cohen, Executive Director of the Long Island Alzheimer’s Foundation (LIAF). “In particular, a change in the age criteria for assistance would enable more people to take advantage of two unique programs only LIAF offers. Our in-home respite program has proven to be an excellent entry point for families that are fearful of this disease and need assistance with a loved one, but right now under our Nassau County contract, the program can only be offered for those 65 and older. LIAF has another exclusive program that offers Saturday respite assistance for caregivers here at our center. U. S. Representative Rice’s bill would be especially welcome as it would provide an opportunity for the younger working caregivers of early onset individuals to get a much needed break on the weekend, knowing that their loved ones are safe at our center.” “Too often people with younger-onset Alzheimer’s are excluded from services because of their age,” said Robert Egge, Alzheimer’s Association Chief Public Policy Officer and AIM Executive Director. “This legislation would ensure that these individuals and their caregivers have access to the necessary services and support to help them throughout the continuum of this progressive and fatal disease. We are grateful to Congresswoman Rice for introducing this important legislation.” “Alzheimer’s and other dementias can affect any one at any age – they do not discriminate,” said Connie Wassermann LCSW, Associate Executive Director, Sid Jacobson JCC. “Because government funding cannot be used to serve those under 60 we've had to create our own program, the first of its kind, to help individuals and families living with younger-onset Alzheimer’s. We are grateful to Kathleen Rice for listening to the plight of younger families and for responding. This bill would allow us to serve more families and offer more resources to those who desperately need them.” “When my husband was diagnosed with Younger-Onset Alzheimer's Disease at the age of 36, we had nowhere to turn to for services,” said Karen Henley, a NY-04 resident. “When I contacted the Town of North Hempstead Services for the Aging seeking in-home care for my husband, they were eager to help until they asked me for his date of birth. Upon hearing his age, they explained that they only offered services to those 65 and older. But if this disease doesn't discriminate, than neither should our government agencies. This bill would finally put an end to that practice and would ensure that those who need affordable care have access to it, regardless of their age. This bill would have a real-life impact on countless families and I urge Congress to support it.” The full text of the bill is available here. ###
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice released the following statement today calling for the creation of an Election Security Coordinator to oversee all U.S. election security efforts: “Friday’s indictments were further confirmation of what we already knew: The Russian government oversaw an extensive operation to influence our 2016 election. But President Trump’s response at today’s joint press conference with President Putin was shockingly weak, submissive and frankly, frightening. The President continues to take the word of President Putin, a former KGB agent, over the concrete findings of our own intelligence community. “Right now our country is facing an unprecedented threat from a foreign adversary. An Election Security Coordinator would bring oversight and cohesion to our splintered election security strategy, and would be responsible for overseeing and coordinating all election security efforts across federal agencies. Russia was already successful once, and with Election Day just four months away, we need nothing less than an all-hands-on-deck response, including regular public briefings on an Election Security Coordinator’s progress and work. “According to recent testimony from Department of Homeland Security Under Secretary Christopher Krebs, Russia is actively trying to interfere in our 2018 elections. And while there are multiple federal agencies working to combat foreign influence and electronic hacking, there is no one in charge of coordinating their efforts to ensure they are successful. We cannot have such a dispersed and piecemeal approach to this pressing threat. We need to have someone at the highest level of government who is responsible for bringing our federal agencies together to counter all forms of election interference in an organized and concerted manner. “Before they go to the polls in November, the American people deserve real assurance that our government is taking every necessary step to protect our elections. Anything less is unacceptable.” ###
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives passed an amendment yesterday sponsored by U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice, Ranking Member on the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Counterterrorism and Intelligence, as part of the Matthew Young Pollard Intelligence Authorization Act (H.R. 6237) that would require the Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary of the Treasury to develop and submit a threat assessment report on the use of virtual currencies by terrorist organizations. H.R. 6237 authorizes funding for the Intelligence Community, including military intelligence, counterterrorism and cybersecurity programs for Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019. The amendment, which was cosponsored by Rep. Peter King, passed unanimously and the bill passed by a bipartisan vote of 363-54. In recent years, there have been several instances in which terrorist organizations have turned to virtual currencies to support and finance their operations. Virtual currencies offer high-speed, low-cost financial networks with access to users across the globe. Many also offer their users anonymity, making it difficult for law enforcement to track transactions. These factors have made virtual currencies an increasingly appealing tool for terrorists seeking to circumvent American law enforcement and financial institutions. As terrorist organizations and lone-wolf attackers become more technologically sophisticated, and virtual currencies become more widely accessible, this threat is only likely to grow. “We know that the threat of terrorism has evolved significantly with new technology, and we need to stay one step ahead of these threats,” said Representative Kathleen Rice, Ranking Member on the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Counterterrorism and Intelligence. “Virtual currencies have exposed deep vulnerabilities in our counterterrorism efforts, creating new opportunities for terrorist organizations to finance their operations using the darkest corners of the Internet. And right now, our government lacks a comprehensive strategy with which to respond. This amendment will give law enforcement officials at all levels the information and resources they need to counter this emerging threat with 21st century solutions.” Rep. Rice’s amendment requires a report that will include: An analysis of how terrorist organizations and state sponsors of terrorism could use virtual currencies to finance terrorism, as well as the gaps in federal and state regulations that could be exploited by terrorists; Recommendations to update regulations to more effectively address these vulnerabilities; An assessment on current federal efforts to study and collect intelligence on terror financing and money laundering methodologies and; An outline of existing legal impediments that inhibit the intelligence community from collecting information on or helping prevent the use of virtual currencies by terrorist organizations. This amendment follows a May 2017 report from the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) that explored the potential threat of the use of virtual currencies to finance terrorist activities. Two of the report’s authors recently wrote an article in The Hill reiterating the report’s recommendations that Congress and the Administration develop a comprehensive national strategy for virtual currencies and foster innovation in the private sector to help address the threat of terror financing. ###
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON - Yesterday, the House Committee on Homeland Security’s Subcommittees on Counterterrorism and Intelligence and Oversight and Management Efficiency held a joint hearing entitled “Access Denied: Keeping Adversaries Away from the Homeland Security Supply Chain.” During the hearing, Congressman Bill Keating (MA-09), a senior Member of the Committee, and Congresswoman Kathleen Rice (NY-04), Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Counterterrorism and Intelligence, questioned senior officials from the Department of Homeland Security about Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, and the officials refused to state definitively that Russia was responsible. Today, Assistant Attorney General Rod Rosenstein announced indictments against twelve Russian military and intelligence officers who hacked the Democratic National Committee and the campaign of Hillary Clinton. Said Congressman Keating and Congresswoman Rice jointly: “We have known for well over a year that the Russian government conducted extensive hacking operations to influence the 2016 election. It was a deliberate attack by a long-time foreign adversary. And yet, just yesterday, senior DHS officials refused to acknowledge Russia’s involvement. These officials, and the agency they work for, are tasked with protecting us from another attack on our upcoming election, which is only four months away. How can we expect them to do this job effectively if they cannot even acknowledge our most pressing threats? The endless attempts by this Administration to prop up Russia and obfuscate the Special Counsel's investigation has gone too far and is putting our most basic democratic institution – our free and fair elections – at risk.” The clip of Congressman Keating’s questioning can be accessed here: https://youtu.be/lft-wP2PBX8 The clip of Congresswoman Rice’s questioning can be accessed here: https://youtu.be/FVfDNvRDbWQ ###
06.08.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice condemned House leadership today for their refusal to allow debate on her proposed amendment to the Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act (H.R. 5895), which would change the motto for the Department of Veterans Affairs to be more inclusive. The current motto is a quotation from President Abraham Lincoln that reads “To care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow, and his orphan,” which fails to recognize the service and sacrifice of so many women in uniform. The number of women serving on active duty has grown substantially in recent decades – from approximately 55,000 in the 1970s to over 200,000 today – and as a result, the number of women veterans is expected to reach a record high. “As women continue to play an increasingly prominent and vital role in our armed forces, it’s unfathomable to me that any Member of Congress would refuse to even debate this amendment,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. Each year, women become a larger part of our veteran community and the Department of Veterans Affairs motto simply does not reflect that reality. The brave women who have worn our nation's uniform and their families deserve to be part of an organization that recognizes their service and sacrifice. Anything less is unacceptable.” “It’s not surprising that millions of women veterans feel that they’re invisible when the motto of the very agency Americans intend to support them purposely excludes them and their families,” said Allison Jaslow, a former Army captain who served two tours in Iraq and the former executive director of Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America. “It’s extremely disappointing to hear that a simple step to allow Congress to show its support for women veterans by ensuring the VA motto reflects reality was blocked. Rep. Rice should be commended for her leadership, which tells women veterans not just that they’re seen, but after almost 17 years at war in Iraq and Afghanistan, that their service and the sacrifice of their loved ones is respected as much as the men they’ve served alongside.” The VA’s current motto underscores larger feelings of disenfranchisement and inequality among women veterans. A study recently published by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine on mental health care services at VA provided insight into women veterans’ experiences at VA facilities and the challenges they face in accessing mental health services. The study found that women veterans: Are significantly more likely to believe that they are not entitled to or eligible for VA mental health services; Face unique barriers to VA care, largely related to challenges associated with being a woman in a traditionally male-dominated system, as well as issues that are specific to military sexual trauma (MST); and Experience frustration with both having to prove they are veterans and combat veterans to VA doctors who question or belittle their war experience. Blocking Rep. Rice’s amendment is part of a continued practice by Republican House leadership of preventing Members of Congress from both sides of the aisle from having their amendments debated and voted upon, making this Congress the most closed in history. ###
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice is calling for eligible communities in New York’s fourth congressional district to be designated as Opportunity Zones, which will incentivize long-term investment of private capital in low-income communities. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 established a new community development program that provides tax incentives for investors to re-invest in low-income urban and rural communities that have been designated as Opportunity Zones. Communities are eligible to be designated as Opportunity Zones if they have an individual poverty rate of at least 20% and a median family income of no more than 80% of the median family income in the surrounding area. In a recent letter to New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, Rice noted that participating in the program would bring significant investment to long under-served communities and spur economic growth throughout Long Island. Eligible communities in New York’s fourth district include the Village of Hempstead, which the Census designates as having “severe economic distress,” as well as Freeport, Long Beach, and New Cassel. Governor Cuomo has until Friday, April 20, to nominate eligible communities to be designated as Opportunity Zones. “There are a number of eligible areas of the 4th Congressional District that would greatly benefit from being designated,” Rice wrote. “The area that could most benefit is Hempstead, which has ‘severe economic distress’ census tracts. The Hempstead area is ready for increased investment in the people who live and work there. Designating the other eligible tracts in NY-4 would also help Long Island as a whole prosper. Freeport has made transit-oriented development and downtown revitalization a priority in order to help retain both younger and older residents. As Long Beach continues to recover from Superstorm Sandy, it is looking at how it can use the land in the eligible tract more deliberately and efficiently – that is, more resilient to flooding and also adding resources the community needs, such as parks, child care, and employers. New Cassel, which you designated in 2015 as a Brownfield Opportunity Area, is actively working to improve quality of life and increase economic opportunity.” The full text of the letter is available here. ###
03.19.2018	GARDEN CITY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice, a member of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, announced today that Nassau Community College (NCC) and Suffolk County Community College (SCCC) will host a full-time student veterans counselor through the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) VetsSuccess on Campus (VSOC) program. Rep. Rice made the announcement at NCC’s Veterans Resource Facility, joined by NCC President Dr. Hubert Keen, local veteran leaders, officials from Nassau County Veterans Service Agency and Northport VA Medical Center, and Chris Holder, the incoming VSOC counselor for Nassau and Suffolk Counties. Opened in 2014, NCC’s Veterans Resource Facility is a 2,500-square foot space dedicated to supporting student veterans as they transition to academic and civilian life. In 2015, NCC submitted a joint proposal with SCCC to host a counselor through the VSOC program, which began as a pilot program in 2009 and has since been successfully implemented at schools across the country. The VSOC program offers a wide range of counseling and benefits assistance services to veterans, service members and dependents as they continue their education, pursue job opportunities and adjust to civilian life. In November 2015, Rice led the Long Island congressional delegation in a letter to then-VA Secretary Robert McDonald urging the VA to approve the proposal. Long Island is home to more than 100,000 veterans, including a growing number of post-9/11 veterans using their G.I. Bill benefits to advance their education at schools like NCC and SCCC. Previously, the only VSOC counselor in the entire state was located 275 miles away from NCC at Syracuse University. Rice continued working with NCC to push the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) to approve the proposal, and in late 2017 Rice’s office was notified that VBA had approved the plan for a VSOC counselor to be co-located at NCC and SCCC. “I’m excited to announce that Long Island will now be home to a full-time counselor serving student veterans, servicemembers and military families in Nassau and Suffolk Counties,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “We’ve pushed the VA for more than two years to make this decision because we have real need and demand for these services on Long Island, with more and more post-9/11 veterans continuing their education and pursuing jobs and new career opportunities as they transition to civilian life. I’m grateful for the knowledge and experience that Mr. Holder brings to this position, and I look forward to working together to provide Long Island’s student veterans with the support, benefits and opportunities they’ve earned.” “We are so pleased and thankful to Representative Rice for her hard work and diligence in securing a veterans’ counselor for Nassau Community College,” said NCC President Dr. Hubert Keen. Having been founded on the site of a former military base, NCC has a long history and tradition of supporting our veterans in their return to civilian life after serving their country. That tradition has been enriched with the addition of the on-campus counselor. He will provide yet another layer of assistance to the many supports NCC already provides to its student veterans. The addition of a veterans counselor improves our mission to assure that our veterans receive all of the support and benefits they so richly deserve.” Chris Holder, the incoming VSOC counselor, is a former Marine Corporal who previously worked as a Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor in the New York VA Regional Office. In his role as VSOC counselor co-located at NCC and SCCC, Mr. Holder will serve as the first point of contact for student veterans with questions about the VA, and will provide a range of counseling services related to education, adjustment and transition to civilian life, VA medical benefits information, applying for and understanding other VA benefits, and referrals to other community organizations as needed. ###
03.06.2018	WASHINGTON - U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today called on Administrator Ronald Batory of the Federal Railroad Administration to investigate New York & Atlantic Railway’s (NYAR) workplace safety measures in light of concerning allegations that untrained workers performed critical tasks, potentially putting themselves and commuters in harm’s way. In a letter sent to Administrator Batory this morning, Rice wrote: “In February, a group of day laborers filed a lawsuit against NYAR, claiming they were tasked with carrying out dangerous jobs without adequate training, certification or safety equipment. Working along the Long Island Rail Road (LIRR)—the nation’s busiest commuter rail carrying approximately 301,000 customers each weekday—these workers claim they were not prepared to fix track switches, repair rails, or lift derailed freight trains back onto the rails. “These allegations are concerning and it is critical that FRA again review NYAR’s workplace conditions to ensure lessons were learned after the 2016 report. Employees must be confident that they will only be asked to do work for which they are trained so they do not put their health and safety at risk. Commuters must be confident that the tracks their trains use every day are safe.” The full text of the letter is copied below, and a signed copy is available here. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Honorable Ronald Batory Administrator Federal Railroad Administration 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE Washington, DC 20590 Dear Administrator Batory, Thank you for your work on the Federal Railroad Administration’s (FRA) mission to keep our nation’s railroad system safe and efficient. Long Island Rail Road’s freight operator, New York & Atlantic Railway (NYAR), has recently been accused of allowing unqualified workers to perform dangerous track work. FRA released a report in 2016 about unsafe work practices by NYAR, and in light of these new allegations, I urge you to expeditiously review NYAR’s current safety procedures. In February, a group of day laborers filed a lawsuit against NYAR, claiming they were tasked with carrying out dangerous jobs without adequate training, certification or safety equipment. Working along the Long Island Rail Road (LIRR)—the nation’s busiest commuter rail carrying approximately 301,000 customers each weekday—these workers claim they were not prepared to fix track switches, repair rails, or lift derailed freight trains back onto the rails. These allegations are concerning and it is critical that FRA again review NYAR’s workplace conditions to ensure lessons were learned after the 2016 report. Employees must be confident that they will only be asked to do work for which they are trained so they do not put their health and safety at risk. Commuters must be confident that the tracks their trains use every day are safe. Thank you for your attention to this matter, and I look forward to your response. Sincerely, Kathleen M. Rice Member of Congress ###
12.06.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice released the following statement today regarding members of Congress facing credible allegations of sexual harassment and assault. Statement from Representative Kathleen Rice: “When the recent wave of credible allegations of sexual harassment and assault reached Rep. John Conyers, my colleague in the House and a fellow Democrat, I felt we needed to show that we would no longer allow ourselves or our colleagues to be held to a double standard. If we believe the women, as so many of us say we do, then we can’t just go on serving alongside and working with colleagues who we believe have preyed on women – we need to act, and men who have abused their positions of power need to face consequences. “That’s the standard we expect in the media, in entertainment, and throughout the private sector, and the standard for public servants should if anything be even higher. That doesn’t mean that every politician who faces a single accusation should resign immediately – it means that if we believe the women, we should act accordingly. I believe the women who accused Rep. Conyers. I believe the women who have accused Sen. Franken, Rep. Kihuen, and Rep. Farenthold. And again, I believe all three should resign as Rep. Conyers has. “I believe and I hope that we’ve made real progress on this issue over the past two weeks. We’ve identified what the standard should be for politicians who violate the public trust by harassing or assaulting women. Now we need to stick to it.” ###
12.04.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today introduced new legislation that will authorize the U.S. Secretary of Transportation to award a total of $5 million in competitive grant funding to non-profit organizations working to educate the public and prevent distracted driving in communities across the country. Rice announced the new effort today during an event at Mineola High School as part of AT&T’s “It Can Wait” campaign, which works to educate the public about the risks of distracted driving and encourage people to pledge that they will never drive distracted again. The legislation has been endorsed by the National Safety Council. “We’ve made a lot of progress raising awareness about the risks of distracted driving, but it’s still on the rise, causing thousands of deaths and hundreds of thousands of injuries every year,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “People are still texting while they drive, even as they learn more about the risks, and every year we have millions of new drivers who have grown up with smartphones and pressure to be connected at all times. “That’s why I participate in events like we held today at Mineola High School, and that’s why I’m introducing new legislation to provide a total of $5 million in competitive grant funding to support organizations that are helping to raise awareness and prevent distracted driving,” Rice continued. “We need to keep strengthening our laws and enforcement strategies, and we need to keep learning the best ways to actually change people’s behavior and make them choose not to risk their lives by distracting themselves behind the wheel. That was my message to the students today, and my new bill will support those who are driving that message in communities across the country and help guide us to the best strategies we can use to address this epidemic.” “Distraction is a leading killer on our roads today,” said Jane Terry, senior director of Government Affairs at the National Safety Council. “We applaud Rep. Rice for taking a leadership role on this issue. We look forward to working with her and all her colleagues to eliminate preventable traffic deaths and get the nation on the Road to Zero.” The full text of the Distracted Driving Education Act of 2017 is available here. ###
11.29.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today called on Speaker Paul Ryan to intervene in the case of a former employee who accused Rep. John Conyers, Jr. of unwanted sexual advances, and release her from the confidentiality agreement that she was forced to sign as part of a settlement. In a letter sent to Ryan this morning, Rice wrote: “Under the settlement, the complainant was forced into a non-disclosure agreement and has been unable to openly discuss the workplace harassment and abuse she was subjected to, while Rep. Conyers and his attorney, Arnold Reed, have been free to make their case to the public. Three additional women (Maria Reddick, Melanie Sloan, and Deanna Maher) have been able to speak publicly about harassment by Rep. Conyers because they chose not to pursue a complaint through a system that is now universally acknowledged to be stacked against the victim. “The accuser who attempted to seek help through a deeply flawed system should not continue to be silenced by the institution that failed to protect her in the first place.” The full text of the letter is copied below, and a signed copy is available here. Hon. Paul Ryan Speaker of the House H-232, The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan, I urge you to take immediate action to allow the former House employee who accused Representative John Conyers, Jr. of unwanted sexual advances to tell her story publicly. Last week, BuzzFeed reported that Rep. Conyers settled a wrongful dismissal complaint with a “severance payment” of $27,111.75 to the complainant. Under the settlement, the complainant was forced into a non-disclosure agreement and has been unable to openly discuss the workplace harassment and abuse she was subjected to, while Rep. Conyers and his attorney, Arnold Reed, have been free to make their case to the public. Three additional women (Maria Reddick, Melanie Sloan, and Deanna Maher) have been able to speak publicly about harassment by Rep. Conyers because they chose not to pursue a complaint through a system that is now universally acknowledged to be stacked against the victim. The accuser who attempted to seek help through a deeply flawed system should not continue to be silenced by the institution that failed to protect her in the first place. Mr. Reed has made clear his client will not release the former employee from the agreement, and it is unclear whether the Office of Compliance, the House Ethics Committee, House Employment Counsel, or some combination of the three has the authority to do so. As Speaker of the House, I urge you to immediately intervene to right this wrong. The woman named in the settlement agreement with Rep. Conyers deserves the opportunity to tell her story and I ask you to swiftly intercede on her behalf. Sincerely, KATHLEEN M. RICE Member of Congress ###
11.17.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice announced today that her office will host mobile office hours throughout the district over the next two months to help residents find affordable health insurance during the Open Enrollment period and to provide any other services that constituents may need. Rice’s office will host office hours in Freeport, Hempstead, Baldwin, Westbury, Roosevelt, Uniondale and Long Beach. Navigators from the New York State Department of Health will be available during the sessions in Freeport, Baldwin, Westbury, Long Beach and the afternoon session in Roosevelt to provide in-person assistance to anyone seeking to find and apply for health insurance through the state marketplace. Experienced caseworkers from Rice’s office will be available at all seven sessions to help residents with health insurance enrollment as well as any other constituent services. The first session of mobile office hours will take place on Monday, November 20 at the Freeport Recreation Center from 12:00-2:00 p.m. and from 4:00-7:00 p.m. Below are the complete details for all seven upcoming sessions. Constituents can call Rice’s office at (516) 739-3008 with any questions. Rep. Kathleen Rice’s Upcoming Mobile Office Hours: FREEPORT – MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20 WHEN: 12:00-2:00 p.m. and 4:00-7:00 p.m. WHERE: Freeport Recreation Center (130 E Merrick Rd, Freeport, NY 11520) *Navigator will be available to help residents apply for health insurance through the state marketplace HEMPSTEAD – TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 28 WHEN: 12:00-2:00 p.m. and 4:00-7:00 p.m. WHERE: Hempstead Public Library (115 Nichols Ct, Hempstead, NY 11550) BALDWIN – WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 13 WHEN: 12:00-2:00 p.m. and 4:00-7:00 p.m. WHERE: Baldwin Public Library (2385 Grand Ave, Baldwin, NY 11510) *Navigator will be available WESTBURY – THURSDAY, DECEMBER 21 WHEN: 12:00-2:00 p.m. and 4:00-7:00 p.m. WHERE: Yes We Can Community Center (141 Garden St, Westbury, NY 11590) *Navigator will be available ROOSEVELT – WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 3 WHEN: 12:00-2:00 p.m. and 4:00-7:00 p.m. WHERE: Roosevelt Public Library (27 W Fulton Ave, Roosevelt, NY 11575) *Navigator will be available during the early afternoon session (12:00-2:00 p.m.) UNIONDALE – SATURDAY, JANUARY 13 WHEN: 10:00 a.m.-1:00 p.m. WHERE: Uniondale Public Library (400 Uniondale Ave, Uniondale, NY 11553) LONG BEACH – MONDAY, JANUARY 22 WHEN: 12:00-2:00 p.m. WHERE: Martin Luther King Center (615 Riverside Blvd, Long Beach, NY 11561) *Navigator will be available ###
11.01.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representatives Kathleen Rice (D-NY) and Ryan Costello (R-PA) today introduced new legislation to help prevent domestic abusers from buying guns by creating incentives for states to provide complete domestic violence records to federal background check databases, and by providing grant funding to help states improve their reporting processes. H.R. 4183, the Domestic Violence Records Reporting Improvement Act of 2017, encourages states to improve domestic violence records in the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) in two ways. First, it would require states to properly report domestic violence records in order to be eligible for National Criminal History Improvement Program (NCHIP) grants, which provide funding to states to improve reporting of criminal history records and protection orders for gun purchaser background checks and for other reasons. The bill would require NCHIP grants to be used specifically to improve the accessibility of domestic violence records through NICS, unless the state receiving the grant has already made a certain percentage of its domestic violence records accessible through NICS. Second, the bill would make NICS Act Record Improvement Program (NARIP) grants more available to states that want to use those grants to improve the accessibility of domestic violence records in NICS. NARIP grants are available to states specifically to improve the reporting of criminal history, mental health, and protection order records to NICS for gun purchaser background checks. However, states are currently not eligible for these grants if they haven’t implemented a program that provides a way for people subject to the mental health disqualifiers to regain their gun eligibility. 21 states did not have such programs as of February 2016. H.R. 4183 removes that legal barrier so that states that want to improve domestic violence reporting are not denied funding that can help them do so. “When domestic abusers can easily buy guns, their partners too often end up dead – that’s what happens when our background check system lacks complete, up-to-date domestic violence records from every state in the country,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “Our bipartisan bill creates common-sense incentives for states to improve their reporting of domestic violence records so that we can enforce the law, keep guns out of the hands of domestic abusers, and save lives. New York has been a national leader when it comes to reporting domestic violence records, and this bill will help ensure that every state in the country approaches this problem with the same level of commitment.” “I am committed to rededicating our efforts to encourage states to report domestic violence records to the appropriate government agencies, as this critical information could result in saved lives,” said Rep. Ryan Costello. “Our background check system is only as strong as it is comprehensive, and this legislation will help keep our communities safe by making sure officials have the tools and resources they need to report the information that makes these records complete.” “Domestic violence and firearms violence are a lethal combination. That’s why domestic abusers should not be able to easily access firearms. Our elected leaders must step up and close loopholes in our laws to enhance the safety of women, families and our communities.” Said Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, founder of Giffords. “I applaud Congressman Ryan Costello and Congresswoman Kathleen Rice for putting forward a bipartisan piece of legislation that requires states to fully upload domestic violence records into the background check system. I urge my former colleagues to pass this bill and help make women and their families safer from domestic abusers with guns.” The full text of H.R. 4183 is available here. Additional Background on HR. 4183: Research has shown that victims of domestic violence are at a much higher risk of being killed if their abuser owns a gun, which is why federal law restricts gun ownership for individuals who have been convicted of certain domestic violence misdemeanors as well as individuals who are subject to certain kinds of restraining orders. However, domestic abusers who meet these criteria are still often able to pass background checks and buy guns because the federal background check system lacks sufficient information on domestic violence records. The federal background check requirement involves a search through the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS), a group of databases maintained by the FBI using information provided primarily by states and local governments. The extent to which domestic violence records are accessible during a NICS background check varies significantly from state to state. Many states have no protocols to distinguish misdemeanor domestic violence convictions from other misdemeanor convictions in their records, and many states do not provide sufficient information to NICS about domestic violence restraining orders. Without this information, NICS cannot readily identify whether a conviction or restraining order disqualifies a person from possessing a gun, meaning that domestic abusers can still pass a NICS background check. According to the Government Accountability Office (GAO), inadequacies in the available records allowed domestic abusers to pass background checks and obtain guns more than 6,700 times between 2006 and 2015. H.R. 4183 will create incentives for states to improve their domestic violence reporting in two ways: First, it will make proper reporting of domestic violence records a condition for a state to use NCHIP grant funding for other purposes. States will be required to use this funding specifically to improve domestic violence reporting records, unless and until a state has already made a certain percentage of its domestic violence records accessible through NICS. Second, it will made NARIP grants more available to states that want to use the grant funding to make domestic violence records more accessible in NICS. As of February 2016, 21 states were ineligible for NARIP grants because they don’t have a program that provides a way for people subject to the mental health disqualifiers to regain their gun eligibility. H.R. 4183 removes that legal barrier and allows all states to receive NARIP grant funding if they use it to improve the reporting of domestic violence records. ###
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today led 67 House Democrats and Republicans in calling on the U.S. Solicitor General to respond to the Supreme Court’s request for a brief expressing the Trump administration’s views in Sokolow v. Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), et al., a case involving American victims of terrorism abroad who sought civil redress from the PLO and Palestinian Authority (PA) under the Anti-Terrorism Act of 1992 (ATA), which gave American victims of terrorism the right to sue perpetrators for attacks that occur anywhere in the world. The lead plaintiff in the case, Mark Sokolow, is a resident of Cedarhurst in Rep. Rice’s district who was injured, along with his wife and daughters, in a suicide bombing in Jerusalem in January 2002. The Sokolows and their fellow plaintiffs joined together in 2004 to sue the PLO and PA for their role in the January 2002 attacks and several other bombings and shootings in Israel in the early 2000s that killed and maimed hundreds of civilians. Many of the PLO and PA “security officers” involved in planning and executing these attacks have been tried, convicted and sentenced to multiple life sentences, but continue to draw generous PLO and PA salaries while in prison. In 2015, a unanimous jury in the Southern District of New York found the PLO and PA liable for the attacks and awarded compensation to the plaintiffs. In August 2016, the Second U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Manhattan overturned the ruling and dismissed the suit on the grounds that U.S. federal courts lack jurisdiction over terrorist attacks abroad. The plaintiffs asked the Supreme Court to review and overturn the Appeals Court’s verdict, and several amicus briefs have been filed in support of the terror victims, including a brief filed by the U.S. House of Representatives and a brief filed by a bipartisan group of 23 U.S. Senators. The Supreme Court has requested the Trump administration’s views on the case, but the Solicitor General has yet to respond to that request. In a letter sent today, Rep. Rice led 34 Republicans and 32 Democrats in urging the Solicitor General to expeditiously respond to the request so that the Court can move forward and review the case. The letter was co-led by Rep. Christopher Smith (R-NJ), who also represents a plaintiff in the case. In their letter to Solicitor General Noel Francisco, the Representatives wrote: “As Members of Congress, we have a compelling interest to speak out in defense of the ATA, passed with overwhelming bipartisan support, and in support of these American victims waiting for justice. We also seek to prevent future victims. For this reason an amicus brief supporting the grant of certiorari has already been filed by the House of Representatives. The Court should grant certiorari to review the Court of Appeals’ deeply flawed and troubling decision, which concerns issues of exceptional importance to the Nation. “We ask you now to expedite the requested response of the Solicitor General and request the full and fair consideration of the views herein.” In addition to Reps. Rice and Smith, the letter was co-led by nine other House members who represent plaintiffs in the case: Reps. Ted Budd (R-NC), William Keating (D-MA), Joe Kennedy (D-MA), Stephen Lynch (D-MA), Jerry Nadler (D-NY), Scott Perry (R-PA), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) and Frederica Wilson (D-FL). The full text of the letter is available here. ###
10.25.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice, a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, introduced new legislation today that will require all House Members to undergo annual cyber- and information security training, just as is already required for House officers and employees. H.Res. 585, the bipartisan Congressional Cybersecurity Training Resolution of 2017 co-led by Rep. John Katko (R-NY), will require the Chief Administrative Officer of the U.S. House of Representatives to carry out annual information security training for House Members, officers and employees. The legislation comes during Cybersecurity Awareness Month and is intended to help ensure that all House Members and staff are fully aware of the rising threat of cyberattacks and have the knowledge and skills they need to protect the integrity of data and information on government systems. New Members would be required to undergo this training within 30 days of beginning service to the House, and all Members would be required to complete annual training by January 31st of each year. “We’re facing a constant threat of cyberattacks on American government, political and private-sector systems, and Members of Congress have a responsibility to protect the integrity of the systems we use every day,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “Our employees and House officers are already required to take mandatory information security training, and Members should be held to the exact same standard.” “At a time when we face unprecedented cyber threats, it is critical that all Members of Congress are informed of the most pressing threats and best practices for preventing cyberattacks,” said Representative Katko. “Security awareness training is vital to any organization or business. Employees of the House are already required to undergo regular training -- and Members of Congress should not be exempt.” The full text of H.Res. 585 is available here. ###
10.24.2017	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives last night passed S. 504, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Travel Cards Act of 2017, which is identical to bipartisan legislation introduced in the House this year by Reps. Kathleen Rice (D-NY), Dan Donovan (R-NY), Rick Larsen (D-WA) and Dave Reichert (R-WA). The legislation permanently reauthorizes the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Business Travel Card (ABTC) program, which provides access to fast-track immigration lanes at airports for travelers who conduct verified business in the APEC region. APEC, a forum of 21 Pacific Rim countries including the U.S., created the ABTC program in 1997, and the U.S. started issuing cards to eligible Americans in 2014 after Congress passed the APEC Business Travel Cards Act in 2011. Under that law, the authority to issue these travel cards to Americans is set to expire on September 30, 2018 – meaning that no new cards can be issued after that date, and all cards will expire by 2021, after which Americans will no longer be able to travel throughout the region as easily as business travelers from other APEC countries. The legislation passed in the House last night permanently extends that authority, while maintaining the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) authority to revoke or suspend an individual’s card for security reasons at any time. S. 504 was introduced in the Senate by Senators Mazie Hirono (D-HI) and Steve Daines (R-MT). Nearly 30,000 U.S. citizens currently hold cards through the ABTC program, including more than 2,300 cardholders in New York and more than 1,000 in Washington. Several organizations in New York have announced their support for the legislation, including NYC & Company, New York City’s official marketing, tourism and partnership organization; the Hotel Association of New York City (HANYC); the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce; and the New York State Hospitality & Tourism Association. “This is a successful program that operates at no cost to taxpayers and makes New York businesses more competitive in the global economy,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “Permanently reauthorizing this program is a win for New York businesses and for the American economy. I’m grateful that this bill received such broad bipartisan support and I look forward to seeing it signed into law.” Congressman Donovan said, “New York is a hub for a variety of industries and businesses that rely on foreign marketplaces. The APEC Business Travel Card helps Americans travel faster and more efficiently throughout the Asia-Pacific region, allowing them to spend more time on business, and less time in airport lines. Last night’s bill passage is a win for U.S. businesses and workers who rely on this program to compete in an increasingly globalized economy. I look forward to seeing it swiftly signed into law.” “This is great news for Washington state, where ties to the Asia Pacific run deep,” said Rep. Larsen, Co-Chair of the APEC Caucus. “By permanently preserving an important tool for business travelers, this bill will help strengthen economic exchange between the United States and the Asia Pacific region and grow the economy in the Pacific Northwest.” “The future lies in the Asia-Pacific region,” said Rep. Reichert. “Government officials and our business men and women must be able to engage with the world’s largest growing consumer-base living in Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation member countries. The ABTC program is used by 1,000 Washington residents alone and has proven successful in facilitating travel and making it easier for Americans to do business in this critical region. I am proud to have worked on this bipartisan, bicameral legislation and pleased my colleagues in the House voted to send it to the President’s desk.” Background on the APEC Business Travel Card (ABTC) program: The ABTC program allows business travelers and government officials with business in APEC countries to access fast-track processing lanes at APEC airports, which saves an estimated 43 minutes per trip, according to U.S. Customs and Border Patrol (CPB). The program runs entirely on user fees and costs nothing to taxpayers. Applicants must pay a $70 fee, must be U.S. citizens, and must pre-enroll in a U.S. trusted traveler program like Global Entry. Eligible applicants must be a “verified business person” engaged in APEC business – i.e., engaged in the trade of goods, provision of services, or conduct of investment activities in the APEC region – or a U.S. government official engaged in government activities in the APEC region. S. 504 permanently reauthorizes the program while maintaining the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) authority to revoke or suspend an individual’s card for security reasons at any time. Other organizations supporting the effort to reauthorize the ABTC program include the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Asia Pacific Council of American Chambers of Commerce, U.S. Council for International Business, National Foreign Trade Council, U.S. Travel Association, American Hotel and Lodging Association, Global Business Travel Association, U.S.-China Business Council, U.S.-ASEAN Business Council, National Center for APEC, American Chamber of Commerce in Japan, American Chamber of Commerce in the People’s Republic of China, Hawaii Tourism Authority, Chamber of Commerce Hawaii, and the Hawaii Lodging and Tourism Association. The full text of the legislation is available here. ###
10.02.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice released the following statement today regarding the shooting last night in Las Vegas. Statement from Representative Kathleen Rice: “It’s hard to find the words to express how it feels to once again wake up to reports of the deadliest mass shooting in American history. It’s unlike anything we’ve ever seen before – as many as 58 people dead, more than 500 injured, several in critical condition. But at the same time, it feels like déjà vu. “Right now, I’m praying for the hundreds of Americans who just lost loved ones and family members and friends. I’m praying for the victims fighting for their lives, for the doctors and nurses and emergency responders working tirelessly to save them, and for all the police officers and firefighters and first responders who risked their lives to save others, who ran towards the threat while helping others get to safety. “We don’t yet know how or why this happened, what the shooter’s motivation was, how he acquired these weapons, or whether this could have been prevented. The authorities conducting this investigation will try to answer many of those questions for us. But the question of what happens next – whether this will be a turning point, or déjà vu – that’s entirely up to us. It’s up to each and every one of us to decide whether we want to live in a country where public gatherings are dominated by the threat of gun violence. It’s up to us to decide if it’s ok for someone in America to acquire weapons capable of killing 58 people in a few minutes and injure scores more. It’s up to us to decide if we want our police officers and first responders – the heroes we thank and praise after incidents like this – to face that kind of firepower. It’s up to us to decide if this tragedy will finally compel us to act, or if we’ll once again do nothing and wait for another mass shooting to top Las Vegas as the deadliest in American history. “We can’t prevent every mass shooting in America, but we know without a doubt that we can prevent some. We can’t save every life lost to gun violence in America, but we know that we can save some. The question is whether we care enough to try.” ###
09.07.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice, a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has awarded more than $6.7 million for security enhancements to nonprofit organizations in the greater New York City area, including nearly $450,000 to six Jewish organizations, synagogues and schools in New York’s fourth congressional district. The funding was awarded through DHS’s FY 2017 Nonprofit Security Grant Program (NSGP), which supports target hardening and physical security enhancements at nonprofit organizations that are at a high risk of terrorist attack. Central Synagogue-Beth Emeth in Rockville Centre, the Hebrew Academy of Long Beach, the Hebrew Academy of the Five Towns and Rockaway, Kulanu Academy in Cedarhurst, and Young Israel of Woodmere were each awarded $75,000 in NSGP funds, and Kehilas Bais Yehudah Tzvi in Cedarhurst was awarded $74,800. In FY 2016, Rep. Rice helped secure a total of nearly $575,000 in NSGP funds for eight Jewish nonprofit organizations in New York’s fourth congressional district – Congregation Aish Kodesh in Woodmere, the Hebrew Academy of Long Beach, the Hebrew Academy of the Five Towns and Rockaway, the Hebrew Academy of Nassau County, the Merrick Jewish Centre, Yeshiva of South Shore in Hewlett, Young Israel of Lawrence-Cedarhurst, and Young Israel of Oceanside. In FY 2015, Rep. Rice helped secure a total of $150,000 in NSGP funds for Congregation Aish Kodesh in Woodmere and the Chabad Center for Jewish Life in Merrick. “At a time when acts of anti-Semitism have dramatically increased in the U.S. and the threat of terrorism continues to evolve, one of the most effective things we can do is to help potential targets enhance their security and emergency response capabilities and prepare for worst case scenarios,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “I’m pleased that we secured this funding to help enhance security measures at Jewish nonprofits in our district, and I’ll continue working to ensure that all of our communities have the resources and support they need to keep people safe.” “The Young Israel of Woodmere is the focal point of Woodmere’s Jewish community -- with 1,100 families, it is vital that we work to protect it from security threats,” said Senator Todd Kaminsky. “We live in a very scary age, and so it is a priority of mine to fight for synagogues and other institutions to ensure their protection. I am happy to have recommended YIW to receive this funding and know it will be employed to its fullest potential. Thank you Congresswoman Rice for your fantastic advocacy on behalf of the Five Towns community." “We are thrilled to receive the grant,” said Rabbi Marc A. Gruber of Central Synagogue Beth Emeth. “Especially in these troubled times, it will help keep the people coming to our synagogue feel more secure in their home away from home.” “We are very pleased that we were selected to receive the 2017 security grant,” said Richard Hagler, Executive Director of the Hebrew Academy of Long Beach. “We have 1,700 students on three campuses, and it will enable us to further improve safety for our students.” “We are fortunate to have received past grants and we are thrilled to receive this grant from the federal government to upgrade our security system with new cameras and new security gates to make our school even more secure,” said Reuben Maron, Executive Director of the Hebrew Academy of the Five Towns and Rockaway. “We are grateful to be receiving a grant of funds from the Department of Homeland Security and are thankful for all the support we received from the various agencies and government representatives involved,” said Yoel Goldfeder, Chairman of the Security Committee at Kehillas Bais Yehudah Tzvi. “This grant will allow us to invest in the security and protection of our Synagogue and congregants so we can focus our efforts on our prayers and continued service to the community.” “In today’s time, security for all is critical,” said Dr. Beth Raskin, Executive Director of Kulanu Academy. “Those who cannot sufficiently defend themselves are at greater risk and the 2017 Homeland Security Grant will provide the funds to target harden the Kulanu Center for Special Services. Creating a secure exterior double entry portico ensures peace of mind for students, families and employees. We are delighted to be a recipient of grant funding.” ###
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice released the following statement today in response to President Trump’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. “President Trump’s decision to rescind DACA is a cruel and senseless mistake that Congress must immediately rectify,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “Dreamers are Americans in every way but their paperwork, and forcing them to once again live in fear of deportation only serves to further divide our country and excite anti-immigrant extremists on the far right. Republicans in Congress who have spoken in support of DACA must now come together with Democrats and take action to ensure that Dreamers can continue to live and work and contribute to their communities without the constant threat of being deported from the only home they’ve ever known. Sending President Trump a bill to protect Dreamers is the least that we can do – and we should follow it by finally taking up comprehensive immigration reform with a path to citizenship for all the millions of hard-working, law-abiding undocumented immigrants living in the shadows of American society.” ###
08.08.2017	GARDEN CITY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice announced today that New York’s fourth district will participate in the 2017 Congressional App Challenge, a contest designed to encourage high school students to learn how to code and create their own software applications for mobile devices or tablets. The Congressional App Challenge is open to all high school students who live or attend school in the district (there is no age minimum; students below high school age are also eligible). Whether they’re experienced coders or want to learn for the first time, any creative students with an idea for their own app can apply as an individual or in teams of up to four. The contest is open until November 1, 2017. Winners will be selected by a panel of judges, and their apps will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol. See below for further details on eligibility, how to enter, and everything else students will need to get started. In 2016, the first year Rice’s office participated in the Congressional App Challenge, four students from Mineola High School won the contest with their app, Ciao Chow, which helps senior citizens and people with disabilities and emotional difficulties find dogs in need of care or adoption. One of the judges noted that such an app had the potential to be used as a therapeutic tool in the future. “The Congressional App Challenge is an excellent opportunity to get young people in our district excited about coding and help them develop computer-based skills that are becoming essential in the 21st century economy,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “I encourage any interested students in our district to apply, and I can’t wait to see what great ideas you bring to life.” ELIGIBILITY The contest is open to all high school students (or younger) who live or attend school in New York’s fourth congressional district. There is no age minimum. Students who have already graduated from high school are not eligible to participate. Students may enter the contest by themselves or in teams of up to four. If you enter as a team, at least two members of the team must live or go to school in NY-04. Verify your eligibility: click here to look up the nine-digit zip code for your house or school, and enter the nine-digit zip code here to confirm that you live or go to school in NY-04. RULES Click here for a complete list of contest rules and more details about the submission process. REGISTRATION To register as an individual, you’ll need: · Your HOME’s nine-digit zip-code: Enter your HOME ADDRESS here · Your SCHOOL’s nine-digit zip-code: Enter your SCHOOL ADDRESS here · Member of Congress representing your HOME ADDRESS: e.g., Rep. Kathleen Rice · Member of Congress representing your SCHOOL ADDRESS: e.g., Rep. Kathleen Rice · Parent or guardian’s name and email address · Coding teacher or mentor’s name and email address (Optional) To register as a team, you’ll also need: · The names and email addresses of ALL team members Once you’ve gathered that information, click here to complete the registration form. Within three business days of registering online, students will receive an email from StudentSupport@congressionalAppChallenge.us with your individual Student Submission ID Number. The number will look something like this: 17AB12-12345. DEADLINE All entries must be submitted by 12:00 p.m. ET on November 1, 2017. QUESTIONS Visit http://www.congressionalappchallenge.us/ for more information, and contact Tom Curry in Rice’s District Office by calling (516) 739-3008 or emailing Tom.Curry@mail.house.gov. ###
07.19.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today introduced new legislation that would create two committees made up of public school teachers and parents and family members of public school students to advise the U.S. Secretary of Education and report to Congress about a range of issues related to students, teachers and family engagement in education. H.R. 3246, the Teachers and Parents at the Table Act, would establish a Teachers Advisory Committee made up of public school teachers who have demonstrated policy expertise and represent the full diversity of the teaching workforce, with members from multiple geographic, grade level and specialty areas. The Committee would advise the Secretary and report to Congress about their experiences with federal education policies at the local level, as well as a range of other important issues, including testing and assessment policies, the equitable distribution of teachers, the effects of the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA), and other relevant topics. Likewise, the legislation would create a second committee made up of public school parents and family members who have a demonstrated history of parental involvement and family engagement in school and represent multiple geographic areas and a diversity of students, including economically disadvantaged students, students from major racial and ethnic groups, children with disabilities, English learners, and students who are members of an Indian tribe or tribal organization. Consideration would also be given to representation of students' gender identity, migrant status, and residence in rural areas. The Parents and Family Members Advisory Committee would advise the Secretary and report to Congress on parental involvement and family engagement in education and offer direction for state and local education authorities to improve family engagement. Rep. Rice spoke about the new legislation this morning at the 2017 National Network of State Teachers of the Year (NNSTOY) Conference in Washington, where she was introduced by Marguerite Izzo, a fifth grade teacher in the Malverne School District who was named New York State Teacher of the Year in 2007 and helped Rice’s office create the new legislation. In addition to NNSTOY, other organizations supporting the bill include National PTA and the National Education Association (NEA). Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-NY) is the bill’s Republican co-lead sponsor. “The federal government has important roles to play when it comes to crafting national education policies, but we only do ourselves a disservice if we fail to draw on the input, advice and expertise of the people who implement and see the effects of those policies every day in classrooms and homes across the country,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “Teachers, parents and family members know better than anyone what our students need to succeed, and creating these committees will give them a seat at the table and give us the benefit of all the knowledge and experience they have to offer. I’m proud to introduce this common-sense legislation, and I look forward to working together to get it passed with the bipartisan support it deserves.” “Our education system works best when teachers and parents are closely involved with the decisions affecting students,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This commonsense, bipartisan legislation simply gives our teachers and parents a direct channel to the Secretary of Education as important decisions are made. A quality education is a great equalizer in our nation, and I will continue to work in Congress to ensure our future generations have the chance to succeed.” “When our nation’s outstanding educators are at the policy table, policymakers can make informed decisions that truly improve teaching and learning,” said Katherine Bassett, NNSTOY President and CEO. “NNSTOY is proud to support the Teachers and Parents at the Table Act, a bill that will help policymakers, educators and parents to create the conditions, capacity and culture to ensure all students get an excellent education.” “Teachers, parents and family members provide critical expertise and perspective on the classroom and their children. It is essential that they have a seat at the table whenever policies and decisions are made that impact students and schools,” said Jim Accomando, president of National PTA. “National PTA commends Representatives Kathleen Rice (D-NY) and Elise Stefanik (R-NY) for their leadership in introducing the Teachers and Parents at the Table Act and for their commitment to the importance of family and teacher engagement in policymaking to improve education and ensure every child reaches their fullest potential.” The full text of H.R. 3246 is available here. ###
07.11.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representatives Kathleen Rice (D-NY) and Tom MacArthur (R-NJ) today introduced bipartisan legislation that would prohibit the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) from taking any action to recoup disaster assistance funds if more than three years have passed since the individual received the funds. In the aftermath of superstorm Sandy, FEMA has sent thousands of letters seeking to recoup millions of dollars in assistance funding from homeowners in New York and New Jersey, including many homeowners on Long Island. The new legislation, the Disaster Assistance Fairness and Accountability Act of 2017, prohibits FEMA from attempting to recoup disaster assistance funds from individuals if a victim received the funding more than three years before FEMA first provides written notice of an intent to recoup – the same statute of limitations that already exists for attempts to recoup funds from states and municipalities. “Victims of disasters like Sandy use whatever assistance they receive to rebuild their homes and put their lives back together, and it’s not fair for FEMA to try and claw back that money years later because they think they noticed a mistake,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “While we keep working to waive all debts for homeowners who may have been overpaid through no fault of their own, this bipartisan legislation will impose a three-year statute of limitations on attempts to recoup funds from individuals, as is already the case for states and municipalities.” “Since I first came to Congress, fighting for natural disaster victims, who have been treated unfairly by FEMA, has always been a top priority of mine,” said Representative Tom MacArthur. “This bipartisan bill will bring common sense reform to FEMA by protecting victims from recoupment years after their claims have been received. As South Jersey continues to recover from Superstorm Sandy, Jersey Shore families shouldn’t have to pay for FEMA’s mistakes.” The full text of the bill is available here. ###
06.08.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representatives Kathleen Rice (D-NY), Dan Donovan (R-NY), Rick Larsen (D-WA) and Dave Reichert (R-WA) today introduced legislation to permanently reauthorize the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Business Travel Card (ABTC) program, which provides access to fast-track immigration lanes at airports for travelers who conduct verified business in the APEC region. APEC, a forum of 21 Pacific Rim countries including the U.S., created the ABTC program in 1997, and the U.S. started issuing cards to eligible Americans in 2014 after Congress passed the APEC Business Travel Cards Act in 2011. Under that law, the authority to issue these travel cards to Americans is set to expire on September 30, 2018 – meaning that no new cards can be issued after that date, and all cards will expire by 2021, after which Americans will no longer be able to travel throughout the region as easily as business travelers from other APEC countries. H.R. 2805, the APEC Business Travel Cards Reauthorization Act, would permanently extend that authority, while maintaining the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) authority to revoke or suspend an individual’s card for security reasons at any time. Senators Mazie Hirono (D-HI) and Steve Daines (R-MT) introduced companion legislation in the Senate earlier this year. Nearly 30,000 U.S. citizens currently hold cards through the ABTC program, including more than 2,300 cardholders in New York and more than 1,000 in Washington. Several organizations in New York have announced their support for the legislation, including NYC & Company, New York City’s official marketing, tourism and partnership organization; the Hotel Association of New York City (HANYC); the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce; and the New York State Hospitality & Tourism Association. “This is a successful program that operates at no cost to taxpayers and makes New York businesses more competitive in the global economy,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “Allowing ABT Cards to expire would be a mistake that puts American business travelers at a disadvantage, and our legislation reflects a common-sense, bipartisan commitment to reauthorize the program permanently. I’m glad that this is a bipartisan effort and I look forward to working with my colleagues to move this bill forward in the House.” Congressman Donovan said, “New York is a hub for a variety of industries and businesses that rely not just on domestic sales, but on foreign marketplaces as well. The APEC Business Travel Card helps Americans travel faster and more efficiently throughout the Asia-Pacific region, allowing them to spend more time on business, and less time in airport lines. We must ensure that our business leaders have the resources they need to compete in an increasingly globalized economy, which is why I’m proud to support the permanent extension of this program.” “The APEC Business Travel Card program works for Washington state, which has deep economic ties with nations in the Asia-Pacific,” said Rep. Larsen, Co-Chair of the U.S.-China Working Group. “For years, I have fought hard to push for reauthorization of this program. The APEC Business Travel Cards Reauthorization Act would permanently promote engagement between the United States and the Asia-Pacific by maintaining an important tool for business travelers in Washington and throughout the United States. I look forward to working with my colleagues to get this much-needed legislation passed.” “Increased trade and engagement with countries in the Asia-Pacific region is critical for American businesses and workers,” said Rep. Reichert. “The APEC Business Travel Card has given our businesses improved access to this region and an opportunity to build relationships with important trading partners. I am glad to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to make this program permanent, to strengthen our partnerships in the region and lead to the creation of good-paying jobs in Washington and the United States.” “The APEC Business Travel Card has helped hundreds of Hawaii residents travel and conduct business with ease across a region critical to our local economy and jobs,” said Senator Hirono. “We cannot allow this successful program to expire, which is why I am proud to introduce this bill to provide business travelers certainty and further enhance our country’s engagement with the nations of the Asia-Pacific.” Background on the APEC Business Travel Card (ABTC) program: The ABTC program allows business travelers and government officials with business in APEC countries to access fast-track processing lanes at APEC airports, which saves an estimated 43 minutes per trip, according to U.S. Customs and Border Patrol (CPB). The program runs entirely on user fees and costs nothing to taxpayers. Applicants must pay a $70 fee, must be U.S. citizens, and must pre-enroll in a U.S. trusted traveler program like Global Entry. Eligible applicants must be a “verified business person” engaged in APEC business – i.e., engaged in the trade of goods, provision of services, or conduct of investment activities in the APEC region – or a U.S. government official engaged in government activities in the APEC region. Rep. Rice’s legislation to permanently reauthorize the program would maintain the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) authority to revoke or suspend an individual’s card for security reasons at any time. Other organizations supporting the effort to reauthorize the ABTC program include the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Asia Pacific Council of American Chambers of Commerce, U.S. Council for International Business, National Foreign Trade Council, U.S. Travel Association, American Hotel and Lodging Association, Global Business Travel Association, U.S.-China Business Council, U.S.-ASEAN Business Council, National Center for APEC, American Chamber of Commerce in Japan, American Chamber of Commerce in the People’s Republic of China, Hawaii Tourism Authority, Chamber of Commerce Hawaii, and the Hawaii Lodging and Tourism Association. The full text of the legislation is available here. ###
06.05.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representatives Kathleen Rice (D-NY) and Derek Kilmer (D-WA) wrote today to the Acting Director of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and OPM’s Acting Inspector General to request written confirmation that a new policy prohibits OPM from responding to letters from members of Congress unless the letters have been signed by the Chairperson of a Committee or Subcommittee. On May 1, 2017, the New Democrat Coalition Cybersecurity Task Force wrote to OPM to inquire about the federal cybersecurity hiring and training process and to express their desire to work with OPM to streamline the process. On May 15, an OPM official told a member of Rice’s staff on the phone that OPM would not be responding to the letter because a new policy allowed them to respond only to letters that have been signed by a Committee Chairman. Since the Republicans are in control of the House, such a policy would effectively prohibit OPM from responding to any letter that has not been signed by a Republican. In today’s letter to OPM’s Acting Director and Acting Inspector General, Rice and Kilmer argue that such a policy could prevent members of Congress from fulfilling their Constitutional responsibilities, and that it suggests that the administration is refusing to work with Democrats even on a bipartisan priority such as cybersecurity. To date, more than 100 letters from Congressional Democrats to several federal agencies remain unanswered. “While we are not members of the President’s political party, we have a responsibility to work with this administration – as we would with any administration – on issues where we can find common ground, and we believe cybersecurity is such an issue,” Rice and Kilmer wrote in today’s letter. “If this administration is categorically prohibiting basic communication with Democrats, then they are prioritizing politics and loyalty over national security and common sense, and making it nearly impossible for members of Congress to do our jobs.” Rice and Kilmer requested written responses to the following questions, and noted that they would follow up with the Acting Inspector General if they do not receive a timely response or notification that a response will be forthcoming: Is it now or has it ever been OPM’s policy not to respond to a letter from members of Congress unless it has been signed by a Committee or Subcommittee Chairman or Chairwoman? If so, when was this policy enacted, and by whom? How was this policy communicated to OPM personnel? Has this policy been put into writing? Please provide any relevant documentation (emails, written correspondence, employee policy manuals, etc.). If this is in fact OPM’s policy, was Mr. Simmons or anyone else at OPM ordered by the White House to implement it? Are you aware of any other federal departments or agencies that have implemented this policy? If so, please provide the names of those departments or agencies and any relevant documentation. Will OPM respond in writing to the letter we sent on May 1st regarding the federal cybersecurity hiring and training process? If so, by what date can we expect a written response? The full text of the letter is available here, and copied below. The full text of the original New Democrat Coalition Cybersecurity Task Force is available here. ### June 5, 2017 The Honorable Kathleen McGettigan Acting Director, Office of Personnel Management 1900 E Street NW Washington, D.C. 20415 Dear Acting Director McGettigan, The Constitution created the House of Representatives as part of a co-equal branch of government, made up of directly elected Representatives of the people. Every Representative, regardless of political party, has a responsibility to serve his or her constituents, just as the administration has a responsibility to serve every American, regardless of who they voted for. We write to you today to request a written response to our New Democrat Coalition Cybersecurity Task Force letter dated May 1, 2017 about the federal cybersecurity hiring and training process, and to tell you that we have reason to believe that the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) has implemented a policy that could prevent Members of Congress from fulfilling our Constitutional responsibilities. Because it is our understanding that this policy prohibits OPM from responding, as explained below, we have also sent a copy of this letter to OPM’s Acting Inspector General, Norbert E. Vint, to ensure that he is aware of this situation. On May 1, 2017, we wrote to inquire about the federal cybersecurity hiring and training process and express our desire to work with OPM to help improve that process. On May 9, 2017, a member of Rep. Rice’s staff spoke by phone with OPM’s Acting Director of Congressional, Legislative & Intergovernmental Affairs, Janel Fitzhugh. Ms. Fitzhugh told Rep. Rice’s staffer that OPM would not respond to our letter, because a new policy at OPM prohibits them from responding to any letter that has not been signed by a Committee Chairman. On a subsequent phone call, Ms. Fitzhugh added that a letter signed by a Subcommittee Chairman would also allow for a response under this policy. In effect, such a policy would permit OPM to respond to a letter only if it has been signed by a Republican. Ms. Fitzhugh also told Rep. Rice’s staffer that this new policy had been put in place by OPM’s new Chief of Staff, Jason Simmons. On May 15, 2017, Rep. Rice’s staff-member emailed Ms. Fitzhugh asking her to confirm in writing what she had previously said on the phone – that OPM would not respond to our letter unless it was signed by a Committee or Subcommittee Chairman, as per their new policy. Ms. Fitzhugh did not respond to this email, though she did reiterate to Rep. Rice’s staffer in a subsequent phone call that this was in fact OPM’s policy. If what Ms. Fitzhugh said is accurate, it would suggest that official OPM policy prevents federal agencies from communicating with Democratic members of Congress – an alarming and overt politicization of the most basic aspects of government. While we are not members of the President’s political party, we have a responsibility to work with this administration – as we would with any administration – on issues where we can find common ground, and we believe cybersecurity is such an issue. If this administration is categorically prohibiting basic communication with Democrats, then they are prioritizing politics and loyalty over national security and common sense, and making it nearly impossible for members of Congress to do our jobs. In light of the events detailed above, we request that you answer the following questions in writing and provide relevant documentation as soon as possible. Is it now or has it ever been OPM’s policy not to respond to a letter from members of Congress unless it has been signed by a Committee or Subcommittee Chairman or Chairwoman? If so, when was this policy enacted, and by whom? How was this policy communicated to OPM personnel? Has this policy been put into writing? Please provide any relevant documentation (emails, written correspondence, employee policy manuals, etc.). If this is in fact OPM’s policy, was Mr. Simmons or anyone else at OPM ordered by the White House to implement it? Are you aware of any other federal departments or agencies that have implemented this policy? If so, please provide the names of those departments or agencies and any relevant documentation. Will OPM respond in writing to the letter we sent on May 1st regarding the federal cybersecurity hiring and training process? If so, by what date can we expect a written response? Please respond to the questions above and provide any relevant documents as soon as possible. If we have not received a written response by Monday, June 12, 2017 or been notified that a written response is forthcoming, we will follow up with OPM’s Acting Inspector General at that time. Sincerely, KATHLEEN M. RICE DEREK KILMER Member of Congress Member of Congress CC: Acting Inspector General Norbert E. Vint
05.17.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice, the top Democrat on the Homeland Security Counterterrorism and Intelligence Subcommittee, today introduced legislation that directs the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to conduct a threat assessment regarding the use of virtual currencies such as Bitcoin to carry out terrorist activities or to provide material support for terrorist organizations. H.R. 2433, the Homeland Security Assessment of Terrorists’ Use of Virtual Currencies Act, comes days after an unprecedented cyberattack infected more than 200,000 computers around the world with ransomware – software that seizes a computer’s data and demands a ransom payment in Bitcoin in exchange for the data’s return. The bill also follows a recent Center for a New American Security report that explores the potential threat of virtual currencies being used on a larger scale to finance terrorist activities and support terrorist organizations. While terrorists’ use of virtual currencies has so far been limited, the report concludes that the threat could grow significantly and quickly as terrorist organizations become more technologically sophisticated and virtual currencies become more widely accessible. In order to more effectively combat terrorists’ use of virtual currencies, the report recommends that policymakers and intelligence and oversight officials take steps to better understand and more closely monitor the evolving threat. Rep. Rice’s bill, H.R. 2433, will be considered during a Counterterrorism and Intelligence Subcommittee markup tomorrow, May 18th, at 10:00 a.m. “Last week’s unprecedented ransomware attack demonstrated how rapidly cyber-threats are evolving and how urgently governments and private companies must evolve to protect themselves,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “Research suggests that terrorists’ use of virtual currencies has been limited so far, but with groups like ISIS becoming more technologically sophisticated and virtual currencies becoming more accessible, the table is set for this threat to grow significantly in a very short time. We need to confront this threat immediately, and the first step is to fully assess and understand it.” H.R. 2433 requires the Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of Homeland Security, in coordination with appropriate federal partners, to develop and disseminate a threat assessment regarding the actual and potential threat posed by individuals using virtual currency to carry out terrorist activities and/or provide support or resources to a Foreign Terrorist Organization. The threat assessment must be completed within 120 days of the bill’s enactment, and will be shared with state, local and tribal law enforcement officials, including officials that operate within state and major urban area fusion centers through the DHS State, Local and Regional Fusion Center Initiative. The full text of the bill is available here. ###
05.16.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice released the following statement today after reports that President Trump revealed highly classified information to the Russian Foreign Minister and Ambassador during a meeting last week in the Oval Office. Statement from Representative Kathleen Rice: “According to widespread reports, President Trump recklessly blurted out highly classified information while meeting with Russian officials at Putin’s request. At a time when some of our allies were already questioning whether the Trump administration could be trusted with sensitive intelligence, the President’s thoughtless decision could endanger a valuable intelligence source, weaken our security partnerships around the world, and directly undermine our efforts to defeat ISIS and other terrorist groups. The biggest question now is what more it will take for Republicans in Congress to recognize that this is a crisis, put country before party and step up to help us hold this President accountable.” ###
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice released the following statement today after House Republicans voted to pass the American Health Care Act. Statement from Representative Kathleen Rice: “The Republican health care bill was awful in March, and the version that passed today is even worse. It still completely decimates Medicaid to finance a huge tax cut for the rich, it still increases costs on seniors, and it’s still an attack on women that would de-fund Planned Parenthood. Now, it also allows insurers to discriminate against people with preexisting conditions, and it allows states to opt out of essential health benefit requirements for things like maternity care and drug addiction treatment. “House Republicans rushed to pass this bill before anyone could know how many more people would lose coverage – just to fulfill a campaign promise, give President Trump a so-called ‘win,’ and dump this disaster off on the Senate. Some members even admitted that they’d vote for it just so the Senate can change it and send back a completely different bill. Today’s vote was a win for the wealthy and the Washington way of doing business, and a devastating loss for everyone else in America. “My constituents spoke out emphatically against this bill, and I will keep fighting to defeat this effort and advance real solutions that will actually make health care more affordable for everyone. We may have lost today, but our fight will continue.” ###
04.21.2017	GARDEN CITY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice announced today that Zoie Napolitano, an 11-year-old resident of Oceanside, has been selected to receive a 2017 U.S. EPA Environmental Champion Award from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Region 2. The award is the highest recognition presented to the public by EPA Region 2, and is given each year to individuals and organizations that have made significant contributions to improving the region’s environment. Rep. Rice’s office nominated Zoie for the award earlier this year after she led an effort to clean up a local park near her house. Motivated to take action after noticing signs of pollution at Silver Lake Park in Baldwin, Zoie asked her State Senator, Todd Kaminsky, to help clean up the park and offered her assistance, outlining a number of steps she thought they should take to clean up the park and the lake within it. In response to her letter, Senator Kaminsky worked with Zoie to organize dozens of local residents, elected officials and organizations who came together to beautify the area – removing trash, clearing walking paths, and protecting the local habitat for wildlife. The clean-up was so successful that Zoie then worked with Senator Kaminsky’s office to organize another similar event at nearby Lofts Pond Park in Baldwin a few months later. The EPA will honor Zoie and her fellow Environmental Champion Award winners at a ceremony next month in New York City. “I’m thrilled that Zoie has received this prestigious award in recognition of her extraordinary accomplishments as a leader and environmental champion in our district,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “Zoie saw a problem in her community, she saw a way that she could help solve it, and she stepped up to bring people together and get the job done. That’s what true leadership looks like. I’m incredibly proud that Zoie has received the recognition she deserves, I’m grateful to count her as one of my constituents, and I’m excited to see what this remarkable young woman will achieve in the future.” Senator Todd Kaminsky: "Zoie cares deeply about the environment and making sure our community parks are clean, so when she saw a lake filled with trash and litter she took matters into her own hands and made her voice heard. I am extremely proud of Zoie and am glad she is being recognized for her hard work; this is the initiative and generosity we should be fostering in our youth. I am confident that Zoie will continue to set an example for all of us by working hard to keep our communities clean.” ###
04.07.2017	GARDEN CITY, NY -- U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice released the following statement today regarding the U.S. missile strikes launched last night against a Syrian airfield. Statement from Representative Kathleen Rice: “Based on what I know at this point, last night’s missile strikes on a Syrian airfield seem to be an appropriate response to Assad’s brutal chemical attack that killed dozens of his own citizens, including children, and I commend the members of our armed forces who planned and executed the operation. “At the same time, these strikes alone do not constitute a strategy. Just as I said during the Obama administration, President Trump has a responsibility to tell Congress and the American people what his administration’s objectives are in Syria, and present a coherent and comprehensive strategy for achieving those objectives. Until we have clear goals and a broader strategy, it is difficult to fully assess the value of last night’s strikes and impossible to chart the right course forward.” ###
04.05.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice (D-NY), a Vice Chair of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, Rep. Mike Quigley (D-IL) and 35 fellow House Democrats yesterday called on House appropriators to close the loophole that allows suspected terrorists to purchase firearms and explosives. In a letter to Commerce, Justice, & Science Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman John Culberson and Ranking Member José Serrano and Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman John Carter and Ranking Member Lucille Roybal-Allard, Rice, Quigley and House Democrats urged appropriators to authorize the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) to prohibit individuals on the FBI Terrorist Watchlist from purchasing firearms and explosives. Under current federal law, nine broad categories of people are prohibited from purchasing or owning firearms – including convicted felons, domestic abusers and people with certain mental health disorders. But that prohibition does not extend to suspected terrorists on the FBI Terrorist Watchlist, meaning that an individual the FBI considers too dangerous to board a plane can still legally purchase a semi-automatic weapon. A recent Government Accountability Office (GAO) investigation found that individuals on the Terrorist Watchlist attempted to purchase weapons from American dealers at least 2,233 times between 2004 and 2014, and were successful in 2,043 or 91% of those instances. Surveys have shown overwhelming public support for closing the loophole, even among gun owners and NRA members. “With all of President Trump’s talk about protecting the homeland and combating terrorism, preventing suspected terrorists from buying guns should be a no brainer for both parties in Congress,” said Representative Kathleen Rice, a Vice Chair of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. “No matter how entrenched this debate might be, we should all agree that an individual considered too dangerous to board a plane shouldn’t be able to walk into a store and buy a semi-automatic weapon. The American people – Democrats, Republicans, gun owners, and even NRA members – overwhelmingly support action to close this loophole, and it would be unconscionable for Congress to let another year go by without getting it done.” “While we must ensure that we strike a proper balance between protecting our national security and protecting our civil liberties, there is no reason to safeguard suspected terrorists in that effort,” said Rep. Mike Quigley. “With the rise in lone wolf extremism and home-grown terror threats, Members of Congress have a responsibility to show those who wish us harm that we will always put the safety of American citizens before the interests of the gun lobby.” The full text of the letter is copied below, and a final copy with a full list of signatures is available here. ### April 4, 2017 Dear Chairman Culberson, Ranking Member Serrano, Chairman Carter, and Ranking Member Roybal-Allard: As you begin work on fiscal year 2018 appropriations legislation for both Commerce, Justice, and Science as well as Homeland Security, we urge you to give the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) the authority to prohibit suspected terrorists from purchasing firearms and explosives by closing a gaping loophole in our nation’s homeland security. Federal law currently designates nine broad categories of people as dangerous enough to bar them from purchasing or owning firearms. Astonishingly, suspected terrorists on the FBI Terrorist Watchlist are not one of those categories. Quite simply, this means that an individual can be considered such a substantial threat to the national security of the United States that the FBI prohibits them from boarding a plane, yet they still have the ability to easily and legally purchase a semiautomatic weapon. From the terror attacks in Paris, San Bernardino and Charleston in 2015 to Orlando in 2016 and Kansas City in 2017, terrorists both foreign and domestic are increasingly using firearms to carry out their attacks. Congress has a responsibility to do all it can to keep firearms out of the hands of terrorists. A recent Government Accountability Office investigation found that individuals on the Terrorist Watchlist attempted to purchase guns from American dealers at least 2,233 times between 2004 and 2014, and they were successful in 2,043 or 91% of those times. The American people, gun owning and not, overwhelmingly support responsible, common-sense gun safety reforms. This policy change, first proposed by President George W. Bush’s administration, is the definition of a responsible, common-sense reform. A 2013 survey found that 80% of non-NRA gun owners and 71% of NRA gun owners support prohibiting people on the Terrorist Watchlist from obtaining guns. Closing this loophole is a simple, responsible, and straightforward public safety measure. We urge you to seize on this critical opportunity to protect the American people and the national security of the United States. Thank you in advance for your consideration of this matter. Sincerely,
04.05.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representatives Kathleen Rice (D-NY), Ted Lieu (D-CA) and Stacey Plaskett (D-U.S. Virgin Islands), all former prosecutors, today sent a letter to acting Deputy Attorney General Dana Boente requesting the appointment of a Special Prosecutor to investigate any Trump campaign collusion with Russia. The recent disclosure that President Trump’s first National Security Advisor, Michael Flynn, has asked for immunity is just the latest reason why a Special Prosecutor is needed to investigate potential collusion between the Russian Government and the Trump campaign to influence the outcome of the 2016 U.S. Election. In their letter to acting Deputy Attorney General Boente, the representatives write: “Because you serve at the pleasure of the President, it is our belief that you have a conflict of interest and cannot exercise true independence into an investigation that may implicate the President. That is one of several reasons we request that you appoint a Special Counsel to investigate any collusion with Russia.” “The recent disclosure that President Trump’s first National Security Advisor, Michael Flynn, has asked for immunity provides a second reason why you need to appoint a special prosecutor… Congress, however, cannot grant immunity from prosecution on behalf of the Department of Justice. Only the Department can make that decision, which is why we need a Special Counsel to decide.” “The public interest also demands that a special prosecutor be appointed. There is no more important matter to our nation than the issue of whether or not the Trump campaign colluded with Russia. At stake is the legitimacy of the Presidency and whether high crimes occurred.” The full text of the letter can be found here. ###
03.28.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice released the following statement today after President Trump signed an Executive Order rolling back the Clean Power Plan. Statement from Representative Kathleen Rice: “President Trump and Scott Pruitt deny basic science and do what big oil companies tell them to do, even when it means jeopardizing our national security, environment, and public health. But it’s people in places like Long Island who will pay the price of polluted air, rising sea levels and extreme weather events like superstorm Sandy. “We have an opportunity on Long Island and across New York to create a lot of good local jobs by leading the transition to clean energy. I’m going to keep working to make sure we seize that opportunity, even if the Trump administration continues to deny basic facts and lead us in the opposite direction.” ###
03.21.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice released the following statement today regarding the death of Martin McGuinness, the former deputy First Minister of Northern Ireland. Statement from Representative Kathleen Rice: “I am shocked and saddened by the death of Martin McGuinness. Martin was many things to many people in his life, but through it all, he was a patriot who had relentless faith in the future of Northern Ireland. Amid the violence and despair of the Troubles, Martin believed that peace was possible, and his leadership helped make it a reality. “I saw Martin at the White House St. Patrick’s Day party just over a year ago. President Obama walked by us on his way out, after working the room and shaking hands for hours, and he looked like he had somewhere important to be. But Martin decided that my 90-year-old Irish Aunt Ellen needed a picture with the President, so he grabbed President Obama’s arm with a laugh and made him stand with us while Martin took our picture. I’m grateful to have that memory of Martin and feel blessed to have known him. “I offer my prayers and condolences to Martin’s wife, children and loved ones and to his colleagues and friends around the world. His life is a testament to humanity’s capacity to change, to choose peace over violence and reconcile even the most intractable conflicts. I hope that his legacy will inspire all political leaders in Northern Ireland to reaffirm their own commitment to the ongoing pursuit of lasting peace and prosperity.” ###
03.21.2017	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed H.R. 1353, the Transparency in Technological Acquisitions Act of 2017, legislation introduced by Representative Kathleen Rice, a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security and the former Ranking Member of the Transportation Security Subcommittee. Under the Transportation Security Acquisition Reform Act, which was signed into law in 2014, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) is required to develop a five-year technology investment plan. That requirement was designed, in part, to allow security technology manufacturers to align their resources and planning to meet TSA’s needs. When TSA released its first five-year plan in August 2015, industry stakeholders could look at the plan and invest their resources into development of the technology that TSA planned to acquire. But when the Obama administration released its budget request for that same year, stakeholders found that TSA had shifted direction and was no longer following the acquisition schedule laid out in the five-year investment plan. That lost investment of time and resources hurts all technology manufacturers, but it can completely destroy small businesses and discourage small business owners from working with the federal government. H.R. 1353 will help address those concerns by requiring TSA to report to Congress on the status of the five-year investment plan annually, instead of biannually, and by requiring TSA to promptly notify Congress and all relevant stakeholders of any changes or updates made to the plan. “This common-sense, bipartisan legislation will help ensure that businesses big and small have the certainty they need to continue developing the technology that we rely on to keep us safe,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “Establishing this level of ongoing engagement and collaboration between TSA and manufacturers will help encourage more technological innovation, which is one of the most effective tools we can use to confront the new and evolving threats facing our aviation industry. I thank all of my colleagues in the House for giving this bill such broad bipartisan support, and I’ll keep working to get it passed in the Senate and signed into law.” The full text of H.R. 1353 is available here. ###
03.11.2017	GARDEN CITY, NY -- U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice released the following statement today about the Trump administration's firing of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara. “Preet Bharara is an outstanding prosecutor who has served New Yorkers with integrity, honor, and a relentless commitment to the pursuit of justice. The decision to demand his resignation and that of 45 other U.S. Attorneys, while not without precedent, raises serious questions in light of President Trump’s bizarre allegations of illegal wiretaps and his administration's attempts to interfere with ongoing investigations. “Did that decision come from the Justice Department, or the White House? Was the decision prompted by the President watching Fox News on Thursday night, when Sean Hannity called for a purge of Obama appointees? Why did President Trump ask Preet Bharara to stay on in November, only to demand his resignation a few months later? Was the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York conducting investigations in any way related to President Trump or his associates, and did that have anything to do with Preet Bharara’s refusal to resign? Until the President and his administration answer these questions, they don’t deserve the benefit of the doubt and we have no reason to trust that the Justice Department will maintain the level of independence, integrity and credibility that the American people demand.” ###
03.07.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice, a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, today requested information from the Department of Homeland Security related to any actions taken pursuant to the original Executive Order entitled “Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the United States,” which was announced on January 27, 2017. In a letter to Secretary of Homeland Security John Kelly, Rice notes that while a federal court issued a temporary restraining order (TRO) preventing the enforcement of some of the Executive Order’s most controversial provisions, several significant sections of the original Executive Order were not affected by the TRO and remain in effect until the revised Executive Order is implemented on March 16, 2017. Those sections include: Section 3(a) and Section 3(b) – Directed the Secretaries of Homeland Security and State and the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) to “immediately conduct a review to determine the information needed from any country to adjudicate any visa, admission, or other benefit,” and report to the President within 30 days on the results of that review, including their “determination of the information needed for adjudications and a list of countries that do not provide adequate information.” Rice asked Sec. Kelly if that report was submitted to the President by February 26, 2017, as required by the Executive Order, and if that report will be provided to the House Committee on Homeland Security. Section 4(a) and 4(b) – Directed the Secretaries of State and Homeland Security, the DNI, and the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to develop a “uniform screening standard and procedure” for all immigration programs, and report to the President on the progress of this directive within 60 days, again within 100 days, and again within 200 days. Rice asked Sec. Kelly if they’ve begun the process of developing these standards, if they’re on schedule to submit the first report by March 28, 2017, and if this report will be provided to the House Committee on Homeland Security. “The administration has maintained that they must suspend refugee resettlements and travel from certain countries in order to review and strengthen vetting procedures,” Rice wrote in the letter to Sec. Kelly. “While I believe that our current exhaustive vetting and screening procedures are effective, particularly for refugees, I recognize that our processes are never perfect and we should always be looking for ways to improve them. Since the provisions of the original Executive Order outlined above were not affected by the TRO, I assume that DHS and other relevant agencies have already begun to follow these directives – if not, it would suggest that the administration did nothing for 39 days to examine and improve vetting and screening procedures, which would call into question the administration’s stated purpose for issuing this Executive Order.” Rice continued, “I respectfully request that you provide prompt answers to the questions listed above, as well as an update on any efforts taken or progress made pursuant to any other provisions of the original Executive Order that were not affected by the TRO.” The full text of the letter is available here. ###
02.22.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representatives Kathleen Rice (NY-04) and Val Demings (FL-10) are circulating a letter to House colleagues urging the Acting Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to issue guidance making it clear to ICE personnel that victims of crimes should never have reason to fear that seeking justice in the court system could lead to detention or deportation. The letter comes after reports last week that ICE agents detained a transgender woman in an El Paso, TX court while she was seeking a protective order for alleged domestic violence. The agents reportedly conducted surveillance at the courthouse based on information from an unidentified source who provided the time and place of the hearing, as well as the fact that the alleged victim was living in a domestic violence shelter. In the letter, Reps. Rice and Demings note that a 2011 ICE memorandum advised personnel to exercise all appropriate prosecutorial discretion for cases involving victims and witnesses of crime in order to avoid deterring individuals from reporting crimes and pursuing justice in the court system. “Domestic violence survivors, victims’ advocates, prosecutors, and law enforcement officers agree that fear is both a tool for abusers and a barrier to victims seeking refuge and justice,” write Reps. Rice and Demings. “Unfortunately, these recent actions only encourage fear and run counter to decades of work to build relationships between law enforcement and victims of violent crime. We respectfully urge you to issue guidance making clear to ICE officers, special agents, and attorneys that victims of crimes should have no fear of seeking justice in our court systems.” Rep. Kathleen Rice is a former state and federal prosecutor, and the former District Attorney of Nassau County, NY. Rep. Val Demings was a member of the Orlando Police Department for 27 years, and served as the Chief of Police from 2007-2011. The full text of the letter is copied below. The final copy with a full list of signatures is available here. ### The Honorable Thomas D. Homan Acting Director U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Washington, D.C. 20536 Dear Acting Director Homan: We are writing to express our serious concerns regarding reports that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) personnel detained an alleged victim of domestic violence while she was seeking a protective court order. We know you understand that the trust between victims and law enforcement officers is essential to ending domestic violence and bringing abusers to justice. Unfortunately, too often, many immigrant victims, particularly those with unauthorized status, do not report violence or exploitation because they fear detention or removal. Indeed, in a 2011 memorandum ICE Director John Morton advised officers, special agents, and attorneys to exercise all appropriate prosecutorial discretion for cases involving victims and witnesses of crime in order to “avoid deterring individuals from reporting crimes and from pursuing actions to protect their civil rights.” Additionally, DHS has encouraged victims to come forward through its U visa program, which provides lawful status to victims that assist in criminal investigations. With this understanding, reports of ICE personnel entering a courthouse in El Paso, Texas—the very courtroom where this alleged domestic violence victim was seeking refuge from her abuser—is deeply disturbing. According to eyewitness accounts reported by the Associated Press on February 16, 2017 and video footage of the incident from the courthouse surveillance cameras, agents escorted the alleged victim from the courtroom to be detained outside the courthouse. The affidavit itself notes that agents “conducted surveillance” at the courthouse based on information provided by an unidentified source that included the exact time and place of the court hearing and that the alleged victim was living at a domestic violence shelter. Domestic violence survivors, victims’ advocates, prosecutors, and law enforcement officers agree that fear is both a tool for abusers and a barrier to victims seeking refuge and justice. Unfortunately, these recent actions only encourage fear and run counter to decades of work to build relationships between law enforcement and victims of violent crime. We respectfully urge you to issue guidance making clear to ICE officers, special agents, and attorneys that victims of crimes should have no fear of seeking justice in our court systems.
02.13.2017	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives tonight passed H.R. 974, the Boosting Rates of American Veteran Employment (BRAVE) Act, introduced by Rep. Kathleen Rice and co-lead sponsor Rep. Paul Cook (R-CA). The BRAVE Act authorizes the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA), when awarding federal contracts, to give preference to companies that have high concentrations of full-time veteran employees, which will reward contractors that actively hire veterans and create an incentive for others to do the same. Rep. Rice previously introduced the BRAVE Act in the 114th Congress, and it passed unanimously in the House on May 18, 2015. Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) plan to introduce companion legislation in the Senate. “Veterans transitioning to the civilian workforce aren’t looking for a handout – they are extraordinarily skilled and uniquely experienced, and they just need an opportunity,” said Representative Kathleen Rice, a member of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. “This bipartisan bill will ensure that more veterans get that opportunity. It will reward companies that actively seek out and hire veterans, and create an incentive for others to do the same. I’m grateful to all my colleagues for supporting this common-sense legislation, and I look forward to working with Sens. Baldwin and Tillis to get it passed in the Senate and signed into law.” The full text of H.R. 974 is available here. The Department of Veterans Affairs establishes long-term contracts with private businesses for medical equipment, supplies, services, and more. Currently, the VA gives preference for these contracts to veteran-owned small businesses, but not to businesses that actively employ veterans. The BRAVE Act would allow the VA to consider the proportion of veterans employed on a full-time basis by a prospective contractor when awarding federal contracts. The BRAVE Act would not impose any additional costs or burdens on taxpayers, and it provides oversight of VA contractors by allowing the debarment of any company that knowingly misrepresents the number or proportion of veterans they employ. ###
02.09.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice, the Ranking Member on the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Counterterrorism and Intelligence, released the following statement today after reports that White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer made numerous public references to a terrorist attack in Atlanta that never occurred. Last week and in previous public statements, President Trump’s adviser Kellyanne Conway similarly made several references to a nonexistent “massacre” in Bowling Green, KY. Statement from Representative Kathleen Rice: “In the past week, two of President Trump’s top spokespeople have repeatedly made public statements referencing terrorist attacks that simply did not occur. That is as dangerous as it is incompetent. We cannot allow this administration to distort the facts when it comes to national security. We cannot allow them to use the very real threat of terrorism as a tool to stoke fears for their political purposes. The American people need to know that this President will keep us safe and confront that threat like a serious adult. It’s extremely disturbing that right now, he seems more focused on telling people who to blame when the next attack comes.” ###
01.31.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice, a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, will serve as the Democratic Ranking Member on the Counterterrorism and Intelligence (CTI) Subcommittee in the 115th Congress. Rice’s fellow Long Island delegation-member, Rep. Peter King, serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee, which is responsible for overseeing the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) counterterrorism and information-sharing efforts. Rice has served on the Homeland Security Committee since 2015, when she was first sworn in to represent New York’s fourth congressional district. Rice previously served as a state and federal prosecutor and as the District Attorney of Nassau County, NY from 2006-2014. “I’m honored to have the opportunity to lead the Democratic members on the Counterterrorism and Intelligence Subcommittee,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “This Subcommittee has an important responsibility right now to provide effective oversight of DHS, continue to make our intelligence-sharing efforts more efficient across all levels of government and law enforcement, and ensure that the men and women who keep us safe have the information and resources they need. I look forward to working with Chairman King to fulfill that responsibility in a constructive, bipartisan way.” ###
01.26.2017	GARDEN CITY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice announced today that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has awarded $1,036,342 in federal grant funding to the Long Island Federally Qualified Health Center (LIFQHC), a non-profit organization that provides primary care, preventative care, education and other health care services to underserved communities in Nassau County. LIFQHC has primary locations in Elmont, Freeport, Hempstead, Roosevelt, and Westbury/New Cassel, as well as satellite locations in Hempstead, Oceanside and Hicksville that provide specialty care, including mental health and podiatric services. The grant was awarded through the Affordable Care Act (ACA) Teaching Health Center (THC) Graduate Medical Education (GME) Payment Program, which provides funding to qualified teaching health centers, including FQHCs, to support the expansion of primary care residency training in community-based settings, particularly in underserved communities. The award is the final installment of grant funding that LIFQHC has received through the program since FY 2012. The ACA initially appropriated $230 million to fund the THCGME program through FY 2015, and Congress provided an additional $60 million to extend the program through FY 2017. But the future of LIFQHC and other similar facilities treating underserved communities in New York and across the country remains uncertain as Congressional Republicans continue their push to repeal the ACA without presenting a viable plan to replace it. “Long Island FQHC is doing tremendous work in Nassau County – training and retaining health care professionals to provide primary, preventive and specialty care in underserved communities, improving patient outcomes, and helping to save money for patients and the government by reducing the rate of uncompensated care,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “I’m grateful that Long Island FQHC secured this grant, but this organization and the patients they serve face an uncertain future with funding for the Teaching Health Center program set to expire in June and Republicans in Congress still pushing to repeal the ACA with no plan to replace it. Congress must take bipartisan action to continue funding this program, and Republicans need to give up their push to repeal the ACA and work with Democrats to improve it. Otherwise, it will be the poorest residents in our communities who pay the biggest price.” “The grant we received today helps to provide the necessary funding to maintain the Teaching Health Centers program, where we currently have 21 residents in training,” said David Nemiroff, LCSW, Executive Director of Long Island FQHC, Inc. “After our funding had been cut from $150,000 per resident to just $67,000 per resident, this grant restores funding to $116,000 per resident, and while the costs in New York remain higher than the original $150,000 per resident, we make it work. Our residents have achieved a 100% pass rate on their Medical Boards and we have been able to hire at least one or two residents each year to become attending physicians in the health centers. We are proud to train and retain these skilled professionals. But funding is slated to end this June and without continued funding we do not have the funds to continue the program.” Nemiroff continued, “Under the ACA, the Long Island FQHC, Inc. has been able to expand services and improve outcomes for our patients over the last few years. We have seen improvement in many quality indicators such as improvements in Diabetes Control and Cardiovascular disease. Additionally the loss of ACA support could result in up to 3,000 of our patients losing insurance coverage. As a Federally Qualified Health Center we have to serve people regardless of their ability to pay, but this would severely impact our ability to do that. We serve over 31,000 patients in Nassau County, NY with a large percentage of payment coming from Medicaid. So if funding is cut for Medicaid that could severely impact the services we provide.” ###
12.21.2016	GARDEN CITY, NY – As we approach the holiday season, one of the most dangerous periods of the year for drunk driving, U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today unveiled major new legislation that will set national standards for criminal penalties against individuals who drive while intoxicated or impaired with a child passenger in the vehicle. Joined by Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) National President Colleen Sheehey-Church and MADD New York Executive Director Richard Mallow at the Garden of Hope memorial for drunk driving victims in Eisenhower Park, Rice explained that her bill will compel every state in the country to adopt laws similar to New York State’s Leandra’s Law, which made it a felony offense for an individual to drive drunk or impaired with a child passenger in the vehicle. Rice’s legislation requires states to enact and enforce strict laws related to an individual who drives while intoxicated or impaired with a child passenger in the vehicle – including that an individual arrested for such an offense can be charged with a felony; that the individual’s driver’s license will be suspended during the course of the prosecution; that the individual must install an ignition interlock device for six months if convicted; and that authorities must file a report with the appropriate state register of child abuse if the individual is the parent, guardian or custodian of the child passenger. Beginning in Fiscal Year 2019, the U.S. Secretary of Transportation would withhold federal funding from each state that fails to comply. Any funds withheld from a state will remain available for three years, and will be awarded to the state if it meets the law’s requirements within that time. “Driving drunk with a child in the car is child abuse, plain and simple,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “While most states have taken some action to crack down on those who commit this crime, Leandra’s Law in New York is the toughest and most comprehensive child endangerment law in the country, and this bill will make it the national standard. This is common-sense, non-partisan legislation that both MADD and members of the alcohol industry support. It will be the first bill I introduce when Congress reconvenes next month, and we’re going to work hard to build support on both sides of the aisle and get it passed.” “Child endangerment is not only unconscionable, it's a crime and a form of child abuse. Children don’t have a voice or a choice when riding with an adult, and they should never be in danger from drunk driving, especially by those entrusted to keep them safe,” said MADD National President Colleen Sheehey-Church. “MADD is proud to work with Congresswoman Rice. As District Attorney, Congresswoman Rice made it clear that drunk driving would not be tolerated. Her leadership and dedication to stopping the 100 percent preventable violent crime of impaired driving was noticed throughout Nassau County, Long Island, the state and the entire country.” “Anyone who is driving drunk or while impaired by drugs and simultaneously transporting a child is clearly in need of a strong intervention,” said Ralph S. Blackman, President and CEO of the Foundation for Advancing Alcohol Responsibility (Responsibility.org). “Many DUI offenders have undiagnosed and untreated mental health disorders that go hand in hand with their substance abuse. This legislation will protect children and the general public by preventing drunk driving while helping identify and treat offenders to ultimately change behavior and save lives.” The Prevent Impaired Driving Child Endangerment Act requires states to enact and enforce the following laws with regard to an individual who drives while intoxicated or impaired by alcohol or drugs with a child passenger in the vehicle: · A law that provides that the individual can be charged with a felony subject to up to four years imprisonment; · A law that requires the individual, if convicted, to install and maintain an ignition interlock system on any car the individual owns or operates; · A law that suspends the individual’s state driver’s license during the course of prosecution, unless the individual installs and maintains an ignition interlock system; · A law that requires the individual, if convicted, to undergo an alcohol abuse, substance abuse, or mental health assessment and, if the assessment indicates the need for treatment, authorizes the appropriate court or monitoring agency to require the individual to undergo treatment as part of the individual’s sentence or as a condition for reissuance of the individual’s driver’s license; · A law that requires authorities to file a report with the appropriate state register of child abuse if the individual is the parent, guardian, or custodian of the child passenger, or is in any way legally responsible for the child passenger. The legislation directs the U.S. Secretary of Transportation to withhold a certain percentage of federal funding from states that fail to comply with these requirements by the beginning of fiscal year 2019. On October 1, 2018, the Secretary will withhold one percent of federal funding required to be apportioned to a state through the National Highway Performance Program and the Surface Transportation Program if the state has not met the requirements in the legislation by that date. On October 1, 2019, the Secretary will withhold three percent of this funding from a state if it has not complied by this date. On October 1, 2020, and on October 1 of each fiscal year thereafter, the Secretary will withhold five percent of this funding from a state if it has not complied by this date. Any funding withheld will remain available for apportionment to the state until the end of the third fiscal year for which the funds were authorized. If a state meets the law’s requirements in that time, the Secretary will apportion any funds that had been withheld. The full text of the bill is available here. ###
12.12.2016	GARDEN CITY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice, a member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement today calling for a “rigorous bipartisan investigation” into Russia’s reported interference in American elections. Statement from Representative Kathleen Rice: “Russia’s reported interference in our elections – regardless of whether their motivation was to undermine the integrity of the process or, as the CIA has concluded, to help a specific candidate – is a direct attack on the foundation of our democracy, and it demands a rigorous bipartisan investigation. We can’t just ‘move on,’ sweep this under the rug and pretend it didn’t happen. Both parties in Congress need to come together and investigate the facts, show the American people all the information that we can without compromising sources or methods, and identify an appropriate response. “I believe this ultimately calls for the creation of a Select Committee or a bipartisan, independent commission as Reps. Cummings and Swalwell have proposed. But I appreciate the fact that Chairman McCaul has promised to hold hearings on this issue, and I’m ready to get to work immediately with my Republican and Democratic colleagues on the Homeland Security Committee to investigate all the facts we have about how Russia interfered with our elections, what their motivations were, and what steps we can take to protect our electoral systems and prevent these kinds of intrusions in the future.” ###
12.05.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice released the following statement today after Newsday reported that someone spray-painted the words “Make America White Again,” along with swastikas and racial slurs, on a sidewalk in Mineola last week. Statement from Representative Kathleen Rice: “To the person who spray-painted swastikas and ‘Make America White Again’ on a sidewalk in Mineola: You are not clever, you are not tough. You are a coward. If you have something you want to say, then come forward, turn yourself in to the police, and show your family, your friends, and your neighbors who you are. “I won’t hold my breath waiting for President-Elect Trump to condemn people using his campaign slogan to intimidate people of color. It’s up to every one of us to call out this kind of language and behavior wherever we encounter it, and it’s up to every one of us to show that we are grateful to live in such a diverse district, state and country.” ###
11.20.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice (NY-04) released the following statement today announcing her support for Rep. Tim Ryan to serve as the next Democratic Leader. Statement from Representative Kathleen Rice: “After seeing the results of this election, I believed it was important to delay House Democratic leadership elections so that we had time to learn from this loss, look critically at ourselves and identify the best path forward. I believed it was important to have some tough conversations about how we got here and what strategy we can unite behind to give ourselves a realistic chance of retaking control of Congress, and I was encouraged to find that many members of our caucus believed the same. “Over the past few days, Congressman Tim Ryan has stepped up to initiate those conversations with me and with many of our colleagues. I've talked with Tim extensively, and it is clear that he is focused on the future of our party and our caucus. He's focused on crafting a message that resonates with voters in every district. He’s focused on standing up to Trump and showing that Democrats are the real champions of the working class and the ones who truly respect working people. He’s focused on reforming our caucus, bringing more independent and diverse voices into leadership and into the decision-making process, and making leadership more accountable to our members. He has a lot of good ideas, but maybe most importantly, he also isn’t suggesting he has all the answers — he has stressed that he wants these conversations to be ongoing, that he wants more voices in the conversation so that we can work together to craft our message and forge a winning strategy. “I have great respect for Leader Pelosi and for all that she’s done for our caucus, our party and the American people. I also believe the results of this election demand that we look honestly and critically at ourselves and think about the changes we need to make in order to be an effective opposition party and ultimately get back into the majority. Right now, Tim Ryan is the one person who’s starting those tough conversations that so many of us wanted our entire caucus to have. He’s the one forcing us to ask the tough questions about our party’s future, and he’s the one providing real answers. For all of those reasons, Tim Ryan has my complete support, and I will do everything I can to ensure that he leads our caucus through the critical years ahead.” ###
11.17.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today introduced a House Resolution that supports the official designation of the week of November 14th, 2016 as National Apprenticeship Week, recognizes the important role that apprenticeships play in developing a well-trained and highly skilled work force, and commends organizations and employers that actively support apprenticeship programs. Original cosponsors of the resolution include Reps. Bobby Scott (D-VA), Ranking Member on the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, Mark Pocan (D-WI), Jared Polis (D-CO), Donald Norcross (D-NJ), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Susan Davis (D-CA), Donald Payne, Jr. (D-NJ), Rick Nolan (D-MN), Cheri Bustos (D-IL), Frederica Wilson (D-FL), David Scott (D-GA), Joe Courtney (D-CT) and Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Co-Chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus. A companion resolution was introduced today in the Senate by Sen. Patty Murray (D-WA). Rep. Rice introduced a similar resolution last year as the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) and the Obama administration celebrated the first-ever National Apprenticeship Week with more than 200 local events around the country highlighting the potential for apprenticeship programs to put more American workers on a path to new skills, higher wages, and greater opportunities to advance their careers. This year, there were more than 500 events planned across the country to celebrate the second National Apprenticeship Week. “National Apprenticeship Week is an excellent opportunity to raise awareness about apprenticeship programs in communities across the country that are putting more and more American workers on a path to new skills, higher wages and better careers,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “When workers get the chance to earn while they learn, it’ a win-win for workers, employers and the American economy. I’m grateful for all that President Obama and Secretary Perez have done to expand apprenticeship opportunities across the U.S., and I’ll continue doing everything I can to keep building on that progress in the years ahead.” “We know that for every dollar spent on apprenticeships, employers get an average of $1.47 back in increased productivity,” stated Bobby Scott (D-VA), Ranking Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce. “As we celebrate National Apprenticeship Week, I remain committed to working with my colleagues to make more resources available to businesses, unions and other organizations that want to start and continue registered apprenticeship programs. And, as we work toward this goal, it will also be critical that young people and families all across the United States know about the skills, job stability and income that apprenticeship programs can provide. Apprenticeships are one of the best ways to close the skills gap and one of the clearest pathways to a good job.” “I am proud to introduce this resolution that recognizes the importance of strengthening and expanding registered apprenticeship programs,” said Senator Patty Murray. “Apprenticeships help make sure students and workers are prepared to compete for high-skill, high-wage jobs, which is critical to providing more families in my home state of Washington and across the country a ladder of opportunity to reach a stable middle class life.” “Apprenticeships are experiencing a modern renaissance in America, because the earn-while-learn model is a win-win proposition for workers looking to punch their ticket to the middle class and for employers looking to grow and thrive in our modern global economy,” said U.S. Secretary of Labor Thomas Perez. Rep. Rice also recently announced that New York has received a $1.5 million federal grant to expand apprenticeship opportunities throughout the state. The grant was awarded through DOL’s ApprenticeshipUSA initiative, a $50.5 million investment that will create thousands of new apprenticeship opportunities in diverse industries over the next 18 months. DOL reports that 91% of apprentices are employed after completing their programs, with an average annual starting wage above $60,000. The U.S. has added new 125,000 apprenticeships since 2014, the largest increase in nearly a decade, and last year, the President signed into law the first-ever annual funding for apprenticeship programs in the Fiscal Year 2016 spending bill. More information about the initiative is available here. ###
10.25.2016	GARDEN CITY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice, a member of the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs, released the following statement today regarding recent reports that the California National Guard is forcing thousands of servicemembers to repay bonuses that were offered as re-enlistment incentives during the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Statement from Representative Kathleen Rice: “It is outrageous that the National Guard would try to claw back bonuses and benefits that were promised and paid to keep servicemembers in the military when we needed them most. Anyone who committed fraud or mismanagement in the reenlistment incentive program should be held accountable for their actions – but we cannot stick servicemembers and veterans with the tab for overpayments they received through no fault of their own. Congress must act quickly to forgive these debts as soon as we reconvene in November, and our government must get more serious about honoring the commitments we make to the men and women who risk their lives to protect us. When we see attempts to claw back bonuses, or veterans struggling to get the health care they need, or lawmakers seeking to save money by slashing post-9/11 GI Bill benefits – that sends a message to our next generation of servicemembers that our government doesn’t always keep the promises we make when they sign up to serve, and that’s a serious threat to our national security.”
10.24.2016	GARDEN CITY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice and New York State Senator Todd Kaminsky are calling on the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to adopt a lower threshold of acceptable airplane noise in order to address health, environmental and quality-of-life concerns in communities near major airports. The FAA uses the Day-Night Average Sound Level (DNL) as the metric for quantifying exposure to aviation noise, and has set 65 decibels as the DNL value at which federal funding will be available for soundproofing or other noise mitigation. In a letter to FAA Administrator Michael P. Huerta, Rice and Kaminsky noted that because the DNL represents average noise levels over a 24-hour period, it does not account for increased concentrations of daytime flights if there is a comparable decrease in the number of nighttime flights. Rice and Kaminsky, who represent many Nassau County communities that lie directly beneath the pathways of departing and approaching flights from John F. Kennedy International (JFK) and LaGuardia (LGA) airports, argued that the 65 decibel DNL threshold relies on outdated research that does not adequately consider the comprehensive effects of excessive exposure to high noise levels on individuals, and urged the FAA to lower the acceptable DNL threshold to 55 decibels. “Excessive airplane noise is a serious problem that directly affects the health and quality of life of many residents in our district, and it’s a problem that’s only getting worse,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “We can and must take action to provide relief to residents and business owners who are constantly exposed to high levels of airplane noise, and we’re urging the FAA to take the first step by replacing the outdated DNL threshold with a new threshold of 55 decibels.” "Too many of my constituents have told me that their health and quality of life is significantly diminished by exposure to high noise levels of constant airplane traffic over their homes and businesses,” said New York State Senator Todd Kaminsky. “The DNL threshold is based on antiquated data, and quite frankly, all one has to do is spend 5 minutes in Malverne or several other parts of my district to know that that this noise is excessive. I urge the FAA to listen to the concerns of our constituents and take immediate steps to adopt a lower DNL threshold." The full text of the letter is available here. ###
10.03.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded more than $4,600,000 in federal grant funding to the Island Park School District, the Lawrence School District, and the City of Long Beach for repairs made as a result of damage caused by Superstorm Sandy. The Island Park School District will receive $1,479,372.48 in federal funding for repairs to Francis X. Hegarty Elementary School, which sustained up to four feet of flooding during Sandy. The Lawrence School District will receive $1,455,083.75 for repairs to Lawrence High School, which was forced to close after Sandy due to extensive flood damage and corroded electrical wiring. The City of Long Beach will receive $1,681,928.48 for repairs to the City’s Municipal Garage. “This federal investment will help educate our students in a safe and learning-friendly environment and that’s why I’m pleased to announce FEMA funding to help pay for Sandy-related repairs at Island Park’s Francis X. Hegarty Elementary School and Lawrence High School,” said Senator Schumer. “Moreover, federal funding to help pay for repairs to the city of Long Beach’s municipal garage will help make sure local taxpayers are not left on the hook for these much-needed expenses.” “Securing these federal funds through FEMA will help Long Island make necessary renovations to Francis X. Hegarty Elementary School, Lawrence High School and the Municipal Garage of City of Long Beach,” said Senator Gillibrand. “These investments remain critical as renovation efforts progress and we continue rebuilding our infrastructure on Long Island.” “This funding represents the continued commitment from our federal government to support our recovery efforts and ensure that taxpayers, local governments and school districts aren’t forced to bear the costs of badly needed repairs,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “As we approach the fourth anniversary of Sandy, I’m pleased that we helped secure these funds for the Island Park and Lawrence School Districts and the City of Long Beach, and I’ll keep working to make sure all of our communities get the resources they need to fully recover.” “This FEMA funding will be a great help to Island Park, as our district and community are still recovering from the extreme damages sustained during Superstorm Sandy four years ago,” said Island Park Public Schools Superintendent Dr. Rosmarie Bovino. “These monies will reach our children by providing for building repairs and infrastructure improvements at Francis X. Hegarty Elementary School, which houses kindergarten through fourth grade. We are very thankful to Senators Schumer and Gillibrand and Representative Rice for their work in supporting our students’ educational experiences and learning environments.” "On behalf of the Lawrence School District, I would like to thank U.S. Senator Schumer, U.S. Senator Gillibrand and U.S. Representative Rice for their invaluable assistance in obtaining FEMA reimbursement for repairs made to Lawrence High School as a result of damage sustained during Superstorm Sandy,” said Lawrence School Board President Murray Forman. “Today’s tranche of $1.5 million in reimbursement brings the total reimbursement to the district for repairs to approximately $5 million. These funds are critical to the district’s ongoing effort to restore Lawrence High School to its pre-Sandy condition. We look forward to our legislators’ continued support as we complete the restoration of Lawrence High School for the benefit of the children of our community.” “We would like to again thank Senator Schumer, Senator Gillibrand and Rep. Rice for aggressively advocating on our behalf and helping to secure this reimbursement funding,” said Long Beach City Council Vice President Anthony Eramo. “Much like the City’s garage, many of our facilities were damaged during the storm, and reimbursements like this have enabled us to rebuild a stronger, smarter, safer Long Beach.” ###
09.21.2016	GARDEN CITY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice is hosting a Mortgage Modification Fair on Saturday, September 24th from 8:00 a.m.-3:00 p.m. at the Cradle of Aviation Museum in cooperation with Nassau County Executive Edward P. Mangano's office. Homeowners who are struggling to make mortgage payments will have opportunities to attend lectures and seminars on financial best practices by homeownership and mortgage modification specialists, and meet directly with attorneys, counselors, support groups and lenders in the exhibit zone on the lower level of the museum in order to learn how to make homeownership more affordable and avoid foreclosure. Participating lenders, housing agencies, legal and support groups include Bank of America, Bayview Loan Servicing, Caliber Home Loans, Citibank, JPMorgan Chase, NationStar, Ocwen, Wells Fargo, the Community Development Corporation of Long Island, the Long Island Housing Partnership and the Nassau County Bar Association. The event is free and open to the public. The federal Making Home Affordable (MHA) program expires in December, 2016. MHA includes the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP), which assists homeowners who are struggling to make mortgage payments and at risk of foreclosure, and the Home Affordable Refinancing Program (HARP), which allows homeowners who are current on mortgage payments but have little to no equity to refinance their mortgages. Homeowners are encouraged to attend the fair this Saturday in order to learn how they can take advantage of these programs before they expire. Homeowners are urged NOT to hire any company that charges a fee upfront. Scammers often target distressed homeowners and offer false promises of a guaranteed modification or reduced principle balance on their home loan in exchange for thousands of dollars in upfront fees. The Mortgage Assistance Relief Rule, published by the FTC in December, 2010, prohibits loan modification services from charging these fees before a consumer has a written offer of mortgage relief from his or her lender. If you believe you have been a victim of Mortgage Fraud, you can contact the State Attorney General Hotline at 1-800-771-7755. WHEN: Saturday, September 24th, 2016 – 8:00 a.m.-3:00 p.m. WHERE: Cradle of Aviation Museum (Charles Lindbergh Blvd, Garden City, NY 11530) WHAT: Mortgage Modification Fair hosted by Rep. Kathleen Rice and Nassau County Executive Edward P. Mangano ###
09.07.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice, the top Democrat on the Homeland Security Committee’s Subcommittee on Transportation Security, called today for a hearing to investigate emergency preparedness and response procedures at American airports in the wake of two recent incidents at John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) in New York and Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) in California. On the night of August 14th, reports of an active shooter at JFK, which later proved to be false, led to a scene of confusion and chaos inside the airport as authorities worked to evacuate two terminals and search for a shooter, while frightened travelers reportedly stampeded through hallways and even self-evacuated onto the tarmac. Following the incident, accounts have indicated that not all airport employees receive training on how to respond to active shooter situations, terrorist attacks, or other large-scale emergencies. The New York Daily News reported that one security guard at JFK stated that he had never been trained to handle large crowds and didn’t know of a designated evacuation site. A similar scene unfolded at LAX on August 28th, when “hundreds of panicked passengers stampeded into the street and onto the tarmac” after reports of an active shooter, according to the Los Angeles Times. In a letter to Subcommittee Chairman John Katko, Rice notes that the Gerardo Hernandez Airport Security Act of 2015, legislation authored by Chairman Katko and signed into law last year, requires the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to confirm that all airports have incident response plans for events such as an active shooter or act of terrorism, including evacuation plans and communications plans for employees and contractors within the airport perimeter. Rice urged Katko to hold a hearing on the two recent events at JFK and LAX in order to assess how airports are implementing the national Active Shooter Mitigation model and to investigate how airports can implement comprehensive emergency response plans and ensure that all employees, including contract employees, have the information and training they need to execute the plans in the event of an active shooter, terrorist attack or other emergency situation. “The recent incidents at JFK and LAX have made it clear that our airports are not fully prepared to respond to active shooter situations, which are increasingly becoming terrorists’ preferred method of attack,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “Given the threats we face right now, we need to expect and prepare for these kinds of emergencies. If there are reports of an active shooter, airport workers should know immediately how to respond and what procedures to follow. That clearly wasn’t the case in these two incidents, so we need to find out why, and we need to ensure that every airport in this country has a comprehensive emergency response plan in place and that all airport employees get the training they need to execute that plan if and when the time comes.” The full text of Rice’s letter is available here. ###
09.06.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice will host a Service Academy Information Session on Thursday, September 15th, at 6:00 p.m. at the Uniondale Public Library. The event is open to all high school students in New York’s fourth congressional district who are interested in applying to a U.S. service academy this fall. Students and their family members will have the opportunity to meet with representatives from all five service academies – the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy – and learn about the application and admissions process as well as various programs offered at the academies. Students and parents who would like to attend can call our office at (516) 739-3008 or email NY04.Academy@mail.house.gov to RSVP or request more information. WHEN: Thursday, September 15th – 6:00 p.m. WHERE: Uniondale Public Library (400 Uniondale Avenue, Uniondale, NY 11553) WHAT: Service Academy Information Session WHO: U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice and representatives from all five U.S. service academies (the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy) ###
09.01.2016	U.S. Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and Representative Kathleen Rice announced today that the Village of Freeport has been awarded $14,140 in federal U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) Funding. The funds were awarded through the DOJ’s Bureau of Justice Assistance’s Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program, which provides funding to states and local governments to support a range of crime prevention activities based on state and local needs. The Village of Freeport will use these funds to pay officer overtime for additional patrols. The goal of this project is to decrease factors that lower the quality of life for residents in the village. “When it comes to protecting Village of Freeport residents, we must be smart and prepared,” said Senator Schumer. “This investment will help make our streets and neighborhoods safer for children, families and seniors. When it comes to protecting our citizens we must be prepared and well-trained, and this DOJ grant will help us do just that.” “These federal funds will help support police officers who keep the Village of Freeport safe and secure,” said Senator Gillibrand. “Protecting our families and communities is a top priority and I will continue to push for funding to help get our police officers the resources needed to carry out their critical work more effectively.” “This funding will help the Village of Freeport put more trained police officers in the community, building relationships and working with residents to gather information, prevent crime, and address important quality of life concerns,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “I’m pleased we secured this funding for Freeport, and I’ll keep working to ensure all communities in our district have the resources they need to keep residents safe and secure.” “Since becoming the first municipality in New York State to mandate body cameras on all police patrol officers and installing our “Ring of Steel’ license plate reader system, Freeport has an increased need to support the success of these initiatives,” said Freeport Mayor Robert Kennedy. “By providing grant funding to contribute to our police overtime budget, we can increase patrols, without increasing village taxes. On behalf of the Freeport Board of Trustees, Freeport residents, and I, we thank U.S. Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and Representative Kathleen Rice for helping to ensure the safety and best quality of life for our community.” The Byrne JAG program provides funding to support a broad range of activities to prevent and control crime and improve the criminal justice system that include: law enforcement programs; prosecution and court programs; prevention and education programs; corrections and community corrections programs; drug treatment programs; and planning, evaluation, and technology improvement programs; and crime victim witness programs. ###
08.26.2016	U.S. Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and Representative Kathleen Rice announced today that the Village of Hempstead has been awarded $37,982 in federal U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ Funding. The funds were awarded through the DOJ’s Bureau of Justice Assistance’s Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program, which provides funding to states and local governments to support a range of crime prevention activities based on state and local needs. The Village of Hempstead will use these funds to purchase law enforcement equipment for officers. “When it comes to protecting residents in the Village of Hempstead, we must be smart, well-trained and prepared,” said Senator Schumer. “This investment will help make our streets and neighborhoods safer for children, families and seniors. When it comes to protecting our citizens we must be well-trained and prepared, and this DOJ grant will help us do just that.” “These federal funds will help support police officers who keep the streets and neighborhoods in the Village of Hempstead safe and secure,” said Senator Gillibrand. “Protecting our families and communities is a top priority and I will continue to push for funding to help get our police officers the resources needed to carry out their critical work more effectively.” “As police officers work to keep our communities safe, we have to make sure that they have the equipment they need to protect themselves and the public, gather and share intelligence more efficiently, and implement effective crime prevention strategies,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “This federal funding will help ensure that police officers in Hempstead have access to the best equipment and technology available, and that’s a direct investment in the safety and security of the entire Hempstead community.” "We thank Senator Schumer, Senator Gillibrand and Representative Rice for their tireless work on behalf of the Village in order to secure critical funding that will help keep Village residents safe," said Village of Hempstead Mayor Wayne J. Hall, Sr. "JAG funding will be used to support our police force by equipping officers with the tools they need to better protect and serve our entire community." The Byrne JAG program provides funding to support a broad range of activities to prevent and control crime and improve the criminal justice system that include: law enforcement programs; prosecution and court programs; prevention and education programs; corrections and community corrections programs; drug treatment programs; and planning, evaluation, and technology improvement programs; and crime victim witness programs. ###
08.08.2016	GARDEN CITY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice announced today that eight Jewish organizations, synagogues and schools in New York’s fourth congressional district have been awarded a total of nearly $575,000 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s FY2016 Nonprofit Security Grant Program (NSGP), which provides funding for security enhancements to nonprofit organizations that are at a high risk of terrorist attacks. Congregation Aish Kodesh in Woodmere, the Hebrew Academy of Long Beach, the Hebrew Academy of the Five Towns and Rockaway, the Merrick Jewish Centre, Young Israel of Lawrence-Cedarhurst, and Young Israel of Oceanside have each been awarded $75,000. Yeshiva of South Shore in Hewlett has been awarded $73,673, and the Hebrew Academy of Nassau County has been awarded $50,000. “Preventing and preparing for acts of terrorism and other emergency situations is always a collaborative effort, and one of the most effective things we can do at the federal level is help vulnerable or high-risk institutions harden their facilities and enhance their emergency response capabilities,” said Representative Kathleen Rice, a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security. “I’m very pleased we obtained this funding to help these organizations meet their unique security challenges, and I’ll keep working to make sure all of our district’s communities have the resources they need to keep people safe.” “We are incredibly grateful to Congresswoman Rice for helping us secure this critical grant from DHS,” said Rabbi Moshe Weinberger of Congregation Aish Kodesh. “The reality is that we live in dangerous times and the grant will go a long way towards making our synagogue safer.” “Our congregation is extraordinarily grateful to receive this grant,” said Rabbi Charles A. Klein of the Merrick Jewish Centre. “At a time when synagogues and other houses of worship have become targets for terrorists, the opportunity this grant affords us to enhance the security of our building will make a big difference for the members of our community who gather here regularly.” “We’re very grateful to Congresswoman Rice for helping to secure this funding and for supporting our efforts to give our students and faculty the safe and secure learning environment they deserve,” said Richard Hagler, Executive Director of the Hebrew Academy of Long Beach. “At a time when we’ve seen schools and places of worship too often become targets of hatred, violence and terrorism, this federal grant is a critical investment in our community’s security and in the future of all the children we serve.” “We applaud Congresswoman Rice for all her efforts on behalf of all the nonprofits in the Nassau County area in securing these much needed security funds for our institutions,” said Rabbi Dovid Kramer, Executive Director of Yeshiva of South Shore. “We deeply appreciate Congresswoman Rice’s help in our having obtained the security grant for the sake of our synagogue,” said Rabbi Moshe Teitelbaum of Young Israel of Lawrence-Cedarhurst. “The protective glass and bollards are a means of gaining added protection along with greater peace of mind for our membership.” FY 2016 NGSP Recipients in NY-04: Congregation Aish Kodesh (Woodmere, NY): $75,000 Hebrew Academy of Long Beach: $75,000 Hebrew Academy of the Five Towns and Rockaway: $75,000 The Merrick Jewish Centre: $75,000 Young Israel of Lawrence-Cedarhurst: $75,000 Young Israel of Oceanside: $75,000 Yeshiva of South Shore (Hewlett, NY): $73,673 Hebrew Academy of Nassau County: $50,000 *For more information about the Nonprofit Security Grant Program, click here. ###
07.18.2016	GARDEN CITY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice released the following statement today marking the 95th birthday of former U.S. Senator John Glenn and highlighting Long Island’s contributions to American aviation history. “Today we celebrate the 95th birthday of John Glenn, an American hero who served our country as a Marine aviator, as an astronaut, and as a U.S. Senator,” said U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice. “Inspired by Charles Lindbergh’s transatlantic flight from Roosevelt Field 30 years earlier, it was on Long Island, at Floyd Bennett Field, where John Glenn completed the first ever supersonic transcontinental flight in 1957. Now, as we commemorate Senator Glenn’s 95th birthday, we are once again reminded of the critical role that Long Island has played in our nation’s aviation history. I’m proud to have introduced bipartisan legislation that will help commemorate and preserve Long Island’s aviation history, and I want to thank my constituent, Adam Sackowitz of Westbury, for bringing this idea to my office’s attention. Adam has worked to preserve the Lindbergh takeoff site in our district, and is currently writing his graduate thesis on Senator Glenn. I’ll keep working to get our legislation passed so that Long Island’s contributions to aviation history get the recognition they deserve and continue to inspire students like Adam for generations to come.” ###
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON – The House of Representatives voted by unanimous consent today to pass the Senate companion of H.R. 5770, legislation introduced in the House by U.S. Rep. Kathleen Rice that will authorize a dental insurance program for military veterans and eligible family members. The program will allow veterans enrolled in health care through the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to purchase dental insurance at a reduced rate through either MetLife or Delta Dental. The legislation authorizes the VA Dental Insurance Program (VADIP), which was initially created as a three-year nationwide pilot program and was due to expire at the end of 2016. As of April, 2016, nearly 100,000 veterans and eligible dependents had purchased plans through the program, and a survey conducted by the VA found that the vast majority of participants surveyed reported that they are satisfied with the program and will recommend it to other veterans. Because participating veterans pay for their insurance plans out-of-pocket at a reduced rate, the program operates at no cost to taxpayers other than nominal administrative costs. S. 3055, the Department of Veterans Affairs Dental Insurance Reauthorization Act of 2016, was introduced by Sens. Richard Burr (R-NC) and John Tester (D-MT) and passed by unanimous consent in the Senate yesterday. Following today’s House vote, the bill will now be sent to President Obama to be signed into law. “I’m very pleased that the House and Senate acted quickly to get this important bipartisan legislation to the President’s desk,” said Representative Kathleen Rice, a member of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. “All veterans deserve access to high-quality, comprehensive health care – including oral health care. This program has proven to be successful in helping to ensure that nearly 100,000 veterans who don’t quality for dental care through the VA can get high-quality dental insurance plans that they can afford, and signing this bill into law will ensure that all veterans have that same opportunity.” ###
06.30.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded nearly $4.5 million to the East Rockaway School District for Sandy-related repairs and mitigation work at East Rockaway High School. Students at the high school were displaced for six months after Superstorm Sandy severely damaged the school’s entire electrical system, main boilers, the gymnasium floor, multiple classrooms and the auditorium. The federal grant funding, totaling $4,479,432.65, will cover extensive mitigation work to help prevent damage from future storms, including the installation of submersible sump pumps, backflow preventers, 22 flood doors at the building’s exterior, 15 flood planks at specified openings, flood hatches at interior crawl space entry points, and a generator with a fuel tank. “There is no better federal investment than one that helps educate our students in a safe and learning-friendly environment,” said Senator Schumer. “East Rockaway High School was hit hard by Superstorm Sandy and these funds will help provide critical mitigation measures to make the school stronger and prevent damage in the event of a future storm.” “I am pleased Long Island will get this federal funding from FEMA to help cover the cost of renovating East Rockaway High School,” said Senator Gillibrand. “The devastation caused by Superstorm Sandy was a wakeup call for the urgent need to invest in modern, updated infrastructure that keeps all New Yorkers more secure. We need to ensure that our children remain safe at school and I will continue to fight for resources so we can rebuild even stronger as recovery efforts continue.” “After working hard to repair damage from Sandy and get students back into their classrooms, the East Rockaway High School community is now working hard to make the school more resilient,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “I’m grateful that these federal funds have come through to support their efforts, and I’ll keep working with school district officials to ensure they get the resources they need to make the school stronger and more prepared to withstand future storms.” “The East Rockaway School District sustained $12 million in damages from Superstorm Sandy, and our high school students were displaced for six months while we worked to repair the building,” said East Rockaway School District Superintendent Lisa J. Ruiz. “While we continue to seek additional federal and state funds for further mitigation work and a retaining wall along the Mill River, this first grant award will help to better position the district to minimize future damage in the event of a reoccurrence and will serve to protect our school campus and facilities from the devastating effects of another major storm.” ###
06.07.2016	GARDEN CITY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice called today for federal and state action to address perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) contamination in public drinking water in New York and in communities across the country. PFOA, a chemical that until recently was used in the United States to make a variety of consumer and industrial products, has been linked to many adverse health effects, including cancer, hormone disruption and heart disease, and has recently been found in high concentrations in the public water supply in Hoosick Falls, NY and Petersburg, NY. PFOA has been detected in 94 water districts in 27 states, including in the Town of Hempstead Water District, which serves 110,000 residents in Nassau County, NY. The New York Times has reported that in Nassau County, the concentration of fluorochemicals like PFOA in the water is even higher than that in some water districts that were included in a class-action lawsuit against the DuPont chemical company, which used PFOA in the manufacturing of Teflon. In a letter to Gina McCarthy, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Rice commended the EPA for recently setting a new advisory level for PFOA exposure in public water at 70 parts per trillion (ppt), but noted that new scientific research estimates an approximate safe level of 1-3 ppt, significantly lower than the EPA’s new advisory level. Rice urged the EPA to go further and establish a stricter, legally enforceable standard for safe levels of PFOA in drinking water, and argued that the recently passed TSCA Modernization Act will make it easier for the agency to do so because it includes a less burdensome safety standard with a greater focus on a chemical’s risk to human health and the environment. “PFOA contamination poses a real and immediate threat to public health and quality of life in Hoosick Falls and Petersburg, and we know these same kinds of chemicals have been found in public drinking water in many more communities across New York and across the country – including in my congressional district on Long Island,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “The EPA’s new advisory level is a positive step, but in light of mounting evidence of the major health risks associated with these kinds of chemicals, we need to take urgent, comprehensive action to identify a truly safe level of PFOA exposure and set a strict, fully enforceable limit. The EPA has the authority to do exactly that, and I urge them to act quickly so that we can restore access to clean drinking water in places like Hoosick Falls and protect residents in other communities that may be at risk of exposure to harmful levels of PFOA.” Rice also called for state lawmakers to hold hearings on PFOA contamination in public water supplies in order to investigate how local, state and federal officials have responded to the crises in Hoosick Falls and Petersburg, examine the full scope of PFOA contamination in communities across the state, and assess what must be done to ensure that New Yorkers are not exposed to harmful levels of PFOA in their drinking water. “We need to address this problem comprehensively at both the federal and state levels,” said Rice. “I urge leaders in Albany to convene hearings so that we can examine how officials at all levels of government have responded to contaminated drinking water in upstate communities and what must be done to restore access to clean water for residents in those communities. We also need to know the full extent of PFOA contamination across the state – how prevalent these chemicals are in our public water supplies, what other communities may be at risk, and what we can do to eliminate that risk before people suffer the consequences. This problem isn’t going away. We need to take it head on and work together to protect the people we serve.” ###
06.03.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded an additional $1,019,197.14 in disaster relief funds to the Lawrence Union Free School District for emergency repairs and electrical work at Lawrence High School, which was temporarily forced to close after flooding from Superstorm Sandy corroded the building’s electrical wiring. This is the second funding installment awarded to reimburse the school district for repairs made to Lawrence High School in the aftermath of Sandy, following the first installment of more than $2.6 million awarded in March, 2015. “There’s no better federal investment than one that helps educate students in a safe and learning-friendly environment,” said Senator Schumer. “More than $1 million in federal funds will help reimburse the cost of Sandy-related repairs to Lawrence High School in a way that does not leave local taxpayers footing the bill.” “I am pleased Long Island will get this federal funding from FEMA to help cover the cost of renovating Lawrence High School damaged as a result of Superstorm Sandy,” said Senator Gillibrand. “The school suffered severe structural and electrical damages, and this critical funding will help ensure that local taxpayers aren’t left to foot the bill alone as recovery efforts continue. I will continue to fight for funding so we can rebuild even stronger and be ready for when the next storm hits.” “The Lawrence High School community has stuck together and worked hard to rebuild after Sandy damaged the school building, destroyed electrical wiring, and temporarily forced the school to close, causing a significant disruption for students, parents, teachers and school officials,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “I’m proud of the work they’ve done to recover, I’m pleased that this second reimbursement has come through, and I’ll keep working to secure the final funding installment the district needs to complete their recovery efforts.” “We certainly appreciate the efforts of Senators Schumer and Gillibrand and Representative Rice in securing this latest funding installment, and we look forward to their continued support as we keep working to fully restore the high school and fully recover from Superstorm Sandy,” said Lawrence School Board President Murray Forman. ###
05.25.2016	Washington—Representatives Steve Israel (NY-03), Peter King (NY-02), Kathleen Rice (NY-04), and Lee Zeldin (NY-01) sent a bipartisan letter to Veterans Affairs Secretary Bob McDonald calling on him to address the deteriorating conditions at the Northport Veterans Affairs Medical Center (VAMC). Recent reports have indicated that an aging ventilation system has caused harmful particles to collect on medical instruments in five operating rooms at the Northport VAMC. Due to the health risks associated with the particles, the entire surgical unit has been closed for more than two months, forcing Long Island veterans to travel elsewhere to receive surgical care. “Long Island veterans must have access to quality healthcare and medical facilities,” said Rep. Steve Israel (NY-03). “The reported operating room closures at the Northport V.A. are troubling and we need answers on what’s being done. That is why I am leading this bipartisan letter with my Long Island colleagues to request specific information on how many veterans have been impacted and what steps need to be taken to reopen these operating rooms and ensure the safety of patients and staff throughout the facility.” “We’re not talking about athlete’s foot here,” said Rep. Peter King (NY-02). “This is a serious situation. If a veterans hospital can’t provide surgery, the public needs answers.” “With only one VA hospital on Long Island and one of the largest veteran populations in the country, we can’t let these operating rooms stay closed while veterans in need of surgical care are forced to go elsewhere or delay their treatment,” said Representative Kathleen Rice, a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee. “I have no doubt that officials at the Northport VA are eager to reopen these rooms as soon as possible, and every member of this delegation is ready to do whatever it takes to help make that happen. That’s why we’re urging the VA to give us this information so that we know the full scope of the problem, exactly what must be done to fix it, and how long it will take.” “The Department of Veterans Affairs needs to immediately fix whatever issues exist that are keeping the Operating Rooms closed at the Northport VA.,” said Congressman Lee Zeldin (NY-01), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee. “Failure is not an option. It’s also completely inexcusable that the VA never came to the Long Island congressional delegation to inform us of this situation and ask for assistance over the course of these past few months while these issues have lingered. This is an inexcusable failure for Long Island veterans. The entire Long Island delegation agrees that our veterans deserve better, which is why we look forward to a quick response from the VA and an aggressive achievement of an immediate and long term solution." In February, the Northport VAMC suspended all surgical procedures involving incisions and open wounds after detecting sand-sized particles that had accumulated in some of the facility’s operating rooms. Newsday reported that since February, 117 veterans have had to reschedule surgeries at the facility. 69 of these veterans elected to receive their treatment at other facilities and 48 chose to postpone their surgeries until operations resume at Northport VAMC. The full text of the delegation’s letter can be found here and below: May 25, 2016 The Honorable Robert A. McDonald Secretary United States Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Ave NW Washington, DC 20420 Dear Secretary McDonald, We are very concerned about reports of deteriorating conditions at the Northport Veterans Affairs Medical Center (VAMC) in Northport, New York. As you know, Long Island is home to a significant veteran population and constituents from our combined four Congressional Districts have all sought care at the Northport VAMC. We believe these veterans deserve the best care available and want to make certain the staff at the Northport VAMC have the resources necessary to care for them. Reports indicate that operating rooms have closed, but the Northport VAMC director indicated publicly that one operating room may reopen next month. Meanwhile, patients requiring urgent operations have been sent elsewhere in New York, an inconvenience our nation’s veterans should not have to bear. With no indication of when the additional operating rooms will reopen, immediate action must be taken to fix these issues and provide our veterans with high quality care. We are writing today to draw your attention to this matter and to request information regarding how many veterans across Long Island have been impacted by these issues at the Northport VAMC, what steps will be taken to reopen the operating rooms and ensure the safety of patients and staff throughout the facility, and how long you expect these actions to take. The Northport VAMC serves thousands of veterans in our districts and these veterans deserve the highest level of care available. This is a standard that should be applied throughout the entire country at every single VAMC. We appreciate your assistance with this matter and commend your commitment to American veterans. We look forward to your timely response. ###
05.11.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice, Ranking Member on the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security, and fellow Subcommittee members Rep. Donald Payne, Jr. and Rep. Bill Keating today called on House appropriators to allow the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to spend $34 million from its FY 2016 budget to hire additional Transportation Security Officers (TSOs) and pay overtime in order to help alleviate long lines and wait times at airports. In a letter to Reps. John Carter and Lucille Roybal-Allard, Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, Rice, Payne and Keating note that several airports across the country have recently reported significant increases in wait times at security checkpoints due to inadequate TSA staffing levels, and the problem is expected to grow more severe as the number of passengers traveling through American airports peaks in the summer months. Officials at the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey warned TSA this week that they may be forced to privatize security at LaGuardia, Kennedy, and Newark Liberty airports if TSA does not increase staffing levels, and officials at Atlanta’s Hartsfield-Jackson Airport raised the same possibility earlier this year. TSA has requested that appropriators redirect $34 million from TSA’s current budget so that the funds can be spent to hire additional TSOs and provide overtime pay. Rice, Payne and Keating urged Chairman Carter and Ranking Member Roybal-Allard to approve the request, as their counterparts in the Senate did last week. The full text of their letter is available here. “The shortage of TSA screeners is causing a lot of problems for passengers in airports across the country, and it’s only going to get worse this summer,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “We need to act now to get more screeners on the ground at airport checkpoints, or we can expect even longer lines and wait times, more passengers experiencing travel disruptions, and more airports forced to consider privatizing security. TSA already has this $34 million in their current budget, and we need to let them use it to increase staffing levels and prepare for the heightened demand that we’ll see in the coming months.” “The shortage of screeners at airports across the country, and particularly at Newark Liberty International Airport, is not only causing significant disruptions to travel plans for an increasing number of passengers, it is also putting more strain on already overworked transportation security officers,” said Congressman Payne, Jr. “The problem is only going to get worse, with the 2016 summer travel season estimated to be the busiest in terms of commercial air travel since the economic downturn in 2008. It is absolutely critical that Congress quickly acts to reallocate the $34 million already in TSA’s budget to ensure that the agency can address the shortage of screeners and meet the demands of increased travel.” “TSA has an often overlooked but direct role to play in our regional economic stability,” said Congressman Bill Keating, who represents Massachusetts’s South Coast, South Shore, Cape, & Islands. “It is the responsibility of TSA to ensure the security of our nation’s airports and passengers – thus supporting millions in revenue from tourists and business travelers alike. Lengthy and burdensome delays caused by a shortage of TSA personnel will adversely impact not only New England’s local businesses and communities, especially during the peak of the tourist season, but communities across the country whose local economies rely on tourism.” ###
04.26.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representatives Kathleen Rice (D-NY), Mike Coffman (R-CO), Jackie Speier (D-CA) and Rod Blum (R-IA) today announced the formation of the bipartisan House Whistleblower Protection Caucus, an informal group of House Members dedicated to protecting the rights of whistleblowers, who often take on significant personal and professional risk in order to report improper activity in government agencies, help improve congressional oversight and transparency, and eliminate fraud, abuse and wasteful spending. The Caucus will work to build bipartisan support for strong whistleblower protections, raise awareness about retaliation against whistleblowers, and provide guidance to other House offices about how to respond to whistleblower disclosures and allegations of retaliation. The House Whistleblower Protection Caucus has been endorsed by several organizations across the political and ideological spectrum, including the Project on Government Oversight (POGO), the Government Accountability Project (GAP), the Liberty Coalition, Public Citizen, the National Taxpayers Union, the Taxpayers Protection Alliance, and the Union of Concerned Scientists Center for Science and Democracy. “Whistleblowers help us do our jobs more effectively. They come forward to give us the facts so that we can hold people accountable, protect tax dollars, and make our government work better for the people we serve – and they often do so knowing they may face retaliation and may be risking their careers,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “Whatever issues may divide Democrats and Republicans in Congress, whistleblower protection must remain a bipartisan priority so that people can continue coming forward without fear of retaliation and we can continue to rely on the information they provide.” “In many cases whistleblowers are on the front lines discovering fraud and corruption and all too often risking their careers to report it. Certainly that is the case in many of the recent VA scandals,” said Rep. Mike Coffman (R-CO). A Marine Corps combat veteran, Coffman serves on the House Armed Services Committee and House Veteran’s Affairs Committee, where he is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. “We owe these men and women our gratitude and must ensure they are protected from retaliation.” “Whistleblowers are on the front lines, working to uncover waste, fraud, and abuse,” said Speier. “Throughout my career, whistleblowers have been central to my work in oversight and reform. They’ve brought to light wasteful spending, hostile workplaces, and dangerous practices from the Pentagon to the pipelines beneath our feet. We must provide them with the protections they need to work with Congress and the Inspectors General to conduct genuine oversight. I look forward to working with my colleagues to fight for strong whistleblower protections across all departments and agencies.” “I am pleased to join my colleagues Reps. Rice, Coffman, and Speier to found the bipartisan Whistleblower Protection Caucus so we can educate other members of Congress on the issue and work together to implement common sense measure that protect whistleblowers. Federal employees with the courage to blow the whistle play a key role in exposing abuse and mismanagement in our government, and this caucus will play a leading role in raising awareness about the need to support those who are willing to take a risk and report wrongdoing,” said Rep. Rod Blum. “Despite a period of extreme partisanship, Congress is banding together to create a foundation of support for employees committed to the truth,” said Shanna Devine, Legislative Director for the Government Accountability Project. “The House Whistleblower Protection Caucus is the latest action in a cultural sea change toward whistleblowers; since the start of the 114th Congress, more than a tenth of the Senate has joined its companion caucus.” Danielle Brian, Executive Director of the Project On Government Oversight (POGO), said: "In this charged political climate, it's encouraging to see members of Congress from both sides of the aisle come together with the aim of strengthening protections for whistleblowers. A more accountable and effective federal government is in the interest of Americans of all political stripes. I applaud Reps. Rice, Coffman, Speier, and Blum for getting the ball rolling with this important caucus and look forward to supporting their work." ###
04.08.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded more than $2.65 million in federal grant funding to the Island Park School District and nearly $1.7 million to the City of Long Beach for repairs to damage caused by Superstorm Sandy. The Island Park School District will receive $2,654,312 for repairs to the Lincoln Orens Middle School, which sustained heavy flooding and extensive damage during Sandy. The funding will reimburse the school district for the costs of repairing extensive flooring damage, refurbishing air ventilators and replacing heating and hot water systems, walls, piping and electrical and data lines, as well as musical instruments, textbooks, computers, printers, scanners, and library books, among other things. The City of Long Beach has been awarded $1,698,636 for repairs to the city’s water purification plant and eight wells that were damaged by flooding during Sandy. The funding will reimburse the city for the costs of replacing electrical wiring and a generator at the plant and elevating the generator in order to better protect the facility and significantly reduce the risk of damage from future storms. "During Superstorm Sandy, the generator at the Long Beach Water Purification Plant sustained catastrophic damage and was inoperable, leaving the city's water supply vulnerable. In the middle of the night, when I heard what had happened from the city of Long Beach, I helped worked hard to secure a Caterpillar generator in order to prevent further damage to the city's water supply. These FEMA funds for a new generator will help make the water plant's power more resilient and prevent a similar situation from occurring if another superstorm were to hit,” said U.S. Senator Charles E. Schumer. “Moreover, this federal investment will help educate our students in a safe and learning-friendly environment. I am pleased that more than $2 million in federal funding will help pay for Sandy-related repairs to Island Park’s Lincoln Orens Middle School.” “I am pleased Long Island will get this federal funding to help cover the cost of renovating the Lincoln Orens School and the water purification plant and wells in Long Beach damaged as a result of Superstorm Sandy,” said Senator Gillibrand. “Superstorm Sandy devastated our communities, and this critical FEMA funding will help provide much needed resources to the community as recovery efforts continue. I will continue to fight for funding so we can rebuild even stronger and be ready for when the next storm hits.” “These two federal grants are another important investment in our district’s recovery that will help ensure that our communities can keep working to rebuild without bearing the full costs of recovery,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “I’ll keep working with all of our local, state and federal partners to make sure our district gets the resources and support we need to fully recover from Sandy and come back stronger and more resilient than ever.” “Flooding from Superstorm Sandy inflicted substantial damage to flooring, walls, heating and hot water systems, electrical wiring, piping, ventilators and classroom equipment throughout the Francis X Hegarty Elementary and Lincoln Orens Middle Schools, and the process of repairing this damage has been financially challenging for our school district,” said Rosmarie T. Bovino, Ed.D., Superintendent of Island Park Schools. “We continue to work with our current public assistance team to finalize the reimbursement process, and we are grateful for the assistance our legislators secured for the community of Island Park and its schools through FEMA. Without this, there would have been no viable alternative enabling families to rebuild their homes and our Board of Education to rebuild its schools.” “We would like to thank Senators Schumer and Gillibrand, along with Congresswoman Rice, for their tireless advocacy and assistance in securing these funds, allowing us to rebuild stronger, smarter, and safer in Long Beach,” said Long Beach City Councilman Scott J. Mandel. “This funding has enabled us to replace electrical wiring and a generator that was destroyed in Sandy at our water purification plant. Our new, reliable equipment has been installed and, most importantly, our new generator has been elevated high above ground to keep our facility protected in the event of future storms.” ###
04.07.2016	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Coffman (R-CO), Chairman of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, and U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice (D-NY), a member of the subcommittee, called upon the Veterans Affairs (VA) Office of Accountability Review and the Office of the Inspector General to make appropriate criminal referrals to law enforcement in regards to the Aurora VA hospital construction project. On March 26, 2016, the VA’s Administrative Investigation Board (AIB) released a summary memorandum to the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of its findings from its examination of the Aurora VA hospital construction project. This report was released to the committee nearly a year after its completion and still unavailable to American taxpayers. The summary alleges that all VA officials with responsibility for the project’s mismanagement and cost overruns have since retired or left the VA. Some of these officials collected generous performance bonuses while the project was imploding and some are now receiving full federal pensions despite being deemed responsible for this construction debacle. Coffman and Rice are calling for a review of the AIB report, other independent investigations, and any knowingly inaccurate testimony made by VA officials during congressional hearings to determine if criminal referrals are necessary and appropriate. “The American taxpayers deserve answers. The mismanagement and cost overruns of the Aurora VA hospital are outrageous. At the least, I believe that a number of these VA employees knowingly lied to my subcommittee and other congressional committees about the project’s problems,” Coffman said. “I expect the Veterans Affairs Office of Accountability Review and the Office of the Inspector General to do their job and see if any of these VA officials committed criminal acts as the cost skyrocketed from $604 million to $1.73 billion.” “As a former prosecutor, this project has struck me since day one as a case that’s ripe for criminal review, given the outrageous scope of the cost overruns and the VA’s repeated refusal to provide our subcommittee with details about what caused them and who is responsible,” said Representative Kathleen Rice, the former District Attorney of Nassau County, NY. “Now that the VA has finally given us a summary of the AIB report and announced that they intend to take no additional actions as a result of the investigation, we still have yet to see anyone be held truly accountable for the actions and decisions that caused this project to more than double in cost. We still don’t know whether this was a case of incompetence and mismanagement, wasteful spending or theft – but regardless, it cannot be swept under the rug. If the VA has uncovered any evidence of criminal activity in the course of this investigation, that information must be swiftly turned over to relevant law enforcement officials so that we can finally get some answers and American veterans and taxpayers can finally get the accountability they deserve.”
03.31.2016	GARDEN CITY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice released the following statement today after reports that Nassau County has abandoned plans for an electronic gambling parlor at Belmont Park, and will instead transfer its authority to install 1,000 video lottery terminals (VLTs) to Aqueduct Racetrack in Queens. Statement from Representative Kathleen Rice: “I’m very pleased to learn that county and state officials have reached a deal to keep this casino out of Belmont while ensuring that Nassau County still gets our share of the revenue generated by these machines. Based on the details that have been reported, this strikes me as a fair deal for the county, for taxpayers, and most importantly for the people who live in this community and whose children go to school right next to Belmont Park. Residents, community leaders and elected officials made it clear that we weren’t willing to bet the future of our communities on the success of a casino at Belmont, especially with the casino at Aqueduct just a few miles away. This agreement shows that we didn’t have to make that bet, that we can benefit from gambling revenue without opening a new facility in Nassau County, and that’s a win for all involved. I’m grateful to all the residents who came together and made their voices heard on this issue, I hope to see the deal finalized in the state budget agreement, and I look forward to exploring new opportunities for real, community-based economic development at Belmont Park.” Rep. Rice’s previous statement opposing plans for an electronic gaming facility at Belmont Park is available here. ###
03.28.2016	U.S. Senator Charles E. Schumer and U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today announced that a contract has been awarded for phase one of the Long Beach Island Dune Project. The $37,595,900 contract was awarded to H&L Contracting and consists of groin rehabilitation and construction of new groins. Schumer and Rice say this news ensures shovels will soon be in the ground. “Long Beach is officially well on its way towards a more resilient waterfront and a more hardened shoreline between East Rockaway Inlet and Jones Inlet. Now that a contract has been awarded, shovels will soon be in the ground and Long Beach homeowners and businesses will soon be better protected in the event of another storm,” said U.S. Senator Charles E. Schumer. “The Long Beach dune rehabilitation and protection project is a priority for our district, and this contract is a major first step toward building a stronger, more resilient shoreline that will better protect coastal communities like Long Beach when the next storm hits,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “I thank Senator Schumer for his leadership on this issue, and I look forward to seeing the work start soon.” "Ensuring the strength and resiliency of our coasts is crucial to preparing Long Island for future storms. The Long Beach Dune Project will help protect the safety of local residents as well as the integrity of the infrastructure that they rely on. I am pleased to see progress on this critical project, and will continue to work with Senator Schumer to strengthen New York’s coastal communities,” said Governor Andrew Cuomo. Nassau County Executive Edward P. Mangano stated, “As a barrier island, Long Beach homeowners and businesses are highly susceptible to storm damage. I thank Senator Schumer for his efforts in securing Federal funding for the Long Beach Dune Project as it will strengthen our shoreline and better protect the Long Beach community from future storms.” “Hempstead Town has been committed to the Long Beach Island Project for decades, and we are pleased to be moving forward with the next step of this project,” said Hempstead Town Supervisor Anthony J. Santino. “This area is in desperate need of a long-term solution to the erosion that threatens residences and businesses that call our barrier island home. I would like to thank Senator Charles Schumer for his efforts to move this project forward on behalf of the residents of Hempstead Town.” "We are extremely pleased to see that Contract 1 has been awarded" said City Council Vice President Anthony Eramo. "Hitting this milestone serves as real progress towards phase one, the construction of stone groins along the beaches of our barrier island in the near future. Once again, we sincerely thank both Senator Schumer and Congresswoman Rice for their efforts in helping ensure continued progress of this federally funded project. Once completed, for the first time in this City's history, our community will finally have an engineered beach to help defend against flooding, an enormous step forward in our mission to rebuild a stronger, smarter and safer Long Beach." "This contract award is the result of outstanding teamwork and cooperation on all levels of government to increase resiliency and reduce risk from storm damage on Long Island’s south shore in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy," said Col. David Caldwell, commander, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, New York District. "Construction will require some short-term patience and understanding from the public as we work to put these long-term risk mitigation and resiliency measures in place for this important coastal storm risk management project." Following passage of the Sandy Relief Bill, Schumer worked hard to secure full federal funding for this project. Immediately after the bill’s passage, Schumer began working with the Army Corps of Engineers and Office of Management and Budget to lay out a strategic pathway for this project, and others, to be considered as “ongoing construction” and modified to adapt to the changing climate and therefore eligible for full federal funding. The Federal Government is paying 100 percent of the cost of initial construction of the project using Sandy relief funds and 65 percent of the future renourishment costs subject to additional appropriations. The estimated cost of the initial construction of the project is $230 million. In 2013, Schumer met with community leaders and local officials at Point Lookout and pushed OMB and the Army Corps to begin construction and planning of the barrier island protection project immediately so the affected communities are not left vulnerable to future storms. The Town of Hempstead and the City of Long Beach passed resolutions in support of the project. Details about the project proposal have been released and point to a dune of approximately 16 feet above sea level across the length of Long Beach’s shoreline. The proposal also includes raising the island’s beach by five feet.
03.09.2016	EAST MEADOW, NY – U.S. Representatives Kathleen Rice (NY-04), Lee Zeldin (NY-01), Peter King (NY-02) and Steve Israel (NY-03) joined local veterans and advocates today at the Veterans Memorial in Eisenhower Park to call on Congress to pass H.R. 4683, the Fairness for Veterans Act, which was recently introduced in the House by Reps. Mike Coffman (R-CO) and Tim Walz (D-MN) and has been cosponsored by all four members of the Long Island congressional delegation. In recent years, tens of thousands of servicemembers suffering from combat-derived Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) have received other-than-honorable discharges for minor misconduct and disciplinary issues such as tardiness or alcohol use – behaviors that can be directly linked to these mental health conditions. As a result, combat veterans with these “bad paper discharges” can be denied access to federally-funded benefits and health care services. The bipartisan Fairness for Veterans Act will make it easier for combat veterans to upgrade their discharge status by creating a presumption in their favor – so that if a combat veteran who has been diagnosed with PTSD or TBI appeals his or her discharge designation, military Discharge Review Boards (DRBs) must consider the appeal with the presumption that this condition contributed to the veteran’s discharge. The Long Island congressional delegation members were joined today by Kris Goldsmith, an Iraq War veteran from Rice’s district who received a general discharge, one step below honorable, because of behavior related to his previously undiagnosed PTSD, and as a result, has been denied access to educational benefits through the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill. Goldsmith, along with fellow veterans of recent wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, has worked extensively to raise awareness about this issue and build support in Congress for the Fairness for Veterans Act. The Fairness for Veterans Act has earned the support of several organizations, including Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), Disabled American Veterans (DAV), Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA), Vietnam Veterans of America (VVA), United Soldiers and Sailors of America, and Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA). IAVA’s full letter of support is available here. “It’s an absolute injustice that anyone who serves our country honorably in combat and suffers from a mental health condition as a result of that service would be other-than-honorably discharged and cut off from key benefits and health care services because of actions that were directly linked to that condition,” said Representative Kathleen Rice, a member of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. “But we know that’s exactly what’s happened to tens of thousands of combat veterans in recent years who are now stuck with these bad paper discharges that can prohibit them from accessing mental health services through the VA, deny them federally-funded benefits and opportunities to advance their educations, and discourage employers from hiring them. The bipartisan Fairness for Veterans Act will make it easier for these combat veterans to appeal their discharge status, get the bad paper off their records, and get full access to the benefits and health care they’ve earned. I want to thank Kris Goldsmith, Congressmen Coffman and Walz, my fellow members from Long Island and all of our Democratic and Republican colleagues who worked together to move this bill forward, and I’ll keep working to make sure we get it passed as soon as possible with the strong bipartisan support it deserves.” “This bill’s introduction in today’s Congress is proof that Congress works,” said Iraq War Veteran Kris Goldsmith. “Veterans are the one thing that Republicans and Democrats, even in these hyper-partisan times, can work together to support. The Fairness for Veterans Act is a bill that would help veterans who receive less than honorable discharges gain access to the benefits that they earned while serving in combat.” Congressman Zeldin, member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, said, “It is so important to fight for our veterans who have fought for us. The Fairness for Veterans Act is absolutely essential for veterans with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder who were separated from military service with a less than honorable discharge. We must ensure that our nation’s most vulnerable veterans receive the care, treatment and benefits they have both earned and deserve. I will continue working with my colleagues in the House to ensure passage of this critical bill." “We owe it to the men and women who put themselves in harm’s way to ensure that they have the support and access to the very best in resources, treatment and outreach. The Fairness for Veterans Act will do just that and make sure our veterans are treated fairly and afforded every opportunity,” said Representative Peter King. “Our veterans should never be denied the benefits they deserve to cover mental health care needed after their service. When our men and women come home with invisible wounds of war, we need to support them and help get them back on their feet. I am proud to stand with my Long Island colleagues to support this legislation and will continue to fight to deliver for New York veterans and their families,” said Representative Steve Israel. The full text of H.R. 4683, the Fairness for Veterans Act, is available here. ###
03.08.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice recently cosponsored several bipartisan bills that express strong opposition to acts of boycott, divestment and sanctions against Israel and recognize the continued importance of the mutually beneficial economic partnership between the U.S. and Israel. Rice is one of five House Democrats and four Republicans to cosponsor Rep. Bob Dold’s (R-IL) H.R. 4514, the Combating BDS Act of 2016, which authorizes state and local governments to divest from entities that are involved in commerce- or investment-related boycott, divestment or sanctions (BDS) activities targeting Israel, and protects state and local governments from lawsuits based solely on the decision to divest from entities engaged in such actions. Rice is one of eight House Democrats and 13 Republicans to cosponsor H.Res. 567, a resolution introduced by Rep. Nita Lowey (D-NY) that expresses the House’s opposition to the European Commission interpretive notice regarding labeling of goods and products manufactured in the West Bank, and to politically motivated BDS actions against Israel and Israel-controlled territories. H.Res. 567 also calls on the European Union and the Obama Administration to oppose the BDS movement, supports efforts by U.S. state legislatures to enact measures that oppose acts of BDS against Israel, and reaffirms support for a negotiated two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Rice also recently cosponsored Rep. Ted Lieu’s (D-CA) H.Res. 551, which recognizes the importance of the mutually beneficial economic partnership between the U.S. and Israel and encourages the Administration to expand forums of economic dialogue and foster public and private sector participation, as well as to explore new opportunities for economic cooperation in the fields of energy, water, agriculture, medicine, neurotechnology, and cybersecurity. H.Res. 551 was passed by unanimous consent in the House Committee on Foreign Affairs on February 24, 2016. “The U.S.-Israel economic partnership has always been at the foundation of the strong alliance between our countries, and continuing to forge new areas of economic collaboration with Israel will offer tremendous opportunities to overcome major challenges we face in America, including widespread drought and relentless cyberattacks,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “For the security and prosperity of both our countries, it’s crucial that we continue working to solidify and expand the economic ties between the U.S. and Israel and defend our ally against boycott, divestment and sanctions actions that restrict trade and investments with Israel and severely undermine the pursuit of a peaceful resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.” The full text of H.R. 4514 is available here. The full text of H.Res. 567 is available here. The full text of H.Res. 551 is available here. ###
02.19.2016	GARDEN CITY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today introduced the Unsubscribe from All Act of 2016, new legislation that will make it easier for consumers to unsubscribe from unwanted commercial emails. The CAN-SPAM Act, signed into law in 2003, requires all commercial emails that advertise or promote a product or service to include a visible, operable unsubscribe mechanism, but the process of unsubscribing can often still be long, confusing and overly complicated. Recipients who click an unsubscribe link in a commercial email are frequently taken to a new page, where they are required to answer numerous questions about what types of messages they no longer want to receive and why they no longer want to receive them before they are fully unsubscribed. Rice’s Unsubscribe from All Act amends the CAN-SPAM Act to require that the process of unsubscribing from commercial emails involves no more than two clicks or actions on the part of the recipient – for example, one click on the unsubscribe link in the email, and a second click to confirm the email address that you want removed from their list. “As we rely more and more on email in our personal and professional lives, we deserve the right to choose what information we want to receive, and we should be able to make that choice as quickly and easily as everything else we do on the internet,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “If you no longer want to receive commercial emails from a certain company, you shouldn’t have to check a bunch of different boxes and fill out a survey telling the company why you’re unsubscribing. It should be as simple as clicking unsubscribe, and clicking to confirm your email address. That’s the process that this legislation would require for all commercial emails. It’s fair to consumers, it’s a simple, non-controversial solution to a problem that so many of us face on a daily basis, and I’m going to work to get it passed.” The full text of Rep. Rice’s Unsubscribe from All Act of 2016 is available here. ###
02.16.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has released funding opportunities and allocations for its Fiscal Year 2016 Preparedness Grant Program, which supports state and local efforts to prevent, respond to and recover from acts of terrorism. New York State is eligible to receive $76,949,000 through the State Homeland Security Program (SHSP), the most allocated to any state in FY 2016. Through the Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI), which provides funding to support the unique risks and security needs of high-threat, high-density urban areas, the greater New York City area is eligible to receive $178,623,000, the most allocated to any of the 29 eligible urban areas. The state is also eligible to apply for funding through the Operation Stonegarden Program (OPSG), which funds joint border security efforts, and through the Urban Area Security Initiative Nonprofit Security Grant Program (NSGP), which supports security enhancements to nonprofit organizations that are at high risk of a terrorist attack and are located in designated urban areas such as the New York City area. Among the NSGP recipients in FY 2015 were two Jewish community organizations in New York’s fourth congressional district, Congregation Aish Kodesh in Woodmere and the Chabad Center for Jewish Life in Merrick, each of which was awarded $75,000 to implement enhanced security features, including forced-entry-resistant technology, security-modified doors, alarm systems and surveillance cameras. Eligible state and local agencies can also apply for funding through the Port Security Grant Program (PSGP), the Transit Security Grant Program (TSGP), the Intercity Bus Security Grant Program (IBSGP), the Tribal Homeland Security Grant Program (THSGP), and the Emergency Management Performance Grant Program (EMPG). See below for further information about these funding opportunities and eligibility requirements. Eligible agencies and organizations in the fourth district are encouraged to call Rep. Rice’s office at (202) 225-5516 for further information and assistance with the application process. “We face unique risks and security challenges on Long Island, and our courageous first responders rely on these federal funding sources to ensure they are fully prepared to keep us safe,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “I encourage all eligible organizations that are interested in applying for grant funding to contact my office, and we’ll do everything we can to help you with the application process and advocate on your behalf.” FY 2016 Homeland Security Grant Program (HSGP): State Homeland Security Program (SHSP) – $76,949,000 allocated to New York in FY 2016. SHSP funding supports the implementation of state homeland security strategies to help meet planning, organization, equipment, training and exercise needs to prevent, mitigate, respond to and recover from acts of terrorism and other catastrophic events. FEMA requires SHSP and UASI recipients to ensure that at least 25% of combined funding awarded through SHSP and UASI is used for law enforcement terrorism prevention activities. The State Administrative Agency (SAA) is the only entity eligible to apply for SHSP funds. Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) – $178,623,000 allocated to the greater New York City area in FY 2016. The UASI Program awards funds to help meet unique planning, organization, equipment, training and exercise needs of high-threat, high-density urban areas to help build and sustain capacity to prevent, mitigate, respond to and recover from acts of terrorism. FEMA requires SHSP and UASI recipients to ensure that at least 25% of combined funding awarded through SHSP and UASI is used for law enforcement terrorism prevention activities. The SAA is the only entity eligible to apply for SHSP funds. Operation Stonegarden (OPSG): $55,000,000 total funding available in FY 2016. The OPSG program provides funding to enhance coordination and cooperation among local, tribal, state and federal law enforcement agencies in a joint mission to secure the United States’ borders. The SAA is the only entity eligible to apply to FEMA for OPSG funds. Eligible local government agencies can apply for OPSG funds through their SAA. FY 2016 Urban Area Security Initiative Nonprofit Security Grant Program (NSGP): $20,000,000 million total funding available in FY 2016 to support security enhancements to nonprofit organizations that are at a high risk of a terrorist attack and are located within a UASI-designated eligible urban area, such as the greater New York City area. In FY 2015, two organizations in New York’s fourth congressional district, Congregation Aish Kodesh in Woodmere and the Chabad Center for Jewish Life in Merrick, each received a $75,000 NSGP grant to implement enhanced security features, including forced-entry-resistant technology, security-modified doors, alarm systems and surveillance cameras. The SAA is the only entity eligible to apply to FEMA for NSGP funds on behalf of eligible nonprofit organizations. Emergency Management Performance Grant Program (EMPG): $15,405,703 allocated to New York in FY 2016. The EMPG Program provides funding to help state and local governments prepare for all hazards and help build and sustain comprehensive, all-hazard emergency preparedness systems. The SAA or the state’s Emergency Management Agency (EMA) are the only entities eligible to apply for EMPG funding. Port Security Grant Program (PSGP): $100,000,000 total funding available in FY 2016 to support maritime transportation infrastructure security activities. PSGP is a risk based grant program, with funding divided among port authorities, facility operators, and state and local government agencies that are required to provide port security services. Transit Security Grant Program (TSGP): $87,000,000 total funding available in FY 2016. The TSGP provides funding to high-threat urban areas to support security enhancements to critical transit infrastructure. Eligible applicants include the Metropolitan Transit Authority (MTA), the New York City Department of Transportation, and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. Intercity Bus Security Grant Program (IBSGP): $3,000,000 total funding available in FY 2016 to help create sustainable programs to protect intercity bus systems and the traveling public from terrorism. Eligible applicants include owners and operators of fixed route intercity and charter buses that serve UASI jurisdictions, such as the New York City area. Tribal Homeland Security Grant Program (THSGP): $10,000,000 available in FY 2016 to help directly eligible tribes strengthen their capacity to prevent, respond to and recover from potential terrorist attacks and other hazards. For more information about FY 2016 Preparedness Grant funding opportunities, click any of the links above or visit http://www.fema.gov/preparedness-non-disaster-grants. If you have questions or would like assistance with the application process, please call Rep. Rice’s office at (202) 225-5516. ###
02.12.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today announced that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has agreed to extend the Interim Mortgage Assistance (IMA) Program beyond 20 months to a total of up to 36 months for victims of superstorm Sandy in the State of New York who are still displaced. The IMA Program provides up to $3,000 a month to displaced homeowners who are making monthly mortgage payments on a damaged primary home while also paying for temporary housing. Under the conditions of the extension, after the initial 20 month period the State may determine that a homeowner needs up to 16 additional months of assistance, at which point the State is required to inspect the property to determine if substantial construction progress has been made. If substantial progress has been made, the State may provide IMA for the additional authorized period of time, up to a total of 36 months. If substantial progress has not been made, the extension of IMA will be provided only when the recipient agrees to participate in the newly established construction program within NY Rising’s Housing Recovery Program, under which HUD requires the State to contract for and manage the rehabilitation of the IMA recipient’s home on the recipient’s behalf. The New York State Governor’s Office of Storm Recovery requested the IMA extension in August, 2015. In December, 2015, Rep. Rice and NYS Assemblyman Todd Kaminsky urged HUD Secretary Julián Castro to approve the extension, noting that the process of recovering from Sandy has in many cases taken longer than 20 months, and without continued assistance through the IMA Program, many Long Island residents who are still displaced would be forced even deeper into debt after what has already been a long and expensive rebuilding process. “I appreciate Secretary Castro and everyone at HUD hearing our case and recognizing that there are a lot of people on Long Island who still aren’t home, who still count on this assistance so they can afford temporary housing while they rebuild, and who would be thrown even deeper into debt if that assistance was cut off after 20 months,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “I haven’t met a single Sandy survivor who wants to just keep receiving assistance and doesn’t want to be back home. They’re working hard to rebuild and recover, they’re working hard to get home, and extending IMA will help them complete what for many has been a long, exhausting and expensive recovery process.” “I applaud HUD for its decision to extend IMA for an additional 16 months,” said Assemblyman Todd Kaminsky. “In the three years since superstorm Sandy, many of my constituents remain displaced and continue to struggle with the effects of the storm. This extension will provide tremendous relief to Sandy victims who are still fighting to return home, and comfort in knowing that they will not be thrown into deeper debt as they complete the rebuilding process.” Long Beach resident Kelly Graham, whose one-story home was flooded with more than a foot of water and sustained substantial damage during Sandy, was recently cut off from Interim Mortgage Assistance and has struggled to complete repairs to her house while splitting time between working, rebuilding, and appealing her insurance claim adjustment with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). “I think it’s important that Interim Mortgage Assistance be extended because, under its structure prior to extension, people in my situation had nowhere to turn while our appeals still haven’t been completed. Without this relief, we would have been at risk of losing our homes,” said Graham. “We are thrilled that the Interim Mortgage Assistance program has been extended,” said Long Beach City Councilman Scott J. Mandel. “So many of us in Long Beach are still in the process of rebuilding, making this program longer is absolutely essential. The City Council would like to thank Congresswoman Rice and Assemblyman Kaminsky for joining with us in advocating on behalf of those impacted by Sandy to ensure that Long Beach residents have all of the resources they need and deserve to rebuild stronger, smarter, and safer.” “Extending Interim Mortgage Assistance for those still rebuilding after Superstorm Sandy is absolutely crucial to the recovery process,” Atlantic Beach Mayor George Pappas said. “On behalf of the residents of Atlantic Beach, I want to thank Congresswoman Kathleen Rice for fighting this fight alongside all of us here on the barrier island and beyond.” “This extension of Interim Mortgage Assistance is a big win for the residents of the Village of Island Park who are still struggling to get back in their homes after Superstorm Sandy – and shouldn’t be forced to pay both rent and their mortgages while that struggle continues,” said Island Park Mayor Michael McGinty. “I want to thank Congresswoman Rice for all she’s done to protect the residents of her congressional district and greater Long Island. She continues to be a steadfast fighter as it relates to victims that are still in distress three years after the storm.” ###
02.08.2016	GARDEN CITY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice, a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee and the Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity, toured the HempsteadWorks Career Counseling Center today with Assistant U.S. Secretary of Labor for Veterans' Employment and Training Michael Michaud, a former Congressman from Maine and the former Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, and Town of Hempstead Supervisor Anthony Santino. Following the tour, Rep. Rice, Asst. Secretary Michaud and Supervisor Santino held a roundtable discussion with federal, state and local officials and veterans’ advocates focused on the employment challenges facing veterans on Long Island and ongoing initiatives to help veterans find good, stable jobs in the civilian workforce. Among the participants in the discussion were officials from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL), the Northport VA Medical Center, the New York State Division of Veterans’ Affairs, the New York State Department of Labor, the Nassau County Veterans Service Agency, the Nassau County United Veterans Organization, the Veterans Health Alliance of Long Island, United Veterans Beacon House, United Way of Long Island, Long Island Cares, and the Family Service League. “There should not be a single veteran in this country who wants to work and is able to work but can’t find a job,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “We have to work together at all levels of government to help find and create opportunities for veterans to put their extraordinary skills, training and experience to use in the civilian workforce, and to continue getting employers to recognize the value of investing in veterans. Places like HempsteadWorks are doing that on the ground every day, and we had a productive conversation today about how we can best support and expand those efforts. I’m grateful to Assistant Secretary Michaud for coming to our district to lead that discussion, and I look forward to continue working together to help veterans compete and succeed in the 21st century economy.” “American Job Centers like HempsteadWorks are a vital resource when it comes to finding meaningful employment for our veterans and their families,” said Michael Michaud, Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans Employment and Training. “800,000 veterans were helped at AJCs last year. The employment picture for a vast majority of our veterans is extremely positive, but there's always more work to do. It's an honor to discuss the many resources available through the US Department of Labor Veterans Employment & Training Service with Congresswoman Rice.” “We’re proud that HempsteadWorks is at the forefront of providing our veterans with a full complement of specialized employment and career training services that they deserve,” stated Supervisor Anthony J. Santino. “The Town of Hempstead has always been committed to the needs of our veterans.” Santino added, “It is an honor to join with Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans’ Employment Michael Michaud and Congresswoman Kathleen Rice to highlight HempsteadWorks, and its top-notch services for the defenders of our freedom.” ###
01.26.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today announced that the City of Long Beach has been awarded nearly $10 million in federal grant funding for repairs to the Long Beach Boardwalk and other facilities that sustained damage during Superstorm Sandy. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) agreed to cover 90 percent of the cost of rebuilding the boardwalk, but initially declined additional costs totaling more than $9 million. Long Beach officials successfully appealed that decision, and FEMA will now reimburse the city for an additional $8,291,085.23 spent repairing the boardwalk and $1,553,231.76 spent repairing damage to the Sanitation Garage, the Beach Maintenance and Highway Garage Building, and the Pay Loader Shop. "The boardwalk in Long Beach is the cultural, recreational and economic heart of this city, and that’s why it has been so important for us to rebuild it and make it stronger. I am pleased that FEMA is reimbursing these funds so that the city of Long Beach and its taxpayers are not on the hook for these much-needed expenses,” said Schumer. “Superstorm Sandy devastated our communities, and this FEMA funding will help cover the cost of repairing damages to the Long Beach Boardwalk and facilities,” said Senator Gillibrand. “These investments remain critical as renovation efforts progress and helps ensure that local taxpayers aren’t left alone to foot the bill as we continue rebuilding our infrastructure.” “Rebuilding the Long Beach Boardwalk was a testament to this community’s resilience and determination to fully recover from superstorm Sandy,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “The boardwalk is back and more beautiful than ever, and I’m pleased that this federal funding has come through to cover additional costs of rebuilding the boardwalk and repairing other important facilities that were damaged during Sandy. We’ve made a lot of progress since Sandy by working together at all levels of government, and we’ll keep working together until every community in our district has fully recovered from the storm.” "On behalf of our residents, I would like to thank Sen. Charles E. Schumer, Sen. Kirsten E. Gillibrand, our Congresswoman Rep. Kathleen Rice, Rep. Steve Israel, Rep. Peter King, Governor Andrew Cuomo and the NY State Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services for providing invaluable assistance with the FEMA appeals process regarding reimbursement for the reconstruction of the Long Beach boardwalk as they have been tireless advocates for us every step of the way,” commented Long Beach City Councilman Scott J. Mandel. “Together, we have all worked hard to ensure that Long Beach receives the resources we need and deserve to recover both physically and fiscally from the damage inflicted by Superstorm Sandy." “Thanks to our elected officials, FEMA approved, on appeal, nearly $10 million to rebuild our boardwalk, and for necessary repairs to the sanitation garage, providing tremendous financial relief to local taxpayers,” said City Councilwoman Eileen J. Goggin. ###
01.14.2016	GARDEN CITY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice joined local aviation enthusiasts today at the Cradle of Aviation Museum to introduce legislation directing the federal government to study ways to commemorate Long Island’s leading role in the development of our nation’s aviation industry and preserve significant sites related to aviation history. The bipartisan Long Island Aviation History Act, which has been cosponsored by every member of Long Island’s Congressional delegation, authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a special study in order to evaluate the national significance of Long Island’s aviation history and assess ways to preserve significant historic sites, including by formally designating parts of Long Island as a unit of the National Parks Service and by identifying sites that could qualify for designation as National Historic Landmarks. The bill also directs the Secretary to evaluate ways to enhance historical research, education and public awareness of Long Island’s aviation history. The Long Island Aviation History Act was first introduced by Rice’s predecessor, former Congresswoman Carolyn McCarthy, who developed the legislation after the idea was proposed by a resident of the fourth congressional district and National Parks Service volunteer named Adam Sackowitz. “Long Island has played a major role in the development of our nation’s aviation industry, helping it grow from an obscure sport into the booming industry and critical national resource that it is today,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “That history is an important piece of our identity here on Long Island, and it’s crucial that we always remember it – not only to honor the efforts of those who came before us, but to inspire us to follow their lead and keep working to ensure that Long Island remains a center of innovation and ingenuity. That’s why I’m working to pass this bipartisan bill to help ensure that our contributions to aviation history get the recognition they deserve for generations to come.” Rice was joined today by members of Long Island’s aviation community, including Jane Gilman, whose late mother Peggy served as one of the Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASPs) during World War II, flying completed P-47 Thunderbolts from Republic to airfields near ports along the coast, where they would be disassembled and shipped overseas; Julie Lauria-Blum, a WASP historian and a curator at the Cradle of Aviation Museum; and members of the Republic Airport Historical Society. The full text of the Long Island Aviation History Act is available here. Specific sites highlighted in the bill include the Hempstead Plains and the areas surrounding Suffolk County Air Force Base, the hamlet of Bethpage, the hamlet of Port Washington, and the village of Farmingdale: The Hempstead Plains, known as the “Cradle of Aviation,” which housed three major airfields in the early 20th century – Roosevelt Field, Curtiss Field, and Mitchel Field – that served as important training centers for U.S. military pilots and a hub for military aircraft research, development and production during World War I. Roosevelt Field was the point of departure for Charles Lindbergh’s famous transatlantic flight in 1927, and in the 1930s, it was the busiest civilian airfield in the U.S., playing a role in many other historic transcontinental, transatlantic, and record-setting flights. In 1929, Amelia Earhart and other pioneering women pilots founded the International Organization of Women Pilots, also known as the Ninety-Nines, at Curtiss Field, and Curtiss Field also served as the terminus for transcontinental airmail from 1918-1929. Mitchel Air Force Base, located on the Hempstead Plains, served as the original location of the Air Defense Command upon its inception in 1940, and was integral to the defense of the mainland U.S. during World War II. Port Washington, which was once known as the “Plymouth Rock” of American aviation and served as Pan American World Airways’ transatlantic hub on Manhasset Isle from 1934-1940. The Grumman Aircraft Corporation, based in Bethpage, and the Republic Aviation Corporation, based in Farmingdale, which manufactured innovative planes for the U.S. military, including Grumman’s F6F-3 Hellcat and Republic’s P-47 Thunderbolt. Grumman also built the Lunar Module that carried the first men to the moon in 1969. The Suffolk County Air Force Base, which in 1951 became the prime Air Defense Command base responsible for defending the New York City metropolitan area from all air attacks. ###
01.07.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice, the former District Attorney of Nassau County, NY, released the following statement today regarding the passing of former New York State Chief Justice Judith Kaye. Statement from Representative Kathleen Rice: “I’m shocked and deeply saddened by the death of Judge Judith Kaye. Judge Kaye was a brilliant woman with an unrivaled knowledge of the law and an unwavering commitment to justice and equality. She was one of the kindest, most compassionate people I’ve ever worked with, someone who spent her life serving and advocating for others, especially children. I offer my prayers and condolences to her family and friends, and I have no doubt that Judge Kaye’s legacy will forever inspire all those who were lucky enough to know her.” ###
01.05.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today released the following statement expressing her opposition to plans for an electronic gaming parlor at Belmont Park. Statement from Representative Kathleen Rice: “Over the past week, many residents and community leaders in my district have expressed serious and well-founded concerns about plans for a video gambling parlor at Belmont Park. I share those concerns, and I feel strongly that this project is not in the community’s best interests. This decision-making process lacked transparency and failed to include any input from residents, giving them all the more reason to feel that this facility is being forced into their backyards by people who won’t have to live with the consequences. The supposed benefits to the community seem like an afterthought, a vague promise of good things to come in order to distract from the fact that bringing video gambling to Belmont will likely lead to an increase in crime, traffic and demand for public services and a decline in quality of life for families and homeowners in Floral Park and Elmont. Instead of relying on people to lose bets at Belmont Park, let’s invest our time and resources in long-term, community-based economic development that creates good jobs, spurs innovation, and strengthens the entire community.” ###
01.05.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice, a Vice Chair of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, released the following statement today regarding President Obama’s new executive actions to reduce gun violence. Statement from Representative Kathleen Rice: “I was honored to join gun violence survivors, victims’ family members and advocates at the White House today as President Obama announced new executive actions to reduce gun violence. The President has acted within his authority because Congress repeatedly failed to do anything to address the gun violence epidemic in this country, and these common-sense measures are significant steps toward closing loopholes that allow guns to end up in the hands of people who aren’t legally allowed to have them. “But it’s still up to Congress to close those loopholes completely and reform gun laws at the federal level. Instead of wasting time attacking the President’s modest, reasonable actions, I hope Republicans will finally tune out the NRA, act responsibly, and work with us to craft bipartisan legislative solutions that can help prevent us from losing 30,000 lives to gun violence each year.” ###
12.31.2015	GARDEN CITY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice held a press conference today with anti-DWI advocates to introduce new legislation requiring that within 10 years, all new cars sold in the U.S. come equipped with advanced DWI-prevention technology that detects a driver’s blood alcohol content (BAC) and prevents the car from moving if the driver’s BAC is at or above the legal limit. The advanced technology is currently being developed through the Driver Alcohol Detection System for Safety (DADSS) program, a research partnership between the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) and the Automotive Coalition for Traffic Safety (ACTS), which represents 17 leading automobile manufacturers. In June, 2015, NHTSA and ACTS unveiled prototypes of touch-based and breath-based technologies, which will be integrated into vehicles for further testing as researchers work to develop final products. The touch-based technology responds to the touch of a driver’s fingertip and uses infrared light to measure the driver’s BAC. Unlike a breathalyzer, the DADSS breath-based technology does not require a driver to breathe into a tube – a driver simply enters the vehicle and breathes normally, and sensors detect the driver’s BAC using infrared light. Rice’s legislation, the End Drunk Driving Act, will require the technology to be installed in all new cars sold in the U.S. within 10 years of the bill’s enactment. The legislation significantly boosts funding for the DADSS program to help ensure that the technology will be fully developed, tested and ready for commercial use within 10 years. More information about the DADSS program, including a video demonstration of how the technology works, can be found here. A study conducted by researchers at the University of Michigan found that requiring DWI-prevention technology in all new cars sold in the U.S. could prevent an estimated 85% of all drunk driving-related fatalities over 15 years, saving more than 59,000 lives. It could also prevent an estimated 1.25 million nonfatal drunk driving-related injuries over the same 15 year period, a reduction of 84-89%. The study also found that preventing these deaths and injuries would save nearly $343 billion over 15 years, and the cost of installing the technology would be recovered within the first three years. “New Year’s Eve is a celebration of the hope that each new year brings, the hope that we can keep improving ourselves and our society and keep striving towards a better future,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “My hope is that we can put an end to drunk driving once and for all, that we will no longer lose 10,000 lives each year to this crime, and passing this bill will help make that future a reality. Advanced DWI-prevention technology has the potential to save thousands of lives and billions of dollars by keeping drunk drivers off the roads, and I’m going to keep fighting to make it standard safety equipment in all new cars sold in this country.” The full text of Rice’s legislation can be found here. The End Drunk Driving Act: Requires that within 10 years, all new cars sold in the U.S. must be equipped with advanced technology that prevents the car from moving if the driver’s BAC is at or above the legal limit. Boosts funding for the Driver Alcohol Detection System for Safety (DADSS) program to help ensure the technology is fully developed within 10 years. (The recently enacted Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, which reauthorized our nation’s transportation and traffic safety programs, included $21 million for DADSS over the next five years. Rice’s legislation would provide DADSS with $76 million over the next five years, and a total of $176 million over 10 years.) Withholds highway funding from states that don’t have mandatory use of ignition interlock devices for all offenders. ###
12.07.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice and NYS Assemblyman Todd Kaminsky today called on the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to extend the Interim Mortgage Assistance (IMA) Program beyond 20 months for victims of superstorm Sandy. In a letter to HUD Secretary Julián Castro, Rep. Rice and Assemblyman Kaminsky urged the Secretary to approve a request for an IMA extension made by the New York State Governor’s Office of Storm Recovery in August of this year. In the three years since superstorm Sandy, the IMA program has provided critical financial assistance to thousands of displaced homeowners who are paying for temporary housing while also making mortgage payments on a damaged primary home. The program pays participants up to $3,000 per month to cover monthly mortgage costs. A copy of the letter can be found here. “Three years after superstorm Sandy devastated our communities, thousands of Long Islanders are still struggling to rebuild and recover, with many still displaced and unable to return home,” said U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice. “Without the Interim Mortgage Assistance Program’s support, displaced homeowners would be thrown even deeper into debt, forced to make monthly mortgage payments on their Sandy-damaged homes while also paying for temporary housing. It’s clear that the recovery process is taking more than 20 months for many Sandy victims, so I urge Secretary Castro to extend the IMA program until every resident has recovered and returned home.” “My office still hears daily from Sandy victims who are struggling financially and not home yet,” said NYS Assemblyman Todd Kaminsky. “Extending the Interim Mortgage Assistance Program past the current 20-month cap will provide great relief for the many families who are still displaced and who would otherwise have to pay both rental fees and a mortgage. We implore HUD to do the right thing and extend IMA until every Sandy victim is home.” ###
11.30.2015	Babylon, NY – After Superstorm Sandy victims faced an extensive, burdensome and fraud-ridden flood insurance claims process, U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand and U.S. Representative Kathleen rice today announced their push for new bipartisan legislation to require more transparency and accountability from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) so that home and property owners who carry flood insurance policies are better protected in the event of another storm. Gillibrand and Rice also renewed their push for FEMA to expedite its review of insurance claims – a process that began only after the revelation that insurance companies underpaid potentially thousands of claims. “Over three years after superstorm Sandy tore through New York, communities are still rebuilding and families are still fighting to put their lives back together,” said Senator Gillibrand. “It is unacceptable that some New Yorkers were forced to face a burdensome and fraud-ridden flood insurance claims process. We need to reform the system and require more transparency to hold FEMA accountable so that homeowners are protected when the next storm hits. This new bipartisan legislation would create unprecedented oversight over FEMA and hold them accountable so that New Yorkers never again have to face the endless red tape and fraud-ridden claims process they have been forced to endure over the last three years since SuperStorm Sandy.” “For too many Sandy victims on Long Island, the last three years have been a bureaucratic nightmare,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “Legitimate claims were denied or underpaid because of fraudulent engineering reports, and homeowners who paid for flood insurance were left feeling cheated by a program that they trusted to be there when they needed it most. We have to do whatever it takes to restore that trust, and this bipartisan legislation is a critical first step that will reform the National Flood Insurance Program to make it more transparent, more accountable, and more focused on victims’ needs. Passing this bill will help ensure that victims get the support and funding they need to fully recover from natural disasters, and I’ll keep working with Senator Gillibrand and our fellow cosponsors to get it to the President’s desk.” “Superstorm Sandy devastated hundreds of homes in the Town of Babylon and far too many families are still struggling to recover today,” said Babylon Town Supervisor Rich Schaffer. “I thank Senator Gillibrand not only for this new legislation that will reform and improve FEMA and the claims process, but for her tireless advocacy on behalf of Sandy victims throughout this ordeal. I stand with her in saying that we must ensure both that these families receive the assistance they need, and that FEMA improves this arduous process for future storms.” “Senator Gillibrand’s Flood Insurance Transparency and Accountability Act of 2015 is a crucial step forward for all those homeowners who were defrauded following Superstorm Sandy, as well as those homeowners who are future potential victims of a flooding event,” said Melissa H. Luckman, Practitioner in Residence of the Touro Law Center's Disaster Relief Clinic. “Homeowners faithfully paid yearly flood insurance premiums and trusted that they would be paid correctly following a flood, yet inexcusably, three years later, remain fighting for what is rightfully theirs. Our homeowners deserve the transparency from FEMA that Gillibrand’s legislation calls for. The NFIP reformation created by this Legislation is a vital step in restoring the faith of our Sandy survivors in FEMA as a government agency, and those policies backed by FEMA. This Legislation provides hope to so many who felt their voices were never heard. On behalf of all those affected by Superstorm Sandy, we thank you Senator Gillibrand.” “We are very happy to hear and support Senator Gillibrand's legislation to provide much needed transparency and accountability on how flood insurance claims are handled, following Superstorm Sandy,” said Michele Insinga, Executive Director of Adopt A House. “Many feel they were severely underpaid after paying years, even decades of flood insurance premiums, only to find themselves denied for things such as earth movement, vast amounts of red tape and accusations of fraud, believed to have led to these underpayments. We are truly hoping that FEMA sees the urgency now 3 years later, that homeowners did what was expected of them in the process, where they thought they were secure in having insurance to cover their damages only to find what is seemingly a never ending battle that continues to prolong a true recovery, not just for themselves but that of their neighbors and community, and that this will lead the way for any future flood victims as they too work towards their own recovery secure in knowing this can’t happen again due to this legislation.” “I’m proud of the collaboration between Republicans and Democrats in the two houses of Congress,” said Congressman Donovan. “Our bill will codify what should be a basic tenet of the National Flood Insurance Program: put the policyholder first.” “Almost daily my staff and I hear from constituents still recovering from Superstorm Sandy,” said State Senator Phil Boyle. “It is reprehensible that these victims are required to wade through mountains of red tape from FEMA and other agencies who are tasked with helping, not hindering, storm recovery. I applaud Senator Gillibrand for her staunch commitment to streamlining this bureaucracy and look forward to working with her to put the focus back on the victims of Sandy and any future disasters." “It is essential that our residents have flood insurance that is affordable, reliable and is there to support their needs, not create an adversarial situation that takes them years to collect their rightful awards,” said Assemblyman Joseph Saladino. “I am very motivated to work with anyone to bring reforms that protect our residents.” “Superstorm Sandy devastated much of our community and left homeowners struggling to rebuild,” said Assemblywoman Kimberly Jean-Pierre (D-Babylon). “Senator Gillibrand’s vital legislation will ensure FEMA is protecting Sandy victims and helping them get the funds they deserve. Families depend on flood insurance to protect themselves against natural disasters and it’s shameful that insurance companies took advantage of an unclear claims process and often denied families the help they rightfully deserved. We must keep fighting to protect families and make sure we’re prepared for future storms and flooding disasters.” According to court records and extensive news reports, including a devastating months-long investigation by 60 Minutes, private insurance companies appeared to have denied flood insurance claims of countless homeowners affected by Superstorm Sandy based on fraudulently altered engineering reports. Gillibrand, with Senators Charles E. Schumer (D-NY), Robert Menendez (D-NJ) and Cory Booker (D-NJ), demanded an oversight hearing to examine how FEMA handled the claims process and how FEMA managed the private insurance companies that facilitate the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) on its behalf. In the wake of these allegations, thousands of claims were re-submitted for another review process to determine if their cases were properly handled, and whether their initial claims were underpaid by the National Flood Insurance Program. While more than three years have passed since the storm hit, more than 17,000 claims are still under review. Gillibrand and Rice’s new legislation, The Flood Insurance Transparency and Accountability Act of 2015 would require more transparency so that property owners have access to the documents related to their insurance claims case, including draft reports; it would also demand accountability from FEMA in its oversight of the NFIP and the contractors hired to run it. The bipartisan legislation is also co-sponsored by Senator Charles Schumer in the Senate and Representative Dan Donovan (NY-11) in the House of Representatives. Specifically, the legislation would do the following: 1. Make documents related to the basis for deciding flood insurance claims transparent for homeowners. There have been reports that individuals working for engineering companies hired by insurance companies to document the structural damage to homes following Superstorm Sandy fraudulently altered the engineering reports. The homeowners had no way of knowing that the reports were altered from the original engineer’s draft to the final fraudulent report. The new legislation would require FEMA to ensure that all documents, including drafts of reports and supporting documentation relating to a flood insurance claim are made available to the NFIP policyholder, and that the policyholder is notified within 30 days of filing a claim that those documents can be requested. This includes all draft engineering reports to ensure that reports are not fraudulently altered in the future. 2. Create a direct point of contact at FEMA for homeowners who have filed appeals with FEMA for claims that have been initially denied. Homeowners have reported that they often do not have the ability to directly contact someone at FEMA to discuss their appeals, or the basis for the initial denial of their claims. Gillibrand’s legislation would require the flood insurance advocate’s office, which was created by the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act, to provide all policyholders with a direct point of contact at FEMA to discuss their appeals. 3. Require FEMA to conduct yearly reviews of the “Write Your Own” insurance companies and other private entities working with flood insurance claims. There have been reports of engineering companies and law firms improperly overbilling the Federal government. The legislation would require FEMA to annually review all private entities that contract with the NFIP to ensure compliance with, and enforce violations to, all policies and procedures in place to protect taxpayer dollars. It would also require FEMA set up a process to ensure that all engineering and litigation costs are justified on a case by case basis to ensure that federal funds are being appropriately expended. 4. Require FEMA to publish claims data online. The legislation would require FEMA to set up and maintain a publically searchable online database. The database would include, but would not be limited to, data on the number of NFIP claims filed, the number of claims paid in part or in full and the percentage of the claim paid for partial payments, the number of claims denied, the number of claims appealed, and the number of appeals denied. 5. Remove the “earth movement” exclusion. The standard flood insurance policy includes the so-called “earth movement” exclusion, which states that flood insurance policies do not cover damage and loss to property caused by “earth movement,” even if the earth movement was caused by flood. This exclusion has been used as a basis to deny claims filed by many Sandy claimants. Gillibrand’s proposed legislation states that claims against policies under the NFIP would not be denied based on the “earth movement” exclusion when the earth movement was caused by a flooding event. 6. Reform the claim appeals process. FEMA would be required to provide claimants with clear rules, forms, and deadlines. This includes communicating to policyholder the following information at the point of their initial claims denial: · The effective date of the denial; · The justification for the denial; · The date on which the statute of limitations begins and ends; and · Contact information of a person at the NFIP with whom the policyholder and/or policyholder’s representative can discuss the decision. 7. Statute of Limitations. Changes the statute of limitations on all flood insurance claims to run for two years from the date of loss – flood event – instead of starting at different times for different policyholders. It also provides that a policyholder who utilizes the FEMA appeal will have an extension of up to 90 days to file a claim 8. Require FEMA and Homeland Security to report to Congress. FEMA would be required to provide a report to Congress no later than 1 year after the enactment of this Act, outlining the options identified by the NFIP Transformation Task Force to reform the National Flood Insurance Program, which include the following: · A timeline for implementing the recommendations; and · A description of options that require additional legislation. The Secretary of Homeland Security would be required to report on the specific actions taken to identify and prevent individuals and private entities that participated in defrauding policyholders following Superstorm Sandy from further participation in the NFIP, based on the results of the investigation of the Department of Homeland Security Inspector General. ###
11.19.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Dan Donovan (NY-11) and Congresswoman Kathleen Rice (NY-4) today introduced the bipartisan Flood Insurance Transparency and Accountability Act of 2015. The legislation combines ideas from both parties and both houses of Congress to improve the National Flood Insurance Program. Common among all of the reforms contained in the legislation is a commitment to putting the policyholder first. U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) is also leading companion legislation in the Senate. Congressman Donovan said, “I’m proud of the collaboration between Republicans and Democrats in the two houses of Congress. Our bill will codify what should be a basic tenet of the National Flood Insurance Program: put the policyholder first.” “In the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy, millions of New Yorkers turned to the National Flood Insurance Program for help,” said Congresswoman Kathleen Rice. “But as we know now, too many legitimate claims were denied or underpaid because of fraudulent engineering reports, and too many people were left feeling cheated by a program that they trusted to be there when they needed it most. This bipartisan legislation is a critical first step toward restoring that trust. The bill introduces common-sense reforms that will bring more transparency to the insurance claims process, provide victims with the resources they need to effectively navigate the claims appeals process, and eliminate loopholes that allowed insurance companies to deny or underpay claims. Ultimately, this bill will help ensure that homeowners in New York and across the country receive the funds they need to recover from future natural disasters. I’m eager to work with my colleagues to get this bill passed and sent to the President’s desk.” “Three years after superstorm Sandy tore through New York, communities are still rebuilding and families are still fighting to put their lives back together,” said Senator Gillibrand. “It is unacceptable that some New Yorkers were forced to face a burdensome and fraud-ridden flood insurance claims process. We need to reform the system and require more transparency to hold FEMA accountable so that homeowners are protected when the next storm hits. I’m proud to partner with Dan Donovan and Kathleen Rice in introducing this new legislation that would create unprecedented oversight over FEMA and hold them accountable so that New Yorkers never again have to face the endless red tape and fraud-ridden claims process they have been forced to endure over the last three years since Super Storm Sandy.” The Flood Insurance Transparency and Accountability Act requires post-disaster damage inspection reports to be provided to the flood insurance policyholder first, before any other agency or supervisor. This simple reform will prevent the type of engineering report fraud that victimized homeowners after Superstorm Sandy. The bill also prohibits FEMA from denying flood insurance claims based on earth movement. Further, the legislation amends the flood claim appeals process to allow policyholders more time when considering their legal options. It also establishes a direct point of contact within the Flood Insurance Advocate’s office for policyholders to discuss their claims and appeals statuses. ###
11.13.2015	GARDEN CITY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice, a member of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, released the following statement today regarding this week’s reports that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) paid more than $142 billion in bonuses to executives and employees in 2014. Statement from Representative Kathleen Rice: “As we celebrated Veterans Day this week, we also learned that the VA paid out more than $142 million in ‘performance-based’ bonuses to executives and employees – including $4,000 to a doctor who so freely gave out prescription pain medications that he earned the nickname Candy Man; thousands of dollars to three officials who had oversight roles in the disastrous Denver hospital construction project; and more than $8,000 each to two office directors who refused to testify before the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, and then pleaded the Fifth Amendment last week after being subpoenaed to appear before the Committee. “There’s no question that bonuses are an important tool to recruit and retain a talented workforce, and I have no doubt that there are many VA employees whose performance warranted a bonus – employees who we rarely hear about in the news, but are on the ground working hard every day to care for and support veterans. But the fact that anyone involved in misconduct or mismanagement could be so generously rewarded points yet again to the glaring lack of oversight and lack of accountability that continue to plague the VA. American veterans and American taxpayers need to see serious and swift action to change the culture within the department, and that should include recouping every improper bonus payment and imposing strict oversight of the bonus payment process to ensure that the VA rewards and retains only people who are qualified, competent, and fully committed to serving the men and women who have served our country.” ###
11.12.2015	GARDEN CITY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice released the following statement today in response to Governor Cuomo’s announcement that he has vetoed the proposed Port Ambrose liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminal. “The Governor’s decision to veto the Port Ambrose proposal is a victory for all the people in our communities who spoke up and made it clear that this project does not reflect our priorities,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “Our priorities are to protect our environment and natural resources, to continue recovering from superstorm Sandy, and to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels by investing in clean, renewable energy sources like wind and solar power. That’s why, in the wake of this decision, we need to use our grassroots momentum to make offshore wind development a reality on Long Island. Capturing offshore wind won’t just generate a lot of clean energy – it’ll create a lot of good jobs and new economic opportunities. It’s time to seize that opportunity and capitalize on our potential to lead the transition to a cleaner, greener economy.” In January, Rep. Rice wrote a letter to Governor Cuomo urging him to veto the proposal, and last month, Rice submitted a public comment to the United States Maritime Administrator expressing her opposition to the project. ###
11.09.2015	GARDEN CITY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice and U.S. Secretary of Labor Thomas Perez met today with local labor leaders and elected officials at the Bay Park Sewage Treatment Plant to discuss the importance of apprenticeship programs. The Secretary’s visit came after last week’s celebration of the first-ever National Apprenticeship Week, which highlighted the potential for apprenticeship programs to help rebuild the American middle class by providing more workers with a path to new skills, higher wages, and greater opportunities to advance their careers. Prior to the meeting, Rep. Rice, Secretary Perez and Nassau-Suffolk Building and Construction Trades Council President Dick O’Kane toured the construction site at the plant, where a $37.2 million project is underway to build a massive concrete wall and eastern berm around the facility to protect it from storm surges of up to 18 feet. During superstorm Sandy, the facility was flooded and knocked out of service for 57 days, sending billions of gallons of raw and partially-treated sewage into area waterways. The project employs more than 200 union laborers, including 23 apprentices. Last week, Rep. Rice introduced H.Res. 522, a resolution that officially designates November 1st through November 7th, 2015 as National Apprenticeship week, recognizes the importance of apprenticeships in developing a well-trained and highly skilled workforce, and commends organizations and employers that actively support apprenticeship programs. The full text of the resolution is available here. “Apprenticeships are good for workers, good for businesses, and good for the American economy,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “For workers, apprenticeships offer an opportunity to earn while you learn, to get an on-the-job education while at the same time making money, gaining experience, and putting yourself on a career path that leads to better jobs and higher wages. For businesses, apprenticeship programs offer a proven way to recruit and retain a highly skilled, diverse and productive workforce. Apprenticeship programs have the potential to help rebuild the American middle class by preparing our workforce to compete and win in the global marketplace. I’m grateful to Secretary Perez for taking the time to come to our district and talk with us about what we can do to promote and expand apprenticeship opportunities here on Long Island.” "Today I saw firsthand the instrumental role that apprenticeship play in communities like Long Island. Apprenticeships are a tried and true training strategy that offer a path to the middle class and expands opportunities for working people in America," said U.S. Secretary of Labor Thomas E. Perez. "To ensure a highly skilled and trained workforce that can compete with the best and brightest across the world, we must continue critical investments to expand and grow apprenticeships in this country." “It was a pleasure to have someone from the administration here in Nassau to talk about union apprenticeships,” said Dick O’Kane, President of the Nassau-Suffolk Building and Construction Trades Council. “No one gets it better than Secretary Perez. He truly understands the importance and the value of these programs that help to build our middle class.” ###
11.04.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice, a member of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, today called on the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to approve Nassau Community College’s proposal to host a VetSuccess on Campus (VSOC) counselor, who would offer a range of services to veterans, servicemembers and dependents seeking help with their educational, employment, or adjustment goals. In a letter to VA Secretary Robert McDonald, co-signed by all five members of the Long Island delegation, Rice noted that Syracuse University is home to New York’s only VSOC counselor, and wrote that approving a VSOC counselor for Nassau Community College would help meet the needs of the rising number of Post-9/11 G.I. Bill beneficiaries on Long Island. Rice also highlighted the success of Nassau Community College’s 2,500-square foot Veterans Resource Facility, which would be an ideal location to accommodate a full-time VSOC counselor serving veterans and their families in Nassau and Suffolk Counties. Nassau Community College has agreed to partner with Suffolk Community College in its proposal for a VSOC counselor, significantly increasing the number of Long Island veterans who would benefit from VSOC services The bipartisan letter was co-signed by U.S. Representatives Peter King (NY-02), Steve Israel (NY-03), Gregory Meeks (NY-05) and Lee Zeldin (NY-01). The letter is available here. “There is nothing more important that ensuring that the brave men and women who served this country have the support they need to succeed after they leave the military,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “Nassau Community College’s Veterans Resource Facility is providing student-veterans with critical services and support as they begin the often difficult process of integrating back into civilian life. But as Long Island’s post-9/11 veteran population continues to grow, our investments in our veterans have to grow. We have to make sure that institutions like Nassau Community College have the resources they need to fully meet the demand for on-campus veteran services. That’s why I’m urging Secretary McDonald to approve this proposal so that we can do a better job helping veterans on Long Island succeed as civilians, as students, and as members of our workforce.” "Nassau Community College is extremely heartened by the strong support of the members of the Nassau and Suffolk congressional delegation for the appointment by the Veterans Administration of a VSOC counselor to the NCC campus who can service the needs of the region's student veterans. Located at NCC's Veterans Resource Facility that is celebrating its first year anniversary, the VSOC counselor will propel forward efforts to facilitate student veterans' achievement of their educational goals and their transition to civilian life,” said Thomas P. Dolan, Interim President of Nassau Community College. ###
10.15.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice released the following statement today condemning the recent wave of violent attacks in Israel. “I am extremely disturbed by the escalating violence in Israel and distraught by the loss of so many innocent Israeli lives in recent weeks. I offer my deepest condolences to the victims' families and loved ones, I stand in absolute solidarity with the Israeli people, and I continue to pray for lasting peace in a country that has been deprived of it for so long. "Last summer, Israelis were forced to live in fear of rockets raining down from Gaza. Now, it's the fear that any one of them who walks down the street or stands at a bus stop could be the next victim. The Israeli people deserve freedom from this constant fear. Israelis and Palestinians both deserve leaders who will work constructively to achieve lasting peace – not stand by and say nothing while terrorists take the lives of innocent human beings. “In light of these attacks and the Palestinian Authority leadership's failure to condemn them, I cosponsored House Resolution 293, Expressing concern over anti-Israel and anti-Semitic incitement within the Palestinian Authority. This bill unequivocally condemns the recent attacks against Israelis and calls on Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas to do the same and discourage any future acts of violence. The resolution also directs the U.S Department of State to monitor and publish information on all official PA incitement against Jews and Israel." ###
10.08.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice, a Vice Chair of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, and her 10 fellow Vice Chairs cosponsored a resolution introduced today by Task Force Chairman Mike Thompson to establish a Select Committee of the House to study gun violence. The committee would be made up of six Republicans and six Democrats, and would issue a final report within 60 days of its creation outlining recommendations and legislative proposals to prevent gun violence. The resolution can be found here. “Congress cannot keep standing by and doing nothing while we watch horrific scenes of mass gun violence unfold in schools, theaters, places of worship and public spaces across the country,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “We cannot keep ignoring the fact that more than 30,000 people on average are killed by a gun each year in the United States. And we cannot keep acting as if there’s nothing we can do about it. “I doubt there is a single member of Congress who doesn’t think gun violence is a problem in America. We may not agree on the solutions, but I know that if we can just agree to work together, we will find common ground, we will find reasonable solutions to keep guns away from people who shouldn’t have them, and we will find ways to help prevent gun violence without infringing on the Second Amendment rights of any responsible, law-abiding American citizens. So let’s investigate what we should all agree is an actual problem. Let’s come together, Democrats and Republicans, and figure out how we can help prevent gun violence in a bipartisan way. The American people are demanding action, and it’s time that their representatives listened.” The resolution directs the Select Committee to study and issue recommendations on each of the following: The causes of mass shootings Methods to improve the Federal firearms purchaser background check system Connections between access to firearms and dangerously mentally ill individuals Federal penalties for trafficking and straw purchasing of firearms Loopholes that allow some domestic abusers continued access to firearms Linkages between firearms and suicide Gun violence’s effect on public health The correlation between State gun violence prevention laws and the incidence of gun violence The importance of having reliable and accurate information on gun violence and its toll on our Nation The implementation of effective gun violence prevention laws in accordance with the Second Amendment to the Constitution Rates of gun violence in large metropolitan areas ###
10.06.2015	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives tonight passed H.R. 3102, the Airport Access Control Security Improvement Act of 2015, legislation introduced by U.S. Representatives John Katko (R-NY-24) and Kathleen Rice (D-NY-04), Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Committee on Homeland Security’s Transportation Security Subcommittee. Both freshmen members of Congress, Reps. Katko and Rice have focused on fighting through Washington gridlock to deliver bipartisan legislative outcomes. H.R. 3102 comes in response to several recent incidents in which airport and airline employees used their security credentials to bypass security screening and transport prohibited items, including illegal drugs and guns, into secure areas of airports and onto commercial flights. The legislation will streamline and strengthen the Transportation Security Administration’s (TSA) screening procedures for airport and airline employees by requiring the TSA Administrator to establish a risk-based, intelligence-driven screening model that subjects employees to more frequent, more randomized security screenings and minimizes the number of employee entry and exit points. H.R. 3102 also directs the TSA Administrator to determine whether TSA should expand the number of criminal offenses that disqualify an individual from obtaining a job that requires access to secure areas of airports, as well as to determine whether TSA should lengthen the “look-back period” when reviewing an individual’s criminal history. “Threats to our aviation sector continue to evolve, as evidenced by the recent security breaches at airports nationwide where airport and airline employees have been able to bypass security and smuggle drugs, illegal substances, and guns into secure areas of domestic airports,” said Representative John Katko. "This legislation presents commonsense reforms to address these gaps in security and ensure the safety of the traveling public." “As several recent incidents have shown, weak access controls can too easily allow airport and airline employees to sneak weapons, drugs and other dangerous items into secure areas of airports and onto commercial flights, and that’s a risk we simply cannot accept,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “In response to the Aviation Security Advisory Committee’s recommendations and the bipartisan investigations we’ve conducted on the Transportation Security Subcommittee, this legislation takes action to tighten access controls, beef up employee vetting and screening, and better protect the millions of passengers who pass through our nation’s airports and fly on our planes. I’m grateful to Chairman Katko for his leadership on the Subcommittee, and I’m eager to work together to ensure this bill is taken up by our colleagues in the Senate and sent to the President’s desk.” The full text of H.R. 3102 can be found here. Specifically, this legislation: Requires TSA to develop procedures for risk-based screening of airport and airline employees. Makes critical reforms to the employee screening process to ensure those who have access to our nation’s airports do not pose a threat. Provides additional law-enforcement resources to screen employees. Establishes an oversight framework to ensure Congress can closely monitor improvements surrounding employee vetting and screening Codifies an important set of recommendations offered by the Aviation Security Advisory Committee (ASAC), which includes industry stakeholders and TSA. Over the last few months, ASAC has conducted a review of these issues. Reps. Katko and Rice serve as the Chairman and Ranking Member, respectively, of the Transportation Security Subcommittee, which has sole jurisdiction over all Transportation Security Administration (TSA) security matters, including the security of passengers and cargo within the U.S. aviation system and TSA’s work to secure various modes of surface transportation such as mass transit systems, railroads, trucks, and pipelines. Reps. Katko and Rice have led the Committee’s effort this Congress to address employee access control issues. This oversight has complemented a broader and ongoing review of TSA’s operations, policies and procedures. The Subcommittee’s oversight over these instances revealed: shortcomings in employee vetting, improper use of employee credentials, and a range of challenges that have inhibited employee screening. Rep. Katko represents New York’s 24th congressional district, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties, and a portion of Oswego County. Rep. Rice represents New York’s fourth congressional district, which is located on Long Island and includes parts of south and central Nassau County. ###
09.28.2015	U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and Congressmember Kathleen Rice today announced $1,397,439 in federal funding to the city of Long Beach for repairs to the Magnolia Senior Community Center and Recreation Center as a result of Superstorm Sandy. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) funding will specifically fund the rebuilding of the child care center, new locker rooms in the recreational center, a new filtration system for the pool, a new glass atrium, new cardio and weight equipment, new flooring in the cardio and weight rooms and electrical wiring replacement. The Center provides wellness, cultural and recreational programs to the community. This funding allows for the remaining Sandy-related repairs at the Magnolia Senior Community Center and Recreation Center, as most of the work has already been completed. “Magnolia Senior Community and Recreation Center serves a vital purpose for many families and seniors in the Long Beach community and that’s why federal funding to make sure the Center is fully rebuilt and repaired is so important,” said Senator Schumer. “Over $1 million in FEMA funds will help make sure the final repairs are completed including rebuilding the hard-hit Magnolia Child Care Center and making sure the rest of the recreation center—from the locker rooms to the weight rooms to the pool---are as good as new.” “Superstorm Sandy devastated our communities and this critical FEMA funding will help provide resources on the ground to rebuild Magnolia Senior Community Center and Recreation Center,” said Senator Gillibrand. “Restoring our recreational centers is a critical part of our ongoing recovery and these federal funds are an investment in the community and families that live on Long Island.” “Superstorm Sandy took an especially heavy toll on seniors and on the public spaces that are at the heart of our sense of community in Long Beach,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “Rebuilding the Senior Community Center and Recreation Center is a crucial step in our continued recovery, and I’m pleased this federal funding will help cover a significant portion of the costs. I’ll continue working with Senators Schumer and Gillibrand to ensure our district gets the resources we need to fully recover from the storm and come back stronger than ever.” “This federal funding helps cover significant costs associated with the rebuilding of our recreation and senior community centers,” said City Council President Len Torres. “It is the assistance from Senators Schumer and Gillibrand, along with Congresswoman Rice, that enables us to rebuild stronger, smarter, and safer, and we cannot thank them enough for all of their help in securing these funds.”
09.24.2015	U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice released the following statement today after Pope Francis addressed a joint session of Congress: “I feel truly blessed to have had the opportunity to see and hear Pope Francis in person," said Representative Kathleen Rice. "He inspired us today to hope for a better future, and challenged us to build that future and extend that same hope to the most hopeless among us, those trapped in cycles of violence, poverty and despair. He told us that ‘their problems are our problems.’ That’s at the heart of everything I believe as a Catholic, as an American, and as a public servant, and I’ll be hearing those words long after the Pope has left the United States. I wish him well on the remainder of his visit and I pray that he continues to inspire others as he inspired me today.” ###
09.18.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice (NY-04) today announced that the Lynbrook Fire Department has been awarded $164,660 in federal grant funding to provide training and purchase new personal protective equipment. The funding was awarded through the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program, which provides grants directly to fire departments for projects that enhance public health and safety as well as the health and safety of emergency response personnel. The Lynbrook Fire Department will use the funding to provide training and purchase 75 complete sets of personal protective equipment, including helmets, boots, gloves, hoods, pants and coats. The Lynbrook Fire Department’s grant application was prepared by the Mineola-based company Grant Guys. “This much-needed federal funding will provide the assistance that the Lynbrook Fire Department needs to purchase protective firefighting equipment,” said Senator Schumer. “First responders are our primary line of defense—they safeguard our residents and protect our property. It’s crucial that we provide our fire departments with the resources they need to do their jobs to the best of their ability.” “Our first responders are on the frontlines and this funding will allow the Lynbrook Fire Department to invest in critical protective equipment to carry out their lifesaving work more effectively,” said Senator Gillibrand. “Our firefighters should have the most up-to-date equipment when they respond to emergencies.” “Our local firefighters risk their lives to protect us, and they rely on this funding to get the gear and training they need to protect themselves as they run into burning buildings and respond to dangerous emergencies,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “I’m very pleased that this grant will allow the Lynbrook Fire Department to purchase 75 new sets of protective equipment for our brave and selfless firefighters, and I’ll keep working to ensure our local first responders have the resources they need to do their jobs safely and effectively.” “Getting grants like these certainly helps run a modern-day, professional fire department and my Chiefs and firefighters are very pleased, as am I,” said Village of Lynbrook Mayor William Hendrick. “This grant is a tremendous benefit to both the Department and the people of the Village we serve,” said Lynbrook Fire Department Chief James McDermott. “It allows us to provide our volunteers with state of the art firefighting gear, as they endeavor to protect the lives and property of our residents. We are grateful to Congresswoman Rice, Senator Schumer and Senator Gillibrand for their assistance in securing these much needed funds.” ###
09.10.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice announced today that the Rockville Centre Coalition for Youth has been awarded a $124,999 federal grant to support efforts to prevent youth substance use. The grant was awarded through the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy’s Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Support Program, which provides funding to support local, community-based efforts to reduce youth substance use. The DFC Support Program is a matching federal grant, where each community provides a minimum of one-to-one match in local funding for each federal dollar awarded. The Rockville Centre Coalition for Youth’s goal is to establish and strengthen community collaboration in support of local efforts to prevent youth substance use. The coalition will use this funding to achieve that goal by increasing its active membership, implementing community engagement and social marketing campaigns to raise awareness about the risks of marijuana use, empowering teens and parents with the skills to prevent alcohol and marijuana use, and reducing access to marijuana through enforcement and policy changes. “The most effective efforts to prevent alcohol and drug use among young people happen on the ground in our communities, and supporting those efforts is the best investment our government can make,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “This federal funding will allow the Rockville Centre Coalition for Youth to continue building a strong grassroots movement that will empower kids with the knowledge and support they need to make smart, healthy choices. I’m very pleased that the coalition secured this funding, and I will support their efforts in any way that I can.” “What is so exciting about this recognition,” said Jeanne Farnan Mulry, pro bono General Counsel for the RVC Youth Council, Inc., who filed the grant on behalf of the Coalition, “is that so many community groups have been working together for so long trying to eliminate the environmental causes that tempt our underage youth to use alcohol or drugs. This Drug Free Communities grant will help strengthen our bond, and support the work that is already in place.” Ms. Mulry cited the work of the school district’s Drug and Alcohol Task Force, the RVC Youth Council, the RVC Police Department, Confide Counseling, the PTA, the Herald newspaper, and a host of religious, community and civic groups who have supported this cause, and who are members of the Rockville Centre Coalition for Youth. “At the RVC Youth Council, we are especially pleased that our model of youth empowerment is so strong a factor in the DFC grant funding for the Coalition. We structured our non-profit so that our local teens have real authority, and are the elected officers of the RVC Youth Council. And we are especially pleased that our two most recent co-Presidents, Alexandra Kosakoff and Juliana Shenker, who are seniors at South Side High School, will be the Youth Sector representatives for the Rockville Centre Coalition for Youth. They will have a seat at the table with our other community leaders.” said Mulry. ###
09.01.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice (NY-04) today announced that the Village of Island Park has been awarded a $1,800,000 federal grant to fund the first phase of a project to upgrade the Village’s municipal storm drainage system in order to better protect the Island Park community from future storms. During Superstorm Sandy, the Village was inundated with a six-to-eight foot storm surge that damaged 95 percent of the homes in Island Park, as well as two schools, a public library and several businesses. Specifically, the Phase I funding installment will cover the costs of a comprehensive engineering study of the Village’s drainage system, municipal bulkheads and roadways in order to determine where drainage pipes need to be replaced or improved, where new bulkheads need to be constructed, and where chronically-flooded roads need to be raised. Ultimately, the Village will use the recommendations in this study to implement an upgraded municipal storm drainage system including 42,000 feet of new storm sewers, tide gates, sub-surface storm water retention, three potential road elevations, and 2,000 feet of upgraded bulkhead. The total estimated cost of the entire project is $40,000,000, 100 percent of which will be funded by the federal government through the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. "The Village of Island Park was hit hard by Superstorm Sandy when storm surge flooded homes, schools and businesses. This federal hazard mitigation funding will help make sure Island Park is better protected in the event of a future storm by studying the best possible infrastructure solutions to make the Village stronger. I am pleased that FEMA has provided this funding and I will continue to fight for all the necessary resources to make Long Island better and stronger than before the storm," said Senator Schumer. "After Island Park suffered heavy flooding during Superstorm Sandy, this critical funding will provide resources to help strengthen our storm drainage system on Long Island,” said Senator Gillibrand. “These funds will allow for critical repairs that will help keep residents and their property safe. I will continue to push for funding to help ensure our communities have the resources they need to be prepared for when the next storm hits.” “Almost three years after Sandy brought a massive storm surge that left Island Park completely under water, this first installment of federal funding will allow the Village to start overhauling their storm drainage system so that residents and properties are better protected from extreme weather events in the future,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “I’m grateful that FEMA has made this critical investment in the resiliency of our district’s infrastructure, and I’ll keep working to make sure all communities in our district get the resources they need to recover from Sandy and prepare for future storms.” ###
08.27.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice announced today that two local Jewish community organizations have been awarded $150,000 in federal funding to support security enhancements. Congregation Aish Kodesh in Woodmere, NY and the Chabad Center for Jewish Life in Merrick, NY will each receive a $75,000 grant through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Nonprofit Security Grant Program, which provides funding for security enhancements to nonprofit organizations that are at a high risk of terrorist attacks. Congregation Aish Kodesh and the Chabad Center for Jewish Life will use the funding to implement enhanced security features, including forced-entry-resistant technology, security-modified doors, alarm systems and surveillance cameras. “Congregation Aish Kodesh and the Chabad Center for Jewish Life are pillars of our district’s Jewish communities, and for that reason they are also targets of terrorism that face unique security risks,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “This significant federal investment will allow these institutions to make needed security improvements that will help prevent acts of terrorism and enhance emergency response capabilities. I’m pleased that we secured these grants, and I’ll keep working to ensure that our district gets the resources we need to keep all of our communities safe and secure.” “We are gratified that the Department of Homeland Security approved our security grant and very grateful to Congresswoman Rice for her leadership and critical support of our proposal. The DHS grant will allow us to take important steps to better secure our building,” said Rabbi Moshe Weinberger, Rabbi of Congregation Aish Kodesh. ###
08.25.2015	GARDEN CITY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice is hosting a Women- and Minority-Owned Business Resource Fair on Thursday, August 27th, at the Freeport Recreation Center from 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Representatives from the U.S. Small Business Administration and several other government agencies and business organizations will be on site to help business owners with the Women and Minority Business Enterprise (WMBE) certification process, provide legal assistance, and offer information about professional development, opportunities for domestic and international growth, and partnership opportunities with local and state governments. Please click here for details and a complete list of our participating partners. “Women- and minority-owned enterprises play an increasingly important role in our diverse local economy, and it's critical that new and prospective business owners have the resources and support they need to operate and grow their businesses, create jobs, and succeed in the 21st century economy,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “I encourage business owners in our district to join us on Thursday and learn about the resources and expertise these organizations have to offer.” ###
08.24.2015	GARDEN CITY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today hosted a visit by the recently appointed director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), Deputy Associate Administrator for Federal Insurance and Mitigation Roy E. Wright. Rep. Rice and Mr. Wright met this morning with New York State Assemblyman Todd Kaminsky, Nassau County Legislator Denise Ford, and other local officials to discuss recovery efforts on Long Island, the FEMA claims review process, and ongoing efforts to reform NFIP amid widespread allegations that many homeowners’ insurance claims may have been underpaid in the aftermath of superstorm Sandy. Rice and Wright later visited the homes of two Sandy survivors to discuss the challenges they’ve faced collecting insurance money and rebuilding their homes, after which Rice and Wright joined state and local officials for a press availability on the Long Beach boardwalk. “I want to thank Mr. Wright for taking the time to come to Long Island, see for himself how our communities are continuing to recover from Sandy, and meet with Sandy survivors to hear firsthand about the tremendous challenges they’ve faced getting the money they need to rebuild and come back home,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “We have a lot of work ahead of us to reform NFIP, restore oversight and accountability, and restore homeowners’ trust that the insurance they purchase will be there when they need it. That wasn’t the case for too many Sandy victims on Long Island, and I encourage any homeowner in our district who may have been underpaid to resubmit their claim before the September 15th deadline. Call my office at (516) 739-3008, and we’ll help guide you through the review process, advocate on your behalf, and do everything we can to get you the funding you deserve.” “I want to thank Rep. Rice for inviting me here today,” said Roy Wright, FEMA’s Deputy Associate Administrator for Insurance and Mitigation. “The residents and local officials who have shared their frustrations with our program and their hopes for the future have shown the human impact of the policy and program reform we are working on. We are renewed in our dedication to making sure policyholders receive full value of our contract. We encourage anyone who feels they may have been underpaid to request a review of their claim. We are committed to ensuring a fair and open process. Thank you Rep. Rice for this invitation.” “Leaving behind Washington and coming right to the heart of where superstorm Sandy most impacted our neighbors is exactly the type of aggressive, muscular government we deserve but so seldom receive. I appreciate Mr. Wright’s willingness to see for himself what we are going through. Thank you also to Congresswoman Rice for hosting this visit and joining us on the front lines of recovery,” said Assemblyman Todd Kaminsky. “On behalf of residents impacted by Sandy, our heartfelt thanks to Representative Rice for taking initiative in working with NFIP and FEMA to overcome mistakes of the past and initiate changes necessary in case of another disaster,” said Nassau County Legislator Denise Ford. "We are extremely pleased that Mr. Wright joined us here in Long Beach to meet with residents who have struggled to return home after Sandy," said City Council President Len Torres. "This City Council will continue working with all levels of government, fighting to ensure that our residents receive the resources they desperately need and deserve to rebuild stronger, smarter, and safer. We also encourage residents to explore reopening their claims in advance of the September 15 deadline. For those in Long Beach, we have our Residential Rebuilding Assistance Program where a caseworker can assist folks with filling out forms and navigating through their rebuilding efforts; if anyone in Long Beach would like help, please contact one of our caseworkers at 516-705-7222." ###
08.20.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice (NY-04) announced today that the Village of Freeport has been awarded $13,695 in federal funding to support overtime payments to law enforcement officers. The funds were awarded through the Bureau of Justice Assistance’s Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program, which provides funding to states and local governments to support a range of crime prevention activities based on state and local needs. “This federal investment helps make streets and neighborhoods safer for children, families and seniors in Freeport. When it comes to protecting our citizens we must be well-funded and smart, and this Department of Justice grant will help the Village of Freeport improve the public safety system,” said Senator Schumer. “This federal investment will help support police officers who keep the streets and neighborhoods of Freeport safe and secure,” said Senator Gillibrand. “Protecting our families and communities is a top priority and I will continue to push for funding to help get our police officers the resources needed to carry out their critical work more effectively.” “The most important job we have at all levels of government is to keep people safe, and this funding will ensure that the Village of Freeport can meet their overtime staffing needs and continue to prevent crime in the Freeport community,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “I’m pleased we were able to secure these funds for Freeport, and I’ll continue working to provide all communities in our district with the support they need to prevent crime and keep people safe.” “The Freeport residents, Staff, and Police Department greatly appreciate the assistance of Senator Schumer, Kirsten Gillibrand, and Congresswoman Rice for securing the JAG grant for the Village of Freeport,” said Village of Freeport Mayor Robert T. Kennedy. “This grant will provide additional overtime for our Police Department to ensure safety and security to all of the residents in Freeport.” ###
08.14.2015	WASHINGTON— U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded nearly $20,000 in Fire Prevention and Safety (FP&S) funds to the Floral Park Centre Fire Company to support a number of educational and training programs for firefighters, at-risk groups, and members of the general public. The programs include sprinkler and smoke alarm awareness training, risk assessment exercises, safety code education and Juvenile Firesetter intervention, which serves children between the ages of 2-17 who have exhibited fire-related behavior. The Juvenile Firesetter program is designed to educate parents and children about fire safety in order to reduce the risk of accidental home fires, which kill hundreds of people nationwide each year. The grant, totaling $18,086, is part of a $34 million dollar effort by FEMA to bolster FP&S programs around the country. “It’s important to remember that a fire department’s most effective tool is prevention,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “That’s why I’m pleased that the Floral Park Centre Fire Company was able to secure these vital federal funds, which will allow the department to continue investing in the life-saving educational programs that help prevent deadly fires from starting. By reducing the frequency of fire-related emergencies, this grant will not only ensure the safety of the Floral Park community, but it will mitigate risk to the department’s firefighters as well. I look forward to continue working with the federal government and local first responders to find more ways to save lives through education, detection and prevention.” “On behalf of the Floral Park Centre Fire Company I would like to thank FEMA for allocating the FP&S (Fire Prevention and Safety Grant Program) funds,” Said Martin Tolan, Chief of the Floral Park Centre Company. “These funds will provide essential safety equipment to our residents.” ###
08.12.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and Representative Kathleen Rice (NY-04) announced today that Molloy College has been awarded $234,745 in federal grant funding to continue to improve support services for low-income and academically-needy students. Molloy is expected to continue receiving funding each year for a total of five years through the U.S. Department of Education’s Student Support Services program, which awards funds to colleges and universities to support efforts to increase student retention and graduation rates. Molloy will use the funding to identify 160 eligible new and returning students, including low-income students as well as first-generation college students and/or students with disabilities, and enroll them in Molloy’s TRIO Student Support Services program, through which they will receive individualized academic support, personal and career counseling, financial aid counseling and advocacy, and additional writing, reading, math, science and study skills instruction. “There is no better federal investment than one that helps students succeed, and that’s why this five-year Department of Education grant is so important to Molly College,” said Senator Schumer. “Molloy College’s successful TRiO Student Support Services program provides accessible resources to some of our most vulnerable students to increase retention and graduation rates. Investing in students now is a wise investment for the future, and I am pleased that that the U.S. Department of Education has awarded Molloy College this funding.” “This investment will assist Molloy College in delivering invaluable educational opportunities and resources for students who need it most,” said Senator Gillibrand. “Through comprehensive programs including financial aid, counseling and tutoring, the TRIO Support Services program will help our students get the foundation they need to graduate, get good jobs and have successful careers.” “Low-income students face unique challenges as they pursue their college degrees, and this funding will allow Molloy College to continue providing students with the individual guidance and support they need to overcome those challenges and cross the finish line,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “I’m glad that Molloy has been awarded this grant for the year ahead, and I’ll work to ensure that the funding continues so that students at Molloy can count on access to the services they need to complete their college education.” “Molloy College has been a successful part of the TRIO program since 2001,” said Dr. Drew Bogner, President of Molloy College. “We are proud that we have served 160 students per year and have prepared them to be successful in their studies and in their future careers.” “The TRIO Program assists our students in completing their education in so many ways,” said Dr. Valerie Collins, Vice President of Student Affairs and Dean of Faculty at Molloy College. “Our dedicated TRIO staff members provide exemplary support to the students who participate in this program assisting them to reach their educational goals.” ###
07.27.2015	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives tonight passed H.R. 2770, legislation authored by Representative Kathleen Rice, Ranking Member on the House Committee on Homeland Security’s Transportation Security Subcommittee. H.R. 2770, the Keeping Our Travelers Safe and Secure Act, requires the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to develop and implement a comprehensive preventive maintenance process for airport screening equipment. The process must include specific maintenance schedules, guidance for TSA personnel and contractors on how to conduct and document maintenance actions, mechanisms to insure compliance, and penalties for noncompliance. Rep. Rice’s legislation came in response to a recent report by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Office of Inspector General (OIG), which found that TSA “is not properly managing the maintenance of its airport screening equipment.” The OIG report noted that the lack of strict maintenance policies and procedures threatens to reduce equipment life, and that if equipment were to become less than fully operational, TSA would be forced to rely on other screening measures that “may be less effective at detecting dangerous items.” H.R. 2770’s original cosponsors include Rep. Bennie Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Homeland Security; Rep. John Katko (R-NY), Chairman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee; and Rep. Donald Payne, Jr. (D-NJ). The bill was also cosponsored by Reps. William Keating (D-MA), Peter King (R-NY), Cedric Richmond (D-LA), Daniel Donovan (R-NY), and Brian Higgins (D-NY). “The threats against our aviation sector are too severe to allow for any level of complacency when it comes to maintaining the screening equipment we rely on to keep passengers safe,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “The Inspector General’s report made it clear that TSA’s lack of clear maintenance procedures creates serious risks for passengers, and this bipartisan bill will eliminate those risks by ensuring airport screening equipment is properly maintained and kept fully operational. I’m grateful to my colleagues in the House for giving this bill the bipartisan support it deserves, and I urge our colleagues in the Senate to do the same.” H.R. 2770 is the second bill authored by Rep. Rice to pass in the House this year. Rep. Rice’s first bill, H.R. 1382, the Boosting Rates of American Veteran Employment Act, passed on May 18, 2015. The full text of H.R. 2770, the Keeping Our Travelers Safe and Secure Act, is available here. ###
07.22.2015	U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand, and Representatives Steve Israel (NY-3), Lee Zeldin (NY-1), Gregory Meeks (NY-5), Kathleen Rice (NY-4) and Peter King (NY-2) today announced that the Long Island Power Authority (LIPA) will receive $21,188,947.15 in federal funding for emergency work and additional protective work done as a result of Superstorm Sandy. The award will be made in two separate grants. The first grant provides $19,906,417.70 for emergency repairs to LIPA’s statewide utility distribution system for work performed before October 30, 2012 and after, November 14, 2012. The second grant includes emergency protective work to prevent further damage to its statewide substations that was damaged as a direct result of Superstorm Sandy. “This massive federal investment will help ensure Long Island is built back better and stronger after Sandy, and both lightens the load for Long Island taxpayers and keeps the lights on,” said Senator Schumer. “This federal Sandy-relief funding will be given to LIPA to help repair damaged infrastructure and move forward with mitigation efforts to protect from future damage.” “This critical FEMA funding will help provide much needed resources to facilitate repairs to the energy infrastructure that Long Islanders rely on for their electricity,” said Senator Gillibrand. “Superstorm Sandy devastated our communities and these funds will help rebuild our infrastructure even stronger and more resilient so we can be prepared when the next storm hits.” "Repairing and strengthening LIPA's infrastructure is critical to Long Islanders and our regional economy,” said Representative Israel. “We need to be better protected in the event of future severe storms. This federal investment in LIPA helped make emergency repairs after Superstorm Sandy, and will make sure we continue to rebuild stronger and safer energy infrastructure Long Islanders can count on.” “These grants are key to providing the necessary funding to restore and protect our energy infrastructure, ensuring that we as a community are prepared for the future,” said Representative Zeldin. “I am proud to have worked with my colleagues in Congress in a bipartisan effort to secure the resources necessary to protect key critical energy infrastructure on Long Island.” “Restoring our communities after the destruction of Super Strom Sandy has been, and remains my highest priority,” said Representative Meeks. “These much needed resources will help LIPA repair damage caused by Sandy and improve our resiliency in order to prevent future power outages like the ones we experienced during Super Storm Sandy.” “Superstorm Sandy left hundreds of thousands of Long Islanders without power and showed us that our energy infrastructure is severely vulnerable to extreme weather,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “This funding will support urgently needed repairs and ensure that our critical infrastructure is more resilient and better prepared to withstand future storms.” “These funds are another important step in Long Island’s Superstorm Sandy recovery and will be critical to bolster our resiliency against future storms,” said Representative King. The funding, provided under authority of Section 403 of the Robert T. Stafford Act, covers expenses incurred for labor, equipment, materials, administrative costs, contract performed services, and other costs necessary for undertaking the project. ###
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today announced that she will introduce legislation requiring American automakers to equip all new cars with ignition interlock technology that detects a driver’s blood alcohol content (BAC) and prevents the engine from starting if the driver’s BAC is above the legal limit. While laws vary across the states, ignition interlock devices are widely required for individuals who are convicted of drunk driving offenses. A recent study conducted by researchers at the University of Michigan found that requiring interlock technology in all new vehicles would, over a 15 year implementation period, prevent an estimated 85 percent of drunk driving-related deaths and 84-89 percent of drunk driving-related nonfatal injuries. According to the study, preventing those deaths and injuries would save an estimated $343 billion over 15 years, and the cost of installing the technology would be recovered in the first three years. The study also found that young drivers would benefit the most, as during that same 15 year period the devices would prevent an estimated 481,103 deaths and nonfatal injuries among drivers ages 21-29, nearly 35 percent of all deaths and injuries for all age groups. The full text of the study is available here. “Advancing the progress we’ve made combating drunk driving demands bold action,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “It demands that we take a stand and say we refuse to keep letting drunk drivers take 10,000 lives each year. We refuse to keep seeing families torn apart when we know we can do more to prevent it. Strict enforcement is important, holding drunk drivers accountable is important, but we can and must do more to stop drunk drivers from ever hitting the road in the first place. That’s why I’m working on legislation to require ignition interlock devices in all new cars. This technology saves lives, it saves money, and I’m going to fight to make it standard equipment in American cars.” Representative Rice previously served as District Attorney of Nassau County, NY, where she received national acclaim for her efforts to combat drunk driving, securing Long Island’s first DWI-related murder convictions and helping to lead a statewide overhaul of New York’s DWI laws. Rice was dubbed by the New York Daily News as “the state’s toughest DWI prosecutor,” and recently received a Lifetime Achievement Award from Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD). ###
07.10.2015	GARDEN CITY, NY – Staff members from U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice’s office will hold mobile office hours this month in seven different locations throughout the district to help constituents with issues related to housing, Social Security, and immigration. Officials from the New York Immigration Coalition will also have a table at the immigration office hours, and Spanish- and Creole-speaking translators will be available if needed. Constituents who need help with any issue are also welcome to visit Rice’s Garden City office or call (516) 739-3008 at any time. Below are details about the dates, times and locations of the upcoming mobile office hour sessions, and the full schedule is also available here. Schedule for Representative Rice’s Mobile Office Hours: HOUSING (Week of July 13, 2015): MONDAY, JULY 13 – HEMPSTEAD LOCATION: Hempstead Public Library (115 Nichols Court, Hempstead, NY 11550) MORNING HOURS: 10:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m. EVENING HOURS: 4:00-7:00 p.m. WEDNESDAY, JULY 15 – LONG BEACH LOCATION: Long Beach Housing Authority (500 Center Street, Long Beach, NY 11561) MORNING HOURS: 9:00-11:00 a.m. EVENING HOURS: 4:00-7:00 p.m. SOCIAL SECURITY (Week of July 20, 2015): TUESDAY, JULY 21 – WESTBURY LOCATION: Westbury Public Library (445 Jefferson Street, Westbury, NY 11590) MORNING HOURS: 9:00-11:00 a.m. EVENING HOURS: 4:00-7:00 p.m. WEDNESDAY, JULY 22 – FREEPORT LOCATION: Freeport Village Hall (40 N. Ocean Avenue, Freeport, NY 11520) MORNING HOURS: 9:00-11:00 a.m. EVENING HOURS: 4:00-7:00 p.m. IMMIGRATION (Week of July 27, 2015): MONDAY, JULY 27 – UNIONDALE LOCATION: Uniondale Fire House (501 Uniondale Avenue, Uniondale, NY 11553) MORNING HOURS: 9:00-11:00 a.m. EVENING HOURS: 4:00-7:00 p.m. THURSDAY, JULY 30 – HEMPSTEAD LOCATION: Hempstead Kennedy Park (335 Greenwich Street, Hempstead, NY 11550) EVENING HOURS: 3:00-7:00 p.m. SATURDAY, AUGUST 1 – FREEPORT LOCATION: Freeport Public Library (144 W. Merrick Road, Freeport, NY 11520) MORNING HOURS: 9:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. ###
07.08.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today called for apprenticeships to be included in Project Labor Agreements (PLAs) for federal construction projects. In a letter to President Obama and U.S. Secretary of Labor Tom Perez, Rice urged the President to encourage federal agencies to enter into PLAs with contractors that graduate apprentices from certified apprenticeship programs. PLAs are pre-hire collective bargaining agreements with labor unions that set the terms of employment for a construction project, including wage rates, hours and benefits, and typically include agreements to prevent strikes or work stoppages. The use of PLAs helps to improve transparency and worker safety, ensure projects are completed on schedule, and reduce costs, particularly in large-scale federal construction projects that are often prone to cost overruns. In her letter, Rice argued that including apprenticeships in PLAs will have further fiscal benefits, as apprenticeship programs are funded entirely by the labor unions that provide them and produce highly-trained, highly-skilled workers at no cost to taxpayers. Rice’s letter is available here. “As Secretary Perez has said, American apprenticeship programs are the gold standard in workforce development around the world,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “Apprenticeship programs produce workers who are highly skilled and highly trained in workplace safety, they help expand the number of women and other minorities in the construction workforce, and they operate at absolutely no cost to taxpayers. Including apprenticeship programs in Project Labor Agreements will save taxpayers money, improve worker safety and training, and most importantly help more Americans get good jobs and develop the skills and experience they need to thrive in the 21st century economy.” “President Obama said in his State of the Union address that we have to strengthen unions, not weaken them,” said Dick O’Kane, President of the Building and Construction Trades Council of Nassau and Suffolk Counties. “If apprenticeship language is included in federal PLAs it would be a big step in leveling the playing field in America. Union building trades spend over $1.5 billion on apprenticeship training across America at no expense to anyone but the building trades unions. This is a win-win situation for everybody that will provide tens of thousands of very good-paying jobs.” ###
07.01.2015	LONG BEACH, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today called on the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to approve South Nassau Communities Hospital’s request to open and operate a 24-hour Emergency Services Department in Long Beach, which has been without an Emergency Department since the Long Beach Medical Center was forced to close due to damage from superstorm Sandy. Meeting a July 1st construction goal, South Nassau has completed an $8 million project transforming the Long Beach Urgent Care Center into a facility that can serve as Long Island’s first free-standing 24-hour Emergency Department and receive ambulances through the 911 system. South Nassau had hoped to open the Emergency Department before July 4th, but cannot do so without federal approval. South Nassau’s application was endorsed by the New York State Department of Health, but has not yet been approved by CMS. “There is no reason Long Beach should have to go another summer without an Emergency Department,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “There is a dire need for an Emergency Department in the aftermath of Sandy, and I welcome officials from CMS to come here and see for themselves that this facility is ready to provide the high-quality, round-the-clock care that the people of Long Beach deserve. We will keep working to get this facility open and fully operational as soon as possible.” "Since ‎Superstorm Sandy, the Long Beach community has been without emergency service and we prioritized this project to close that gap, especially as we head into the summer season,” said U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand. “The federal agencies should grant this waiver so we can bring this center online." “As survivors of superstorm Sandy, we in this community have had our fill of red tape,” said New York State Assemblyman Todd Kaminsky. “We cannot permit bureaucracy to stand in the way of us having access to the emergency room we deserve and which we have been waiting for far too long.” “It’s very frustrating not to have our emergency room and I applaud both Representative Rice and Assemblyman Kaminsky for leading the call to finally get this facility open,” said Nassau County Legislator Denise Ford. "The City Council requests the federal government grant South Nassau the necessary waiver so Long Beach's 911-receiving emergency room can open as soon as possible," said Long Beach City Councilman Anthony Eramo. "This project was completed in record time," said South Nassau's President & CEO, Richard J. Murphy. "We hope the Long Beach community will continue to use the Urgent Care Center while we undergo these additional regulatory reviews, which are required before we can open as a full-fledged, off-campus Emergency Department. Our goal is to open as an Emergency Department as soon as we are legally able to do so." "We greatly appreciate Congresswoman Rice's efforts to help expedite the opening of the Emergency Department in Long Beach for the benefit of barrier island residents and visitors," said Joe Calderone, South Nassau's Senior Vice President. ###
06.29.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today announced that two local organizations have been awarded nearly $300,000 in federal grant funds to help homeless veterans on Long Island find jobs and sustainable housing. Easter Seals New York, Inc. will receive $150,000 and United Veterans Beacon House, Inc. will receive $145,000 through the U.S. Department of Labor’s (DOL) Homeless Veterans’ Reintegration Program (HVRP). HVRP grants are awarded to various state and local organizations to support efforts to provide homeless veterans with job training, job search and job placement services. Earlier this year, Rep. Rice co-sponsored H.R. 474, bipartisan legislation that would extend HVRP through fiscal year 2020. H.R. 474 passed in the House in May and has been referred to the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. “The fact that there is even one homeless veteran in America is a disgrace to our country and to the men and women who have risked their lives to protect it,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “We know there are many homeless veterans living on Long Island, and many more at high risk of becoming homeless. These two organizations are on the ground working to help homeless veterans find good jobs and affordable, stable housing, and this federal funding is crucial to their efforts. HVRP is the only federal program that specifically supports homeless veterans, and I urge the Senate to pass our bill to ensure this program remains fully funded for the next five years.” “This funding allows Easter Seals to expand our specialized support services for veterans in Nassau and Suffolk counties with reintegration challenges such as homelessness and joblessness,” said Rita J. Stella, Easter Seals’ Senior Director of Vocational Services for New York State. “We appreciate Representative Rice's support for the Homeless Veterans' Reintegration Program which provides at-risk veterans with services, supports, and career opportunities so that they may flourish in their communities." ###
06.19.2015	LONG BEACH, NY – U.S. Representatives Kathleen Rice and Gregory Meeks held a press conference today with local officials and homeowners to highlight cases in which Superstorm Sandy victims have been ordered to repay portions of the funding they received from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) after the storm. Reps. Rice and Meeks called on Congress to pass the FEMA Disaster Assistance Reform Act of 2015. The legislation includes provisions that will authorize FEMA to waive such debts in instances where homeowners were overpaid through no fault of their own, and not because of fraud or misrepresentation. The press conference was held at the home of Elizabeth Treston, a Long Beach resident who was told two years after Sandy that she owed FEMA $4,500, and would be reported to the IRS or a collection agency if she failed to pay. As Newsday recently reported, FEMA has sent similar notices to nearly 1,000 local homeowners, seeking to recoup an average of about $6,500. In New York’s fourth congressional district, which Rice represents, FEMA is seeking to recoup more than $1.5 million from residents in Long Beach, more than $600,000 from residents in Freeport, and more than $555,000 from residents in Oceanside. “Like so many of our neighbors on Long Island, the homeowners with us today were victims of a devastating natural disaster who turned to their government for help when they needed it,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “Any money they got from the government, they spent rebuilding their homes, and the government can’t notice a mistake two years later and come to collect money that’s already been spent. Congress has to do the right thing and pass this legislation authorizing FEMA to forgive these debts. These are our neighbors, our friends, who have suffered and sacrificed and worked so hard to rebuild and recover from the storm. They don’t deserve to be thrown into debt when they’ve done nothing wrong.” “I am proud to join Representative Rice and the many other public officials from Nassau County in calling on Congress to adopt H.R. 1471, the FEMA Disaster Assistance Reform Act,” said Representative Gregory Meeks. “H.R. 1471 will ensure that Sandy victims, who through no fault of their own received an assistance over-payment, are immunized from FEMA’s efforts to collect. In New York State over 85 percent of these victims earn under $100,000 a year. Many of these victims are on a fixed income like the residents at the Belle Harbor Manor in the Rockaways. These victims used the assistance as it was intended, to get back on their feet, and do not possess the means to repay FEMA. Congress must take up H.R. 1471, to address the concerns of Sandy survivors, and protect future survivors of our nation's natural disasters.” Rep. Meeks continued, “In tandem with calling on Congress to act, I along with Representative Kathleen Rice (NY-04), Steve Israel (NY-03) and a bipartisan coalition including Frank Pallone (NJ-03), Peter King (NY-02) and Tom MacArthur (NJ-03), along with Jerrold Nadler (NY-10), Jose Serrano (NY-15), Nydia Velazquez (NY-07), Joseph Crowley (NY-14), Yvette Clarke (NY-09), Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08), Grace Meng (NY-06), and Carolyn Maloney (NY-12) have come together to call on FEMA to postpone efforts to collect these debts. Congress has made its intent clear with its speedy consideration of H.R. 1471. Further efforts to collect undercut the important reforms being undertaken at FEMA to prioritize the victims of disasters. As FEMA continues to address the public’s concerns we call for continued consultation with Congress to improve FEMA’s capacity to deliver disaster assistance and restore our communities after disasters.” “FEMA was the agency that did the inspections and based on the information gathered, sent the payments to the residents impacted by Sandy,” said Nassau County Legislator Denise Ford. “The alleged overpayments are not the fault of the residents. After all that these communities have endured because of the storm it is unthinkable for residents to be expected to pay money back when the money was given as a result of an honest mistake on behalf of FEMA, insurance companies, or the residents themselves. I commend Congressman Meeks & Congresswoman Rice for addressing this issue and fighting for our residents.” “As victims of Sandy here in Long Beach, the recovery process is ongoing for so many of us,” said Long Beach City Council President Len Torres. “All of us who are rebuilding have had our own struggles, dealing with all of the bureaucracy and insurance companies as we’ve worked to rebuild. Amidst the chaos of the immediate aftermath of the storm, mistakes were made by various parties involved in the recovery process. Honest mistakes should not lead to folks being put in debt to the federal government. We certainly stand by and fully support Congresswoman Rice and Congressman Meeks in their efforts to allow FEMA to provide waivers from recoupments. As we have stated all along, it is absolutely critical that the victims of Superstorm Sandy are provided with the resources they need and deserve to rebuild their homes and their lives.” ###
06.16.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice, the Democratic Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Committee’s Transportation Security Subcommittee, yesterday introduced bipartisan legislation that will require the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to conduct regular preventive maintenance of airport screening technology. H.R. 2770, the Keeping Our Travelers Safe and Secure Act, follows a recent report by the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Office of Inspector General (OIG), which found that TSA “is not properly managing the maintenance of its airport screening equipment.” The OIG report noted that the lack of strict maintenance policies and procedures threatens to reduce equipment life, and that if equipment were not fully operational, TSA would be forced to rely on other screening measures that “may be less effective at detecting dangerous items.” The Keeping Our Travelers Safe and Secure Act requires the TSA Administrator to develop and implement a preventive maintenance process for airport screening technology within 180 days. The process must include specific maintenance schedules, guidance for TSA personnel and contractors on how to conduct and document maintenance actions, mechanisms to insure compliance, and penalties for noncompliance. The legislation is co-sponsored by Rep. John Katko (R-NY), Chairman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee; Rep. Bennie Thompson (D-MS), the Democratic Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Committee; and Rep. Donald Payne (D-NJ). “This bipartisan, common-sense legislation will take action to correct the significant vulnerabilities raised in the Inspector General’s report,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “The security of our airports and the safety of travelers depend on sophisticated technology, and TSA has to be more aggressive and proactive in ensuring that this technology is regularly maintained and kept fully operational. At a time when people are rightfully concerned about TSA’s ability to detect dangerous items, we cannot afford the risk of having to rely on less effective screening measures. I’m confident that we can move quickly to bring this bill to a vote and pass it with the bipartisan support it deserves.” H.R. 2770 is scheduled to be marked up in the Transportation Security Subcommittee today at 11:30 a.m. The full text of the bill is available here. ###
06.15.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice announced today that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Office of Inspector General has agreed to investigate allegations of abuse of purchase cards at a VA health care facility in the Bronx. Rice, a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, called for the investigation during a May subcommittee hearing on allegations of waste, fraud and abuse in VA’s Purchase Card Program, which allows certain VA employees to make minor purchases of less than $3,000 for medical care and supplies without competitive bidding processes and written contracts. Citing a VA official’s memo to VA Secretary Robert McDonald about problems with the Purchase Card Program, Rice highlighted a case at the James J. Peters Medical Center in the Bronx, where a supervisor recorded more than $50 million in prosthetics purchases in increments of $24,999 – just one dollar below the purchase card’s $25,000 charge limit, which VA’s Assistant Inspector General for Audits and Evaluations agreed was a “red flag” that warrants further investigation. VA has claimed that all files related to these procurement actions had been housed in the Veterans Integrated Service Network 3 (VISN 3) facility in Manhattan, and were destroyed during Superstorm Sandy. “Since joining the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, I’ve seen more than enough evidence to be outraged by the lack of accountability within VA,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “I know there are good people within VA who sincerely want to regain the trust of veterans and taxpayers, and completing this investigation will be an important part of that effort. The damage caused by Superstorm Sandy was devastating and far-reaching, but the claim that all of these documents were destroyed strikes me as all too convenient and must be substantiated. We need to know exactly what happened to the documents, how and why this money was spent without written contracts, and who is accountable. I look forward to seeing the results of this investigation and continuing to reform VA so that our nation’s veterans receive the high-quality care and support that they deserve.” The letter from VA’s Deputy Inspector General announcing the investigation is available here. Video of the subcommittee hearing is available here. Between approximately 1:21:00 and 1:25:00 in the video file, Rice requests the investigation and raises questions about VA’s claim that all relevant documentation was destroyed during Superstorm Sandy. ###
06.03.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representatives Steve Israel (NY-03), Peter King (NY-02) and Kathleen Rice (NY-04) announced today that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has approved New York State’s application for a new pilot health care program for individuals with intellectual and other development disabilities and authorized the program to begin operations on January 1, 2016. The pilot program, operated by the non-profit organization Partners Health Plan (PHP), will create a managed care joint Medicare-Medicaid plan so that PHP can participate in New York’s Fully-Integrated Duals Advantage (FIDA) program, which serves elderly and disabled individuals who are dually enrolled in Medicare and Medicaid. In a letter last month to the Acting Director of CMS, Reps. Israel, King and Rice urged CMS to approve PHP’s application, noting that it had been significantly delayed and that further delays would jeopardize the program’s financial viability. The letter from Reps. Israel, King and Rice can be found here. “I’m proud to have worked with my colleagues across the aisle to ensure federal approval of a pilot program that will provide top-notch health care for those with intellectual and developmental disabilities. Making the federal government work better for all New Yorkers, this common sense program will serve as a model to improve care for the most vulnerable in our communities,” said Rep. Steve Israel. “I applaud CMS for approving the exceptional model that Partners Health Plan (PHP) has developed for the care of the intellectually and developmentally disabled in New York State. The program will ensure that the most vulnerable New Yorkers receive the care they need,” said Representative King. “I’m pleased CMS put an end to the delays and gave PHP’s application the final approval it deserves. This innovative program will vastly improve care for New Yorkers with intellectual and developmental disabilities, and it’s important that PHP now has the certainty they need to start serving this vulnerable population,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. ###
06.01.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice, Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Committee’s Transportation Security Subcommittee, released the following statement today in response to media reports that in recent covert tests conducted by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) at several of the nation’s busiest airports, undercover investigators posing as airline passengers successfully smuggled fake explosives and banned weapons past Transportation Security Administration (TSA) checkpoints in 67 out of 70 attempts. Statement from Representative Kathleen Rice: “These reported results are more than disappointing, they’re a damning indictment of TSA’s ability to keep weapons and explosives off of planes and keep passengers safe. I recognize that these investigators know TSA protocols and use that knowledge to exploit weaknesses and push the boundaries in order to improve airport security, but we also have to recognize how devastating the consequences would be if terrorists and criminals had even a fraction of the investigators’ success rate. “Although the final report is not yet complete, I expect that upon its completion, officials from DHS and TSA will be prepared to testify before the Transportation Security Subcommittee to discuss why these aviation security gaps still exist and what actions we need to take to eliminate them.” ###
05.31.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice released the following statement today on the passing of Joseph “Beau” Biden III. Statement from Representative Kathleen Rice: "I am deeply saddened by the news of Beau Biden's passing. Beau and I served together as federal prosecutors in Philadelphia, and remained friends ever since. Beau was first and foremost a family man and I always admired that about him. He was a great man and a great friend, a man of integrity and character who truly lived to serve others – whether in court, in the military, or in government. My heart goes out to Vice President and Dr. Biden, Beau's wife Hallie and their beautiful children, his brother Hunter and sister Ashley, and all the family and friends he loved so dearly. I will keep you all in my prayers." ###
05.29.2015	GARDEN CITY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice announced today that the U.S. Census Bureau has agreed to re-designate “East Garden City” as part of Uniondale, after hearing overwhelming support for the re-designation from local officials and community leaders at a meeting in Rice’s Garden City District Office. The three-square mile area has historically been part of the unincorporated hamlet of Uniondale, but is currently designated in census records as “East Garden City,” which advocates have argued is unwarranted, divisive and damaging to the identity of the larger Uniondale community. Rice wrote a letter earlier this year to the Census Bureau’s New York Regional Director, Jeff Behler, requesting the meeting and expressing her opposition to the “East Garden City” designation, and the Town of Hempstead recently adopted a resolution requesting that the designation be eliminated and the area be made part of Uniondale. “I’m proud to announce that the Census Bureau has agreed to repeal the ‘East Garden City’ designation and make Uniondale whole again,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “This was a truly collaborative effort that started at the grassroots, with Uniondale residents raising their voices and refusing to allow their community to remain divided. We heard them loud and clear, and we brought all the stakeholders to the table so we could get it done. I want to thank the Census Bureau for being so responsive and cooperative throughout this process, and I want to thank all the activists, community leaders and public officials from all levels of government who worked together to make this happen.” “While the Town of Hempstead does not have jurisdiction over changing the name of a Census Designated Place, our government has adopted a resolution requesting that the U.S. Census Bureau eliminate the ‘East Garden City’ CDP and make it part of a unified Uniondale CDP,” said Town of Hempstead Supervisor Kate Murray. “I cannot think of a more important quality-of-life issue than properly identifying with one’s hometown, and I thank Congresswoman Kathleen Rice for bringing this important mission to the federal level. She’s been a great partner in this endeavor.” “The Uniondale community has fought long and hard for this and I am proud they got the victory they deserved. Uniondale is one community in both name and heart,” said Minority Leader of the Nassau County Legislature Kevan Abrahams. "This is a clear example of government working for the people. I'm so glad to see our constituents come forward with a concern and fight to have their voices heard. This is a victory for them - the people of Uniondale, who are now justly unified in name once again," said Town of Hempstead Councilwoman Dorothy Goosby. “Today Uniondale has been reunited in name, but I know they were always united in spirit. Congratulations to all the community and civic leaders that fought tirelessly for this,” said Nassau County Legislator Siela Bynoe. “The Greater Uniondale Area Action Coalition thanks Congresswoman Rice and all of our State, County, and Town representatives for taking action to make Uniondale whole. We applaud them for their leadership and responsiveness to our concerns. By filing a request to eliminate East Garden City from the 2020 Census and change it to Uniondale, they are making it crystal clear that they represent their constituents’ interests first and foremost,” said Dr. Greg Maney and Jeannine Maynard, Co-Facilitators of the Greater Uniondale Area Action Coalition.
05.26.2015	GARDEN CITY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today announced new progress in the effort to redevelop the vacant Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Superfund site located at the former Jackson Steel manufacturing plant in the Village of Mineola. Rice held a meeting on Friday, May 22nd with federal, state and local officials to discuss the status of the site, which had been contaminated by degreasing chemicals that posed a significant threat to public health. At the meeting, EPA officials stated that they have completed remediation of the site and that the agency is committed to working with whoever takes ownership of the property to ensure that vapor levels remain in accordance with standards set by the EPA, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation and the New York State Department of Health. County and Village officials also expressed their commitment to work together to reach a settlement and determine the best plan for future use of the property. In addition to Rep. Rice and representatives from the EPA, officials who participated in the meeting include: New York State Senator Jack Martins, Nassau County Chief Real Estate Negotiator and Special Counsel Kevin Walsh, Acting Nassau County Police Commissioner Thomas Krumpter, Village of Mineola Mayor Scott Strauss, Village of Mineola Deputy Mayor Paul Pereira, and Village of Mineola Clerk Joseph Scalero. “After a very productive meeting, it’s clear that all the interested parties now have the information they need to reach an agreement on how best to redevelop the former Jackson Steel plant in a way that benefits the entire community,” said Rep. Kathleen Rice. “I thank the EPA for their efforts to ensure that this site will not threaten public health, and I’ll continue to work with state, county and village officials to get this long-dormant property back on the tax rolls.” “Through the EPA’s cleanup and remediation, the community has taken a positive step in reversing the environmental devastation caused through decades of industrial abuse, protecting our community’s health, and ensuring that our drinking water is preserved. Thank you to all levels of government that came together to make this happen and paving the way for this site to be redeveloped for the benefit of the entire Mineola community,” said Senator Jack M. Martins. “The Jackson Steel Superfund site has been off the tax rolls for far too long now,” said Village of Mineola Mayor Scott Strauss. “I thank Congresswoman Rice for taking the lead and putting together a very productive meeting with all interested parties, and I’m encouraged to see all levels of government commit to working together to ensure a safe future for a site that will greatly benefit our community.”
05.18.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice’s first legislation passed in the House today with unanimous bipartisan support. H.R. 1382, the Boosting Rates of American Veteran Employment (BRAVE) Act, which Rice introduced in March, passed by a vote of 404-0. The legislation authorizes the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, when awarding VA contracts, to give preference to companies that have high concentrations of full-time veteran employees, which will reward contractors that actively hire veterans and create an incentive for other contractors to do the same. The BRAVE Act’s co-lead sponsor is Representative Paul Cook (R-CA), a combat veteran who retired after 26 years as a Colonel in the United States Marine Corps. Other cosponsors include Representatives Ralph Abraham (R-LA), Mark Takano (D-CA), Aumua Amata Coleman Radewagen (R-American Samoa), Ann McLane Kuster (D-NH), John Garamendi (D-CA), Mike Thompson (D-CA), and Derek Kilmer (D-WA). The bill has been endorsed by several major veterans service organizations, including Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), the American Legion, and Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA). “Veterans have what it takes to thrive in the civilian workforce. They don’t need charity, they don’t need handouts, they just need an opportunity,” said Rep. Rice. “This bipartisan legislation will create an incentive for contractors to proactively seek out and provide veterans with that opportunity for meaningful full-time employment. I’m grateful to Chairman Miller, Ranking Member Brown and my fellow members of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee for acting so quickly to bring this bill to the floor, and I want to thank Representative Cook and our other cosponsors for their efforts to ensure it passed with such tremendous bipartisan support. I urge the Senate to take up this important legislation so we can send it to the President for his signature.” The Department of Veterans Affairs establishes long-term contracts with private businesses for medical equipment, supplies, services, and more. Currently, the VA gives preference for these contracts to veteran-owned small businesses, but not to businesses that actively employ veterans. The BRAVE Act would allow the VA to consider the proportion of veterans employed on a full-time basis by a prospective contractor when awarding federal contracts. The VA is authorized for $19 billion in total procurement and contracting spending, so this bill would not induce any additional costs or burdens on the taxpayers. The bill provides oversight of VA contractors by requiring the debarment of any company that knowingly misrepresents the number or proportion of veterans they employ. ###
05.10.2015	U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice sent a letter today to Dr. David Michaels, Assistant Secretary of Labor for the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), urging his agency to reform health standards for nail salon workers nationwide. Following recent media reports on the dangerous working conditions experienced by those in the nail salon industry, Rice called on OSHA to change its outdated health regulations to adequately reflect the risks of exposure to chemicals used in nail and beauty products. As The New York Times recently reported, medical research has shown that prolonged exposure to these chemicals is linked to cancer, severe respiratory diseases, and even elevated rates of miscarriages among cosmetologists. The Times also reported that lobbyists for the cosmetics industry have fought back against attempts to strengthen federal regulations. OSHA has acknowledged that, despite the proven health risks, the levels of chemical exposure that many nail salon workers face are still legal under current standards. Rice’s letter to Asst. Secretary Michaels is available here. “It’s absolutely appalling that workers in any industry could be forced to suffer such conditions in 21st century America,” said Rep. Kathleen Rice. “The current health standards that are supposed to protect nail salon workers are completely outdated, recalling a time when American workers were voiceless, vulnerable and lacking the power to demand decent working conditions. Nail salon workers need us to protect their interests, not special interests lobbying to protect their own profits. OSHA has acknowledged that current standards are not strong enough to guarantee nail salon workers the protections that every American worker deserves, and I’m eager to work with them to break through the bureaucratic gridlock that so often prevents real reform.
05.08.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice traveled to Israel this week as a member of a bipartisan Congressional delegation led by U.S. Representative Mike McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security. In Jerusalem, the delegation met with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Israeli Deputy Foreign Minister Daniel Ayalon, Israeli Minister of Defense Moshe Ya'alon, U.S. Ambassador to Israel Dan Shapiro, and other Israeli officials. In a meeting on Tuesday, the delegation spoke with Prime Minister Netanyahu about Israeli counterterrorism efforts and the importance of the relationship between the United States and Israel. "The support and the alliance with the United States is a foundation of our national security,” Prime Minister Netanyahu said during the meeting. “It’s a bipartisan position. It’s also bipartisan here. I think there’s complete unanimity about the importance of the relationship with the United States." “Israel is our closest ally in the region, and every dollar we invest in Israel’s security is a direct investment in American homeland security,” said Rep. Rice. “No matter how partisan the atmosphere in Washington has been or may become, we have a responsibility to ensure that support for Israel always remains a bipartisan priority. We made it clear to Prime Minister Netanyahu that we take that responsibility very seriously and we’re eager to continue working with him to enhance the security of both our countries and protect the people we serve.” Middle East and EU Congressional Delegation: The delegation is traveling to countries in the Middle East and Europe to examine evolving security threats to the U.S. homeland, including the flow of foreign fighters from Western countries to Syria and Iraq and recent terrorist plots and attacks against the United States and European allies. The critical focus will be the U.S. government's efforts, working with our allies, to identify known or suspected terrorists and foreign fighters who pose a threat to the homeland and to prevent them from traveling to the United States. The delegation will assess European counterterrorism programs, best practices to counter violent extremism, and the U.S.-Coalition strategy to eliminate the terrorist sanctuary in Syria and Iraq. The delegation will also focus on the Israeli perspective, including border security and threats emanating throughout the region near its borders. In addition to Rep. Rice and Chairman McCaul, the delegation includes Reps. Pete Sessions (R-TX), Vern Buchannan (R-FL), Bill Keating (D-MA), John Katko (R-NY), Will Hurd (R-TX), and Barry Loudermilk (R-GA). ###
05.03.2015	Washington — Representatives Steve Israel (NY-03), Pete King (NY-02), and Kathleen Rice (NY-04) led a bipartisan letter to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Acting Director Andrew Slavitt in support of a new pilot health care program for New Yorkers with intellectual and developmental disabilities. The pilot program, operated by the non-profit, Partners Health Plan (PHP), would create a managed care joint Medicare-Medicaid plan so that PHP could participate in New York’s Fully Integrated Duals Advantage (FIDA) program, a new program to serve the elderly and disabled who are dually enrolled in Medicare and Medicaid. If PHP is not approved by CMS soon, the launch date will be further delayed and risks the financial security of the program “New Yorkers with intellectual and developmental disabilities deserve top-notch health care. The innovations that will come from the Partners Health Plan program should be a national priority. It is simply unacceptable that CMS continues to drag their feet delaying this critical service to our most vulnerable communities on Long Island,” said Rep. Israel. "Partners Health Plan (PHP) has developed an exceptional model of care for individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities. CMS must prioritize this application so that PHP may move forward and provide top notch care for this vulnerable population," said Rep. King. “Partners Health Plan has stepped up to provide comprehensive care and support services for adults with intellectual and other developmental disabilities, and it’s time for CMS to step up and give this initiative the approval it deserves,” said Rep. Rice. “This is an opportunity to vastly improve support for a vulnerable population, and we refuse to accept that they should suffer because of unrelated issues between CMS and the state.” Currently, PHP is funded and implemented through the Nassau County and New York City AHRC’s, in alliance with the Rockland, Suffolk, and Westchester County AHRC’s. One out of only 25 programs approved in New York, PHP has received a score of 95 percent, one of the highest in New York State, on its “Model of Care” document, independently evaluated and scored by National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). If this program is approved by CMS, PHP would be available in Bronx, Kings, Nassau, New York, Queens, Richmond, Rockland, Suffolk and Westchester Counties. The full text of the letter is available here.
05.01.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice yesterday introduced H.Res. 241, which designates April as “Alcohol Responsibility Month” and expresses the U.S. House of Representatives’ commitment to support efforts to prevent drunk driving and underage drinking. The bipartisan resolution is endorsed by the New York State chapter of Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) and the Foundation for Advancing Alcohol Responsibility (FAAR). A companion resolution, S.Res. 162, was introduced yesterday by U.S. Senator Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND) and passed the Senate by unanimous consent. Original cosponsors of Rep. Rice’s House resolution include Reps. Steve Pearce (R-NM), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Steve Israel (D-NY), Bill Keating (D-MA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Sander Levin (D-MI), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Gregory Meeks (D-NY), Donald Payne, Jr. (D-NJ), Charles Rangel (D-NY), and Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA). The full text of H.Res. 241 is available here. Earlier this month, Rep. Rice received MADD’s Lifetime Achievement Award for her nationally-recognized efforts to combat drunk driving as the district attorney of Nassau County, NY. Dubbed “the state’s toughest DWI prosecutor” by the New York Daily News, Rice secured Long Island’s first DWI-related murder convictions and helped enact state-wide changes in New York’s DWI laws. In 2008, CBS’s 60 Minutes profiled Rice’s work to reduce drunk driving, helping to spur renewed attention to the role of local law enforcement in DWI prevention, prosecution and education. “Preventing drunk driving requires active collaboration between everyone from law enforcement officials, lawmakers and industry leaders to mothers and fathers, teachers and community activists,” said Rep. Rice. “That collaboration is what has allowed us to make so much progress reducing drunk driving deaths in the past 30 years, and it’s crucial that we continue to work together to keep that progress going, keep saving lives, keep holding drunk drivers accountable, and keep empowering our kids to resist underage drinking and make responsible decisions when they reach legal age. The resolution I introduced yesterday expresses our commitment to be fully engaged in that effort, to promote alcohol responsibility and do all that we can to put an end to drunk driving.” ###
05.01.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice has joined the vast majority of House Democrats in signing a discharge petition that, if signed by a simple majority of the House, would force a vote on legislation to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank. Without congressional action, the bank will expire at the end of June, which leaves just 24 legislative days for the House to reauthorize the bank’s charter. The Export-Import Bank is an independent credit agency that creates and supports American jobs by financing the sale of exports to foreign customers. The bank has supported 1.3 million jobs nationwide since 2009 and 164,000 jobs in fiscal year 2014 at no cost to American taxpayers – in fact, last year alone the Export-Import Bank generated a surplus of $675 million, which will go back into the Treasury to help reduce the federal deficit. The Export-Import Bank is especially important to the local economy in New York’s fourth congressional district, where since 2007 it has helped 10 companies – nine of them small businesses – export their products to foreign customers, enter new markets abroad, grow their businesses and create good jobs here at home. Since 2007, the bank has supported $76 million in export sales in New York’s fourth district and $11 billion across the state of New York. Last year alone, the bank supported $15 million in the district and $1 billion statewide. “The Export-Import Bank is good for our district, good for New York, good for small businesses, and good for the American economy,” said Rep. Kathleen Rice. “It’s also good for taxpayers, generating billions of dollars to help reduce the deficit – and that’s why it’s so baffling to me that we’re even having this debate. Republicans and Democrats should be able to agree, as we have in the past, that reauthorizing the Export-Import Bank is the right thing to do for our economy. I urge the Republican leadership to do what’s right for the country, for small businesses and the taxpayers we serve, and allow a vote on a long-term reauthorization as soon as we’re back in session.” As of the time of this release, 179 Democratic House Members have signed the discharge petition, led by three members of the House Committee on Financial Services: Rep. Denny Heck (D-WA), Ranking Member Maxine Waters (D-CA) and Rep. Gwen Moore (D-WI), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Monetary Policy and Trade. If signed by a simple majority of the House, the discharge petition would initiate a vote on H.R. 1031, which renews the Export-Import Bank’s charter for seven years, increases its lending authority to meet the needs of U.S. exporters, and modernizes the Bank’s programs to better serve small and medium-sized businesses. H.R. 1031 was introduced by Rep. Waters in February and has been cosponsored by 189 House Democrats, including Rep. Rice. A separate measure to reauthorize the bank’s charter has been cosponsored by 60 House Republicans, indicating that a majority of the House supports a long-term extension of the Export-Import Bank. ###
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice, Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security’s Transportation Security Subcommittee, today joined Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, and Rep. John Katko (R-NY), Chairman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee, to introduce H.R. 2127, the Securing Expedited Screening Act. Authored by Rep. Thompson, the legislation addresses what the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Inspector General and the Comptroller General have identified as serious security vulnerabilities in the way in which the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) carries out expedited airport checkpoint screenings. The TSA PreCheck program provides expedited screening to passengers who submit biographic information and undergo a security risk assessment. However, TSA also provides expedited screening on a case-by-case basis to other passengers who have not been previously vetted through the PreCheck program but are identified as “low-risk” and given access to PreCheck lanes. Last month, the DHS Inspector General reported that in one such instance, TSA provided expedited screening to a convicted felon who served time in prison for crimes committed as a member of a known domestic terrorist organization and who had not been vetted through the PreCheck application process. The legislation introduced today directs TSA to make expedited screening available only to individuals who are vetted participants in the PreCheck program and other known or vetted passengers. Under H.R. 2127, in addition to PreCheck participants, passengers enrolled in Global Entry or other DHS trusted traveler programs would get such screening, as well as passengers in certain age groups, military servicemembers, and other populations identified by TSA as known and low risk. The legislation will also ensure that if TSA wants to provide expedited screening to passengers outside these groups, TSA could do so by an alternate method only if it is validated as a secure vetting method in an independent assessment submitted to Congress. Importantly, the bill requires TSA to maintain the availability of expedited screening at or above the current level, even as it refines the population that is eligible for such screening. Congresswoman Rice released the following statement on the legislation: “If you’re one of the million-plus people who have submitted your biographic information, undergone thorough vetting and enrolled in the PreCheck program, then it makes sense that you should receive expedited screening. But when a convicted felon and former member of a domestic terrorist organization can be given that same privilege without being vetted, something clearly needs to change. This legislation will ensure that expedited screening is available only to passengers enrolled in trusted traveler programs like PreCheck and other passengers known to be low-risk. This is a common-sense response to a major security gap, and I urge my colleagues to give it their full support.” Congressman Thompson said the following on the legislation he authored: “Expedited screening can be a critical aspect to our layered aviation security infrastructure but it must be employed using proven methods that do not create security gaps. After a recent incident and numerous reports, I do not have confidence that TSA’s use of random or case-by-case, on-site security risk assessments to identify passengers for expedited screening is keeping us secure. That is why I introduced legislation today to limit expedited screening to certain, known low-risk groups. This bill will also ensure that specific criteria are met if expedited screening is expanded. I thank my colleagues for joining me in introducing this bipartisan legislation.” Congressman Katko released the following statement on the bill: "This legislation seeks to ensure that the Transportation Security Administration's (TSA's) PreCheck program is conducted in a responsible manner, which does not cause unnecessary security vulnerabilities in passenger security screening. As threats to our aviation sector continue to evolve, it is critical that we do not become complacent and that TSA is held accountable for ensuring the security of the traveling public. The risk-based security model, including the Pre-Check program, has been an important step forward in keeping our skies safe and improving the passenger screening experience. I continue to support risk-based security and TSA PreCheck and look forward to seeing the program's continued success going forward. I commend Ranking Member Thompson's work on this critically important issue, and I am proud to cosponsor this bipartisan piece of legislation." A fact sheet on the bill is available here. A section-by-section explanation of the bill is available here. ###
04.27.2015	LONG BEACH, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice joined Long Beach officials today to unveil the City’s new federally-funded trolley, one of eight vehicles replaced after the City’s public transit fleet suffered severe damage during superstorm Sandy. Rice and Senators Schumer and Gillibrand announced in February that more than $2.7 million in Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Sandy Emergency Relief funds would be provided to reimburse the City for the purchase of five buses, two trolleys and one open-air trolley. The FTA funds cover 90 percent of the slightly more than $3 million cost of replacing these eight vehicles, and the remaining 10 percent is covered through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Community Development Block Grant Program. The state-of-the-art trolley unveiled today is fully accessible, with a wheelchair ramp and two designated seating areas for disabled passengers. “Today marks an important step in the ongoing effort to make Long Beach whole again,” said U.S. Representative Rice. “Public transit is at the heart of Long Beach’s economy – it takes residents to work every day, it brings customers into the City’s small businesses, and it gives visitors access to all that Long Beach has to offer. Getting these vehicles back on the streets will help this community continue to recover from superstorm Sandy and help residents get back to their normal lives.” “Replacing the Sandy-damaged trolleys is essential because Long Beach residents, as well as visitors and beachgoers, rely on public transit when exploring all the amazing things this community has to offer. This new federally-financed trolley—which we worked hard to secure– will help Long Beach residents, businesses and more return to normalcy and help restore much-needed transportation options in Long Beach,” said U.S. Senator Charles E. Schumer. "As New York continues to recover and rebuild from the damages caused by Superstorm Sandy I am pleased Long Beach will get this federal funding for a new trolley," said Senator Kirsten Gillibrand. "I will continue to fight for the resources necessary to rebuild from the storm so local taxpayers are not stuck footing the bill alone and so that local residents have the reliable, affordable transportation options they need to get to work every day." "This new trolley is part of the City's continued commitment to making transportation easy, fun, and convenient," said Long Beach City Council President Len Torres. "It offers our residents and their visitors a way to get around to enjoy our restaurants, shops, and activities without needing a car." "We appreciate our partners at the federal level, Congresswoman Rice and Senators Schumer and Gillibrand, who have assisted us obtaining this new federally funded trolley," said City Manager Jack Schnirman. "We look forward to having our new trolley out on City streets in the very near future." ###
04.23.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice released the following statement today on the Senate’s confirmation of Loretta Lynch as the next Attorney General of the United States. “I’m glad that Loretta Lynch has finally been confirmed as our next Attorney General. As a district attorney, I worked with Ms. Lynch on numerous cases and I’ve always admired her remarkable toughness, fairness and political independence. Days after her nomination, I wrote to Senate leaders urging them to give Ms. Lynch the swift bipartisan confirmation she deserves. Her confirmation certainly wasn’t swift, but the partisan gridlock that delayed it only underscores the need for a refreshingly independent figure like Loretta Lynch who has the courage and conviction to rise above Washington’s hyper-partisan atmosphere.” Rice’s letter to Senate leaders can be found here. ###
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today received a Lifetime Achievement Award from Mothers Against Drunk Driving in recognition of her efforts to reduce impaired driving. Rice’s District Director accepted the award on her behalf at the MADD New York Metro Law Enforcement Recognition Luncheon this afternoon on Long Island. Rice, who served as District Attorney of Nassau County, NY from 2006 through 2014, was dubbed “the state’s toughest DWI prosecutor” by the New York Daily News. Her nationally-recognized efforts to combat drunk driving led to statewide changes in DWI laws and Long Island’s first DWI-related murder convictions. In 2008, CBS’s 60 Minutes profiled Rice’s work to reduce drunk driving, helping to spur renewed attention to the role of local law enforcement in DWI prevention, prosecution and education. Rice offered the following statement to be read on her behalf, as the U.S. House of Representatives was in session at the time of the event: “I sincerely regret that I cannot be there to receive this award in person and to join you in recognizing the many New York law enforcement officials who work so hard to combat drunk driving and save lives. This is a tremendous honor, and I want you to know how grateful I am for your support and for all that MADD does every single day to fight drunk driving. Nothing I’ve done would be possible without your courage, your energy, your resilience and your advocacy. “I want to thank MADD’s National President, Colleen Sheehey-Church, and MADD New York Executive Director Richard Mallow. I also want to thank acting Nassau County DA Madeline Singas and Maureen McCormick, Chief of the Vehicular Crimes Unit. It’s been an honor to work with you both and I know you will continue to advance the progress we’ve made in the past decade. “I’m extremely proud of all that we’ve accomplished in Nassau County and across New York State. We’ve reduced drunk driving. We’ve passed tougher laws. We’ve gotten tougher on enforcement, and better at prevention. We’ve held drunk drivers accountable. We’ve saved lives. But we have a lot more to do, we have a lot more to achieve together. You can count on me to support your efforts, to do everything I can to advance our goals, and to keep fighting with all the energy I have to save lives on our roads. Thank you.” ###
04.14.2015	GARDEN CITY, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice announced today that representatives from the U.S. Census Bureau have agreed to attend a meeting on May 29th and hear input from Uniondale community leaders and public officials advocating for the repeal of “East Garden City” as a census-designated place. The three-square-mile area has been designated “East Garden City” since the 2000 census, but has historically been part of the unincorporated village of Uniondale. In a letter to the Census Bureau’s New York Regional Director, Jeff Behler, Rep. Rice argued that this designation is unwarranted and divisive, and undermines the identity of the larger Uniondale community. Regional Director Behler welcomed the invitation and confirmed that the designation can be changed through local input from all relevant stakeholders. Rice’s letter to the Census Bureau is available here. The meeting will be held on May 29th in Rice’s District Office. More details will be provided in the weeks ahead. A list of the individuals who have been invited to participate can be found below. “We know there’s no such thing as ‘East Garden City,’” said U.S. Representative Rice. “It’s Uniondale, and calling it by any other name will only divide a community that should remain whole. I appreciate the Census Bureau’s responsiveness and I look forward to getting together with all stakeholders to make our case for why this designation must be changed.” "The Uniondale Fire Department and Board of Fire Commissioners are greatly appreciative of the Congresswoman's work to make this meeting happen,” said Uniondale Fire Commissioner Richard T. Harris. “We serve the Uniondale community, and that includes the area now formally designated East Garden City. Our trucks say Uniondale and the men and women in our department risk their lives every day for the Uniondale community. It’s troubling to me that part of our community has been taken away from us, and I’m hopeful that through this meeting we can come to a resolution and keep Uniondale united." "I applaud the Congresswoman's efforts to bring all sides to the table in order to make Uniondale whole again,” said Dr. William Lloyd, Superintendent of the Uniondale School District. “The Uniondale School District relies on the entire tax base of Uniondale, and the possibility that part of that tax base will be taken away has worrisome implications. I look forward to sitting down with the Census Bureau, elected officials, and community leaders in order to ensure that the district can continue to serve all our students for many years to come." “The Greater Uniondale Area Action Coalition deeply appreciates Congresswoman Kathleen Rice’s proactive response to a growing threat to Uniondale’s cohesive identity and financial future,” said Dr. Greg Maney and Ms. Jeannine Maynard, Co-Facilitators of the Greater Uniondale Area Action Coalition. “Through her words and her deeds, Congresswoman Rice has made it clear that she represents her constituents, not developers or realtors. Under her leadership and facilitation of a constructive gathering of major stakeholders, we are confident that the 2020 Census will make Uniondale whole by accurately reflecting our boundaries.” Invitations to participate in the meeting have been sent to: U.S. Census Bureau New York Regional Director Jeff Behler County Executive Ed Mangano Supervisor Kate Murray Senator Kemp Hannon Assemblywoman Earlene Hooper Legislator Kevan Abrahams Legislator Siela Bynoe Councilwoman Dorothy Goosby Nassau County Planning Commission Chairman Jeff Greenfield Long Island Regional Planning Council Chairman John Cameron Uniondale Fire Department Commissioner Richard T. Harris Uniondale School District Superintendent Dr. William Lloyd Greater Uniondale Area Action Coalition Co-Facilitator Greg Maney Greater Uniondale Area Action Coalition Co-Facilitator Jeannine Maynard Nostrand Gardens Civic Association President Pearl Jacobs Bishop Richard Harris, Grace Cathedral of Uniondale Melvin Harris, Nassau County Human Rights Commission ###
04.08.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice announced today that Nassau County will receive $1,950,000 in federal funding to support homeland security and counterterrorism activities. The grant, administered through the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) State Homeland Security Program (SHSP), will support the efforts of local law enforcement agencies and emergency responders to prevent, prepare for and respond to acts of terrorism and other catastrophic events. Nassau County will receive more SHSP funding than any other recipient in the state except for New York City. Suffolk County will also receive $1,200,000 through the program. The New York City Area, which includes Nassau and Suffolk Counties, will also receive $180,926,000 through DHS’s Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI), which provides funding to address the unique risks and security demands of high-threat, high-density urban areas. “We count on our local law enforcement agencies and emergency responders to be prepared and keep our communities safe, and they count on this federal funding to meet the unique security challenges we live with on Long Island,” said Rep. Kathleen Rice. “After an unnecessary political fight delayed these grants and created uncertainty for the agencies that rely on them, I appreciate that DHS has acted quickly to ensure that our local responders will have the funds they need to protect us.” ###
04.03.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice released the following statement today in response to yesterday’s terrorist attack on students at Garissa University College in Garissa, Kenya. Statement from Representative Kathleen Rice: “The world watched in horror yesterday as we learned about the brutal terrorist attack in Kenya that claimed the lives of 147 college students, many of whom were reportedly targeted because they were Christians and converts to Islam. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims’ parents, families and friends, the survivors who witnessed this vicious attack, and all the Kenyan people. Radical extremist groups like the Shabab who perpetrate violence in the name of religion should be condemned by leaders of all faiths, nations and ethnicities and all people of good conscience around the world. The United States must continue to support our partners in Kenya and throughout the region to defeat the Shabab and all those who support them.” ###
04.02.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has released funding opportunities and allocations for its Fiscal Year 2015 Preparedness Grant Program, which supports state and local efforts to prevent, respond to and recover from acts of terrorism and other catastrophic events. New York is eligible to receive $76,949,000 through the State Homeland Security Program (SHSP), the most allocated to any state and slightly more than the $76,742,000 that was awarded to New York in FY 2014. Through the Urban Areas Security Initiative, which addresses the unique risks and security needs of high-threat, high-density urban areas, the greater New York City area is eligible to receive $180,926,000, the most allocated to any urban area and $2 million more than was allocated to the New York City area in FY 2014. The state is also eligible to apply for funding through the Operation Stonegarden Program, which funds joint border security efforts, and through the Urban Areas Security Initiative Nonprofit Security Grant Program, which supports security enhancements to nonprofit organizations that are at high risk of a terrorist attack and are located in designated urban areas such as the New York City area. Eligible state and local agencies can also apply for funding through the Port Security Grant Program, which awarded more than $1.4 million to Nassau County in FY 2014, as well as the Transit Security Grant Program, the Intercity Bus Security Grant Program and the Tribal Homeland Security Grant Program. See below for further information about these funding opportunities and eligibility requirements. “State and local governments, law enforcement agencies and emergency responders rely on this funding to support their efforts to prevent, prepare for and respond to acts of terrorism,” said Rep. Kathleen Rice. “The unnecessary fight over funding DHS earlier this year jeopardized those efforts by delaying new grants for 2015, but DHS has acted quickly to initiate the application process and I’m glad that New York will get the resources we need to meet our unique security demands. I encourage all eligible organizations to apply for grant funding, and my office will help with the application process in any way we can.” Fiscal Year 2015 Homeland Security Grant Program (HSGP) State Homeland Security Program (SHSP) – $76,949,000 allocated to New York in FY 2015. SHSP funds support the implementation of state homeland security strategies to address planning, organizational, equipment, training and exercise needs to prevent, respond to and recover from acts of terrorism and other catastrophic events. The State Administrative Agency (SAA) is the only entity eligible to apply for SHSP funds. Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI) – $180,926,000 allocated to the New York City area in FY 2015. UASI funds help address the unique security needs of high-threat, high-density urban areas and assist them in enhancing their capacity to prevent, respond to and recover from acts of terrorism. The SAA is the only entity eligible to apply for UASI funds. Operation Stonegarden (OPSG) – $55,000,000 total funding available in FY 2015. OPSG funds support enhanced coordination and cooperation among local, tribal, state and federal law enforcement agencies in a joint mission to secure the United States’ borders. The SAA is the only entity eligible to apply to FEMA for OPSG funds. Eligible local government agencies can apply for OPSG funds through their SAA. Urban Areas Security Initiative Nonprofit Security Grant Program (NSGP) – $13,000,000 total funding available in FY 2015 to support security enhancements at nonprofit organizations that are at high risk of a terrorist attack and are located within a UASI-designated eligible urban area, such as the New York City Area. The SAA is the only entity eligible to apply to FEMA for NSGP funds on behalf of eligible nonprofit organizations Port Security Grant Program (PSGP) – $100,000,000 total funding available in FY 2015 to support maritime transportation infrastructure security activities. PSGP is a risk based grant program, with funding divided among port authorities, facility operators, and state and local government agencies that are required to provide port security services. Nassau County was awarded $1,425,095 in PSGP funding in FY 2014. Transit Security Grant Program (TSGP) – $87,000,000 total funding available in FY 2015 to support transportation infrastructure security activities. Eligible applicants include the Metropolitan Transit Authority (MTA), the New York City Department of Transportation, and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. Intercity Bus Security Grant Program – $3,000,000 total funding available in FY 2015 to help create sustainable programs to protect intercity bus systems and the traveling public from terrorism. Eligible applicants include owners and operators of fixed route intercity and charter buses that serve UASI jurisdictions, such as the New York City area. Tribal Homeland Security Grant Program – $10,000,000 total funding available in FY 2015 to help tribes strengthen their capacity to prevent, respond to and recover from potential terrorist attacks and other hazards. ###
04.01.2015	GARDEN CITY, NY — U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice released the following statement today after PSEG Long Island held a public meeting to discuss the replacement of a damaged underground high-powered utility transmission cable in Garden City. PSEG officials announced at the meeting that after hearing the concerns of residents and elected officials, they have abandoned plans to replace the underground cable with a power line strung atop 79-foot poles along Commercial Avenue, and now intend to keep the new cable underground. The announcement comes days after Rep. Rice joined Town of Hempstead Supervisor Kate Murray and Garden City residents to protest the initial plan and urge PSEG to bury the new cable below ground. Statement from U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice: “I’m pleased that PSEG has listened to our concerns and decided to do the right thing,” said Rep. Rice. “If we learned anything from Sandy, it’s that we need to be making it a priority to harden our infrastructure. We need to be making smart investments in resiliency and emergency preparedness, not trying to cut costs when it comes to the security of our communities. We made that very clear to PSEG and I appreciate the fact that they listened.” ###
03.25.2015	WASHINGTON – At a House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity legislative hearing yesterday, U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice’s BRAVE Act (H.R. 1382) received the support of several major veterans organizations, including Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), the American Legion, and Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA). The bill is now scheduled to be marked up by the Subcommittee on April 16, 2015. The BRAVE Act (Boosting Rates of American Veteran Employment) is the first bill Rice has introduced since she was sworn into office in January. The bipartisan legislation authorizes the VA to give preference to companies with high concentrations of veteran employees when awarding VA contracts, which would provide an advantage to companies that actively hire veterans and create an incentive for other companies to do the same. Rice’s lead Republican sponsor is Rep. Paul Cook (R-CA), and their cosponsors include Reps. Mark Takano (D-CA), Aumua Amata Coleman Radewagen (R-American Samoa), Ann McLane Kuster (D-NH), Ralph Abraham (R-LA) and John Garamendi (D-CA). Testifying before the Subcommittee yesterday, VFW Deputy Legislative Director Aleks Morosky said, “The VFW supports the BRAVE Act, which would allow the VA to give preference to prospective contractors based on the percentage of veterans their companies employ. Such a policy would potentially incentivize companies to hire more veterans. The VFW believes that such incentives are still necessary, in light of the fact that the unemployment rate for current-era veterans continues to outpace that of the nation at-large.” The American Legion submitted written testimony in support of the bill, noting that they believe the BRAVE Act will accomplish what previous attempts at imposing additional data-collection and reporting requirements on government contractors have tried to do. “This bill would again ask private industry to shoulder this ‘burdensome’ task. But this time, instead of forcing contracting firms to report on veteran hires, the bill incentivizes them to undertake additional veteran employee counting requirements on a voluntary basis. More importantly, this bill will spur the hiring of veterans into coveted positions within these large government contractors. We are pleased that the bill only extends the count to veterans on staff at the time of the proposal and does not include contingent hires, because government still lacks the capability of tracking whether a bid-winner makes all their prospective contingent hires. Resolution 334 states that The American Legion will support legislation ensuring that veterans receive employment preference from employers who receive grants and contracts from the federal government.” In a written letter of support, IAVA Founder and Executive Director Paul Rieckhoff said the BRAVE Act “will promote federal business opportunities for companies that provide veterans with meaningful jobs. IAVA believes veterans deserve quality employment opportunities. This legislation will promote and reward companies that step up and make the smart choice to invest in hiring veterans. We are proud to offer our support.” “I’m grateful to these organizations for their support and for everything they do to serve American veterans,” said Rep. Kathleen Rice. “The employment rate among post-9/11 veterans is still lagging behind that of the overall population. That’s completely unacceptable, and the way to change it is by making companies recognize that hiring veterans isn’t just the right thing to do – it’s a smart investment. The BRAVE Act will help accomplish that, and I look forward to working with these organizations and my colleagues in Congress to get it passed.” Rice’s opening statement from yesterday’s Subcommittee hearing is available here. ###
03.24.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice joined a bipartisan coalition of 367 House Members in signing a letter to President Obama highlighting their concerns over issues that have arisen in the ongoing negotiations with Iran. Led by House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce and Ranking Member Eliot Engel, the letter insists that any final comprehensive agreement concerning Iran’s nuclear program must be long-lasting, must constrain Iran’s nuclear infrastructure so as to eliminate the path to a bomb, and must include an aggressive inspection and verification regime allowing for short notice access to suspect locations. The letter also asserts that if an agreement were to be reached, Congress must be convinced that its terms completely eliminate the path to a nuclear weapon before they would consider new legislation to allow permanent relief from congressionally-mandated sanctions. The signed letter is available here. “This bipartisan letter makes it clear that Congress will not consider easing sanctions against Iran unless the Iranians agree to a deal that unequivocally eliminates their path to a bomb,” said Congresswoman Kathleen Rice. “I sincerely hope that negotiators can reach such a deal, but if not, Congress is united in our commitment to stand firm and maintain the aggressive economic pressure that brought Iran to the table in the first place.” ###
03.20.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representatives Tim Walz (D-MN) and Kathleen Rice (D-NY), members of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, today demanded that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) submit a complete report detailing what has led to the repeated delays and staggering cost overruns in the construction of the VA medical facility in Aurora, Colorado. VA officials testified at yesterday’s Subcommittee hearing that the project is now estimated to cost $1.73 billion, more than double the original estimate. Congress authorized $880 million for the project and would need to authorize an additional $830 million by mid-May to meet the new estimate. In a joint letter to Stella Fiotes, Executive Director of the VA’s Office of Construction and Facilities Management, Reps. Rice and Walz demanded that the Subcommittee receive more detailed information about what has caused the construction delays and cost overruns before Congress considers authorizing additional funds. Rice and Walz also requested that a complete report be submitted no later than one week from today. The letter is available here. “In the past few years, the estimated costs of this project have gone from $328 million to $600 million to $800 million and now to $1.73 billion, and meanwhile veterans in the area still have no hospital and no hope of seeing one anytime soon,” said Congresswoman Kathleen Rice. “Right now we have no reason to trust that any taxpayer funds put into this project will benefit veterans in need of quality health care. We need to know exactly what’s gone wrong and who is responsible, we need to know without a doubt that this mismanagement will not continue, and we need that information as soon as possible.” “This project is extremely troubling, and the American people deserve to know what happened, why it happened, and who’s responsible,” said Rep. Walz. “As someone who believes in the good work the VA does, the failure of this project is so frustrating because it plays into the narrative VA has written for itself over the last few months: a narrative of incompetence. A narrative of utter disregard to serve veterans and get things right. Put simply, a narrative of distrust, and it’s extremely disheartening. The VA needs to earn back the American people’s trust. They can start by explaining this project.” ###
03.16.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice (D-NY), a member of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs and the Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity, today introduced her first piece of legislation, a bipartisan bill that would increase rates of veteran employment at companies that receive federal contracts through the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The Boosting Rates of American Veteran Employment (BRAVE) Act would allow the Secretary of the VA to give preference to companies that have high concentrations of veteran employees when awarding VA contracts, which will reward companies that make it a priority to provide veterans with meaningful employment opportunities and incentivize other companies to do the same. The bill’s co-lead sponsor is U.S. Representative Paul Cook (R-CA), a combat veteran of the Vietnam War who retired after 26 years as a Colonel in the U.S. Marine Corps. Original co-sponsors include Veterans Affairs’ Committee members Rep. Ralph Abraham (R-LA), Rep. Ann McLane Kuster (D-NH), Rep. Aumua Amata Coleman Radewagen (R-American Samoa) and Rep. Mark Takano (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity. The BRAVE Act has also been endorsed by Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA). “We have to make it a priority, in government and in the private sector, to fully invest in our veterans, invest in their potential to use their unique training and experience to excel in the civilian workforce,” said Congresswoman Kathleen Rice. “We can start by making sure that companies receiving VA contracts are fully committed to veteran employment, and this bill will help accomplish that by rewarding contractors who actively hire veterans and by creating an incentive for others to do the same. It’s important to me that the first bill I’ve introduced has balanced bipartisan support, and I’m confident we can get it to a vote and get it passed.” Representative Cook said, “Although improvements have been made, post- 9/11 veterans still experienced higher unemployment rates in 2014 than the national average. It’s unacceptable that men and women who signed up to fight for their country are unable to find a job when they return home. I’m proud to introduce this bill with Representative Rice and address this problem head-on by incentivizing veteran employment.” The full text of the bill is available here. The Department of Veterans Affairs establishes long-term contracts with private businesses for medical equipment, supplies, services, and more. Currently, the VA gives preference for these contracts to veteran-owned small businesses, but not to businesses that actively employ veterans. The BRAVE Act would allow the VA to consider the proportion of veterans employed by a prospective contractor when awarding federal contracts. The VA is authorized for $19 billion in total procurement and contracting spending, so this bill would not induce any additional costs or burdens on the taxpayers. The bill provides oversight of VA contractors by requiring the debarment of any company that knowingly misrepresents the number or proportion of veterans they employ. ###
03.16.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded more than $2.6 million in federal disaster relief funds to the Lawrence Union Free School District for repairs to Lawrence High School in Cedarhurst, which was badly damaged by Hurricane Sandy and was forced to temporarily close after the storm. The federal funds, totaling $2,622,957.71, will cover 90 percent of the cost of building repairs, with the final 10 percent to be provided by the State. “The Lawrence High School community has worked hard to recover from Sandy and overcome the many challenges they’ve faced in the past two and a half years,” said Congresswoman Kathleen Rice. “Students and parents, teachers and school officials have stuck together, made tough decisions and stayed true to their mission of helping all students achieve their full potential. I’m glad these federal funds have been made available to help ease the budgetary burden that Sandy placed on the Lawrence School District, and I’ll keep working to ensure the district gets all the funding it needs to fully recover from the storm.” “As president of the Lawrence Board of Education I want to convey my sincere thanks to Congresswoman Kathleen Rice for her assistance in securing FEMA monies for the Lawrence School District,” said Lawrence School Board President Murray Forman. “These much needed and long-awaited federal funds will allow the district’s students to continue their upward trajectory of achievement in a safe and healthy environment.” ###
03.12.2015	WASHINGTON - U.S Representative Kathleen Rice released the following statement today in response to the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) announcement that they will conduct a complete review of all 144,000 flood insurance claims made by victims of Superstorm Sandy. Rice, who represents a Long Island district that suffered heavy damage during Sandy, has called repeatedly for a complete review of all claims to ensure that homeowners whose claims were improperly denied or underpaid can finally get the funds they deserve. Statement from Congresswoman Kathleen Rice: "More than two years after Sandy, too many victims are still fighting to get the funds they need to rebuild and come home to their communities. Too many legitimate claims have been denied or underpaid, too many people have been left feeling cheated by a program that they trusted to be there when they needed it. Reviewing all claims is simply the right thing to do. "As I've expressed to Administrator Fugate, in light of the widespread allegations of fraud and improper denials or underpayments, I believe it's appropriate to conduct an independent, external examination of the National Flood Insurance Program and FEMA's oversight processes so that we know exactly what went wrong and can prevent it in the future. But our priority now has to be ensuring that all Sandy victims finally get the funds they deserve, and I'm pleased that FEMA is doing what must be done." ###
03.06.2015	Bipartisan coalition introduces legislation to close loopholes in the current background check system and help keep guns from criminals, domestic abusers and the dangerously mentally ill WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today joined a bipartisan coalition of U.S. House members to introduce new legislation that would expand the existing background check system to cover all commercial firearm sales, including those at gun shows, over the internet or in classified ads, while providing reasonable exceptions for family and friend transfers. H.R. 1217, officially titled the Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act of 2015, was authored by Reps. Mike Thompson (D-CA) and Peter King (R-NY). In addition to Rice, the bill’s coauthors include Reps. Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Pat Meehan (R-PA), Bob Dold, (R-IL), Bennie Thompson (D-MS), and Elizabeth Esty (D-CT). The bill was announced at a press conference today featuring Reps. Mike Thompson, Dold, Esty and Rice, as well as former Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords and Captain Mark Kelly, cofounders of Americans for Responsible Solutions. The full text of the bill is available here. “This bill is about taking common-sense steps to enforce current law,” said Rice. “Violent criminals, domestic abusers and people with dangerous mental disorders are already legally prohibited from buying guns, but we can’t enforce that when anyone can avoid a background check by going to a gun show or ordering online. As a former district attorney and lifelong prosecutor, I’ve held the hands of too many grieving mothers and fathers not to do anything I can to prevent gun violence, and this bill is an opportunity to do just that. It’s bipartisan, it’s common sense, and I urge all my colleagues to give it the support it deserves.” “This anti-criminal, pro-Second Amendment bill will help keep spouses, kids and communities safe by preventing dangerous people from getting guns,” said Mike Thompson. “Background checks are the first line of defense in our efforts to keep guns from criminals, domestic abusers and the dangerously mentally ill, and Congress should fortify that first line of defense by passing our bipartisan bill to close the system’s loopholes.” “There is no single law that can put an end to mass shootings or gun violence, but there are certainly proactive steps we can take to keep guns out of the hands of felons, domestic abusers, and the dangerously mentally ill. To that end, I have introduced bipartisan background check legislation called the King-Thompson Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act. My legislation extends the current background check system to all commercial sales. It also improves state and federal record keeping to strengthen the background check database (NICS), and authorizes a commission to examine incidents of mass violence in the U.S.,” said King. “When background checks are used, they keep guns out of the hands of people we all agree shouldn’t have guns. It is estimated that four out of 10 gun buyers do not go through a background check when purchasing a firearm – meaning those with criminal records can easily bypass the system. As government officials it is our responsibility to protect our citizens, and when it comes to gun violence we must do more. I will continue to push for action on background check legislation in Congress, and support efforts to reduce gun violence. The overwhelming majority of Americans want to see action, and we owe it to the victims and their families to prevent such tragedies from occurring again.” “This is a common-sense, bipartisan proposal that creates a comprehensive system for background checks while not infringing on constitutional rights. This measure – as well as efforts to end straw purchases and ensure that the dangerously mentally ill cannot lawfully get access to a gun – have my full support,” said Fitzpatrick. “A stronger background check system on commercial sales will make our communities safer and help keep guns out of the hands of people who shouldn’t have them,” said Meehan. “This legislation will help save lives while protecting the rights of law-abiding Americans.” "As a strong supporter of the Second Amendment and responsible gun ownership, I am proud to co-author this commonsense legislation that will help keep firearms out of the hands of criminals and the dangerously mentally ill. This bipartisan bill takes critical steps towards stemming gun violence in our communities and schools by closing loopholes in the system that all too often allow firearms to end up in the wrong hands. This is a critically important cause that transcends party lines, and I hope Congress and the President will move quickly to put this law on the books," said Dold. “This bill is a real commonsense approach to keeping our communities safe. As an avid hunter and gamer, I am pleased to co-sponsor legislation that keeps our communities safe without disruption to responsible gun owning citizens. I urge Congress to move quickly on the passage of this legislation and look forward to the benefits of this law,” said Bennie G. Thompson. “The current loopholes that allow criminals and the dangerously mentally ill to buy guns over the internet or at a gun show without a background check put our families at risk,” said Esty. “It’s time for Congress to listen to the voices of over 90 percent of Americans, including the majority of gun owners, and expand background checks to cover every commercial gun sale.” Under the legislation, the current background check system would be expanded to require comprehensive and enforceable background checks on all commercial gun sales, such as those made at gun shows, over the internet or through classified ads. Studies show that every day where background checks are used, the system stops more than 170 felons, some 50 domestic abusers, and nearly 20 fugitives from buying a gun. However, no system is in place to prevent these same prohibited purchasers from buying identical guns at a gun show, over the internet, or through a newspaper ad with no questions asked because background checks are not required for these kinds of sales. The King-Thompson bill closes these loopholes. The legislation also supports the Second Amendment rights of law-abiding gun owners. It bans the government from creating a federal registry and makes the misuse of records a felony, punishable by up to 15 years in prison. It provides reasonable exceptions for firearms transfers between family members, friends and hunting buddies. It allows active military personnel to buy guns in the state in which they are stationed. It permits interstate handgun sales from licensed dealers. And, under the bill, background checks would continue to be conducted in the same manner as they have for more than 40 years. The bill also help strengthen the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) by incentivizing states to improve reporting of criminals and the dangerously mentally ill and by directing future grant funds toward better record-sharing systems. The bill will reduce federal funds to states that do not comply. The King-Thompson legislation is identical to H.R. 1565, the background check legislation authored by the representatives in the 113th Congress. And it is identical to the bipartisan background checks bill authored by Senators Joe Manchin (D-WV) and Pat Toomey (R-PA) in the 113th Congress. The Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act of 2015 has been referred to the House Committee on the Judiciary and the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. ###
02.25.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice, a member of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, wrote a letter to President Obama today, urging him to take action to reverse last week’s decision by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to deny $250,000 in rental assistance vouchers to a Long Island non-profit organization that provides independent housing, on-site caseworkers and comprehensive care to homeless military veterans and their families. Last fall, the non-profit organization Concern for Independent Living, which operates the Liberty Village facility in North Amityville, NY, opened the facility’s doors to 30 homeless military veterans and their families while HUD considered the application for rental assistance vouchers. The application was initially approved, but that decision was reversed last week after HUD determined that because the veterans had already moved into the facility, they were no longer technically homeless. Rice’s letter is available here. “This decision makes no sense to me,” said Congresswoman Kathleen Rice. “The men and women who operate Liberty Village could have told these homeless veterans and their families to wait until the money came through, but they didn’t – they took them in and gave them the housing and support and stability they needed. To now deny this organization the funding they need to continue their mission because of a technicality not only jeopardizes the facility’s future – it undermines the efforts of all those who dedicate their lives to serving the men and women who served our country. “Reversing this misguided decision is an opportunity to have a direct and immediate impact on the lives of 30 military veterans, plus many more in the future if Liberty Village has the freedom and funding they need to continue their mission and serve as a model for others to follow. President Obama has repeatedly expressed his commitment to ending veteran homelessness in America, and I believe that commitment is sincere, so I trust that he’ll give this matter the personal attention it deserves." ###
02.24.2015	Washington—With the Department of Homeland Security funding set to expire in four days, Reps. Steve Israel (D-Huntington), Joe Crowley (D-Queens, the Bronx), Hakeem Jeffries (D-Brooklyn) and Kathleen Rice (D-Garden City) demanded that House Republicans put politics aside and join Democrats in passing a clean Department of Homeland Security (DHS) funding bill. DHS funding is set to expire at midnight on Saturday, February 28th, resulting in approximately 30,000 employee furloughs and a halt in crucial research and development on counterterrorism measures. Aside from these furloughs, thousands of essential employees tasked with protecting American lives will be forced to remain on the job without pay. The Members reiterated the disastrous effects a lapse in DHS funding will have on New York, including pending local homeland security grants, and urged Republicans to join them in supporting a clean funding bill, which could pass immediately if House Republicans allowed it to be brought to a vote. Rep. Israel said, “Republicans are flirting with literal disaster by letting a faction of their caucus hold the security of the American people hostage. Given the recent attacks in Europe and the increased threat on the United States, it would be unconscionable to shut down DHS at a time when we need it most. Thousands of New Yorkers tasked with keeping us safe will have to go to work and not collect a pay check when funding runs out because of a dangerous and derisive political strategy. I refuse to stand idly by as my constituents are used as pawns in a reckless political game; instead, Republicans should join Democrats in immediately passing a clean funding bill to show our enemies that we are united in keeping Americans safe.” “The clock is ticking, and if Republicans succeed at shutting down the Department of Homeland Security, the impact will be felt far and wide -- including right here in New York City. Sadly, we New Yorkers are no strangers to terrorism, and shutting down DHS puts at risk federal grants that fund a wide range of anti-terrorism programs that help the NYPD, FDNY, Port Authority, and other agencies prevent, prepare for, and respond to threats against our city,” said Rep. Joe Crowley. “I was proud to help start the Urban Area Security Initiative that forms the backbone of federal-state cooperation on defending major urban areas, so to see Republican leaders flippantly dismiss real security concerns is deeply frustrating. Republican leaders are playing with fire by refusing to fund DHS, and New York had better not get burned. It doesn’t have to be this way – there is still time for Republicans to do the right thing and fund the very agency that’s trusted to protect the American people.” Rep. Jeffries said, “Once again, the GOP is taking our nation on a collision course that will damage the safety and security of the American people at a time when terrorists across the world are determined to do us harm. It is reckless and irresponsible. The American people want us to focus on bigger pay checks, good-paying jobs and strengthening the middle class. Let’s get back to doing the business of the American people and fund the Department of Homeland Security.” “Defunding the agency that maintains our national security is not responsible governance," said Rep. Kathleen Rice. "The responsible thing to do is to fully fund DHS by passing a new bill with no political add-ons. There are plenty of people on the other side of the aisle who agree - enough that we could pass a bill today and give DHS the funding and certainty they need to do their jobs. So let's be reasonable and responsible and pass a new bill. That's what the American people expect and that's what they deserve." If DHS funding expires, approximately 30,000 homeland security personnel are projected to be furloughed. In addition more than 50,000 essential TSA aviation security screeners will report to work without pay, including 1,037 based at LaGuardia and 2,022 based at JFK Airport. If passed, a clean spending bill would fully fund the DHS through the fiscal year. ###
02.10.2015	Sandy Destroyed A Significant Number of Vehicles & Other Parts of the City of Long Beach’s Transit System, Including Many Buses, Which Seriously Hindered the Ability of Local Residents To Travel Safely & With Ease Through the Community Schumer, Gillibrand, Rice Announce Over $2.7M Through FTA Sandy Emergency Relief Funds to Replace 8 Buses & Vehicles in Their Fleet of 11 Total The City of Long Beach Has Purchased These Vehicles & Will Now Be Reimbursed With These Federal Funds, A Huge Relief For the City & Its Taxpayers U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten E. Gillibrand and Congresswoman Kathleen Rice today announced over $2.7 million in Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Sandy Emergency relief funds to the City of Long Beach for the purchase of 8 buses and vehicles that play an integral role in its public transit system. Superstorm Sandy destroyed a large portion of the system’s 11-vehicle fleet. This funding will reimburse the City for the replacement of four 35 ft buses, one 30 ft bus, and three 30 ft. paratransit buses. In addition, the funding will go towards the purchase of security cameras for paratransit buses. Overall, this project costs just over $3 million, and Schumer, Gillibrand and Rice said that this federal funding covers 90% of that total cost. “Superstorm Sandy crushed the City of Long Beach, and unfortunately the transit buses that so many residents rely on were not spared,” said Senator Schumer. “I am pleased that the Federal Transit Administration will award over $2.7 million to the City, in order to fund the replacement of 8 buses that are critical to the ease and safety with which residents travel throughout the community.” “This is such an important investment for the Long Beach community,” said Senator Gillibrand. “Public transportation was damaged during Superstorm Sandy and the city had to replace several buses. This funding will ensure those extra costs don’t fall entirely on Long Beach taxpayers and commuters who rely on the bus to get to work every day.” “More than two years after Sandy, the City of Long Beach is still fighting to recover, and residents are still fighting to rebuild their homes and return to life as they knew it before the storm,” said Congresswoman Kathleen Rice. “Restoring the public bus system is a major part of that recovery, and I’m glad the Federal Transit Administration stepped up to provide this critical support so that residents can get to and from work and travel freely throughout their community.” "We are thrilled to be receiving this important reimbursement, and we sincerely appreciate the support of our congressional delegation," said City Council President Anthony Eramo. "This reimbursement has helped cover the cost expended by the City to replace several buses we lost in Superstorm Sandy." The federal Department of Transportation’s FTA provides $2,745,841.00 through this award to the City of Long Beach. The City of Long Beach has 11 fixed-route buses, which local residents, including many handicapped residents, rely on. This federal funding is critical in order to ensure that the system is up-and-running at full capacity. ###
02.05.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice is an original cosponsor of the Disaster Assistance Recoupment Fairness Act of 2015, which was introduced in the House today by Congressman Frank Pallone. Rice’s Long Island district was severely damaged during Superstorm Sandy, and victims are still working to rebuild their homes and businesses. Many victims who received Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) disaster relief grants, and used those funds to rebuild, have now learned that they received overpayments, and FEMA has demanded that these funds be repaid. The Disaster Assistance Recoupment Fairness Act of 2015 would require FEMA to forgive the debts of those who received overpayments as a result of an honest mistake or an administrative error on the part of the government. “It’s appropriate and important that FEMA do all it can to eliminate fraud, waste and abuse of taxpayer dollars, but that’s not what we’re talking about here,” said Congresswoman Kathleen Rice. “We’re talking about people who had their homes destroyed and their lives turned upside down by Sandy. People who needed help. They may have made an honest mistake during the overwhelming and confusing application process, or else received an overpayment through no fault of their own. Either way, they can’t afford to be forced into debt after they’ve already used these funds to rebuild their homes, and this legislation will ensure that they don’t have to.” ###
02.04.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice, Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security, released the following statement today, following yesterday’s subcommittee hearing on access controls at our nation’s airports. The hearing was convened following recent incidents of airport and airline employees bringing prohibited items into secure areas of airports, including the December arrest of five individuals, one of them an airline employee, charged with smuggling guns onto commercial flights from Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport to New York’s John F. Kennedy Airport. Statement from Representative Kathleen Rice: “We had a very productive first hearing yesterday and began a frank, constructive dialogue aimed at correcting what we all agree is a severe vulnerability in our nation’s aviation security system. I look forward to the next hearing and to reading the recommendations in the Aviation Security Advisory Committee’s report when it’s completed, but I think we can already see at least three issues that clearly need to be addressed. “Number one, we need to beef up employee screening. If an airline employee can get 153 guns into an airport and onto a plane, the current system isn’t cutting it. A passenger or an employee who works at the gate wouldn't get away with that, because they have to go through metal detectors. I think we need to seriously consider requiring the same measure for airline and airport employees who have access to secure areas. “Number two, I think we need a requirement under the law that local law enforcement agencies notify federal law enforcement agencies any time an airport or airline employee is the subject of an ongoing criminal investigation. “Number three, a ten year ‘look back’ period for employee criminal background checks is not enough. Criminal background checks should cover at least 20 years, if not more, and they should be recurring, not performed only at the time of hire. That’s just common-sense, and I see no reason why we can’t make those changes.” ###
01.29.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice today announced the application periods for Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response (SAFER) grants and Fire Prevention & Safety (FPS) grants. The SAFER grant program will provide $340 million directly to fire departments to help rehire firefighters who were laid off during the recession and maintain safe staffing levels. The FPS grant program will provide $34 million to support fire prevention and safety activities and firefighter safety research and development activities. Further information about the grants and application periods can be found below the statement from Representative Rice. Statement from Representative Kathleen Rice: “As our economy continues to recover, it’s crucial that we support local fire departments as they work to rehire firefighters who were laid off during the recession, recruit new firefighters and maintain safe staffing levels,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “These SAFER and FPS grants will fund activities that make our communities safer and help protect the heroic men and women who risk their lives to protect us. I urge all eligible departments and organizations in our district to apply. You can contact our office for assistance with the application process, and we’ll do everything we can to fight for the funds you need.” The Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response (SAFER) grant program will provide $340 million directly to fire departments and volunteer firefighter support groups for the purpose of increasing the number of frontline firefighters, rehiring firefighters who were laid off during the recession, and recruiting and retaining new firefighters. The application period for SAFER grants will begin on MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9TH and will close on MARCH 6TH. For more information on SAFER grants and the application process, visit: https://www.fema.gov/staffing-adequate-fire-emergency-response-grants DHS’s Fire Prevention & Safety (FPS) grant program will provide $34 million for fire prevention and safety activities, as well as firefighter safety research and development activities. Eligible applicants for fire prevention and safety activities include fire departments and national, regional, state, local, Native American tribal organizations and/or community organizations with experience and expertise in fire prevention and safety programs. Eligible applicants for research and development activities include national, regional, state and local organizations, such as academic, public health, occupational health and injury prevention institutions, especially those that are recognized for their experience and expertise in firefighter safety research and development programs or whose applications demonstrate strong research and development experience and expertise with potential to improve firefighter safety. The application period for FPS grants will begin on MONDAY, MARCH 16TH and will close on APRIL 17TH. For more information on FPS and the application process, visit: http://www.fema.gov/fire-prevention-safety-grants If you have questions about the grant programs or would like assistance preparing and submitting your application, please contact Steven Coyle: Steven.Coyle@mail.house.gov; (202) 225-5516.
01.21.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice released the following statement today in response to Governor Cuomo’s announcement that he will work to raise the age of adult criminal responsibility in New York State. Rice, who was recently sworn in to her first term in Congress, previously served as the District Attorney of Nassau County, NY, and has been a vocal supporter of the Raise the Age campaign. Statement from Rep. Kathleen Rice: “I’m very pleased that Governor Cuomo has announced his commitment to raise the age in New York,” said Rep. Kathleen Rice. “Most 16 year old kids don’t think and act as adults, and prosecuting and incarcerating all of them as adults only exacerbates the cycle of recidivism and denies them the opportunity to turn their lives around and make a positive contribution to our communities. I thank Governor Cuomo for his leadership on this issue and I urge all state lawmakers from both parties to support the legislation he has proposed.” ###
01.21.2015	WASHINGTON – Representative Kathleen Rice was appointed today to the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. Rice, the former District Attorney of Nassau County, NY, helped create Nassau’s Veterans Court and has been a vocal advocate for more proactive, comprehensive support for Long Island’s veteran population, which is one of the largest in the nation. Rice has also been appointed to the House Committee on Homeland Security, and last week was named Ranking Democratic Member on the Subcommittee on Transportation Security. “Serving our veterans is one issue that must always be above politics and partisanship,” said Rep. Kathleen Rice. “We have a lot of challenges to take on in the next two years. We have to make crucial reforms at the VA to ensure that veterans get the benefits, support and comprehensive care that they’ve earned. We have to be more proactive in connecting new veterans with the services they need as they transition to civilian life, and we have to fully invest in their unique potential to contribute to our economy. I look forward to taking on these challenges with my fellow Committee members and taking bipartisan action to better serve veterans on Long Island and across the country. It’s not only the right thing to do – it’s also a Homeland Security priority, because we can’t expect anyone to risk their lives for our country unless they see that we fulfill our commitment to our heroes when they complete their service.” ###
01.15.2015	LONG BEACH, NY – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice held a press conference with local officials in Long Beach today to express their opposition to the proposed Port Ambrose liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminal, which would be constructed 17 nautical miles off the coast of Jones Beach. The event was Rice’s first public appearance in the fourth congressional district since she was sworn in earlier this month to her first term in Congress. Rice was joined today by NYS Assemblyman Todd Kaminsky, Nassau County Legislator Denise Ford, Long Beach City Council President Anthony Eramo, Long Beach City Council Vice President Len Torres, Long Beach City Councilmembers Fran Adelson and Eileen Goggin, and Long Beach City Manager Jack Schnirman. “We’re here today to show that we’re united against this project,” said Rep. Kathleen Rice. “We’ve heard the outcry from community members who feel excluded and ignored, and we’re making their voices heard. Last week I wrote a letter to Governor Cuomo urging him to veto this proposal, because our communities can’t afford the environmental risks that come with it. We can’t afford the added burden that would come with it when we’re still recovering from Superstorm Sandy. This project does not reflect our priorities. We want to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and lead the transition to clean, renewable energy. We want to invest in wind and solar power and create good green jobs and new economic opportunities here on Long Island. Those are our priorities.” Rice’s letter to Governor Cuomo is available here: Rice.LNGLetter.pdf. “This project jeopardizes the health, safety and security of the coastal communities in my district and threatens the marine environment that defines those communities,” Assemblyman Todd Kaminsky said. “I urge Gov. Cuomo to use his veto power to stop this proposal in order to protect our communities and to preserve our shore for generations to come. Additionally, it is absurd that the LNG facility would be closer to our community than its public hearing was. I call on the USCG and MARAD to hold additional public comment hearings in the communities that this project will impact the most," Assemblyman Kaminsky said. "The time has come for us to invest in a robust renewable energy infrastructure,” said Long Beach City Council President Anthony Eramo. “We need to move away from fossil fuels and our dependency on them. Our children and grandchildren are counting on us." “I am asking Governor Cuomo to hear the voices of those in opposition to the LNG Terminal and join us in saying ‘NO!’” said Nassau County Legislator Denise Ford. ###
01.14.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice, who was appointed earlier this week to the House Committee on Homeland Security, was named today as the Ranking Democratic Member on the Subcommittee on Transportation Security. Rice, a former federal prosecutor and district attorney, was recently sworn into her first term representing New York’s fourth congressional district. “I’m honored to serve as the Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Transportation Security,” said Rep. Kathleen Rice. “With the Long Island Railroad running through the heart of our district and two major airports right nearby, we have a unique interest in securing our transportation systems and doing everything we can to protect passengers and prevent acts of terrorism. Last week’s attacks in France are only the latest reminder that we’re facing very real threats right now, and we know transportation systems are always prime targets. So we’ve got a lot of work to do and I’m eager to get started.” Rice was also appointed today to serve on the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Response and Communications. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement announcing the Ranking Members and Democratic roster: “I am proud to announce an impressive slate of members from across the country for the Democratic roster of our Committee this Congress. The depth of experience and diversity in backgrounds that our members bring to the table will most certainly enhance the effectiveness of the Committee, as we work to help keep this country safe and secure. I am also confident that our new Ranking Members will bring leadership and thoughtfulness to the work of their subcommittees as they drill down on the broad array of issues that confront the Department of Homeland Security each and every day.” Below is the complete list of subcommittee Ranking Members and the new Democratic members of the Committee for the 114th Congress. Subcommittee Ranking Members: Border and Maritime Security – Rep. Filemon Vela (D-TX) Counterterrorism and Intelligence - Rep. Brian Higgins (D-NY) Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection & Security Technologies – Rep. Cedric L. Richmond (D-LA) Emergency Preparedness, Response & Communications - Rep. Donald M. Payne, Jr. (D-NJ) Oversight and Management Efficiency - Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) Transportation Security - Rep. Kathleen Rice (D-NY) Democratic Members (12): Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) Rep. Loretta Sanchez (D-CA) Rep. Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-TX) Rep. James R. Langevin(D-RI) Rep. Brian Higgins (D-NY) Rep. Cedric L. Richmond (D-LA) Rep. William R. Keating (D-MA) Rep. Donald M. Payne, Jr. (D-NJ) Rep. Filemon Vela (D-TX) Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) Rep. Kathleen Rice (D-NY) Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) ###
01.12.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Kathleen Rice (NY-4) released the following statement today on the need for enhanced security in the fourth district's Jewish communities in response to last week’s terrorist attacks in France and rising anti-Semitic sentiments around the world. Rice, who on Friday was nominated to serve on the House Committee on Homeland Security, represents a district with one of the largest Jewish and Orthodox Jewish populations of any congressional district in the country. Representative Kathleen Rice Statement: “I commend the French government for deploying additional security forces to Jewish schools and other potential targets of anti-Semitic violence, and I’m praying for peace and safety during this terrifying time for the French people and especially France’s Jewish community. Last week’s attacks are a tragic and chilling reminder that anti-Semitism remains a very real threat in the modern world, and we must be united and unwavering in our opposition to it. “I’ve been in communication with local law enforcement and members of our district’s Jewish community to ensure that the appropriate measures are taken to enhance security in the Five Towns, protect our schools, grocery stores and business districts and provide residents with a sense of safety at this time of fear and uncertainty. I urge everyone to remain alert and report any suspicious activity to the proper authorities."
01.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice (NY-4) today was named a Vice Chair of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. Rice, who formerly served as a federal prosecutor and as District Attorney of Nassau County, NY, was elected to replace retiring Rep. Carolyn McCarthy, one of the task force’s original vice chairs. The House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, chaired by Rep. Mike Thompson (CA-5), was formed after the December 14, 2012 mass-shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, CT. In February, 2013, the task force announced a comprehensive set of policy recommendations designed to reduce gun violence while respecting the Second Amendment rights of law-abiding Americans. Their complete report is available here. “As a former prosecutor, Kathleen Rice has a unique understanding of the importance of reducing gun violence,” said Chairman Thompson. “She knows that we must uphold the rights of law-abiding citizens to own guns while also recognizing the importance of keeping guns out of the hands of criminals and domestic abusers. I look forward to working with Congresswoman Rice, and I am glad to have her law enforcement perspective at our leadership table.” “I’m proud to join this task force,” said Rep. Kathleen Rice. “I come to this issue from a law enforcement perspective. I’m not out to restrict any law-abiding citizen’s right to own a gun – I want to keep guns away from people who aren’t legally allowed to have them by closing the loopholes that allow violent criminals, domestic abusers and people with dangerous mental illnesses to avoid background checks. I’m eager to work with my fellow task force members to get this done.” The 11 Vice Chairs for the 114th Congress are: • Rep. Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) • Rep. Chaka Fattah (PA-2) • Robin Kelly (IL-2) • Rep. Grace Napolitano (CA-38) • Rep. Rick Nolan (MN-8) • Rep. Ed Perlmutter (CO-7) • Rep. David Price (NC-4) • Rep. Kathleen Rice (NY-4) • Rep. Bobby Scott (VA-3) • Rep. Jackie Speier (CA-12) • Rep. Bennie Thompson (MS-2) ###
01.06.2015	U.S. Representative Kathleen Rice was sworn in as a Member of the United States House of Representatives by House Speaker John Boehner on January 6th, 2015. The Honorable Kathleen Rice was elected to serve as representative of New York’s 4th Congressional District. Representative Kathleen Rice was added to the rolls of the House upon executing the oath of office.
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
