02.05.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – On Tuesday, February 5, Congressman David Price (D-NC), a conferee on the bipartisan, bicameral Conference Committee on Homeland Security and a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the statement below following the President’s State of the Union address. Kenneth Krebs, a chemist at the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) facility in Research Triangle Park (RTP) and the Vice President of the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE) Local 3347 attended the State of the Union Address with Congressman Price after being furloughed due to the Trump Shutdown. “In tonight’s State of the Union address, the nation heard President Trump, once again, deliver a hollow pledge for unity while employing lies, fear, and division to manufacture a political crisis. As we have repeatedly and unfortunately learned over the last two years, the President’s scripted remarks are often followed by unhinged twitter rants and a discriminatory agenda that undermines our collective values and further divides our nation. “The 35-day Trump Shutdown showed us that the President is willing to use federal workers—including my guest for tonight’s address—as pawns in his political game. After baseless demands, tantrums, and desperate pleas, the shutdown ended with no real progress on border security, but left hundreds of thousands of federal employees without two paychecks. We are now faced with a looming deadline of February 15 to fund the government and prevent another meaningless shutdown or a false emergency declaration by the President of questionable legality. As a member of the conference committee tasked with negotiating a solution to this crisis, I remain committed to a good faith negotiation toward a border security plan that relies on smart, effective solutions, rather than bluster and political brinksmanship based around the notion of a useless wall. “While President Trump once again chose fear and division as his preferred path, House Democrats will continue to advance an agenda that moves our nation forward in a united way.” ###
02.04.2019	WASHINGTON, DC - On Tuesday, February 5, Congressman David Price (D-NC) will attend the 2019 State of the Union address with Kenneth Krebs, a chemist at the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) facility in Research Triangle Park (RTP) and the Vice President of the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE) Local 3347. AFGE Local 3347 represents nearly one thousand bargaining unit members at the EPA facility in RTP, North Carolina. Many Local 3347 employees were furloughed or working without pay during the Trump Shutdown and actively called on the Trump administration to end it immediately. “President Trump’s reckless and irresponsible government shutdown impacted hundreds of thousands of public servants nationwide, including North Carolinians like Kenneth Krebs, whose lifesaving environmental research at the EPA facility in RTP was put on hold,” said Congressman Price. “I’m pleased Kenneth could join me at this year’s State of the Union to send a clear message to the Trump administration that federal employees’ paychecks shouldn’t be held hostage.” As Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee and former Chair of the Homeland Security Appropriations Committee, Congressman Price has been named a conferee on the bipartisan, bicameral conference committee negotiating homeland security priorities during the three week continuing resolution. Congressman Price and Kenneth Krebs will be available for media interviews upon request. Media outlets interested in media availability should reach out to Sawyer Hackett at sawyer.hackett@mail.house.gov. Kenneth Krebs has been a chemist with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for twenty-one years. He has focused on developing methods to measure organic compounds in air. He has used these methods to model emissions of organic compounds from various sources, including: consumer products (such as microwave popcorn and indoor paints), industrial and commercial processes (such as photocopying), and combustion sources (from candles to municipal waste incinerators). These emission models are used to assess potential human exposures to compounds. Mr. Krebs’ research has informed numerous EPA rules and regulations, strengthening our ability to protect human health and environment. Mr. Krebs is the Vice President of Local 3347 of the American Federation of Government Employees representing nearly one thousand bargaining unit members of the EPA in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. As such, he was active during the shutdown, working to get the government back open. Mr. Krebs is also involved with community outreach efforts through both the EPA and the American Chemical Society. This outreach is to raise public awareness and understanding of environmental issues. ###
01.31.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Jan. 30, 2019) - On Wednesday, January 30, 2019, Congressman David Price (D-N.C.) delivered the following opening remarks at the FY19 Homeland Security Conference Committee. The remarks can be viewed here: https://www.c-span.org/video/?457339-1/house-senate-lawmakers-begin-negotiations-border-security-funding Remarks as prepared. "I am here today as a member of the House Appropriations Committee, but also as a former Chair of the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee from 2007 – 2010. During those years, Congress worked together to make bipartisan investments in border security and technology—which included hundreds of miles of pedestrian and vehicular fencing along our nation’s southern border. As part of that effort, we required the Department to provide segment-by-segment analyses and cost-benefit analyses. We asked, “Is this this proposed barrier the most cost-effective way to secure the border?” and “How much measurable impact do we buy with one kind of investment versus another?” We also required environmental impact studies and a number of fence relocations to ensure minimal disruption of American communities on the border, including ranchers and other landowners. So what has changed since those years? First, conditions on the border have changed. Because of the work we did years ago, we have already built nearly 700 miles of fencing on our nation’s border. Whatever the President may say, it is far from an “open border.” Meanwhile, the numbers of undocumented migrants crossing our border or attempting to cross remain at historic lows. We also have a very different type of migrant coming to our country. In 2008, we had an influx of single migrants crossing the border looking for jobs and employment opportunities. Today, we are increasingly dealing with people fleeing humanitarian crises in Central America, and they are proactively seeking out our Border Patrol agents to turn themselves in. A fence is irrelevant to their situation. Thirdly, there is a different mix of border security needs and available technologies—particularly regarding our ports of entry and Coast Guard operations. I hope we can explore them thoroughly, understanding that border security is about more than a physical barrier, and homeland security is about more than border security. We must set out priorities and make difficult tradeoffs because we are operating within budget caps. We must make the difficult choices and do so without “emergency” funding or budgetary gimmicks. I look forward to working with you all to come up with an agreement that funds smart, effective solutions for border security and for homeland security more broadly and that keeps the government open for business."
01.30.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, January 30, 2019, Congressman David Price (D-NC), Vice Chair of the House Democracy Reform Task Force, introduced legislation to overturn the U.S. Treasury Department’s controversial new decision that allows special interests—including foreign entities—to hide their major donors from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The legislation is a House companion to an identical Senate bill introduced by Senator Jon Tester of Montana and Ron Wyden of Oregon. Rep. Price’s legislation is endorsed by Common Cause. Democracy 21, and has the following original cosponsors: Rep. John Sarbanes (D-MD), Chair of the Democracy Reform Task Force, Jan Schakowsky (IL), Vice Chair, Barbara Lee (CA), Vice Chair, Salud Carbajal (CA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Tim Ryan (OH), John Garamendi (CA), and Anna Eshoo (CA). “At a time when our elections are plagued by unlimited corporate spending, anonymous donors, and illegal foreign meddling, the Trump administration’s decision to obscure millions in dark campaign money weakens our already failing campaign finance system and diminishes the power of voters,” said Congressman Price, Vice Chair of the House Democracy Reform Task Force. “I’m proud to introduce this legislation alongside Senator Tester and Senator Wyden to hold political groups accountable and shine a light on dark money in our elections.” “Our Founders pledged their lives, their liberty and their sacred honor to build a government of the many, not of the money,” said Speaker Nancy Pelosi. “Congressman David Price and the House Democracy Reform Task Force have been champions in the fight to bring transparency and accountability to our campaign finance laws, and restore the full promise of our democracy. By joining the Senate to overturn this dangerous IRS guidance, Democrats are taking action to strengthen the voices of the American people and end the self-enrichment, dark money and special interests that threaten our democratic institutions. Guided by the vision and values of our Members and the priorities of the American people, the new Democratic Majority introduced H.R. 1, the For The People Act, to restore integrity in Washington and ensure that our government works for the public interest, not the special interests.” “These dark money forces are a threat to our democracy and they must be reined in,” Senator Tester said. “This legislation sheds more light on the wealthy few who are trying to buy our elections and drown out the voices of regular folks. I am proud to work with Rep. Price to bring transparency and accountability back to political campaigns.” “The Trump administration’s pro-dark money rule allows foreign powers and special interests to spread their influence even deeper into our democracy, so it’s got to go before the next election,” Senator Wyden said. “In the closing days of the last Congress, the Senate passed a resolution on a bipartisan basis to overturn this corrupt dark money rule, but it came to a screeching halt in the Republican-controlled House. This time around, I hope more Senate Republicans will support this pro-sunshine legislation tossing out the dark money rule and dare Donald Trump to side with powerful insiders and foreign meddlers over American voters.” “With special interests, multi-national corporations, and hostile foreign actors spending hundreds of millions of dollars in secret money to try to influence our elections in recent years, the Trump Treasury Department’s decision this summer to eliminate disclosure requirements on tax forms for certain organizations makes zero sense,” said Aaron Scherb, director of legislative affairs at the non-partisan watchdog organization Common Cause. “We applaud Congressman Price for introducing a resolution to overturn this rule because Americans deserve to know who is trying to influence their votes and their voices.” “Democracy 21 strongly urges Representatives to support the CRA disapproval resolution sponsored by Representative David Price to invalidate the irresponsible Treasury Department rule that eliminates the existing requirement for nonprofit groups to disclose their donors to the IRS,” said Democracy 21 President Fred Wertheimer. “Under existing law foreign governments can contribute unlimited amounts to nonprofit groups that spend money to influence elections. The elimination of the requirement for these contributions to be disclosed to the IRS opens the door for foreign interests to illegally launder huge sums through nonprofit groups to influence our elections without the government being able to know it is going on. If the new Treasury rule is not eliminated, a massive dark money loophole will be opened in our laws for foreign individuals, foreign corporations and foreign corporations to illegally spend unlimited amounts of money to influence our elections. Any Representative who opposes the Price the disapproval resolution will be supporting a dangerous dark money loophole for illegal foreign money to be secretly laundered into our elections.” The Spotlight Act would reverse the Treasury Department decision to allow politically active non-profit organizations to avoid reporting certain donor information to the IRS. Spending by these organizations is often called "dark money" because these outside groups generally do not have to publicly disclose the sources of their funding. The Treasury Department’s decision to further weaken these requirements may increase the risk that these entities will serve as conduits for extremely wealthy individuals and foreign interests to influence elections. The full text of the legislation can be found HERE.
01.28.2019	RALEIGH, N.C. (Jan. 28, 2019) - On Monday, January 28, 2019, Congressman David Price (D-N.C.) issued the following statement after news that Dr. Everett Ward, President of St. Augustine’s University in Raleigh, announced he would retire this summer. “Since 2014, Dr. Everett Ward has served as a dedicated and passionate leader of St. Augustine’s University. I feel confident in asserting that there has never been a more devoted Falcon. Everett loves St. Augustine’s, feels deeply grateful for its role in his own formation, and has been determined to preserve that legacy for future generations. “He took on the presidency at a challenging time and has seen the school through a critical renewal of accreditation. His style of leadership has been uniquely personal. Walking through the campus with him, and seeing him greet students, faculty, and employees warmly, provides ample evidence of how much he cares and how much affection and goodwill he has earned. “I have known Everett Ward since he joined the North Carolina Democratic Party staff during my tenure as Chairman. He has shown great leadership in various arenas since that time, but found his true calling in serving his alma mater faithfully at a critical time. I join with thousands in the Raleigh and St. Augustine’s community in thanking Everett for his selfless service and wishing him well in his future endeavors.” ###
01.16.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Wednesday, January 16, 2019, House Appropriations Committee Chairwoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) announced the Democratic rosters and incoming Subcommittee Chairs for the House Appropriations Committee’s 12 subcommittees in the 116th Congress. Congressman David Price (D-NC) will serve as Chairman of the Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Committee, where he previously served as Ranking Member. Congressman Price will also serve as a senior member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs, and the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, where he previously served as Chairman and Ranking Member. “It’s my honor to continue serving on the Appropriations Committee in the 116th Congress alongside a full roster of talented and experienced members and under the leadership of Chairwoman Lowey,” said Congressman Price. “Under Democratic leadership, the Appropriations Committee is prepared to make the serious investments needed to help American families, businesses, and communities thrive. As the incoming Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, I look forward to working with both my Democratic and Republican colleagues, including Ranking Member Mario Diaz-Balart, to rebuild our broken infrastructure system, promote and invest in affordable housing, homeownership and community development, and conduct vigorous oversight of the Trump administration.” ###
01.16.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Wednesday, January 16, 2019, Congressman David Price (D-NC), Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement regarding House passage of a disaster relief bill that will provide $12 billion for communities struggling to rebuild from recent natural disasters. Rep. Price helped author provisions to boost funding for transportation and housing programs that will assist North Carolina and other states and territories recover from recent hurricanes, typhoons, wildfires, and volcano eruptions. “I’m pleased to work with my colleagues in the House and with Governor Cooper to secure this disaster relief funding to help North Carolinians rebuild in the wake of Hurricane Florence. These resources will address critical unmet needs in our state, and I remain hopeful the Senate will consider the package as soon as possible.” A summary of the legislation can be found here. Rep. Price’s remarks on the House floor are below: Congressman David Price General Debate Remarks H.R. 268, Disaster Supplemental January 16, 2019 Remarks as prepared for delivery. I rise in support of this legislation to provide $12 billion in critical disaster relief for North Carolina and other states recovering from devasting natural disasters. Last year, Hurricane Florence made landfall in the Carolinas with powerful storm surge, intense rainfall, and massive flooding. It displaced thousands of individuals, many of whom still have not returned to their damaged homes. Major interstates were closed for days and the City of Wilmington was completely cut off from the rest of the state. Dozens of communities in Eastern North Carolina—some also hit in 2016 by Hurricane Matthew—were entirely inundated for the second time in as many years. Meanwhile, other states like Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, and California have been hit by terrible hurricanes and wildfires. Puerto Rico and other territories continue to recover from powerful storms and typhoons. This legislation will ensure that the federal government remains an active partner in the recovery effort. It provides more than $1 billion in flexible funding for the Community Development Block Grant Disaster Recovery program, including resources for mitigation and resiliency projects. The bill would clear out a $1.5 billion backlog of emergency highway and bridge repair projects, and it provides additional supplemental funds for: Army Corps construction projects along our coasts and rivers Economic Development Administration grants for small businesses Crop and livestock assistance for farmers Nutrition assistance for the people of Puerto Rico Repairs at damaged military installations Grants to states to support health and education in disaster zones And other critical recovery activities. This legislation contains nearly all of the provisions that House Republicans put forward in their supplemental package late last year. It reflects bipartisan priorities and ensures that all American citizens, regardless of where they live, get the assistance they need to recover. Unfortunately, disaster assistance—including funding that has already been appropriated—will not be distributed to communities if the government remains closed. The Trump Shutdown has real consequences. The people of North Carolina and other states who have suffered from natural disasters cannot wait any longer. I urge my colleagues to support the disaster supplemental AND the Lowey amendment to temporarily re-open government that will be considered later this afternoon. You cannot have one without the other. It’s time for Congress—both Democrats and Republicans—to come together to end this shutdown. Thank you, and I yield back. ###
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), David E. Price (NC-04), and Alma Adams (NC-12), the Democratic members of North Carolina’s congressional delegation, today issued the following statement calling on Senate Republicans and President Trump to immediately act to end the government shutdown: “More than 7,000 North Carolinians who serve as federal employees are currently furloughed or working without pay because of President Trump’s petulant demands to build a border wall and Senate Republicans’ kowtowing to the President’s wishes over the needs of their constituents. These workers, many of them veterans, include essential national security and law-enforcement personnel, critical air traffic controllers and TSA agents, and hard-working employees responsible for ensuring tax returns are processed in an accurate and timely fashion, among other key services. “As the shutdown drags on into its third week, critical Hurricane Florence disaster relief funds cannot be disbursed to the state, federally-supported research at our local universities is now stalled, lines at major airports across the country are increasing every day, and housing for seniors, veterans, and the disabled is at risk. “The Democratic House has done its part – we have supported and passed numerous bipartisan funding bills to reopen the government, a number of which earlier passed the Senate overwhelmingly, before President Trump reversed course. It is time for our colleagues in the Senate to act. We call on Senate Majority Leader McConnell and Senate Republicans to stand up to President Trump and immediately hold a vote on the House-passed legislation to re-open the government, which is virtually identical to legislation that was supported by 92 Senators just a few months ago. It is time our government gets back to work for the American people.” ###
01.10.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Thursday, January 10, 2019, Congressman David Price (D-NC), Chair-designate for the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations Subcommittee, brought to the floor an appropriations bill to responsibly fund the Department of Transportation and Department of Housing and Urban Development. This legislation is one of four individual appropriations bills House Democrats will bring to the floor this week to restore critical government services to millions of American families, businesses, and communities that have been affected by the Trump Shutdown. “In addition to the hundreds of thousands of federal employees and their families who are furloughed or working without pay, millions of Americans and small businesses rely on essential government services and have been left in the cold thanks to the Trump Shutdown,” said Congressman Price. “I’m pleased to introduce legislation on behalf of House Democrats to reopen the Departments of Transportation and Housing and Urban Development, restore critical government services funded by these departments, and send a message to President Trump that it’s time to end this dangerous, destructive, and self-inflicted shutdown.” Because of the Trump Shutdown, some of the most important programs funded in the Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies bill have ground to a halt. In addition to concerns over possible evictions and severe slowdowns with certain Federal Housing Administration (FHA) loans, the shutdown has also led to other serious impacts: Health and Safety of Renters Put At Risk. HUD’s Real Estate Assessment Center is not conducting inspections in assisted housing units because of the government shutdown. These inspections are critical to ensure decent, safe, and sanitary housing. Vehicle Safety Activities Suspended. Because of the shutdown, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration has suspended data analysis and investigations into motor vehicle manufacturing defects. Recalls as a result of automotive defects will not occur. Reduces the Aviation Workforce. The FAA training academy in Oklahoma City is closed, slowing the training of new air traffic controllers, despite shortages of qualified staff nationwide. Additionally, FAA has suspended the issuance of airmen certificates which are mandatory for becoming a student, private, or commercial pilot; flight engineer, navigator, or attendant; or other aviation-related professions. FAA airmen certificates are required for the crew of international carriers that transit through the U.S. House Democrats’ bill, which is virtually identical to legislation that has already passed the Senate on a 92-6 vote, will reopen these Departments and stop some the worst impacts of the Trump Shutdown on families, businesses, and communities. The bill provides $71.4 billion in discretionary funding, $23.3 billion above the President’s budget request and $1.1 billion above the FY2018 enacted level. The total includes more than $17 billion in funding for new infrastructure projects, in addition to $49 billion for infrastructure from dedicated fuel and aviation taxes. It rejects President Trump’s deep cuts to Public and Indian Housing and Community Planning and Development. The bill also rejects President Trump’s proposed elimination of the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG), the HOME Investment Partnerships Program, and the Choice Neighborhood Initiative. ###
01.04.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Friday, January 4, 2019, Congressman David Price (D-NC) joined Speaker Pelosi and other House Democratic leaders in announcing the introduction of H.R. 1, the For the People Act, a sweeping package of reforms to strengthen our democracy and return political power to the American people. As a lifelong advocate for democratic and electoral reforms and as a Vice Chair of the House Democracy Reform Task Force, Rep. Price authored several provisions included in the package that would modernize the presidential public financing system, reduce the influence of Super PACs, and ensure that corporations and other groups disclose their top funders and take responsibility for political advertisements. The For the People Act offers transformational and comprehensive democracy reform legislation that follows through on Democrats’ promise to clean up the chaos and corruption in Washington; end the dominance of big money in politics; make it easier, not harder, to vote; eliminate extreme partisan gerrymandering; and ensure that politicians serve the public interest. It also strengthens ethics requirements for Members of Congress and the executive branch—including the divestment of business holdings that could represent a conflict of interest—and it would require presidential candidates to disclose their tax returns. “This November, the American people demanded that their elected representatives address the persistent and pervasive issues that plague our democracy,” said Congressman Price. “In an era where special interests, mega-donors, foreign actors, and other malicious groups drown out the voices of American voters, Washington can no longer afford to look the other way. I’m proud to stand alongside my colleagues in the new Democratic House majority to introduce sweeping legislation—including many provisions I authored—to overhaul our campaign finance system, increase voter participation, end extreme gerrymandering, and strengthen ethics rules governing our politics.” The following components of H.R. 1 reflect bills authored by Rep. Price during the 115th Congress: Public Financing for Campaigns - Modernizes the presidential public financing system and establishes a similar public matching system for congressional campaigns to empower small donors, encourage candidates from diverse backgrounds to run for office, and blunt the influence of special interests (Empower Act, H.R. 3954; We The People Democracy Reform Act, H.R. 3848). Cracks Down on Super PAC Coordination - Strengthens anti-coordination rules for “independent” Super PACs to ensure they do not operate solely on behalf of single candidates or as de facto arms of their campaigns (Stop Super PAC-Candidate Coordination Act, H.R. 3952). Expands ‘Stand By Every Ad’ - Expands and enhances existing “stand by your ad” disclosure requirements to cover leaders of corporations, unions, or other organizations who purchase political ads on TV, radio, or online (We The People Democracy Reform Act, H.R. 3848). H.R. 1 makes critical reforms across three key areas: Voting Rights Improve Access – H.R. 1 expands access to the ballot box by taking aim at key institutional barriers to voting, such as burdensome registration systems, limited voting hours and many other roadblocks. H.R. 1 creates automatic voter registration across the country, ensures that individuals who have completed felony sentences have their full rights restored, expands voting by mail and early voting and modernizes the U.S. voting system. Promote Integrity – H.R. 1 fights back against Republicans’ assault on voting rights by committing Congress to restore the Voting Rights Act; prohibiting voter roll purges like those seen in Ohio, Georgia and elsewhere; and ensuring that discriminatory voter ID laws do not prevent Americans citizens from exercising their rights. H.R. 1 also ends partisan gerrymandering to prevent politicians from pick their voters and making Americans feel like their voices do not count. H.R. 1 also ends partisan gerrymandering to prevent politicians from pick their voters and making Americans feel like their voices do not count. Ensure Security – H.R. 1 ensures that American elections are decided by American voters without interference by foreign adversaries. The bill enhances federal support for voting system security, particularly paper ballots, and increases oversight over election vendors. Campaign Finance Guarantee Disclosure – H.R. 1 shines a light on dark money in politics by requiring any organization involved in political activity to disclose its large donors, which will break the nesting-doll system that allows big-money contributors and special interests to hide their spending in networks of so-called “social welfare” organizations. Empower Citizens – H.R. 1 levels the political playing field for everyday Americans, empowering individuals with a multiple matching system for small donations and allowing the American people to exercise their due influence in a post-Citizens United world, while reaffirming that Congress should have the authority to regulate money in politics. The new system of citizen-owned elections will break special interests’ stranglehold on politics and enable Congress to advance an agenda that serves the American people. Strengthen Oversight – H.R. 1 ensures that there are cops on the campaign finance beat that will enforce the laws already on the books. H.R. 1 tightens rules on super PACs and restructures the Federal Election Commission to break the gridlock and enhance its enforcement mechanisms. It also repeals Mitch McConnell’s riders that prevent government agencies from requiring commonsense disclosure of political spending. Ethics and Accountability Fortify Ethics Law – H.R. 1 breaks the influence economy in Washington and increases accountability by expanding conflict of interest law and divestment requirements, slowing the revolving door, preventing Members of Congress from serving on corporate boards and requiring presidential candidates to disclose their tax returns. Impose Greater Ethics Enforcement – H.R. 1 gives teeth to federal ethics oversight by overhauling the Office of Government Ethics, closing registration loopholes for lobbyists and foreign agents, ensuring watchdogs have sufficient resources to enforce the law and creating a code of ethics for the Supreme Court. Executive Branch Ethics Reform – H.R. 1 requires Presidents and Vice Presidents to divest of business holdings, mitigate potential conflicts of interest and release tax returns. The legislation also requires presidential appointees to disclose payments from or fundraising on behalf of PACs, trade associations and 501(c)4. For more information about H.R. 1 see attachment. ###
12.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC (December 14, 2018) – today, Friday, December 14, 2018, U.S. Representatives David E. Price (NC-04), G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), and Alma Adams (NC-12), the Democratic members of North Carolina’s congressional delegation, issued the following statement regarding the North Carolina General Assembly’s passage of a bill Wednesday that would require a new primary election as well, if a new general election is called in response to allegations of election fraud in North Carolina’s Ninth Congressional District which have called the results of that race into question: “It is clear that North Carolina Republicans realize the evidence is mounting that the General Election in the Ninth Congressional District was tainted with absentee ballot fraud favoring Republican candidate Rev. Mark Harris. Investigators are seeking to determine whether Rev. Harris knew of any absentee ballot harvesting in the election. Any election fraud involving the candidate or his operatives should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. “The Republican super majority in the General Assembly is bracing for a finding of substantial absentee ballot fraud in the General Election. So much so that they are attempting to change the current law after the election has already been held, opening the door for the Board of Elections to order a new primary in addition to a new general election. “The Republican Party was informed of possible election fraud after the 2018 primary election, but chose to do nothing. Now that this failure to act has been exposed, the General Assembly is attempting to protect this congressional seat by any means necessary, including a new primary election. “The Republican super majority in the General Assembly must understand that changing the law after the election, to require a new primary, is likely unconstitutional. This newly enacted legislation discredits North Carolina once again in the eyes of the Nation. It will further delay representation for the citizens of the Ninth Congressional District. “We call on the State Board of Elections to conclude its investigation expeditiously and pursue all available remedies to this substantial election fraud, including the conduct of a new general election.” ###
12.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, December 13, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC), Vice Chair of the House Democracy Reform Task Force, introduced legislation to overturn the U.S. Treasury Department’s controversial new decision that allows special interests—including foreign entities—to hide their major donors from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The legislation is a House companion of Senator Tester and Senator Wyden’s Congressional Review Act disapproval resolution, which passed yesterday in the Senate. Rep. Price’s Congressional Review Act is endorsed by Common Cause, Democracy 21, and has the following original cosponsors: Rep. John Sarbanes (D-MD), Chair of the Democracy Reform Task Force, Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Vice-Chair, Mark Pocan (D-WI), Vice-Chair, Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Vice-Chair, Ted Deutch (D-FL), Vice-Chair, and Salud Carbajal (D-CA). “I’m very pleased the Senate was able to work in a bipartisan way to begin protecting our democracy from the flood of dark campaign money,” said Congressman Price, Vice Chair of the House Democracy Reform Task Force. “At a time when our elections are plagued by unlimited corporate spending, anonymous donors, and illegal foreign meddling, the Trump administration’s decision to obscure millions in dark campaign money weakens our already failing campaign finance system and diminishes the power of voters. I’m proud to introduce this disapproval resolution alongside Senator Tester and Senator Wyden to hold political groups accountable and shine a light on dark money in our elections.” “Our democracy survives – and thrives – only when it fully represents a government of, by and for the people,” said Speaker-designate Nancy Pelosi. “Congressman David Price and the House Democracy Reform Task Force are to be commended for their tireless efforts to ensure openness and transparency in our campaign finance laws. Joining the Senate to overturn this dangerous IRS guidance is a critical step toward ending the self-enrichment, secret money and special interests that threaten our democratic institutions and undermine the American people’s voice in our democracy. The new Democratic Majority’s first priority will be to deliver H.R. 1, a bold reform package that will restore integrity in Washington to ensure that our government works for everyone.” “These dark money forces are a threat to our democracy and they must be reined in,” Senator Tester said. “This resolution sheds more light on the wealthy few who are trying to buy our elections and drown out the voices of regular folks. I am proud to work with Rep. Price to bring transparency and accountability back to political campaigns.” “A vote to throw out Trump’s dark money rule is a vote to prevent foreigners and special interests from interfering in our democracy,” Senator Wyden said. “This is critical in America’s fight against anonymous political insiders looking to tighten their grip on Washington. I support Congressman Price’s efforts to take action before the end of the year and urge Paul Ryan to stand up for law enforcement officials who need this disclosure to crack down on bad actors seeking to corrupt our elections.” “With special interests, multi-national corporations, and hostile foreign actors spending hundreds of millions of dollars in secret money to try to influence our elections in recent years, the Trump Treasury Department’s decision this summer to eliminate disclosure requirements on tax forms for certain organizations makes zero sense,” said Aaron Scherb, director of legislative affairs at the non-partisan watchdog organization Common Cause. “We applaud Congressman Price for introducing a resolution to overturn this rule because Americans deserve to know who is trying to influence their votes and their voices.” “Democracy 21 strongly urges Representatives to support the CRA disapproval resolution sponsored by Representative David Price to invalidate the irresponsible Treasury Department rule that eliminates the existing requirement for nonprofit groups to disclose their donors to the IRS,” said Democracy 21 President Fred Wertheimer. “Under existing law foreign governments can contribute unlimited amounts to nonprofit groups that spend money to influence elections. The elimination of the requirement for these contributions to be disclosed to the IRS opens the door for foreign interests to illegally launder huge sums through nonprofit groups to influence our elections without the government being able to know it is going on. If the new Treasury rule is not eliminated, a massive dark money loophole will be opened in our laws for foreign individuals, foreign corporations and foreign corporations to illegally spend unlimited amounts of money to influence our elections. Any Representative who opposes the Price the disapproval resolution will be supporting a dangerous dark money loophole for illegal foreign money to be secretly laundered into our elections.” In September, Congressman Price introduced separate legislation, the Spotlight Act to reverse the Treasury Department decision allowing politically active non-profit organizations to avoid disclosing certain donor information to the IRS. The bill also requires these organizations to disclose the names of major donors to the public, not just the IRS. Spending by these organizations is often called "dark money" because these outside groups generally do not have to disclose the sources of their funding and often serve as conduits for extremely wealthy individuals and foreign interests to influence elections. Rep. Price’s Spotlight Act is cosponsored in the House by Reps. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-Washington, D.C.), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), John Garamendi (D-CA), Tim Ryan (D-OH), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Salud Carbajal (D-CA), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), and Katherine Clark (D-MA). This pro-accountability, pro-disclosure legislation is also endorsed by Democracy 21 and Common Cause. In the Senate, the Spotlight Act was cosponsored by 28 U.S. Senators. The full text of the companion Congressional Review Act legislation can be found here. ###
12.06.2018	RALEIGH, N.C. (Dec. 6, 2018) - On Thursday, December 6, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-N.C.), the dean of North Carolina’s congressional delegation, issued the following statement regarding allegations of election fraud in the race for North Carolina’s ninth congressional district. On November 29, Rep. Price joined Reps. G.K. Butterfield (NC-01) and Alma Adams (NC-13) in calling for allegations of election fraud to be thoroughly investigated and for all remedies to be considered, up to and including a special election. “The evidence of election fraud in North Carolina’s ninth congressional district is mounting by the day, thanks in large part to diligent reporting by local and national journalists. While investigations by the bipartisan State Board of Elections and other authorities are ongoing, it now appears nearly certain that Republican operatives systematically defrauded voters in at least two counties of their right to cast a ballot, and that other improprieties may have further tainted the results of this election. As I have stated previously, should these allegations be substantiated the State Board of Elections must consider all available remedies, including the conduct of a new election. “As the dean of the North Carolina congressional delegation, I have remained in frequent contact with the incoming House leadership to ensure they are preparing for every contingency, including an independent investigation by the House of Representatives should it become necessary. In the meantime, I support the call for an emergency hearing by the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform to ascertain the extent of this fraud and complement the investigations occurring at the state level. “The irony of North Carolina Republicans steamrolling ahead with an unnecessary voter ID bill while the evidence of actual election fraud mounts should be lost on nobody. If they are truly concerned with the integrity of our elections, they will join us in ensuring that the investigation continues unfettered, that guilty parties are held accountable, and that the election outcome reflects the will of North Carolina voters.” ###
12.06.2018	RALEIGH, N.C. (Dec. 6, 2018) – On Thursday, December 6, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC) released the following statement after the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) announced that three North Carolina projects have been awarded federal BUILD grants totaling more than $60 million. As the Ranking Member on the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, and North Carolina’s only appropriator, Congressman Price helped triple the size of the grant program in the 2018 fiscal year. Included among the grantees is GoTriangle, which was awarded $20 million to assist in the construction of Raleigh Union Station’s bus transfer facility, or “RUS BUS,” which will greatly enhance transit connectivity and spur economic growth in Raleigh and nearby communities. “As the Ranking Member and incoming Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, and as a steadfast supporter of federal investment in transportation infrastructure, I’m pleased North Carolina has been awarded more than $60 million in federal BUILD grants to complete critical infrastructure projects across the state,” said Congressman Price. “These grants will provide funding for much-needed repairs on rural North Carolina bridges, construct new bike and pedestrian trails and other road improvements in Hickory, and accelerate the second phase of the multi-modal Raleigh Union Station project.” The awardees include: GoTriangle will receive $20 million. The project will construct a new bus facility and structured parking as Phase II of Raleigh Union Station. The project includes an off-street bus transfer facility, pedestrian bridge, bus rapid transit platform and other infrastructure, on-street pedestrian improvements, and the possibility of mixed-use development including an affordable housing component. The City of Hickory will receive $17 million for infrastructure investment and road improvements. The project will develop an approximately 1.7-mile bicycle and pedestrian trail and a bridge over US 321, and construct a 1.2-mile complete streetscape loop in downtown Hickory that will add designated space for bicycles and pedestrians. The North Carolina Department of Transportation will receive $23 million for Growing Rural Economy and Agriculture through Transportation and Technology Enhancement or Replacement in North Carolina (GREATTER-NC). The project will replace approximately 77 bridges in need of repair across 17 rural counties. NCDOT will also work with partners to add broadband capabilities and fiber optic cable along certain bridges. In April, USDOT renamed the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) Grant program as the Better Utilizing Investments to Leverage Development (BUILD) program, which support surface transportation infrastructure projects with significant local or regional impacts, including funding for roads, bridges, transit, rail or ports. For more information on the BUILD grants program, visit: https://www.transportation.gov/BUILDgrants/about ###
11.30.2018	DURHAM, N.C. (Nov. 30, 2018) - On Friday, November 30, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-N.C.) and Congressman G.K. Butterfield (D-N.C.) issued the following statement in response to the deportation of Samuel Oliver-Bruno. On November 1, 2018, Reps. Price and Butterfield sent a letter to USCIS requesting deferred action from deportation for Mr. Oliver-Bruno and asking officials to use prosecutorial discretion in his case based on humanitarian considerations. After Mr. Oliver-Bruno’s petition for deferred deportation was denied, Reps. Price and Butterfield called on the Department of Homeland Security to reverse his order of removal. “It is a sad day for Samuel Oliver-Bruno’s family and our community. So many, including local advocates, neighbors, friends, and people of faith all worked tirelessly on Samuel’s behalf to seek his release. As Durham’s representatives in Congress, we advocated for Samuel’s release personally and persistently at the highest levels of government. In particular, we insisted that top officials in the Trump administration personally address statements from Mrs. Oliver-Bruno’s medical providers regarding her health condition. All of us are extremely disappointed in the Department of Homeland Security’s refusal to use its discretionary authority to do what was right, just, and moral. We believe the actions taken by ICE and USCIS in Mr. Oliver-Bruno’s apprehension are extremely concerning and deserving of scrutiny. We will continue to seek a full investigation into the actions of both agencies leading up to Mr. Oliver-Bruno’s arrest on November 23, 2018. These actions will undoubtedly have a chilling effect, further driving people into the shadows of our society. We will continue to speak out and fight against the unjust and cruel immigration policies of the Trump administration that are unnecessarily tearing families apart.” ###
11.29.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Nov. 29, 2018) - On Thursday, November 29, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-N.C.), Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-N.C.), and Congresswoman Alma Adams (D-N.C.), the Democratic members of North Carolina’s congressional delegation, issued the following statement on the North Carolina Board of Elections delaying certification of the election results for North Carolina’s 9th Congressional District. “As members of the North Carolina Congressional delegation, we appreciate the unanimous and bipartisan decision of the State Board of Elections to delay certification of the election results for the 9th Congressional District because of credible and concerning allegations of irregularities in at least one county. These allegations must be thoroughly investigated to guarantee that the outcome of this election reflects the will of the voters and to ensure accountability for any misconduct. We call upon the State Board to conduct a public evidentiary hearing prior to certifying the election results. Should this hearing and related investigations produce clear evidence of voter fraud, the Board should consider all available remedies, up to and including the conduct of a new election, to guarantee a lawful election outcome.” ###
11.26.2018	DURHAM, N.C. (Nov. 26, 2018) - On Monday, November 26, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-N.C.) and Congressman G.K. Butterfield (D-N.C.) released the following statement after receiving notice from Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) that Samuel Oliver-Bruno’s petition for deferred deportation has been denied by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) and that ICE intends to immediately move forward with Mr. Oliver-Bruno’s deportation to Mexico. Samuel Oliver-Bruno was abruptly arrested by ICE agents on Friday, November 23, after being asked by USCIS to appear in their offices to further his legal petition for deferred deportation. On November 1, 2018, Reps. Price and Butterfield sent a letter to USCIS requesting deferred action from deportation for Mr. Oliver-Bruno and asked officials to use prosecutorial discretion in his case based on humanitarian conditions. “Mr. Oliver-Bruno’s case exemplifies the anti-immigrant agenda of the Trump administration. Mr. Oliver-Bruno—a decades-long resident of North Carolina with no significant criminal history and a loving family that includes his U.S. citizen son—was forced into hiding, taking sanctuary in a church to avoid being deported and leaving his sick wife without medical care. He was given strict instructions to appear at a USCIS office to provide fingerprints for his application to defer his deportation, and when he did so, he was abruptly apprehended by ICE and shipped off to a detention facility to await a sham appeal. For one immigration agency under DHS to advise he follow a legal recourse, while another DHS agency plots to apprehend him in the process is a miscarriage of justice. Since his arrest, we have continually reached out to the Department of Homeland Security to ascertain the circumstances of his arrest and advocate for his release while his case is adjudicated. We have been largely ignored or delegated to junior staff in this pursuit, all while USCIS was working behind the scenes to deny his appeal, which we received notice of late this evening. We are calling on Secretary Nielsen tonight to reverse Mr. Oliver-Bruno’s order of removal and will call for a full and thorough investigation into the Department’s improper efforts to apprehend Mr. Oliver-Bruno.” ###
11.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC (Nov. 26, 2018) – U.S. Representatives David E. Price (NC-04), G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), and Alma Adams (NC-12), the Democratic members of North Carolina’s congressional delegation, today sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell urging the cancellation of all votes on the nomination of Thomas A. Farr for a lifetime seat on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina. President Trump nominated attorney Thomas Farr on July 13, 2017 to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina. Farr has a decades-long record of defending voter suppression tactics in North Carolina, including voter intimidation, discriminatory election changes, and racial gerrymandering. In 1992, as the lawyer for former Senator Jesse Helms’ re-election campaign, he defended the campaign against U.S. Department of Justice complaints of voter intimidation after the campaign sent post cards to 100,000 black voters saying they were ineligible to vote and may be arrested for voting. The Members have requested the Senate cancel all votes this week on Thomas Farr’s nomination and allow his nomination to expire in the 115th Congress. The full text of the letter to Senate Majority Leader McConnell can be viewed here and below. *** November 26, 2018 The Honorable Mitch McConnell Majority Leader United States Senate 317 Russell Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20510 Dear Majority Leader McConnell We write to respectfully request that you cancel all votes this week on the nomination of Thomas Farr as a District Judge of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina and allow his nomination to expire in the 115th Congress. Mr. Farr’s concerning record of justifying and enhancing voter-suppression tactics, including discriminatory campaign schemes, gerrymandering efforts, and election law changes in North Carolina that have gained national notoriety, signal that Mr. Farr will not be an impartial jurist. Mr. Farr’s confirmation will threaten the participation of African-Americans and other vulnerable populations in our political process. Mr. Farr’s nomination has been opposed by numerous civil rights organizations including the NAACP’s Legal Defense and Educational Fund (LDF), the Human Rights Campaign (HRC), and the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights (Leadership Conference). These groups cite Mr. Farr’s troubling history as a consistent opponent to African-American participation in the political process, as well as basic civil rights protections for Americans, as the primary reason for opposing his nomination. In a letter to the U.S. Senate dated October 16, 2017, the Leadership Conference stated that, “Mr. Farr has devoted much of his 38-year legal career to restricting voting rights and defending employment discrimination.[1]” This sentiment is shared by the Congressional Black Caucus, who believe that Mr. Farr’s history as an attorney leaves him unfit to make judgments on the scope of critical legal rights and protections. Mr. Farr’s career has seen numerous attempts to restrict voting rights for African-Americans. As a campaign aide for Senator Jesse Helms’s 1990 Senatorial race, Mr. Farr was instrumental in the campaign’s effort to send over 100,000 postcards to African-American voters in North Carolina, suggesting they could face criminal penalties if they attempted to vote. While Mr. Farr claimed in his September 2017 Senate Judiciary Committee confirmation hearing that he had no recollection of this event, statements from a former Department of Justice prosecutor, numerous news reports, and even Mr. Farr himself indicate that this is not accurate.[2] In any case, Mr. Farr defended this practice in federal court before signing a consent decree prohibiting the campaign from participating in such tactics. This event was so troubling that when President George W. Bush nominated Mr. Farr to the Eastern District Court in 2006 and again in 2007, the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee did not even consider his nomination. Mr. Farr’s hostility to African-American political participation does not end with his time with Senator Helms. Mr. Farr was also responsible for advising the North Carolina General Assembly while it drew federal congressional districts that packed African-American voters into Districts 1 and 12, a move the U.S. Supreme Court affirmed was unconstitutional.[3] Additionally, in 2013, Mr. Farr defended North Carolina’s discriminatory voter ID law, which targeted African-American voters “with almost surgical precision”, according to the U.S. Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals.[4] Mr. Farr’s nomination has been opposed by many of our nation’s leading editorial boards, for many of the same aforementioned reasons stated in this letter. In an editorial expressing disapproval with other Trump Administration judicial nominees, the Washington Post stated that Mr. Farr’s nomination should be “call[ed] back… to explain discrepancies regarding his knowledge of a voter-suppression effort by then-Sen. Jesse Helms’s 1990 campaign.”[5] WRAL-TV in Raleigh, North Carolina stated that Mr. Farr’s nomination represented “a plain, in your face, put down of African-Americans.”[6] These assessments, as well as those by hundreds of civil rights organizations, illustrate widespread agreement that, at best, Mr. Farr did not oppose attempts to attack voting rights; at worst, he may have fully supported and abetted these attacks. Mr. Farr’s record and his lack of candor while testifying to the U.S. Senate should cause every U.S. Senator to question his fitness to serve as a federal judge. As such, we ask that you cancel all votes on Mr. Farr’s nomination this week and allow his nomination to expire in the 115th Congress. We appreciate your consideration of this request. Sincerely, _____________________ _____________________ _____________________ ALMA S. ADAMS, Ph.D. G. K. BUTTERFIELD DAVID PRICE Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress cc: The Honorable Charles E. Schumer, The Honorable Richard Burr, The Honorable Thom Tillis [1]Gupta, V. (2017, October 16). Oppose the Confirmation of Thomas Farr to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina [Letter written October 16, 2017 to U.S. Senate]. Retrieved July 30, 2018, from https://civilrights.org/oppose-confirmation-thomas-farr-u-s-district-court-eastern-district-north-carolina/. [2]Republicans advance Farr for judge as Democrats say pick shows Trump’s ‘racial animus’, Charlotte Observer (Jan. 18, 2018) (online at https://www.charlotteobserver.com/news/politics-government/article195344959.html). [3] The Supreme Court Finds North Carolina's Racial Gerrymandering Unconstitutional, The Atlantic (May, 22, 2017) (online at https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2017/05/north-carolina-gerrymandering/527592/). [4] Southern Poverty Law Center, From eugenics to voter ID laws: Thomas Farr's connections to the Pioneer Fund (Dec. 2017) (online at https://www.splcenter.org/hatewatch/2017/12/04/eugenics-voter-id-laws-thomas-farrs-connections-pioneer-fund). [5] The Senate is rushing through Trump’s judicial nominees. These embarrassments prove it., The Washington Post (Dec. 17, 2017) (online at https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/the-senate-is-rushing-through-trumps-judicial-nominees-these-embarrassments-prove-it/2017/12/17/9123f6a4-e1da-11e7-8679-a9728984779c_story.html?utm_term=.fdd2a6be4ee1). [6] Editorial: Farr's nomination makes the wrong statement, WRAL-TV (Mar. 16, 2018) (online at https://www.wral.com/editorial-on-the-merits-farr-s-nomination-falls-short/17420667/). ###
11.23.2018	DURHAM, N.C. (Nov. 23, 2018) - On Friday, November 23, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-N.C.) and Congressman G.K. Butterfield (D-N.C.) released the following statement regarding the sudden arrest of Samuel Oliver-Bruno by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials while he was following instructions to visit the local U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) offices to take the necessary steps to further his legal petition for deferred deportation. On November 1, 2018, Reps. Price and Butterfield sent a letter to USCIS requesting deferred action from deportation for Mr. Oliver-Bruno and asked officials to use prosecutorial discretion in his case based on humanitarian conditions. “We are extremely alarmed by Samuel Oliver-Bruno’s abrupt arrest this morning by ICE agents at the USCIS office in Morrisville, N.C. Mr. Oliver-Bruno has lived in the United States for more than two decades and has spent the last year living in sanctuary in Durham. It appears ICE has acted in concert with officials at USCIS, who instructed Mr. Oliver-Bruno to appear at local USCIS offices to discuss his deferred deportation. He was then apprehended by plainclothes ICE agents upon entering the building. At best, Mr. Oliver-Bruno was presented with a catch-22 dilemma; at worst, he was entrapped. It’s clear that while Mr. Oliver-Bruno was attempting to follow the law in pursuit of his legal petition, ICE coordinated with USCIS to target him upon his leaving the City Well United Methodist Church. Samuel, his wife Julia, and his 19-year-old son Daniel have been productive and upstanding members of the community for many years, with no serious criminal records and deep ties in the faith community. Julia Perez Pacheco has been diagnosed with Lupus and depends on Samuel, the sole provider for their family, to pay for her medical treatment. Additionally, Daniel Perez depends on his father’s financial and emotional support as he pursues a college degree. As we highlighted for USCIS officials earlier this month, Mr. Oliver-Bruno’s removal from the U.S. would result in severe hardship for his family, with his wife not being able to receive the medical treatment she needs. Samuel’s sudden and inappropriate arrest in the middle of the Thanksgiving season reflects the callous and cruel approach we’ve come to expect from the Trump administration. As Members of Congress representing the Durham community, we will continue to do everything in our power to keep the Oliver-Bruno family together. In a call with us this afternoon, ICE has committed to allow Mr. Oliver-Bruno to remain in the U.S. in detention while his case is adjudicated. While this means he will not be immediately deported, we remain committed to fighting for his release.” ###
11.20.2018	RALEIGH, N.C. (Nov. 20, 2018) - On Tuesday, November 20, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-N.C.) released the following statement after the Trump administration issued a release defending Saudi Arabia’s denial of the murder of Washington Post reporter Jamal Khashoggi. On November 16, the Washington Post and other news outlets reported that the CIA concluded Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman ordered Mr. Khashoggi’s assassination. “Once again, President Trump has rebuffed our nation’s intelligence agencies to the detriment of our nation’s values and interests. The CIA has concluded that Saudi Crown Prince Muhammad bin Salman ordered the assassination of American resident and Washington Post journalist Jamal Khashoggi, yet, Trump has taken his denial at face value and even joined the Saudi regime in smearing Mr. Khashoggi’s reputation following his death. Time and time again, Donald Trump has trusted murderers and autocrats over his own national security officials. His affinity for strongmen and despots has put our national security at risk and diminished our reputation on the world stage. In the case of Saudi Arabia, it is also clear that his judgement is clouded by his personal financial interests and his disdain for a free press. Given the Trump administration’s refusal to hold the Saudi regime accountable, Congress must fill the void of leadership in responding swiftly to Mr. Khashoggi’s murder—including reviewing the sales of arms to the Saudi government.” ###
11.15.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Thursday, November 15, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC), the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), the Congressional Progressive Caucus (CPC), Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC) Chair Judy Chu, and the House Sustainable Energy & Environment Coalition (SEEC) led 114 House Democrats in a letter to Acting EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler urging a reversal of the Trump administration’s decision to replace the 2015 Clean Power Plan (CPP) with the so-called Affordable Clean Energy (ACE) rule. In the letter, the Members underscore the landmark achievements of the CPP in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, combating global climate change, and protecting the health and safety of the American people, while also pointing out the risks posed to vulnerable populations such as children, low-income individuals, and communities of color if the Trump administration succeeds in gutting the rule. The letter is also endorsed by the American Lung Association, the Sierra Club, the League of Conservation Voters, GreenLatinos, and Earthjustice. “This [ACE] rule will undoubtedly have severe consequences for the health and well-being of the communities we represent, many of whom have long endured profound environmental injustice,” the Members wrote. “We have grave concerns that ACE significantly weakens the pollution limits established under the CPP and poses severe health threats to the American public.” The Members continue, “The consequences of this disastrous plan are clear: people will die sooner, get sicker, and bear the heavy costs of climate-related incidents and disasters. We simply cannot afford to go back on the progress we have made as a nation to combat climate change and the promise we made to protect the best interests of our constituents, especially the vulnerable populations that will be hit the hardest – communities of color, children, the elderly, and low-income families. We urge you to maintain the pollution limits established by the CPP and set our country on a clear path to combat climate change, reduce emissions, and preserve the health and safety of the American people.” The full text of the letter can be found here and below: *** The Honorable Andrew Wheeler Acting Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20460 November 15, 2018 Dear Acting Administrator Wheeler: We write in strong opposition to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) recently proposed Affordable Clean Energy (ACE) Rule, which would replace the 2015 Clean Power Plan (CPP) with a far weaker rule that poses direct threats to both human health and the environment and undermine U.S. efforts to combat climate change. This rule will undoubtedly have severe consequences for the health and well-being of the communities we represent, many of whom have long endured profound environmental injustice. In contrast, EPA’s own assessment demonstrated that the CPP would have saved thousands of lives each year. As you know, the CPP is a landmark rule finalized in 2015 that would set our country on track to significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions, combat global climate change, and protect the health and safety of the American people. The CPP lays out a commonsense plan that gives states the authority to establish individual proposals for how they intended to achieve specific emission reduction goals. Instead of establishing reduction targets for states, however, ACE opens up the possibility of weaker state standards and will likely result in an increase in overall power plant emissions. Under the CPP, EPA estimated that carbon emissions from the electric power sector – the second highest emitting sector after transportation – would be reduced by 32 percent compared to 2005 levels by 2030. In addition to combatting global temperature increases and addressing the dangerous health and environmental impacts of those increases, the CPP also presents enormous health benefits. Upon full implementation, the plan would have led to air quality improvements in all lower forty-eight states and would prevent up to 90,000 childhood asthma attacks and 4,500 premature deaths each year. We have grave concerns that ACE significantly weakens the pollution limits established under the CPP and poses severe health threats to the American public. The proposal would reduce sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide - precursors to smog – each by only 1 to 2 percent in 2030, compared to 2005 levels. In contrast, the CPP would have cut sulfur dioxide levels by 24 percent and nitrogen oxide by 22 percent, compared to 2005 levels. Finalizing this proposal would result in increased exposure to these dangerous pollutants, causing premature death, lung cancer, aggravated asthma, trouble breathing, heart attacks, and exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Under ACE, your own agency estimates that the rule will result in up to 1,600 more premature deaths and 120,000 more asthma attacks per year by 2030, a stark contrast to the gains that would have been made under the CPP. Moreover, climate change and air pollution disproportionately affect vulnerable populations, such as children, the elderly, low-income individuals, and communities of color, all of whom will continue to bear the brunt of these negative impacts. For example, African Americans’ exposure to the particulate matter emitting facilities that the CPP would have regulated is 1.54 times greater than the American population at large and communities of color demonstrate higher rates of association between asthma and emergency department visits, lost work and school days, and overall poorer health status. The EPA has also previously reported that Asian Americans and Hispanics had the greatest percentage of populations residing in counties where air quality did not meet EPA standards for particulate matter and ozone, compared with other populations. The cost of this misguided replacement plan goes beyond the direct health ramifications from air pollution. Under ACE, carbon dioxide emissions would be reduced by only 2.6 percent compared to 2005 levels—far less than the 32 percent reduction under the CPP. This will lead to continued temperature rises that pose enormous dangers across the country, particularly in low-income communities and communities of color, including exposure to the increased spread of vector-borne diseases, heightened incidents of heat-related illnesses, and power outages that can result in dangers within hospitals and people’s own homes. By taking an enormous step backwards in our efforts to combat climate change, sea levels will continue to rise, severe weather incidents such as hurricanes will worsen, and extended droughts will lead to increased rates of devastating forest fires and crop failures. Again, these extreme weather events will be felt far more acutely in lower-income, elderly, and minority communities: for example, the black mortality rate from Hurricane Katrina was 1.7 to 4 times higher than that of whites and nearly half of the deaths from Superstorm Sandy were individuals over the age of 65. Studies have also shown that children and the elderly suffer a greater risk of contracting vector-borne diseases, such as those carried by mosquitos and ticks, diseases that are likely to become more prevalent in a warming climate. The consequences of this disastrous plan are clear: people will die sooner, get sicker, and bear the heavy costs of climate-related incidents and disasters. We simply cannot afford to go back on the progress we have made as a nation to combat climate change and the promise we made to protect the best interests of our constituents, especially the vulnerable populations that will be hit the hardest – communities of color, children, the elderly, and low-income families. We urge you to maintain the pollution limits established by the CPP and set our country on a clear path to combat climate change, reduce emissions, and preserve the health and safety of the American people. Sincerely, DAVID E. PRICE Member, SEEC JUDY CHU Chair, Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus A. DONALD MCEACHIN Co-Chair, CBC Energy, Environment, and Agriculture Task Force JOAQUIN CASTRO First Vice-Chair, Congressional Hispanic Caucus RAUL M. GRIJALVA Co-Chair, Congressional Progressive Caucus MARK POCAN Co-Chair, Congressional Progressive Caucus ###
10.29.2018	RALEIGH, N.C. (October 29, 2018) - On Monday, October 29, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-N.C.) released the following statement on the deadly mass shooting at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. "On Saturday morning, a gunman opened fire at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh, taking the lives of 11 congregants who had gathered on the Sabbath to celebrate an infant’s bris ceremony. This unconscionable act of anti-Semitic hatred constituted the deadliest attack on a Jewish community in American history. But for the Tree of Life community—and for members of the Jewish faith across the country and around the world—the shooting is also embedded in a much larger history, a history of collective persecution that has produced some of the greatest atrocities ever committed by humankind. For generations, the United States of America has been at least a partial refuge from this history: a land where Jews have been free to practice their faith without fear of violence, and where they have been interwoven—unevenly, to be sure, but steadily over time—with the cultural, economic, and political fabric of our nation. We must not allow this despicable attack to unravel this fabric, and I have been encouraged by the resounding displays of solidarity, across faith and party lines, that we have witnessed over the past 48 hours. Yet we must also acknowledge clearly and forcefully that this act of hate did not occur in a vacuum. The Anti-Defamation League has reported a historic rise in anti-Semitic incidents and online harassment over the past year, as neo-Nazis and other hate groups have become increasingly assertive in their actions and rhetoric. Such groups have long existed at the fringes of American society, but they now feel emboldened and empowered by the right-wing websites, commentators, and elected officials who have legitimized and given voice to their hate. When a member of the U.S. House of Representatives aligns himself with neo-Nazi candidates and parties abroad, he is legitimizing hate. When prominent Republicans employ rhetoric peddled by anti-Semitic conspiracy theorists to attack a Holocaust survivor because he donates to their opponents, they are legitimizing hate. And when the President of the United States condones violence by his supporters and calls the extremists who descended on Charlottesville last year “very fine people,” he is legitimizing hate. As a nation, we must summon the collective determination not just to condemn the actions of individuals but to confront the hatred and bigotry that give rise to them. At a time of intense partisan rancor and anxiety, we must unite in common purpose rather than stoking anger and division. We must honor those killed in Pittsburgh by rededicating ourselves to values of diversity, inclusion, and mutual respect." ###
10.29.2018	RALEIGH, N.C. (October 26, 2018) - On Friday, October 26, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-N.C.), a member of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement regarding news that the Trump administration plans to merge the U.S. Consulate in Jerusalem—which was established in 1844 and has served as the United States’ principal venue for communication with the Palestinian people and leadership—with the U.S. Embassy in Israel, which was moved from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem in May. “By announcing his intention to merge the U.S. Consulate in Jerusalem with the U.S. Embassy, President Trump has further undercut prospects for a peaceful solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and abandoned all pretense that the United States remains a good-faith arbiter between the two sides. The list of actions taken by this administration to isolate the Palestinians for political gain, at the expense of regional stability and humanitarian needs, is nearly too long to count: abruptly moving the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem outside the framework of a final-status agreement; gutting bilateral aid to the West Bank, Gaza, and East Jerusalem, including U.S. contributions to the UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees; shutting down the PLO mission in Washington; and now, eliminating a diplomatic mission that has been viewed as essential by Republican and Democratic presidents alike. For decades, the U.S. Consulate—reporting directly to the State Department—has been the United States’ eyes, ears, and representative on the ground in the West Bank and Gaza, with the mission of strengthening Palestinian institutions and the conditions for peace and security. Under the leadership of outstanding consuls-general like Philip Wilcox and Ron Schlicher, the Consulate has proved invaluable to me and other members of Congress as we have attempted to directly engage Palestinian leaders and to convey concerns about conditions or incidents in the West Bank to the Israeli government. While President Trump’s decision to consolidate the mission may not be surprising in light of his previous actions, it is yet another nail in the coffin of the two-state solution that should be condemned by anybody who claims to support a just and lasting peace in the Middle East. I urge that this ill-advised decision be reconsidered and reversed.” ###
10.09.2018	RALEIGH, N.C. - Today, Congressman David Price (D-NC) released the following statement after the U.S. Senate voted to confirm Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the U.S. Supreme Court. “I’m deeply disappointed by the confirmation of Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court. From the start, we’ve known Brett Kavanaugh was an extremely partisan judge, handpicked by ideological interest groups hellbent on undermining voting rights, unions, environmental protection, and reproductive freedom. In addition, Judge Kavanaugh’s views on executive authority underscore the urgent need for Congress to protect the special counsel investigation. The examination of Judge Kavanaugh was hampered from the start by the White House’s refusal to release highly relevant records from his political service. Senators Leahy and Durbin in particular cited instances where he had been less than truthful. And then came several credible claims of sexual misconduct. Asked to respond to these charges, he displayed a remarkable lack of judicial temperament, attacking Democratic members of the Judiciary Committee and alleging political conspiracies against him. Judge Kavanaugh’s confirmation is a tremendous step backward for an independent judiciary, an impartial confirmation process, and a thorough examination of the background of nominees. Furthermore, President Trump and Senate Republicans have sent a message to would-be sexual aggressors that their misconduct may well go unpunished, and to victims that they may not only be ignored, but actually publicly ridiculed.” ###
10.02.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Friday, September 28, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC), Congressman Peter Welch (D-VT), and Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) were joined by 109 House Democrats in a letter to Secretary Pompeo urging the Trump administration to reverse its decision to end vital U.S. contributions to the United Nations Relief Works Agency (UNRWA) and to reprogram bilateral foreign aid away from the West Bank, Gaza, and East Jerusalem. Recently, the Trump State Department announced it would reprogram more than $230 million in bilateral assistance, which provides emergency food security, health care, education, and clean water, among other vital life-saving programs, for Palestinians in the West Bank, Gaza, and East Jerusalem. Additionally, on August 31, 2018, the Trump administration announced it would end longstanding contributions to the United Nations Relief Works Agency (UNRWA), a UN relief and development agency that provides essential services to more than 5 million Palestinian refugees in Gaza and throughout the region. “These steps not only threaten the stability of the region; they also undercut the U.S.’s ability to facilitate negotiations that will result in a viable two-state solution to the conflict,” the members wrote. “While Hamas continues to act in complete disregard for the safety and freedom of the people of Gaza, the administration’s steps will aggravate tensions in the region and further erode prospects for a lasting peace between Israelis and Palestinians.” The members highlight that bilateral foreign assistance to the West Bank, Gaza, and East Jerusalem, as well as contributions to UNRWA, were appropriated by Congress on a bipartisan basis, and “unilaterally refusing to disburse this funding disregards Congress’ constitutionally given power of the purse and the will of the American people, whom Congress was elected to represent.” The letter continues, “As we reflect on the 25 years since the Oslo Accords, we believe it is imperative that both sides of this conflict resume negotiations. However, the administration’s decisions, whether or not intended to pressure Palestinian leadership back to the negotiating table, are counterproductive to facilitating negotiations or pursuing peace, stability, and security.” The full text of the letter can be found online here and below: *** September 28, 2018 The Honorable Mike Pompeo Secretary U.S. Department of State 2201 C Street NW Washington, DC 20520 Dear Secretary Pompeo: As strong supporters of the United States’ commitment to the dignity and security of Israelis and Palestinians, we write to urge the administration to reverse its decisions to end vital United States contributions to the United Nations Relief Works Agency (UNRWA) and to reprogram bilateral foreign aid away from the West Bank and Gaza. While Hamas continues to act in complete disregard for the safety and freedom of the people of Gaza, the administration’s steps will aggravate tensions in the region and further erode prospects for a lasting peace between Israelis and Palestinians. These steps not only threaten the stability of the region; they also undercut the U.S.’s ability to facilitate negotiations that will result in a viable two-state solution to the conflict. As we reflect on the 25 years since the Oslo Accords, we believe it is imperative that both sides of this conflict resume negotiations. However, the administration’s decisions, whether or not intended to pressure Palestinian leadership back to the negotiating table, are counterproductive to facilitating negotiations or pursuing peace, stability, and security. As you know, bilateral foreign assistance to the West Bank and Gaza and UNRWA contributions were appropriated by Congress on a bipartisan basis following extensive deliberation and debate. Unilaterally refusing to disburse this funding disregards Congress’ constitutionally given power of the purse and the will of the American people, whom Congress was elected to represent. We, therefore, urge the administration to reverse its Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 funding decision and to obligate the FY 2018 aid as intended by Congress. Bilateral assistance to the West Bank and Gaza improves Palestinians’ quality of life and bolsters security in the region, which supports U.S. interests in a negotiated peace agreement. An August 2018 Government Accountability Office (GAO) study found that the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), which is responsible for administrating this assistance, was conducting the necessary vetting to ensure this funding was being spent for its intended purposes. But the administration’s decision to reprogram $230.1 million in assistance will cut funding for emergency food security to vulnerable families, including the elderly, the disabled, orphans, and women-headed households; education services; emergency healthcare preparedness; positive youth engagement; and urgent water and sanitation needs, among other vital programs, which undercuts U.S. interests in the region. Further, thousands of jobs will be lost as U.S. implementing partners on the ground will be forced to lay off employees, making a bad situation worse. Included in the termination of FY 2017 bilateral aid was $25 million for the East Jerusalem Hospital Network, which has consistently enjoyed bipartisan support. The East Jerusalem Hospital Network provides critical specialized care and is the backbone of tertiary referral care for Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza. This network of hospitals, including the Lutheran World Federation owned and operated Augusta Victoria Hospital, provides life-saving services such as cancer treatment, pediatric hemodialysis, and bone marrow transplants, as well as vocational training for thousands of students. Without FY 2017 assistance, these hospitals will have to curtail or cut services, leading to the interruption of current treatments, a reduction in future treatments, and a severe disruption to the health care system in the region. Further, the administration most recently announced that it would exclude projects involving Palestinians from receiving any of the funds from the $10 million USAID Conflict Management and Mitigation (CMM) grants program. CMM programs support people-to-people organizations that serve thousands of Israelis and Palestinians by building resilience against violence and strengthening the human capital for the next generation of leaders, laying the groundwork for a viable peace agreement. Eliminating these funds only serves to undercut the very forces for peace that we should be supporting. Additionally, we are disturbed by the administration’s decision to indefinitely withhold contributions to UNRWA, which will lead to disastrous consequences for Palestinians, Israelis, and others in the region. The administration’s decision will exacerbate the already dire humanitarian crisis in Gaza, where one million people – half the population – depend on UNRWA for food assistance. We have heard from the humanitarian community that there is no entity with the capacity to replace UNRWA in Gaza, the West Bank, Jordan, Lebanon, and Syria, where it operates more than 700 schools for 500,000 children and 142 health clinics that served nine million patients in 2017. According to reports in the Israeli media, top Israeli military and intelligence officials have repeatedly warned that weakening UNRWA risks strengthening Hamas and endangering Israel’s security. The administration's decisions also threaten to destabilize countries hosting refugee camps served by UNRWA, including our ally Jordan. We urge you to reverse your decision and obligate appropriated FY 2017 funds intended for UNRWA and bilateral assistance to support Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza. Furthermore, it is imperative that the FY 2018 funds, for the same purposes, are obligated prior to September 30, 2019. We look forward to your prompt reply. Sincerely, _____________________ _____________________ _____________________ DAVID E. PRICE PETER WELCH ADAM SMITH Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress CC: Jared Kushner, Senior Advisor to the President Jason Greenblatt, Assistant to the President Mark Green, USAID Administrator Nikki Haley, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Karen Sasahara, U.S. Consul General David Friedman, U.S. Ambassador to Israel ###
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Wednesday, September 26, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC), Vice Chair of the House Democracy Reform Task Force, introduced the Spotlight Act to boost accountability and transparency in elections. The bill would reverse the Treasury Department decision that allows politically active non-profit organizations to avoid disclosing certain donor information to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The bill also requires these organizations to disclose the names of major donors to the public, not just the IRS. Spending by these organizations is often called "dark money" because these outside groups generally do not have to disclose the sources of their funding and often serve as conduits for extremely wealthy individuals to influence elections. Rep. Price’s measure is a companion bill to legislation introduced by Sen. John Tester (D-MT) and cosponsored by 28 U.S. Senators. Rep. Price’s Spotlight Act is cosponsored in the House by Reps. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-Washington, D.C.), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), John Garamendi (D-CA), Tim Ryan (D-OH), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Salud Carbajal (D-CA), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), and Katherine Clark (D-MA). This pro-accountability, pro-disclosure legislation is also endorsed by Democracy 21 and Common Cause. “The Trump administration’s decision to allow politically active organizations to obscure millions in dark campaign money further weakens our already failing campaign finance system,” said Congressman Price, Vice Chair of the House Democracy Reform Task Force. “At a time when our elections are plagued by unlimited corporate spending, anonymous donors, and illegal foreign meddling, this action provides a mask to special interests and bad actors while diminishing the power of voters.” “We need more transparency in our elections,” said Senator Tester. “The Spotlight Act will defend our democracy from dark money, and I’m thankful Rep. Price is helping me fight back by holding political groups accountable and shining more light on our elections.” “At a time when corporate special interests funded by secretive billionaires always seem to get their way, it is outrageous that the Trump-led Treasury Department would stop requiring donor disclosure information for politically-active non-profits,” said Aaron Scherb, director of legislative affairs at the government watchdog Common Cause. “We commend Congressman Price for introducing the Spotlight Act to help shine a light on secret money in politics so that all Americans can see who is trying to influence their voice and their vote.” “Democracy 21 supports the Spotlight Act sponsored by Rep. David Price,” said Fred Wertheimer, Founder and President of Democracy 21. “By eliminating nonpublic disclosure to the IRS of contributions made to nonprofit organizations, the Treasury Department has opened a massive campaign finance loophole. The Treasury Department action has eliminated any practical way for the government to protect against non-profit advocacy groups being used by foreign governments, foreign companies and foreign individuals to launder tens of millions of dollars in illegal, undisclosed foreign money into our elections. The fact that the Trump Administration would open up this loophole in the face of Russian efforts to intervene in our elections and undermine our democracy is indefensible and irresponsible. Rep Price is a longtime leader in the effort to repair our campaign finance laws. Democracy 21 strongly commends Rep. Price for introducing the Spotlight Act which will close the serious campaign finance loophole opened by the Trump Administration.” Background In the wake of the Citizens United decision and related rulings by the Supreme Court, politically active non-profits—especially 501(c)4 “social welfare” groups and 501(c)6 trade associations—have flooded federal elections with unaccountable spending over the last three election cycles. According to the Center for Responsive Politics, spending by organizations that do not disclose their donors has increased from less than $5.2 million in 2006 to well over $300 million in the 2012 presidential cycle and more than $174 million in the 2014 midterms. The Brennan Center has found this “dark money” is concentrated in competitive elections. In 2014, it amounted to more than $1 of every $4 spent on close U.S. Senate elections and $1 of every $6 in such elections in 2016. Unfortunately, the Treasury Department in July made this problem even worse by eliminating the longstanding requirement that most tax-exempt organizations (including 501(c)4 and (c)6 groups) report the identities of major donors to the Internal Revenue Service. The rule will make it harder to determine who is trying to influence the voting public. In addition, many tax and campaign finance experts believe this rule change will significantly hamper the ability of the IRS, law enforcement, and intelligence agencies to police the laundering of funds through our political system. It also significantly increases the likelihood that foreign funds will illegally find their way to organizations engaged in political activity. The Spotlight Act would rescind the Treasury Department’s misguided ruling and go one step further by requiring 501(c)4, (c)5 and (c)6 groups to publicly disclose the identities of major donors who contribute $5,000 or more annually. This change would, in effect, require dark money groups to publicly disclose the same donor information that private charitable foundations are currently required to disclose to the public. The legislation also removes the ability for the Treasury Secretary to unilaterally exempt certain tax-exempt groups from donor disclosure obligations. These public disclosure provisions would apply to filings for the 2018 tax year. The full text of the bill can be found here. ###
09.22.2018	RALEIGH, N.C. (September 22, 2018) - On Saturday, September 22, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-N.C.), the sole appropriator from the North Carolina delegation on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the inclusion of $1.68 billion in disaster relief in the Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization bill: “I’m pleased to work with my colleagues in the North Carolina delegation and with Governor Cooper to secure this disaster relief funding to help North Carolinians begin the work of rebuilding in the wake of Hurricane Florence. While it’s clear additional funding will be required to meet the needs of the many communities still reeling from this storm, this funding, once enacted into law, will be a significant down payment that will help millions of residents in North Carolina and elsewhere recover from recent disasters. I will continue working with my colleagues and the Appropriations Committee to secure additional funding to support recovery efforts in our state.” ###
09.11.2018	Hurricane Florence is rapidly intensifying and projected to cause catastrophic damage in North Carolina and along the East Coast. North Carolinians should take all necessary precautions and monitor emergency alerts diligently and frequently. Governor Cooper has declared a State of Emergency and called on residents to take steps now to prepare for the impact of the storm. Although it is unclear how severely the hurricane will impact the 4th district, residents should be prepared for strong tropical storm-level winds and heavy rainfall that could result in flooding, road closures, and widespread power outages. I encourage all 4th district residents to stay tuned to local forecasts and follow instructions from local emergency officials. It is important that you develop an emergency plan for yourself and your family members, including your pets. Unfortunately, North Carolinians have become too familiar with storms of this magnitude, but we know that taking proper measures to prepare for the storm can mitigate its long-term effects. Please stay safe and stay prepared. For the latest weather alerts and emergency management updates, the following resources will help monitor the storm, provide latest weather alerts, and preparedness information. FEMA (Federal Emergency Management Agency) (includes information about emergency shelter locations and capacity) ReadyNC 3D Interactive Floodzone Map FEMA Emergency Supply ListEmergency Shelters Important contact information is available below if you are in need of emergency assistance. For life-threatening emergencies, please call 911. For a toll-free hotline to speak with a trained specialist, call 211. They can provide you information on shelters, evacuation routes, storm clean-up, volunteer needs, and locating food and water. The service is available 24/7. For road closures, call 511. For Coast Guard search and rescue, call 1-757-398-6700. For additional shelter locations, visit redcross.org or call 888-892-1162. For volunteer opportunities, visit nvoad.org. If you have trouble contacting emergency officials, my staff can be reached at (202)-225-1784. Here is a list of shelters opening to take in people displaced by evacuations: Alamance County: The Lamb's Chapel; Open 415 Roxboro Rd. Haw River, NC 27258 Anson County: Wadesboro Primary School; Open 1542 US Highway 52 S Wadesboro, NC 28170 Beaufort County: PS Jones Middle School; Open 4105 Market Street Extension Washington, NC 27889 Washington High School; FULL 400 Slatestone Rd. Washington, NC 27889 Beaufort County Animal Control (open only for pets belonging to individuals sheltering in Beaufort County shelters); Open 3931 US 264 East Washington, NC 27889 Bertie County: Bertie County Middle School; Open 652 US 13N Windsor, NC 27983 Colerain Elementary School; Open 202 North Academy Street Colerain, NC 27924 West Bertie Elementary School; Open 3734 Governors Rd. Kelford, NC 27847 Bladen County: West Bladen High (Medical Needs and pet-friendly); Open 1600 NC 410 Hwy. Bladenboro, NC 28320 East Bladen High; Open 5600 NC 87 Hwy. Elizabethtown, NC 28337 Bladen Lakes School; Open 9554 Johnsontown Road Elizabethtown, NC 28337 Elizabethtown Middle School 1496 US Highway 701 South Elizabethtown, NC 28337 East Arcadia School; Open 21451 NC Hwy 87 East Riegelwood, NC 28456 Brunswick County: South Brunswick High School; Open 280 Cougar Road Boiling Springs Lake, NC 28461 North Brunswick High School; Open 114 Scorpion Dr NE Leland, NC 28451 West Brunswick High School (pet-friendly); FULL 550 Whiteville Rd NW Shallotte, NC 28470 Carteret County: Newport Middle School (pet-friendly); Open 500 East Chatham Street Newport, NC 28570 Chatham County: Chatham Middle School (pet-friendly); Open 2025 S 2nd Avenue Ext. Siler City, NC 27344 Northwood High School (pet-friendly); Open 310 Northwood High School Rd. Pittsboro, NC 27312 Chowan County: John A. Holmes High School; Open 600 Woodard St. Edenton, NC 27932 Chowan Middle School (Pet-Friendly); Open 2845 Virginia Road Tyner, NC 27980 Columbus County: West Columbus High School; FULL 7294 Andrew Jackson Highway SW Cerro Gordo, NC 28430 East Columbus High School; Open 32 Gator Lane Lake Waccamaw, NC 28450 Guideway Elementary School; Open 11570 Swamp Fox Hwy East Tabor City, NC 28463 South Columbus High School; Open 40 Stallion Drive Tabor City, NC 28463 Edgewood Elementary School (pet-friendly); FULL 317 E. Calhoun St. Whiteville, NC 28472 Craven County: Havelock High School; Open 101 Webb Blvd. Havelock, NC 28352 Brinson Elementary School; Open 319 Neuse Forest Ave. New Bern, NC 28560 Benn Quinn Elementary School (pet-friendly); Open 4275 Martin Luther King Blvd. New Bern, NC 28562 Trent Park Elementary School 2500 Educational Drive New Bern, NC 28562 Farm Life Elementary School; CLOSED 2000 Farm Life Ave. Vanceboro, NC 28586 Cumberland County: Mac Williams Middle School; FULL 4644 Clinton Road Fayetteville, NC 28312 National Guard Armory 3555 Owen Dr. Fayetteville, NC 28306(Designated for Jones County evacuees) Pine Forest High School (pet-friendly); Open 525 Andrews Road Fayetteville, NC 28311 Seventy-First High School; Open 6764 Raeford Road Fayetteville, NC 28304 Smith Recreation Center (pet-friendly); FULL 1520 Slater Ave. Fayetteville, NC 28301 Kiwanis Recreation Center; Open 252 Devers St. Fayetteville, NC Southview High School (pet-friendly); Open 4184 Elk Road Hope Mills, NC 28348 W. T. Brown Elementary School; Open 2522 Andrews Church Road Spring Lake, NC 28390 Duplin County: Beulaville Elementary School; Open 214 Jones St. Beulaville, NC 28518 East Duplin High School; Open 394 N. NC 111 Highway Beulaville, NC 28518 Kenansville Elementary School; Open 328 Limestone Road Kenansville, NC 28349 Wallace-Rose Hill High; Open 602 High School Rd. Teachey, NC 28464 North Duplin Elementary School; Open 157 N. Duplin School Rd. Mount Olive, NC 28365 James Kenan High School (pet-friendly); Open 1241 NC 24 &50 Hwy. Warsaw, NC 28398 Durham County: Hillside High School (pet-friendly); Open 3727 Fayetteville Rd. Durham, NC 27707 Bahama Ruritan Club; Open 8202 Stagville Rd. Bahama, NC 27503 Edgecombe County: D.S. Johnson Elementary School; Open 600 N. Fairview Road Rocky Mount, NC 27801 North Edgecombe High School; Open 7589 N.C. 33-NW Tarboro, NC 27886 Tarboro High School; Open 1400 Howard Ave. Tarboro, NC 27886 Martin Millennium Academy; Open 400 E. Johnston St. Tarboro, NC 27886 GW Carver Elementary School; Open 604 E. Hamlet St. Pinetops, NC 27864 Forsyth County: Lawrence Joel Veterans Memorial (LJVM) Coliseum (pet-friendly); FULL 2825 University Pkwy Winston-Salem, NC 27105 Franklin County: National Guard Armory; Open 200 S Bickett Blvd Louisburg, NC 27549 Franklinton High School; Open 910 Cedar Creek Road Franklinton, NC 27525 Louisburg Senior Center; Open 127 Shannon Village Louisburg, NC 27549 Gates County: Gates County High School (pet-friendly); CLOSED 88 US Highway 158 West Gatesville, NC 27938 Greene County: Greene Central High School; Open 140 School Drive Snow Hill, NC 28580 Greene County Intermediate School; Open 614 Middle School Road Snow Hill, NC 28580 Guilford County: Open Glenwood Center 2010 Coliseum Boulevard Greensboro, NC Halifax County: Enfield Middle School; Open 13697 Hwy 481 Enfield, NC Willima R. Davie Middle School; Open 4391 US Highway 158 Roanoke Rapids, NC The Centre at Halifax Community College (pet-friendly); Open 100 College Drive Weldon, NC 2789 Scotland Neck Senior Center; Open 1403 Church Street Scotland Neck, NC 27874 Harnett County: Triton High School (pet-friendly); Opening Sept. 13 at 8 p.m. 215 Maynard Lake Road Erwin, NC 28339 Overhills High School; Opening Sept. 13 at 8 p.m. 2495 Ray Road Spring Lake, NC 28390 Hertford County: Hertford County High School (pet-friendly); Open 1326 1st St. West Ahoskie, NC 27910 Hertford County Middle School; Open 1850 NC Highway 11 Murfreesboro, NC 27855 Hoke County: Don Steed Elementary School (pet-friendly); Open 800 Phillipi Church Rd Raeford, NC 28376 Sandy Grove Middle School; Open 300 Chason Road Lumber Bridge, NC 28377 Hoke High School 505 Bethel Road Raeford, NC 28376 West Hoke Middle School 200 NC 211 West Raeford, NC 28376 Johnston County: Clayton High School 600 Fayetteville St. Clayton, NC 27520 North Johnston Middle School (pet-friendly); Open 435 Oil Company Rd. Micro, NC 27555 Benson Middle School; Open 1600 North Wall St. Benson, NC 27504 West Johnston High School (Pet-Friendly); Open 3935 Raleigh Rd. Benson, NC 27504 Lee County: National Guard Armory; Open 2214 Nash St. Sanford, NC 27331 (Designated for coastal evacuees) SanLee Middle School (pet-friendly); Open 2309 Tramway Road Sanford, NC Lenoir County: South Lenoir High School (pet-friendly); Open 3355 NC Highway 11 South Deep Run, NC 28525 North Lenoir High School; Open 2400 Institute Road LaGrange, NC 28551 Lenoir Community College (pet-friendly); Open 231 NC Highway 58 Kinston, NC 28504 Martin County: Riverside Middle School; Open 2920 US Hwy 17 Williamston, NC 27892 Mecklenburg County: Ardrey Kell High School (pet-friendly); Open 10220 Ardrey Kell Charlotte, NC 28277 East Mecklenburg High School (pet-friendly); Open 6800 Monroe Road Charlotte, NC 28212 North Mecklenburg High School; Open 11201 Old Statesville Road Huntersville, NC 28078 South Mecklenburg High School; Open 8900 Park Road Charlotte, NC 28210 West Mecklenburg High School; Open 7400 Tuckaseegee Rd. Charlotte, NC 28214 Moore County: Agricultural Building; Open 707 Pinehurst Ave. Carthage, NC 28327 North Moore High School 1504 North Moore Road Robbins, NC 27325 Nash County: Englewood Baptist Church (pet-friendly); Open 1350 S Winstead Ave. Rocky Mount, NC 27803 Nash Central High School; Open 4279 Nash Central High Rd. Rocky Mount, NC 27804 Southern Nash High School (pet-friendly); Open 6446 Southern Nash High Rd. Bailey, NC 27807 New Hanover County: Trask Middle School (pet-friendly); Open 2900 N College Rd. Wilmington, NC 28405 Codington Elementary School; Open 4321 Carolina Beach Rd. Wilmington, NC28412 Johnson Pre-K Center; Open 1100 McRae St. Wilmington, NC 28401 Noble Middle School (pet-friendly); Open 6520 Noble Middle School Wilmington, NC 28405 Eaton Elementary School (pet-friendly); Open 6701 Gordon Rd. Wilmington, NC 28411 Northampton County: Conway Middle School; Open 400 East Main St. Conway, NC 27820 Northampton High School Gaston; Open 152 Hurricane Drive Gaston, NC 27832 Northampton Cultural and Wellness Center (pet-friendly); Open 9536 NC 305 Highway Jackson, NC 27845 Orange County: Smith Middle School (pet-friendly); Open 9201 Seawell School Road Chapel Hill, NC 27516 CW Stanford Middle School (pet-friendly); Open 308 Orange High School Road Hillsborough, NC 27278 Pamlico County: Pamlico Community College (pet-friendly); Open 5049 NC 306 Highway South Grantsboro, NC 28529 Pasquotank County: Kermit E White Center; Open 1704 Weeksville Rd. Elizabeth City, NC 27909 Pender County: Topsail Elementary School; Open 17385 US-17 Hampstead, NC 28443 Cape Fear Middle School; Open 1886 NC-133 Rocky Point, NC 28457 Malpass Corners Elementary School; Open 4992 Malpass Corner Rd. Burgaw, NC 28425 Burgaw Middle School pet-friendly; Open 500 S Wright St. Burgaw, NC 28425 Perquimans County: Perquimans High School; Open 305 South Edenton Road Street Hertford, NC 27944 Person County: Clement Baptist Church (pet-friendly); Open 8480 Burlington Road Hurdle Mills, NC 27541 Pitt County: Ayden Middle School; Open 1207 West 3rd Street Ayden, NC 28513 Farmville Middle School; Open 800 Grimmersburg Street Farmville, NC 27828 EB Aycock Middle School; Open 1325 Red Banks Road Greenville, NC 27858 Hope Middle School; Open 2995 Mills Road Greenville, NC 27858 Walter B. Jones ADA (functional medical support shelter); Open 2577 W. 5th Street Greenville, NC 27834 Wellcome Middle School; Open 3101 N. Memorial Drive Greenville, NC 27834 Randolph County: First Baptist Church 133 North Church Street Asheboro, NC 27203 Richmond County: Richmond Senior High School; Open 828 US 1 Hwy Rockingham, NC 28379 Robeson County: Purnell Swett High School; Opens Thursday, Sept. 13 at 4 p.m. 11344 Deep Branch Road Pembroke, NC 28372 Fairmont Middle School; Open 402 Iona Street Fairmont, NC 28340 South Robeson High School 3268 South Robeson Road Rowland, NC 28383 St. Pauls High School; Open 648 North Old Stage Road St. Pauls, NC 28384 Lumberton Senior High School; Open 3901 Fayetteville Road Lumberton, NC 28358 Rockingham County: Rockingham Middle School 182 High School Road Reidsville, NC 27320 Sampson County: Clinton High School; Open 340 Indian Town Rd. Clinton, NC 28328 Sampson County Adult Day Care 210 Fisher Drive Clinton, NC 28328 Hobbton Middle School; Open 12081 Hobbton Highway Newton Grove, NC 28366 Midway High School; Open 15274 Spivey’s Corner Highway Dunn, NC 28366 Lakewood High School; Open 245 Lakewood School Rd. Salemburg, NC 28385 Sampson Middle; Open 1201 West Elizabeth St Clinton, NC Sampson Couinty Livestock; Open 1020 Taylors Bridge Hwy Clinton, NC Plainview Elementary; Open 4140 Plainview Highway Dunn, NC Hobbton Elementary School; Open 12361 Hobbton Highway Newton Grove, NC 28366 Hobbton High School; Open 12201 Hobbton Highway Newton Grove, NC 28366 Roseboro Elementary; Open 180 Butler Island Road Roseboro, NC Scotland County: Scotland County High School (pet-friendly); Open 1200 West Church Street Laurinburg, NC 28352 Vance County: EM Rollins Elementary School 1600 South Garnett Street Henderson, NC 27536 Wake County: Middle Creek High School (pet-friendly) 123 Middle Creek Park Avenue Apex, NC 27539 Garner High School; Open 2141 Spring Drive Garner, NC 27529 Knightdale High School (pet-friendly); Open 100 Bryan Chalk Ln. Knightdale, NC 27545 Sanderson High School (pet-friendly) 5500 Dixon Drive Raleigh, NC 27609 Southeast Raleigh High School (pet-friendly); Open 2600 Rock Quarry Road Raleigh, NC 27610 Heritage High School (pet-friendly) 1150 Forestville Road Wake Forest, NC 27587 Warren County: Warren County High School (pet-friendly); Open 149 Campus Drive Warrenton, NC 27589 Washington County: Pines Elementary School; Open 3177 US Highway 64 East Plymouth, NC 27962 Wayne County: Tommy's Road Elementary; Open 1150 Tommy's Road Goldsboro, NC 27534 Wayne Academy; Open 801 North Lionel Street Goldsboro, NC 27530 Carver Elementary; Open 400 Old Seven Springs Rd. Mount Olive, NC 28365 Mount Olive Middle School 309 Wooten St. Mount Olive, NC 28365 Spring Creek High School; Open 4340 Indian Springs Road Seven Springs, NC 28578 Spring Creek Middle School 3579 NC-111 S Seven Springs, NC 28578 Wilson County: Darden Middle School 1665 Lipscomb Road Wilson, NC 27893 Fike High School (pet-friendly); Open 500 Harrison Dr N Wilson, NC 27893
09.10.2018	RALEIGH, N.C. (September 10, 2018) – On Monday, September 10, Congressman David Price issued the following statement on Hurricane Florence, a rapidly intensifying Category 4 storm likely to make landfall along the U.S. East Coast, including North Carolina. “Hurricane Florence is rapidly intensifying and projected to cause catastrophic damage in North Carolina and along the East Coast. North Carolinians should take all necessary precautions and monitor emergency alerts diligently and frequently. Governor Cooper has declared a State of Emergency and called on residents to take steps now to prepare for the impact of the storm. Unfortunately, North Carolinians have become too familiar with storms of this magnitude, but we know that taking proper measures to prepare for the storm can mitigate its long-term effects. Please stay safe and stay prepared.” *** Please review the information below from North Carolina Governor’s office: Throughout the weekend, state officials are readying for potential impacts from a major hurricane. North Carolina remains under a State of Emergency, declared by Gov. Cooper Friday. The governor also temporarily waived certain restrictions for trucks and heavy vehicles to help farmers harvest and move crops and livestock ahead of the storm and help utilities and other equipment be ready to respond if needed. North Carolina Emergency Management experts are working today to determine where to place resources ahead of the storm. The State Emergency Operations Center plans to activate Monday at 1:00 PM, and NCEM is coordinating with the counties, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and key partners in the State Emergency Response Team which includes all state agencies plus utility representatives, private sector partners and volunteer agencies active during disasters. State EM Director Mike Sprayberry yesterday spoke with FEMA Administrator Brock Long about preparations for the storm, and NCEM is in frequent contact with the National Hurricane Center forecasters. NC Department of Transportation employees are readying hurricane response equipment, such as bulldozers, motor graders and chainsaws, to ensure it is in good working order and topping off fuel sites. Employees also are contacting local contractors and equipment providers to make sure resources are available to assist if needed. NC Department of Health and Human Services experts are reaching out to all 100 county Social Services offices to make sure they have reviewed their emergency preparedness plans, developed staffing schedules, and pulled together supplies in the event shelters are needed. DHHS is also working with American Red Cross, NC Baptists on Mission and other groups to make sure sheltering and feeding needs can be met, and public health experts will be reaching out to at-risk North Carolinians with critical health challenges to help them prepare for the storm. North Carolina's state parks, historic sites, museums and aquariums are monitoring Florence's potential track and performing necessary storm preparations, including securing the grounds, confirming generators are operable, fueling vehicles, and ensuring sufficient supplies are on hand to care for aquarium animals. State parks rangers and staff are on standby to lend support where needed for storm response. NC Department of Environmental Quality is mobilizing to support the State Emergency Operations Center with experts that can rapidly respond to any air and water quality concerns. State public safety officials emphasized North Carolina's readiness for the storm. “The State Emergency Response Team, which includes Emergency Management, the State Highway Patrol and the NC National Guard, is closely monitoring the storm and stands ready to deploy,” Public Safety Secretary Erik A. Hooks said. “Our highly trained and experienced team has already been evaluating its resources and preparing to assist the public as needed.” “We are getting updates from the National Hurricane Center and FEMA as well as our other partners and drawing on everyone’s experience to plan and prepare to respond to any need,” state Emergency Management Director Mike Sprayberry stated. “We are also staying in close contact with county and SERT partners to ensure all resource requests are met. We ask the public to stay tuned to your local forecast and listen to your local emergency officials. Make sure you have a plan for yourself and your family members, to include your pets.” North Carolina’s experience with inland hurricane damage such as river flooding and power outages during Hurricane Matthew in 2016 shows that hurricanes damage can go beyond coastal impacts, Cooper said. “Experience has shown us that storms and heavy wind and rain can affect the entire state, so we must all be alert and ready,” he said. Tips for Emergency Plans and Supplies Kit: ﻿Be sure your emergency supply kits have enough bottled water and non-perishable food to sustain each family member for three to seven days. Include a weather radio, flashlight, extra batteries, toiletries, change of clothes, blankets or sleeping bag, rain gear and appropriate footwear. Also include cell phone charger, prescription medicines, copies of important documents, such as birth certificates and insurance policies. Know your evacuation route, and find out where friends and loved ones will be and how to get in touch with them. Plan for your pets. Gather supplies for your pets and put them in an easily-accessible container. Prepare your home. Clean out gutters and clear property of debris that could damage buildings in strong winds. Stay tuned to local news for the latest advisories from the National Weather Service and National Hurricane Center (NHC), as well as state and local emergency management officials. Download the Ready NC app or follow NC Emergency Management on Facebook and Twitter for weather updates and to learn how you can prepare for the storm. ###
09.07.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – In a letter today, top Democrats voiced strong concerns about the scope of recent Trump Administration subpoenas demanding millions of North Carolina voter records and called for an investigation into the legality and political motivation behind this unprecedented request for private voter information. The letter, from Committee on House Administration Ranking Member Robert A. Brady (D-Pa.), Oversight and Government Reform Committee Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Homeland Security Committee Ranking Member Bennie G. Thompson (D-Miss.), Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), and North Carolina Representatives David E. Price (D-N.C.), G. K. Butterfield (D-N.C.) and Alma S. Adams, Ph.D. (D-N.C), asks the Inspectors General of the Department of Justice and the Immigrations and Customs Enforcement agency to promptly undertake an investigation to determine the legal implications of and rationale for these subpoenas. “These subpoenas are overly broad, request private voter information, and appear to target voters of color,” the members write. “Accordingly, we respectfully request that you undertake an investigation to examine the circumstances by which these subpoenas were issued, the scope of the subpoenas, and the seemingly political motivations behind them.” The members note that President Trump “has continually repeated false claims regarding widespread voter fraud in the 2016 election,” leading to the creation of his Advisory Commission on Election Integrity that “was disbanded in January after being the subject of endless controversy and litigation.” Despite this, President Trump subsequently charged the Department of Homeland Security to “continue investigating the myth of widespread voter fraud. This document request by ICE appears to pick up where the Commission left off and seeks to use allegations of widespread voter fraud to justify voter suppression and intimation practices.” The letter concludes: “Given what we know about the scope of the subpoenas, and the counties that were targeted, we strongly suspect that this is part of the Trump administration’s dangerous and anti-democratic strategy of voter suppression and intimidation to limit equal access to the ballot box.” Specifically, the members request the Inspectors General begin an investigation that considers the following questions: What motivated the request for these documents? How was this particular set of records chosen for the subpoena? Was there any consideration of whether the request was overly broad? Do the subpoenas violate constitutional guarantees of equal protection and due process or any other constitutional provision? Do the subpoenas violate the National Voter Registration Act of 1993? Do the subpoenas violate North Carolina law? Why was the deadline initially set for September 25, 2018, less than two months before an election? Why was the deadline moved to after the November election? Does this action have any precedent? Is DHS planning to make similar requests in other states? Is DHS following President Trump’s directive to investigate widespread voter fraud? Are these subpoenas related to the DHS’ work following the President’s directive to investigate widespread voter fraud? Is ICE planning to use voter data to initiate deportation proceedings? Did DOJ and DHS follow all relevant laws and guidance, including the U.S. Attorneys’ Manual, in issuing the subpoenas, and was there a less intrusive method that the agencies rejected? Was there a reasonable evidential basis for the scope of the subpoenas? If the agencies obtain the requested records, do they have appropriate plans to limit the use of these records to the state purpose of the grand jury subpoenas and ensure their secure storage? The full text of the letter can be found online here and below: September 7, 2018 Michael E. Horowitz John V. Kelly Department of Justice Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General Office of the Inspector General 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Suite 4706 245 Murray Lane SW Washington, D.C. 20528-0305 Washington, D.C. 20530-0001 Dear Inspector General Horowitz and Deputy Inspector General Kelly: We write to express our grave concerns about the scope of recent Department of Justice (DOJ) and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) subpoenas issued for voting records and sensitive private information in the Eastern District of North Carolina. These subpoenas request an estimated 15 million documents concerning North Carolina voters, including voter registration applications, absentee ballot requests, and “admission or denial of non-citizen return” forms.[1] More than two million of these documents are ballots that could be traced back to the individuals who cast them.[2] These subpoenas are overly broad, request private voter information, and appear to target voters of color. Accordingly, we respectfully request that you undertake an investigation to examine the circumstances by which these subpoenas were issued, the scope of the subpoenas, and the seemingly political motivations behind them. President Trump has continually repeated false claims regarding widespread voter fraud in the 2016 election, and subsequently created a so-called Advisory Commission on Election Integrity that sought to obtain millions of pieces of private voter information. The Commission was disbanded in January after endless controversy and litigation, but President Trump then charged the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to continue to investigate the myth of widespread voter fraud.[3] This new North Carolina document request by ICE appears to pick up where the Commission left off and seeks to use allegations of widespread voter fraud to justify voter suppression and intimidation practices. It is no surprise that the subpoenas target North Carolina’s voter rolls, as the state has a history of voter suppression. In 2016, a federal appeals court struck down North Carolina’s voter identification law, finding that the law “target[ed] African-Americans with almost surgical precision” in order to lower turnout among African-Americans.[4] Despite this decisive ruling, Republicans in North Carolina are continuing to push a constitutional amendment that would require photo identification at the polls.[5] At a time when DOJ should be investigating voter suppression, it appears that the Department is instead supporting it. In the subpoenas issued here, there is again an obvious targeting of minority voters. The 44 counties that received subpoenas account for approximately 46% of the state’s registered black voters, 39% of the state’s registered Hispanic voters, and 36% of the state’s registered white voters.[6] This appears to be an effort designed to disproportionately target minority voters and depress voter turnout. At a minimum, this apparent disproportionate targeting of minority voters may raise potential equal protection and due process concerns. The subpoenas may have additional legal implications. Under the National Voter Registration Act, each state must “ensure that the identity of the voter registration agency through which any particular voter is registered is not disclosed to the public.”[7] Presumably, the massive data set requested by DOJ would reveal the agency where a voter was registered. Moreover, the request for absentee ballots, which are potentially traceable to the specific voter who cast the ballot, is a violation of every voter’s right to cast a secret ballot. Though DOJ has delayed the production deadline until after the November election, the subpoenas still raise many questions about their legality and true motivations. We write to request that you begin an investigation that considers the following questions: What motivated the request for these documents? How was this particular set of records chosen for the subpoena? Was there any consideration of whether the request was overly broad? Do the subpoenas violate constitutional guarantees of equal protection and due process or any other constitutional provision? Do the subpoenas violate the National Voter Registration Act of 1993? Do the subpoenas violate North Carolina law? Why was the deadline initially set for September 25, 2018, less than two months before an election? Why was the deadline moved to after the November election? Does this action have any precedent? Is DHS planning to make similar requests in other states? Is DHS following President Trump’s directive to investigate widespread voter fraud? Are these subpoenas related to the DHS’ work following the President’s directive to investigate widespread voter fraud? Is ICE planning to use voter data to initiate deportation proceedings? Did DOJ and DHS follow all relevant laws and guidance, including the U.S. Attorneys’ Manual, in issuing the subpoenas, and was there a less intrusive method that the agencies rejected? Was there a reasonable evidential basis for the scope of the subpoenas? If the agencies obtain the requested records, do they have appropriate plans to limit the use of these records to the stated purpose of the grand jury subpoenas and ensure their secure storage? Given what we know about the scope of the subpoenas, and the counties that were targeted, we are concerned that this could be part of the Trump Administration’s dangerous and anti-democratic strategy of voter suppression and intimidation to limit equal access to the ballot box. We hope that you will promptly launch an investigation to determine the legal implications of and rationale for these subpoenas. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, ____________________________ ____________________________ Robert A. Brady Elijah Cummings Ranking Member Ranking Member Committee on House Administration Committee on Oversight and Government Reform ____________________________ ____________________________ Bennie Thompson Jerrold Nadler Ranking Member Ranking Member Committee on Homeland Security Committee on the Judiciary ____________________________ ____________________________ David E. Price G. K. Butterfield Member of Congress Member of Congress ____________________________ Alma S. Adams, Ph.D. Member of Congress # # # [1] Travis Fain, Federal Subpoenas Demand ‘Tsunami’ of NC Voter Records, WRAL.com (Sept. 6, 2018) https://www.wral.com/federal-subpoenas-demand-tsunami-of-nc-voter-records/17821061/ [2] Id. [3] Michael Tackett and Michael Wines, Trump Disbands Commission on Voter Fraud, The New York Times (Jan. 3, 2018) https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/03/us/politics/trump-voter-fraud-commission.html [4] Michael Wines and Alan Blinder, Federal Appeals Court Strikes Down North Carolina Voter ID Requirement, The New York Times (Jul. 29, 2016) https://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/30/us/federal-appeals-court-strikes-down-north-carolina-voter-id-provision.html [5] Dave Hendrickson, Here’s a Look at North Carolina’s Proposed Constitutional Amendments, WRAL.com (Aug. 29, 2018) https://www.wral.com/here-s-a-look-at-north-carolina-s-proposed-constitutional-amendments/17715772/ [6] North Carolina State Board of Elections & Ethics Enforcement. (2018). Voter Registration Statistics. [Data file]. Retrieved from https://vt.ncsbe.gov/RegStat/Results/?date=08%2F25%2F2018. [7] 52 U.S.C. § 20507(a)(6)
09.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, September 6, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC), Congresswoman Doris Matsui (D-CA), Senator Chris Coons (D-DE) and Senator Bill Cassidy (R-LA) introduced a resolution recognizing September 11 as a national day of service and encouraging the American public to engage in a charitable service of their choosing on or around 9/11. In 2009, Congress established September 11 as a National Day of Service and Remembrance in tribute to the 9/11 victims, first responders, recovery workers, volunteers, and members of the U.S. military who rose in service in defense of our nation. This year, as co-chairs of the National Congressional Service Caucus, Sens. Coons and Cassidy and Reps. Matsui and Price call on their colleagues in the Senate and House of Representatives to reaffirm that commitment and honor the heroes who rose to service in response to attacks in New York City, Washington, D.C., and Shanksville, Pennsylvania. “Every year, millions of Americans gather in reflection to honor the men and women who lost their lives in the tragedy of September 11,” said Representative David Price. “This solemn commemoration also serves as an opportunity to join our neighbors in charitable service to improve our communities and help those in need. I’m proud to join my colleagues in introducing this important resolution to affirm this national day of service and remembrance into law.” “Our nation will forever remember the tragic events of 9/11. In the weeks and months that followed, courageous first responders and volunteers selflessly gave their time and talents in patriotic service that helped heal our nation,” said Representative Matsui. “Our country is strongest when we reach out to on another, when we are united, and I hope this resolution reminds us of that.” “Seventeen years ago, our country experienced an unthinkable tragedy that claimed the lives of nearly 3,000 people, including 11 Delawareans,” said Senator Coons. “I am proud to join my colleagues in honoring their memory by establishing a national day of service. As a nation, we are always strongest when we work together, support our neighbors, and stand as one.” “In the wake of the destruction and death inflicted upon our country 17 years ago, countless Americans rushed to help each other without a thought to their political, religious, or physical differences,” said Dr. Cassidy. “That spirit of treating others as you would want to be treated, of loving your neighbor as yourself, of serving your fellow man, is something we must strive to encourage and keep alive.” The text of the resolution can be found here. ###
09.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Sept. 6, 2018) – On Thursday, September 6, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC) and Congressman G.K. Butterfield (D-NC) issued a joint statement following news that the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of North Carolina issued subpoenas to the North Carolina State Board of Elections and the 44 counties of the Eastern District to obtain voting records from January 1, 2010 to August 30, 2018 and August 30, 2013 to August 30, 2018, respectively: “This alarming and unprecedented request from President Trump’s Department of Justice (DOJ) and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) 60 days prior to an election is appalling. In these subpoenas, ICE has failed to demonstrate its legal authority to request voting records and to reveal the rationale for the production of this information. This massive request of voter data seems clearly designed to disenfranchise and intimidate voters and to disrupt the administration of an impending election with major state and national implications. At a time when the integrity and security of our elections is at risk of attacks from hostile foreign actors, our local election administrators should not be wasting their scarce resources compiling over 20 million voter records in search of fraud that does not exist. We demand ICE and the Department of Justice rescind their subpoena request immediately. We will request the Inspectors General of the Department of Justice and the Department of Homeland Security to investigate the legality and motivations for this action. In addition, we will also request the appropriate committees of the House of Representatives to investigate the legality and motivations for this action.” ###
08.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Monday, August 6, 2018, Representatives David Price (D-NC) and Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA) sent a letter to President Trump expressing concern that the administration’s recent actions could harm the prospects for peace between Israelis and Palestinians. In their letter, Connolly and Price reiterated longstanding, bipartisan support for a two-state solution to the conflict and urged the Administration to facilitate meaningful engagement between both parties. “We are deeply concerned that your administration’s recent actions not only exacerbate tensions in the region, but undermine the United States’ critical and historic role as an honest broker,” wrote Price and Connolly. “The United States must encourage the Israelis and Palestinians toward meaningful engagement, and we urge the administration to facilitate such engagement. Efforts to impose a peace plan without active participation by both parties could harm the prospects for peace for yet another generation.” In March 2017, Price and Connolly sent a bipartisan letter signed by 191 members of Congress urging the President to clearly reaffirm the United States’ longstanding, bipartisan commitment to a two-state solution to the Israeli Palestinian conflict. In that letter, the members wrote “leadership from the United States is crucial at this juncture. We must ensure that a comprehensive agreement between the two parties is not imposed and oppose unilateral actions by either of the two parties that would push the prospects for peace further out of reach.” The full letter follows. August 6, 2018 Dear Mr. President, In anticipation of your Administration’s expected Israeli-Palestinian peace plan, we write to reiterate longstanding bipartisan support for a two-state solution and urge the Administration to promote meaningful engagement between the Israelis and the Palestinians. As we wrote in our March 2017 letter signed by 191 members of Congress, “leadership from the United States is crucial at this juncture. We must ensure that a comprehensive agreement between the two parties is not imposed and oppose unilateral actions by either of the two parties that would push the prospects for peace further out of reach.” Members of Congress, on a bipartisan basis, havecontinuously expressed that any durable, peaceful resolution to the conflict will only come through direct, bilateral negotiations between the two parties and that the imposition of a one-sided solution to final status issues will undermine the strength and viability of any peace plan. We are deeply concerned that your Administration’s recent actions not only exacerbate tensions in the region, but undermine the United States’ critical and historic role as an honest broker. The United States must encourage the Israelis and Palestinians toward meaningful engagement, and we urge the Administration to facilitate such engagement. Efforts to impose a peace plan without active participation by both parties could harm the prospects for peace for yet another generation. Sincerely, ###
07.26.2018	Durham, N.C. (July 25, 2018) – On Wednesday, July 25, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement on the passing of longtime Durham educator, Phail Wynn Jr. "Lisa and I are shocked and saddened by Phail Wynn's sudden death. I first knew and worked with him during his transformative presidency of Durham Tech. Phail's subsequent decade as Duke's Vice President for Durham and Regional Affairs greatly strengthened the university's relationship with the city and measurably contributed to Durham's progress in neighborhood revitalization, public education, affordable housing, and much more. Phail was a generous and hopeful man, a gifted leader who inspired others to aim high and work cooperatively. Durham and North Carolina owe him a great deal, and we will miss his encouraging and guiding hand." ###
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 25, 2018) – On Wednesday, July 25, 2018, the House Appropriations Committee adopted an amendment by Congressman David Price (D-NC) reversing guidance by Attorney General Jeff Sessions to prohibit asylum claims for victims of domestic or gang violence. Congressman Price, the former Chairman and current member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Committee, offered this amendment following a trip to the southern border where he met with migrants fleeing direct and deadly threats of violence from gangs. Previously, on July 11, the Appropriations Committee passed an amendment by Rep. Price to increase oversight and transparency of the status of families separated by President Trump’s “zero-tolerance” policy. “Last weekend, I had the opportunity to travel to our nation’s southern border to conduct oversight of President Trump’s anti-immigrant agenda and meet personally with immigrants who fled their countries after experiencing gang violence or domestic abuse,” said Congressman David Price. “I’m extremely pleased my amendment reversing the Trump administration’s misguided and callous decision to deny these individuals the ability to seek asylum was passed by the House Appropriations Committee. Today marks a significant step in reversing one of the administration’s most egregious immigration policies, and I’m proud to have the bipartisan support of my colleagues in this Committee.” “This amendment gives real hope to our efforts to stop the administration’s rollback of asylum law that will result in the return of the world’s most vulnerable families and individuals to the life-threatening persecution they fled,” said Alyson Sincavage, Senior Legislative Counsel at the America Immigration Lawyers Association (AILA). “Tragically the administration has turned its back on survivors of domestic violence and others in need of humanitarian aid. Our nation cannot turn a blind eye to the people at our borders seeking protection from such horrors, and AILA is grateful to Congressman Price for defending our nation’s longstanding commitment to protect refugees and asylum seekers.” ###
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 25, 2018) – On Wednesday, July 25, 2018, Congressman David Price introduced the Online Credit Card Disclosure Act, legislation which would require credit card companies to inform consumers about the risks associated with minimum debt payments by regularly publishing clear, personalized pay-down disclosures online, including websites and mobile apps. Additionally, the bill ensures the disclosures are based on consumer testing to ensure their effectiveness. The legislation is supported by Consumers Union and the Center for Responsible Lending. “Chronic, unmanageable debt presents a tremendous threat to the both the financial health of individuals and the public economic health at large,” said Congressman Price. “Consumers faced with mounting credit debt are often subjected to complicated minimum payment practices that keep them locked in an unsustainable situation. As more and more Americans handle their financial affairs online, my bill ensures creditors employ consumer-tested best practices to help card holders understand and pay down their debt.” "Many consumers don't realize they'll end up paying much more and much longer by sending in just the minimum payment on their credit card bill each month, "said Christina Tetreault, staff attorney for Consumers Union, the advocacy division of Consumer Reports. "This bill will help consumers better manage their credit card debt by requiring banks to disclose the true cost of paying the minimum payment." “This bill will help online credit card consumers by providing disclosure and clarity about their repayment options, so they can responsibly manage their credit card debt,” said Scott Astrada, Director of Federal Advocacy at the Center for Responsible Lending. “Consumers should be protected from manipulative minimum payment practices or restrictions on transparent repayment options that can trap working families into deeper debt. We thank Congressman Price for his leadership and pragmatic approach in addressing much needed credit card reform.” This legislation would ensure that consumers are educated about responsibly paying down their debt by giving them more transparent access to: Disclosure that making only the minimum monthly payment will increase the total amount of interest they pay The total cost, including interest payments, of paying only monthly minimum payments on their credit card balance Quarterly assessments of the monthly payment they must make pay off their current balance in 12 months, 24 months, and 36 months Access to credit counseling and debt management services via a toll-free telephone number These resources are already available on paper billing statements under a provision Rep. Price authored in the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights Act (Credit CARD Act) of 2009. Extending these provisions online will ensure that all consumers are able to make responsible decisions about paying down their debt. # # #
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 25, 2018) – On Wednesday, July 25, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC) proposed three amendments to the FY19 Homeland Security Appropriations bill that would dramatically roll back the Trump administration’s misguided and immoral immigration agenda. Last weekend, Rep. Price traveled to Texas to conduct an oversight visit of the southern border—including a tour of an immigration processing facility in Laredo and an immigration detention facility for children in San Antonio. Previously, on July 11, the Appropriations Committee passed an amendment by Rep. Price to increase oversight and transparency of the status of families separated by President Trump’s “zero-tolerance” policy. “Last weekend, I had the opportunity to travel to our nation’s southern border to conduct oversight of President Trump’s anti-immigrant agenda, and meet personally with immigrants whose lives are affected by it,” said Congressman Price. “I’m pleased the Appropriations Committee recently passed my amendment to track families separated by the President’s “zero-tolerance” policy and hold him accountable for reuniting families. The amendments I offer today would take significant steps to reverse many of the most egregious immigration policies enacted by this administration.” The amendments’ accompanying text, descriptions, and remarks are below. AMENDMENT 1 TEXT: The first amendment offered by Rep. Price will prevent any funds to be used to implement Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ guidance that victims of gang violence and domestic violence will no longer qualify for asylum in the United States. AMENDMENT 2 TEXT: The second amendment will prevent any funds to be used to carry out the Department of Homeland Security’s February 17’ guidance, which severely diminishes the ability of immigration officials to utilize common-sense discretion when enforcing immigration laws. AMENDMENT 3 TEXT: The third amendment, offered with Rep. Nita Lowey (D-NY), will prevent the Trump administration from revoking Temporary Protected Status (TPS) from hundreds of thousands of immigrants from countries like El Salvador and Honduras, where the living conditions have clearly not improved. REMARKS AS PREPARED Price Amendment #1 Remarks: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My amendment addresses the Trump administration’s narrowing of the basis for asylum claims. The urgent need for the amendment was underscored for me by a visit last Friday to the Laredo Sector Centralized Processing Unit to see what happens to immigrants after they encounter CBP. I met with a 36-year-old man from El Salvador who was fleeing direct and deadly threats of violence from a gang. Facing certain death and potentially endangering the lives of his parents, he left home and embarked on the nearly 1,500-mile journey to join his sister legally residing in the United States. Unfortunately, due to a recent unilateral action by Attorney General Sessions, fear of gang violence and domestic violence no longer qualify as eligible claims of asylum. The Attorney General took it upon himself to overturn a 2014 precedent that had finally clarified years of uncertainty surrounding domestic violence. This guidance resulted in a USCIS policy memorandum stating “in general, claims based on membership in a particular social group defined by the members’ vulnerability to harm of domestic violence or gang violence will not establish the basis for asylum, refugee status, or a credible or reasonable fear of persecution.” This policy change will lead to higher denial rates by USCIS officers who administer initial credible fear screenings, meaning some immigrants experiencing gang and domestic violence will be removed before even given the chance to pursue an asylum claim. The memo then seemingly goes beyond the long-held asylum standard of whether or not a foreign government is “unable or unwilling to control the private actor.” It says that the immigrant must now prove that their government “condoned the private actions or at least demonstrated a complete helplessness.” Finally, the memo states that an immigrant’s illegal crossing of our border can count against his or her ability to receive a favorable asylum decision, which runs afoul of INA guarantees. It’s almost as if Attorney General Sessions made this decision in a vacuum. There is a well-documented and continuing humanitarian crisis in the Northern Triangle nations of El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras. The Council on Foreign Relations has characterized the region as “menaced by gang violence” while the United Nations Development Program states that “the problem of femicide and violence against women in the region has reached epidemic levels.” Meanwhile, the Trump Administration has decreased the amount of economic support and development assistance to the Northern Triangle countries. So, while we are cutting back on efforts to address desperate conditions in these countries, we are also giving those who seek refuge from these conditions a death sentence. My amendment would prohibit any federal funds from being used to carry out these policy changes. While some may argue that the USCIS memo doesn’t completely rule out the possibility that survivors of domestic or gang violence could qualify for asylum, there is no doubt that it diminishes the already limited likelihood of success of these claims. It is just one of the many heartless steps the Trump administration has taken to abandon the promise of America to be a source of refuge for those escaping persecution and oppression. I urge support for the amendment. Price Amendment #2 Remarks: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My amendment addresses the priorities governing immigration enforcement, the inevitable exercise of prosecutorial discretion. Under Donald Trump’s leadership, DHS has ignored the policies and priorities of the Bush and Obama administrations, abandoning the focus on dangerous criminals in favor of a wide-net approach that has led to a surge in immigration-related arrests, sowing fear in our communities and tearing families apart. Nationwide, total arrests of undocumented immigrants by the Trump administration in the first half of FY18 rose about 27% compared to the same period last year, with arrests of non-criminal immigrants more than doubling. During my tenure as Chairman of this Subcommittee, we worked with Secs. Chertoff and Napolitano to more sharply focus immigration enforcement on the removal of individuals who have committed serious crimes or pose a threat to our communities. This approach doesn’t provide a “free pass” to anyone, but it does assume that discretion will be exercised by enforcement authorities—something that every law enforcement agency does. Should local sheriffs commit equal resources and attention to the person running a stop sign as they do the person committing armed robbery? Of course not! Prioritization of the most dangerous individuals is a basic tenet of law enforcement, and it should also inform our approach to immigration enforcement. My amendment would prevent any federal funds from being used to implement the administration’s February 2017 guidance which can only be characterized as a serious impediment to prosecutorial discretion. To be sure, it contains mixed and inconsistent directives, but its thrust is to put all alleged violators of “immigration laws” on the same footing. In my own district, I have seen the results of this misguided policy-with agents rounding up non-criminal members of my community indiscriminately. I have spoken to ICE and DHS leadership about the recent surge in arrests, and I have yet to find one arrest that show any evidence of targeting. I imagine that every Member of Congress has similar stories. I urge adoption of my amendment, to ensure immigration enforcement agencies focus their efforts, and their limited resources, on those who actually pose a danger to our communities. Lowey-Price Amendment #3 Remarks: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I rise in support of the Lowey-Price amendment. Thousands of individuals from around the world currently reside in the United States under a Temporary Protected Status designation. Recognizing the dangers that these individuals would face upon returning to certain nations, our government has permitted them to live and work in the United States for a limited time. Since taking office, the Trump administration has set an end date for TPS protections for individuals from El Salvador, Haiti, Honduras, Nepal, Nicaragua, and Sudan—a decision directly affecting the lives of nearly half a million people currently residing in this country, and indirectly affecting millions more. I understand that TPS is temporary by nature. However, the President’s decision to target these nations appears to be based more on the his anti-immigrant impulses than on any significant improvement in the circumstances that led to the designation in the first place. Many of the nations targeted by this administration’s TPS decision remain unprepared to receive these individuals. Conditions have not sufficiently improved since previous extensions, and the potential return of hundreds of thousands of former TPS holders would likely bring destabilizing consequences to their home countries. In fact, documents released last week demonstrated that the intelligence community warned DHS of these facts and more. They forecasted that ending TPS would cause more, not less, undocumented immigration. Congress needs to have an honest debate about TPS--determining when and where it is appropriate to terminate protections. Our President seems to have the opposite rationale: his goal is simply to rid our nation of as many immigrants as possible, and I believe he sees TPS as a ripe target. So it seems that our only recourse is to place funding restrictions on his actions. We can’t force Congress and the President to have an open dialogue about TPS, but we can say that you can’t use any money to end TPS protections in the upcoming fiscal year. The amendment I offer with Congresswoman Lowey would prohibit any federal funds from being used to arrest, detain, or remove law-abiding TPS beneficiaries from our communities. I urge support for our amendment. ###
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 24, 2018) – On Tuesday, July 24, 2018, Democrats on the Education and Workforce Committee unveiled the Aim Higher Act, a sweeping reauthorization of the Higher Education Act to provide every student the opportunity to earn a degree free of crushing debt that leads to a rewarding career. This legislation contains two bills introduced by Congressman David Price: the Advancing International and Foreign Language Education Act (H.R. 4491), which supports foreign language and international education programs at colleges and universities, and the Joint Consolidation Loan Separation Act (H.R. 2949), which provides relief to borrowers of Joint Consolidation Loans. This bill stands in stark contrast to the Republican alternative, the PROSPER Act, which eliminates Subsidized federal students loans, ends the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program, and cuts $15 billion from federal student aid overall. “The Aim Higher Act is a bold vision for affordable, accessible higher education in our country,” said Congressman David Price. “In addition to ensuring that students have access to the full range of quality four-year and two-year degrees that give students a path to a good career, this bill includes provisions I authored to expand existing foreign and international language programs and would provide relief to borrowers with legacy joint consolidation loans who are victims of abuse or uncommunicative spouses.” The Aim Higher Act: Makes college more affordable today – by investing in federal student aid – and helps states make public college tuition more affordable in the future – by incentivizing states to reinvest in higher education, Cracks down on predatory for-profit institutions that target students and veterans with expensive, low-quality programs, Protects and expands the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program, which is eliminated in the Republican PROSPER Act, and makes student loans simpler and easier to repay, Provides students the tools they need to graduate on time with a quality degree, and Invests in teachers and strengthens training for teachers and school leaders to improve the quality of our schools. ###
07.17.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 17, 2018) – On Monday, July 16, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC) proposed an amendment to the appropriations “minibus” bill that would prohibit changes to two offshore drilling rules put into place in the wake of the Deepwater Horizon disaster – the well control rule and the production safety systems rule. Despite bipartisan support and clear relevance to the Interior and Environment appropriations bill, the amendment was ruled “out of order,” preventing the amendment from proceeding to the House floor for a vote. In spirit, the amendment would accomplish the same objectives as the Safe COAST Act, a bill introduced in January 2018 by Rep. Price (D-NC), Rep. Barragan (D-CA) and Rep. Crist (D-FL). The Safe COAST Act would codify these commonsense rules following the Trump administration’s December announced that they would be altered or eliminated in an attempt to minimize the oil and gas industry’s safety obligations. The amendment offered on Monday was cosponsored by Reps. Barragan (D-CA), Crist (D-FL), Castor (D-FL), Buchanan (R-FL), Rooney (R-FL), Curbelo (R-FL), and Mast (R-FL). “The Rules Committee had an opportunity to protect safeguards put in place to prevent another disaster like Deepwater Horizon, but chose to appease the oil and gas industry instead,” said Congressman Price. “This amendment would ensure that these carefully crafted regulations are protected from executive actions that would seek to undermine safety and jeopardize our environment. It’s clear that despite its broad support across the aisle, my amendment was made out of order by Republicans hoping to provide cover to the Trump administration and protect the bottom line of the oil and gas lobby.” BACKGROUND: The 2010 Deepwater Horizon explosion led to the worst oil spill in U.S. history. Eleven workers lost their lives and 4.9 million barrels of oil were released into the Gulf of Mexico. BP has paid out more than $65 billion in claims and clean-up costs since that time with the total impact of damages still unknown. In the wake of this disaster, several regulations to protect workers and coastal communities were put into place. These include the production safety systems rule, requiring safety and pollution prevention equipment be inspected by independent auditors certified by the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE) and the well control rule, requiring BSEE to confirm that the amount of pressure drillers propose to use in a new well is “safe”, thus reducing the risk of blowouts such as the one that caused the Deepwater Horizon explosion. ###
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 16, 2018) – On Monday, July 16, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement regarding the Trump-Putin summit in Helsinki. "The Trump-Putin Helsinki summit was an alarming display of just how beholden Donald Trump is to Vladimir Putin. Just three days after a dozen Russians were indicted for interference in our election, President Trump not only failed to admonish Putin, but gave credence to his denials and placed his testimony on a par with our entire intelligence community. This followed a disastrous summit with our NATO allies where the President publicly undermined German Chancellor Angela Merkel and British Prime Minister Theresa May, designated the European Union as one of America’s greatest foes, and cast doubt on where his and America’s loyalties lie. President Trump’s persistent decision not to recognize Russian interference in our elections is a national crisis, and a blatant demonstration of Trump’s leadership being compromised. Congressional Republicans can no longer feign concern or look the other way—we need to act to protect our nation from Putin’s manipulation and Trump’s capitulation.” ###
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 16, 2018) – On Monday, July 16, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement after FCC Chairman Ajit Pai stated he has “serious concerns” with the Sinclair-Tribune merger and announced he would send the merger through a lengthy administrative review process. In July 2017, Congressman David Price (D-NC) and Congressman Jared Huffman (D-CA) introduced the Local and Independent Television Protection Act to protect local television markets across the country from corporate consolidation by ending the so-called “UHF Discount,” an obsolete FCC loophole reinstated by FCC Chairman Ajit Pai weeks before the Sinclair-Tribune merger was announced. "Almost one year ago, I introduced a bill with Rep. Jared Huffman to effectively block media mega-mergers like this. Under the leadership of Chairman Ajit Pai, the FCC reinstated a technologically obsolete loophole allowing broadcast corporations with ideological motives like Sinclair to become media behemoths. While today's announcement is a positive first step toward ensuring the FCC upholds its mission to protect localism, diversity, and competition in media, we must continue to pressure the Chairman to end the UHF discount and other loopholes that harm local programming in our country.” ###
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 13, 2018) – On Friday, July 13, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement regarding news that Raleigh would not be selected as the site for the Army Futures Command (AFC). “I’m disappointed that North Carolina’s Research Triangle will not be home to the Army Futures Command (AFC). As North Carolina’s 4th District Representative, I am extremely proud to serve a community with exceptional academia and research, skilled workers, high quality of life, and a dynamic economy. North Carolina is a growing hub of technological innovation as well as the home to the Army Research Office and one of the largest military populations in the country. I thank my colleagues in the North Carolina delegation for their support in making the case for AFC’s placement in Raleigh, and I will continue to advocate for robust federal investment in our state as North Carolina’s sole appropriator.” ###
07.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 12, 2018) – On Wednesday, July 11, 2018, the Appropriations Committee passed by voice vote an amendment by Reps. David Price (D-NC), Nita Lowey (D-NY), Henry Cuellar (D-TX), and Katherine Clark (D-MA) that would drastically increase oversight and transparency of the status of families separated by President Trump’s “zero-tolerance” policy. The amendment would require the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), in conjunction with the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), to submit a monthly report on: (1) the number and ages of children separated from their families at or between ports of entry; (2) the length of each separation; (3) the status of any efforts undertaken by the Secretary to reunify these children with a parent or legal guardian; and (4) the number of any reunifications, and whether the reunified families were placed in family detention. Additionally, the amendment would require parents and children to be informed of each other’s whereabouts within 24 hours of separation. Finally, it directs the Secretary of HHS to submit a comprehensive report within 60 days of the bill’s enactment on their plans to reunify families, and their efforts to ensure families will remain in touch until reunification. Below is Congressman Price’s prepared remarks upon introducing his amendment. Remarks as prepared. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My amendment addresses an issue that has evoked alarm from Americans across the country and lawmakers from both sides of the aisle: the administration’s “zero tolerance” policy which has resulted in the separation of nearly three thousand children from their parents at our nation’s southern border. I say “nearly three thousand” because Congress does not know the exact number of children and families who were affected by this short-lived yet disastrous policy. On June 20th, following weeks of disinformation and evasion by the President and his administration, Donald Trump signed an executive order to end this practice, but has since provided scant details on his strategy to return these children to their parents. Additionally, the administration has yet to produce accurate counts of the number of children impacted by the separation policy. This can only mean one of two things: gross incompetence or deliberate dissembling. Lawmakers and the public must have access to this information to hold Trump and his administration accountable. We do know that yesterday, the Administration failed to meet a court-ordered deadline of reuniting 101 children under the age of 5 with their parents—how long will it take them to reunite the remaining 3,000 children? We also know that separation of these children from their parents will have residual, long-term effects on thousands of children. The American Academy of Pediatrics has stated that family separation can cause “irreparable harm, disrupting a child’s brain architecture and affecting his or her short- and long-term health.” No matter your political affiliation or views on immigration policy, we should all agree that these children must be protected from the torment and trauma caused by separation from their parents, and lawmakers should do everything in our power to ensure they are reunited as soon as possible. That is what this amendment aims to do. My amendment—offered alongside Mrs. Lowey, Mr. Cuellar, and Mrs. Clark—would add report language to the bill to require HHS, in collaboration with DHS, to provide our Committee with a monthly public report on the number of children who have been separated from their families at the border, the number of children who have been referred to care at the Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR), and the number of children who have been released from ORR care. This report would include information on the age of the children; where, why, and for how long the separation occurred; and the length of the child’s stay in ORR care. If the child was released from ORR care, the report must include information on who the child was released to. My amendment also directs HHS and DHS to ensure that parents and children are informed of each other’s whereabouts within 24 hours of separation. Finally, my amendment would direct HHS and DHS to provide us with a report on efforts to increase and maintain contact between separated families and information on how they will facilitate the coordinated repatriation of the families when it is in the best interest of the child. President Trump’s “zero tolerance” policy manufactured a crisis that has left us with a number of unknowns. This amendment would ensure that as the debate on immigration continues, our Committee, the Congress, and the public have adequate and accurate information about what’s happening at our borders. I urge support for the amendment. ###
07.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 10, 2018) – On Tuesday, July 10, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement after President Trump nominated Brett Kavanaugh to succeed Justice Anthony Kennedy on the U.S. Supreme Court. “President Trump selected Brett Kavanaugh from a pre-approved list of ideologues prepared by right-wing advocacy groups. In outsourcing this decision, President Trump has advanced a hard-right judge who passed the litmus test of corporate special interests and the legal protection of the President himself. A successful confirmation of Judge Kavanaugh would threaten women’s rights, voting rights, unions, affordable health care, consumer protections, efforts to reduce gun violence, and minority communities for decades to come. Additionally, President Trump ensured Judge Kavanaugh believes a sitting President should be immune from criminal investigations and prosecution, an opinion that presents a tremendous conflict of interest if and when the conclusion of the Special Counsel investigation reaches the halls of the Supreme Court. I firmly believe that my colleagues in the Senate should follow the McConnell Rule: there should be no hearings on a Supreme Court nominee until after the American people’s voice is heard in November. With only seventeen weeks before a national election where one-third of the U.S. Senate is on the ballot, we should not rush the confirmation process for a partisan judge who will determine decades of jurisprudence in the highest court.” ###
06.29.2018	RALEIGH, N.C. (June 29, 2018) – On Friday, June 29, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement on the passing of former Holly Springs Mayor and Commissioner Parrish Womble. "I am saddened to learn of the passing of former Holly Springs Mayor & Commissioner Parrish Womble and want to express my sympathy to his family. “Ham” was a dedicated and inclusive leader who had a major impact on Holly Springs over thirty years of service. I remember working with him and Mayor Gerald Holleman in the late 1980s to secure for Holly Springs—then a mainly African American community of some800 people—basic water and sewer infrastructure. He served on the town board until 2011, helping secure land for what is now appropriately called Parrish Womble Park, build modern middle and elementary schools, and otherwise lay the foundation for the town of 35,000 that Holly Springs is today. I join with his many friends and admirers in mourning his passing and expressing gratitude for his many years of tireless service."
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 27, 2018) – On Wednesday, June 27, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement after U.S. Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy announced his retirement. “In 2016, when President Obama nominated Merrick Garland to the Supreme Court 33 weeks before a national election, Mitch McConnell stated “The American people should have a voice in the selection of their next Supreme Court Justice.” Now, Justice Kennedy has retired a mere 19 weeks before a national election. As a House member, I do not have the right to vote on confirmations of Supreme Court Justices, but I believe the Senate should follow the precedent set by the Majority Leader and forgo a vote on a confirmation until after the midterm elections. To rush a Trump nominee to a vote would be totally inconsistent and hypocritical.” ###
06.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 20, 2018) – On Tuesday, June 19, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC), current member and former Chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee joined House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), and more than 190 House Democrats in introducing H.R. 6135, the Keep Families Together Act, to end family separation at the U.S. border. The Keep Families Together Act is the House companion to legislation introduced by Senate Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Diane Feinstein (D-CA) earlier this month. “President Trump’s decision to separate migrant children from their parents at our nation's border is a cruel and deliberate practice designed to sow fear and panic in migrant communities,” said Congressman Price. “Contrary to President Trump’s lies, this policy could be reversed with the stroke of a pen, but it appears that Donald Trump’s political opportunism and heartlessness will prevent him from doing the right thing once again. I’m proud to join more than 190 Democratic colleagues in the House, as well as all 47 Democrats and 2 Independents in the Senate, to sponsor legislation to end this immoral policy.” The Keep Families Together Act would: Keep Families Together: The bill promotes family unity by prohibiting Department of Homeland Security (DHS) officials from separating children from their parents, except in extraordinary circumstances. In these limited circumstances, separation could not occur unless parental rights have been terminated, a child welfare agency has issued a best interest determination, or the Port Director or the Chief Border Patrol agent of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) have approved separation due to trafficking indicators or other concerns of risk to the child. It requires an independent child welfare official to review any such separation and return the child if no harm to the child is present. It imposes financial penalties on officials who violate the prohibition on family separation. Limit Criminal Prosecutions for Asylum Seekers: The majority of the parents separated at the border are being criminally prosecuted for illegal entry or re-entry. This bill restricts the prosecution of parents who are asylum seekers by adopting the recommendation of the DHS Office of Inspector General. The bill delays prosecutions for illegal entry or re-entry for asylum seekers and creates an affirmative defense for asylum seekers. It also codifies our commitment to the Refugee protocol prohibiting the criminal punishment of those seeking protection from persecution. Increase Child Welfare Training: The bill requires all CBP officers and agents to complete child welfare training on an annual basis. Port Directors and Chief Border Agents, those who are authorized to make decisions on family separations, must complete an additional 90 minutes of annual child-welfare training. Establish Public Policy Preference for Family Reunification: The bill establishes a preference for family unity, discourages the separation of siblings, and creates a presumption that detention is not in the best interests of families and children. Add Procedures for Separated Families: The bill requires DHS to develop policies and procedures allowing parents and children to locate each other and reunite if they have been separated. Such procedures must be public and made available in a language that parents can understand. In cases of separation, it requires DHS to provide parents with a weekly report containing information about a child, and weekly phone communication. Establish Other Required Measures: In order to inform Congressional oversight and promote public understanding of the use family separation, the bill requires a report on the separation of families every six months. ###
06.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 18, 2018) – On Monday, June 18, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement regarding the Trump administration’s “zero-tolerance” policy separating migrant children from their parents at our nation’s border. “The Trump Administration's policy of separating immigrant children from their parents at our nation's border is a cruel and deliberate practice designed to sow fear and panic in migrant communities. This policy has already separated more than 2,000 children from their parents and is the direct result of an administration action which can be reversed at any time, contrary to the President’s lies. I recently cosponsored House Resolution 927, which correctly condemns this policy as a form of child abuse, as well as the HELP Separated Children Act (HR 5950), which provides these children with protections and establishes humane protocols for DHS officers interacting with these children. No matter your political affiliation, we can all agree that we should not subject children and parents to the trauma of being separated. Trump’s “zero-tolerance” policy is an affront to the values we hold as Americans, and we must do everything we can to put an end to it immediately.” ###
06.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 13, 2018) – On Wednesday, June 13, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC) and Congressman José Serrano (D-NY) proposed an amendment to the FY19 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations bill to restore Net Neutrality protections and prevent the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) from unilaterally dismantling a free and open internet. The amendment was voted down 22-29 on a party line vote. On Monday, June 12, the FCC’s Open Internet Order protections officially lapsed, ending Net Neutrality. The U.S. Senate has already voted to overturn the Net Neutrality repeal, but Speaker Paul Ryan has prevented a similar vote in the U.S. House of Representatives. “The FCC’s decision to eliminate Net Neutrality represents yet another corporate handout by the Trump Administration which will erode the principles of openness, innovation, and fairness that are the cornerstone of the internet,” said Congressman David Price (D-NC), Ranking Member on the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee. “The amendment I offered with Rep. Serrano would have restored internet freedom to protect entrepreneurs, small businesses, students, and the public at large. I am extremely disappointed that my Republican colleagues won’t work with Democrats to ensure a level playing field on the internet, and I call on Speaker Ryan to immediately bring the House CRA to the floor for a vote.” “With today’s vote against reestablishing net neutrality, Republicans have once again shown whose side they are on – big telecom companies,” said Congressman Serrano (D-NY), Ranking Member on the Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Subcommittee. “Easy access to the internet is a basic necessity in today’s world. An open and free internet is particularly crucial to small businesses & entrepreneurs, students, and working families – including many of my constituents in the South Bronx who can’t afford to pay extra for premium access to the internet. Access to the internet should be low-cost and accessible to all, but as companies bring prices up and restrict access, it will turn into a luxury. That is something our nation can’t afford.” “Americans deserve the strong net neutrality protections they had on the internet until this week,” House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi said. “Congressmen Serrano and Price and their Democratic colleagues on the Appropriations Committee are to be commended for fighting to protect the open internet for consumers and small businesses in their districts. Republicans might say they’re for net neutrality, but until they join us to restore net neutrality by signing our discharge petition they aren’t listening to their constituents.” “Today’s amendment was an opportunity for Congress to save net neutrality and ensure that our constituents choose what websites and apps they can access online,” said Rep. Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Member of the Appropriations Committee. “It is deeply disappointing that Republicans voted down this amendment and refused to protect the free and open internet.” In 2015, after several years of legal battles and careful deliberation, the FCC, under the leadership of Chairman Tom Wheeler, issued its revised “Open Internet Order” to enshrine into federal regulation the basic principle of Net Neutrality, that all content traveling over the internet should be treated equally by the owners of networks providing internet service to consumers. In December 2017, under the leadership of Chairman Ajit Pai, the FCC voted to eliminate Net Neutrality, despite receiving millions consumer comments supporting a free and open internet. ###
05.17.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 17, 2018) – On Thursday, May 17, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC) released the following statement after his amendment to the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies FY19 Appropriations bill was approved by the committee as part of the bipartisan “manager’s amendment.” The language authored by Rep. Price encourages states and localities to implement Extreme Risk Protection Order (ERPO), or “Red Flag” laws, which allow local law enforcement to remove firearms from individuals who may pose a risk to themselves or others. “Many times, individuals who carry out mass-shootings or commit suicide exhibit threatening or abnormal behavior prior to taking action. Family members or neighbors frequently report dangerous or aberrant activity preceding an attack or suicide attempt, but law enforcement has little legal ground to initiate a response. Extreme Risk Protection Order (ERPO) laws create a mechanism for law enforcement to temporarily remove access to firearms for these individuals, while ensuring critical due-process protections remain in place. I’m extremely pleased that my amendment—which clarifies that states and localities may use federal funds to implement and administer these laws—was approved by the Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Subcommittee. I would like to thank the subcommittee for the opportunity to raise awareness of this possible use of federal funds, and I am hopeful that they will help to address the gun violence epidemic plaguing our streets and our communities.” ###
05.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 16, 2018) – Today, May 16, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC), Ranking Member of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (THUD) Appropriations Subcommittee, delivered the following opening remarks at the markup of the FY2019 Appropriations Bill. Remarks as prepared. Mr. Chairman, I want to begin by thanking you for your efforts to accommodate the requests of Democratic members. You continue to be accessible and receptive to many of our priorities and it continues to be a pleasure to work with you. As you have already stated, this year’s allocation is $71.8 billion for critical transportation, housing, and community development programs at DOT, HUD, and related agencies. This is $1.5 billion over last year’s enacted level. This healthy allocation is largely the result of successful bipartisan budget negotiations that concluded earlier this year. It allows us to build on the success of last year’s omnibus agreement, which provided a significant down payment to address our nation’s pressing infrastructure and housing needs. However, I think all of us on this subcommittee know that demonstrated need continues to outpace the funding we are providing. The FY 2019 subcommittee mark before us today contains robust funding for transit and rail programs that the President’s budget sought to eliminate. The FTA Capital Investment Grants program receives $2.6 billion—enough to fully fund all New Starts, Small Starts, and Core Capacity projects in the pipeline—and bill language is included to ensure the Department continues to administer the program according to congressional intent. Lest anyone forget, the Congress determines how money is appropriated – not executive branch appointees – and we will continue to exercise our constitutional responsibility and ensure our decisions are implemented faithfully. Back to the mark itself, Amtrak receives nearly $2 billion in funding, equal to last year’s enacted level, which represented a record investment in our nation’s passenger rail network. Several discretionary rail programs, including CRISI grants and the Federal-State Partnership for State of Good Repair grants, receive healthy funding. The popular TIGER grant program will receive $750 million. While this represents a 50 percent cut compared to last year’s enacted level of $1.5 billion, I’m pleased that the subcommittee mark includes language to provide an appropriate balance between rural and urban projects. This language rejects, in a bipartisan manner, the Department’s recent misguided decision to make TIGER a predominantly rural grant program. Core safety programs at DOT’s modal agencies will receive adequate funding, and the FAA receives targeted increases above the budget request to accelerate critical NextGen air traffic control modernization projects. Notably, the bill provides considerable resources to core transportation formula programs above and beyond the funding levels authorized in the FAST Act. This includes: More than $4 billion for highways and bridges, $500 million for competitive airport infrastructure grants, and $800 million for transit programs, including competitive Bus and Bus Facility grants and State of Good Repair funding. On the housing side of the ledger, funding for Section 8 vouchers and project-based rental assistance appears adequate to ensure nobody loses housing assistance – another area where we are rightfully rejecting the President’s fundamentally flawed budget request. I hope and expect that the Chairman and I can continue to work together to protect this vital assistance and revisit the housing numbers as updated renewal estimates are received by the subcommittee. The subcommittee mark also includes additional funding for special voucher categories, including: $40 million for additional HUD-VASH vouchers for veterans, $390 million for Section 811 “mainstream” vouchers for the disabled, and $50 million to fund a new mobility demonstration project to assist low-income families find housing in high-opportunity neighborhoods. Section 202 and 811 housing for elderly and disabled receive enough funding to renew existing renewals and contracts, but not enough to construct new units like we provided in the 2018 omnibus. I hope we can improve these numbers because the need is acute among both our elderly and disabled population, and these programs have proved their worth in addressing this need. Their revival cannot be a mere one-year blip in funding. The bill locks in recent funding increases for critical discretionary housing grant programs. Choice Neighborhoods, which allows grantees to transform distressed communities into thriving mixed-income communities, once again would receive $150 million. The popular Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program, which offers flexible funding to towns and cities across the country for housing and public infrastructure improvements, receives flat funding at $3.3 billion. Meanwhile, the HOME Investment Partnerships program, which is so often utilized as key “gap funding” in new affordable housing developments, receives $1.2 billion, a slight cut from last year’s enacted level. We need to push these numbers higher, particularly in the context of large funding increases in the transportation title of this bill. In public housing, the story is similar. Recent gains made in the FY18 omnibus are largely maintained. The public housing capital fund will receive $2.75 billion, equal to last year’s level. This is well below demonstrated need, but it nonetheless represents a major improvement over the funding levels from prior years. I’m pleased the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) program will get another modest funding increase, to ensure all grantees are held harmless during ongoing formula modernization, and that Homeless Assistance Grants (HAG) receives a modest $33 million increase over last year’s level. As we all know, we are in the midst of a national housing crisis—only one in four people eligible for federal rental assistance can receive it—and rents continue to rise dramatically in many of our districts across the country. Our infrastructure continues to crumble, resulting in decaying highways and bridges and congested roads and airports. As the process moves forward, I hope to work with the Chairman to provide additional resources to improve our transportation networks, combat homelessness, and make robust investments in community development programs. Before I close, I must register several concerns that I believe will determine the extent to which we have a productive, bipartisan appropriations process this year. First, I am strongly opposed to several controversial policy riders that were attached to this bill that unnecessarily attack high speed rail, roll back transportation safety for the traveling public, and harm labor rights. While I do not intend to offer amendments to the subcommittee mark, members will have the opportunity to delete these riders in full committee. They must be addressed if the bill is to garner bipartisan support. Second, the majority’s decision to once again avoid transparent 302(b) allocations does not inspire confidence about the process moving forward. In fact, it could wreck this and other bills. It is impossible for Committee members to make informed decisions about spending priorities when we are operating in the dark and left to guess about future allocations as each bill is marked up in Committee. This subcommittee does not operate in a bubble, it exists alongside eleven other bills, and we must consider this allocation in the context of potential cuts elsewhere. Finally, the Trump-Mulvaney rescission package—and the possibility of additional rescission proposals backed solely by the Republican majority—will greatly complicate the appropriations process, which requires good faith and trust to be successful. Rescissions that target only non-defense spending or Democratic priorities remain a non-starter, and clawing back or cancelling funding from recently enacted appropriations bills undermines our ability to reach future bipartisan agreements. If the majority expects our cooperation in the appropriations process, it must reject rescissions packages concocted without collaboration behind closed doors, remove objectionable special-interest riders, and come clean about the 302(b) allocations for our remaining bills. Mr. Chairman, I remain hopeful that we will ultimately put these distractions aside, clean up the riders in this bill, and proceed to get our work done for the American people. I look forward to continuing to work with you in the weeks and months ahead. Thank you. ###
05.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 16, 2018) – On Wednesday, May 16, Congressman David Price (D-NC) released the following statement on the violence in Gaza. “Earlier this week, while the Trump Administration was celebrating its misguided and provocative decision to move the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem, Israeli security forces killed dozens of Palestinian protesters and injured more than 2,500 just a few miles away. To be clear: the fact that many of these protesters appear to have been organized by Hamas—without any regard to their life or safety—is deplorable, and the use of violence by protesters is unacceptable. Israel has a right to defend itself proportionately against such violence. Yet nothing about Israel’s response this week was proportionate, measured, or acceptable. Israel’s actions only serve to inflame tensions in an already volatile region, to undermine U.S. and Israeli security, and to push a resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict even further out of reach. The international community should condemn the use of violence by all sides and work immediately to de-escalate tensions and begin restoring the conditions necessary for peace negotiations to resume.”
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 8, 2018) – On Tuesday, May 8, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC), Gerry Connelly (D-VA), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), John Yarmuth (D-KY), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Peter Welch (D-VT), and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) released the following statement after President Trump announced that he would not waive, and would reimpose, Iranian sanctions lifted as part of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), or Iran Nuclear Deal. “In refusing to waive sanctions that were lifted as part of the Iran Nuclear Agreement, President Trump has manufactured an international crisis that risks an armed conflict with a nuclear Iran. Since its inception, the JCPOA has implemented the most stringent verification and monitoring standards ever placed on a nation, successfully preventing Iran from developing or obtaining a nuclear weapon. Despite frequent assurances of Iranian compliance from senior military and intelligence officials, independent inspectors, and our international partners, including Israeli security officials, President Trump consistently seeks to undermine the agreement and has yet to outline any plan to address his criticisms. With no strategy in Iran and no vision in the Middle East, President Trump’s reckless decision will increase tensions in hot spots around the world, push the United States closer to armed conflict with Iran, and severely diminish U.S. leadership and leverage. His actions serve only to isolate us from our allies, to encourage Iran to obtain a nuclear weapon, and to dissuade nations from negotiating agreements with the United States. President Trump has consistently demonstrated his ignorance of the complexity of the world’s challenges and today’s decision further highlights his inability to protect U.S. interests abroad.” ###
04.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Apr. 27, 2018) – Today, Friday, April 27, 2018, Representatives David Price (NC-04), Mike Quigley (IL-5), Katherine Clark (MA-5), and Pete Aguilar (CA-31), Democratic members of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, joined by Nita Lowey (NY-17), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, sent a letter to the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Transportation expressing their concern regarding safety lapses at Allegiant Air and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) oversight of our nation’s commercial airlines. This letter follows numerous reports of mechanical and safety lapses at the airline in recent years, as first reported in 60 Minutes on April 15, 2018. The full text of the signed letter can be found here. *** April 27, 2018 The Honorable Calvin L. Scovel III Inspector General U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Ave. S.E. - 7th Floor Washington, DC 20590 Dear Inspector General Scovel: We write to express our serious concerns regarding safety lapses at Allegiant Air and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) oversight of our nation’s commercial airlines. According to recent media reports, Allegiant has suffered more than 100 “serious mechanical issues” on flights in the past two years, including engine failure, hydraulic leaks, and loss of cabin pressure. Some of these problems resulted in aborted takeoffs, unscheduled landings, and evacuations of aircraft. Under different conditions, just one of these incidents could have resulted in catastrophic loss of life. As you know, FAA’s safety oversight system includes programs that focus on risk identification and mitigation through a “risk-based system safety approach” and enforcement of safety regulations. The agency also employs certain designee and partnership relationships—presumably with aviation stakeholders that have good safety records—to ensure enforcement and oversight resources are used to monitor entities or activities that pose higher risks. As members of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, we have prioritized full funding for FAA safety and oversight activities. It’s imperative that FAA use these resources effectively while ensuring the safety of the traveling public. The American people must have confidence that when they board an airplane both the carrier and the FAA have taken the all the necessary steps to ensure the highest level of safety and compliance with relevant federal regulations. If you have not already done so, we request that you immediately open an investigation to determine whether FAA is adhering to the existing safety oversight and enforcement framework, and, if necessary, issue recommendations regarding any weaknesses or vulnerabilities in this framework. Thank you for your consideration of this request, and we look forward to working with you. Sincerely, David Price Nita Lowey Mike Quigley Katherine Clark Pete Aguilar ###
04.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives David Price (NC-04), John Yarmuth (KY-03), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Lloyd Doggett (TV-35), Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Steve Cohen (TN-09), Peter Welch (VT-AL), Gerry Connolly (VA-11), and Alan Lowenthal (CA-47) released the statement below regarding the ongoing violence in Gaza: “We are deeply concerned by the violence and the tragic loss of life along the border of Gaza. As strong supporters of Israel and advocates for a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, we respect Israel’s right to defend itself. However, short of a threat to human life, we call on the Israeli Defense Forces to immediately stop using deadly force against unarmed protestors. Likewise, we respect the Palestinians who are advocating for change through peaceful means. However, we call on the Palestinian demonstrators to renounce the violence and inflammatory rhetoric expressed by Hamas. With demonstrations expected to last into May, we urge both Israelis and Palestinians to refrain from any actions that would further escalate tensions and cause further bloodshed. Both the Israelis and Palestinians have a right to a just, safe, and secure future, which can only be achieved through diplomacy—not military action.” ###
04.26.2018	RALEIGH, NC (Apr. 26, 2018) – Today, Thursday, April 26, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC) announced that NC State University would receive $1,899,033 from the Department of Energy (DOE) as part of a $20 million effort to advance early-stage power electronics technologies. These innovations are critical to address solar photovoltaic (PV) reliability challenges, as well as to drive down the cost of installing and maintaining a PV solar system. As a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Rep. Price plays a critical role in securing funding to advance alternative power sources like solar. Power electronics are used to convert electricity from one form to another. As the critical link between PV arrays and the electric grid, advances in power electronics can also help grid operators rapidly detect and respond to problems, protect against physical and cyber vulnerabilities, and enable consumers to manage electricity use. Advanced solar power electronics can also help deliver power safely, integrate PV with storage controls, and ensure power reliability. Each project must meet a 20 percent cost share requirement and will last up to three years, enabling teams to significantly improve on innovative concepts throughout the project period. These awards are cooperative agreements – rather than grants – which involve substantial federal oversight and require funding recipients to meet certain technical milestones that help ensure taxpayer value and return. Learn more about the DOE Solar Energy Technologies Office HERE. ###
04.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Apr. 14, 2018) – On Saturday, April 14, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC) released the following statement after President Trump launched military airstrikes against the Syrian regime, following a brutal chemical weapons attack on civilians. “Bashar al-Assad's use of chemical weapons on his own civilians is abhorrent and beyond the pale, as is the support and defense of the Assad regime by the Russian government. A coordinated international response may be required as part of a comprehensive strategy in Syria, but President Trump has yet to develop any such strategy, to consult with Congress, or to seek a renewed authorization for the use of force. President Trump's lack of a calculated diplomatic or military strategy, as well as his disdain for refugees fleeing the crisis, have complicated a situation that will not be resolved by a single bombing campaign.” ###
04.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (April 6, 2018) – On Friday, April 6, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC) joined Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA), David Cicilline (D-RI), and 64 House Democrats calling for the immediate dismissal of EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt. In a letter to President Donald Trump, the Representatives raised Pruitt’s unethical behavior, wasteful use of taxpayer money, and numerous actions which contravened the EPA’s mission. The Representatives wrote: “Pruitt worked out a special deal on housing rent with the wife of an industry lobbyist who represents companies regulated by the EPA and who was an active contributor to his political career. More specifically, Pruitt paid just $50/night for a Capitol Hill condominium, and only for the nights he used a bedroom in the townhouse, a sum well below the market value. Pruitt’s daughter also stayed in the townhouse in a separate room, at no added cost. … “Administrator Pruitt is under several EPA IG investigations for his wasteful use of taxpayer money. The IG is investigating Pruitt’s decision to enter the EPA into a contract for a new $43,000 secure phone booth inside his office, despite the fact that two secure facilities already exist in the same building. It is also investigating his extravagant travel habits. … “The EPA’s mission is to protect human health and the environment. Administrator Pruitt has repeatedly directed the agency to act counter to that mission. Pruitt has taken efforts to weaken the agency of its scientific expertise. He has marginalized staff experts, refusing to meet with them, and actively worked to reduce the size of the agency. … “For these reasons, we ask that you fire Scott Pruitt from the Environmental Protection Agency immediately. A man under numerous investigations both for ethical concerns and wasteful spending, who has actively moved to undermine environmental rules and regulations at industry request, is antithetical to the job of EPA Administrator. Mr. Pruitt needs to go.” Full text of the letter is available below, and a signed copy is available here. April 6, 2018 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We formally request that you ask Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt to resign. Scott Pruitt’s unethical behavior, wasteful use of taxpayer money, and his efforts to undermine the EPA’s core mission to protect our environment and public health demand an appropriate response: his resignation or his firing. Unethical Behavior Pruitt worked out a special deal on housing rent with the wife of an industry lobbyist who represents companies regulated by the EPA and who was an active contributor to his political career. More specifically, Pruitt paid just $50/night for a Capitol Hill condominium, and only for the nights he used a bedroom in the townhouse, a sum well below the market value. Pruitt’s daughter also stayed in the townhouse in a separate room, at no added cost. More concerning to us are the conflicts of interest involved with his condominium arrangement. Companies represented by his lobbyist-landlord received EPA approval during his stay in the townhouse—the extent of which we do not fully know yet. The townhouse is also a known GOP fundraiser site, and several fundraisers were held during the timeframe that Administrator Pruitt was staying there. Pruitt did not report the details of this concerning arrangement to ethics counsel at the EPA, nor to the public, beforehand. Separately, this past March, the White House Presidential Personnel Office denied Administrator Pruitt’s request to substantially increase the salary of two of his staffers, who came from Oklahoma with him to DC. Seemingly unwilling to take “no” for an answer, Pruitt used an obscure provision of the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) and “ordered” EPA to give those two Oklahoma staffers salary increases of $28,130 and $56,765—an issue the EPA Inspector General (IG) is now reviewing. In an interview after reports of the pay raises surfaced this week, Administrator Pruitt denied any knowledge of the matter. According to press reports, one of those staffers was also responsible for securing his personal housing arrangements. Pruitt also used this obscure legal provision to hire several industry lobbyists, a loophole that allows him to avoid having those hires sign your ethics pledge. Administrator Pruitt has also engaged in potential anti-lobbying violations: the Government Accountability Office is investigating his appearance in a National Cattlemen’s Beef Association video urging farmers to comment on proposed changes to the Clean Water Rule; and, the IG is already reviewing Pruitt’s call for a mining group to lobby on the Paris climate agreement. Administrator Pruitt also continually refuses to recuse himself on issues under EPA consideration. As Attorney General (AG) of Oklahoma, Pruitt sued the EPA 14 times, and in 13 of those 14 cases, regulated industries were also parties. Mr. Pruitt and his affiliated Political Action Committees received campaign contributions from co-parties like Murray Energy, Peabody Energy and Southern Power Company. It was also found that Mr. Pruitt lied during his confirmation hearing by saying that he never used private email as AG, although private emails surfaced between AG Pruitt and Devon Energy, directly disputing his statement. The core mission of the EPA is to protect the environment and human health. Yet, Administrator Pruitt spent most of his first year in office meeting with his industry stakeholders – meetings that undoubtedly influenced his policy directives and decision-making at the EPA. According to a Washington Post analysis of his public schedule, Pruitt held 218 meetings in 2017 with representatives of industries he regulates, while only meeting a dozen times with environmental and public health groups. In one case, just hours after meeting with the CEO of a foreign mining company, the Pebble Limited Partnership (PLP), EPA Administrator Pruitt directed his staff to withdraw from a plan to protect the watershed of Bristol Bay, Alaska under the Clean Water Act’s 404(c) process in order to push forward a controversial proposal to build one of the world’s largest open pit copper and gold mines there. Administrator Pruitt has actively stacked the EPA with friends and industry insiders. An analysis by the Associated Press found that one-third of 59 new EPA political appointee positions it tracked were registered lobbyists or lawyers for fossil fuel producers, chemical manufacturers or other corporate clients. Pruitt also installed unqualified friends in EPA positions that don’t require Senate confirmation. To lead the EPA’s Superfund Task Force, Pruitt hired his friend Albert Kelly, who had previously provided three loans to Pruitt through his bank before being barred from the banking industry for life by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). The FDIC determined in May 2017 that it “ha[d] reason to believe that [Kelly] violated a law or regulation, by entering into an agreement pertaining to a loan by the Bank without FDIC approval” and in July determined that he was unfit to serve in any banking or banking-affiliated position, though did not publicize further specifics as to why. Additionally, Pruitt has worked to ensure that the EPA is cloaked in secrecy rather than being transparent and accountable to the American public. Within weeks of his arrival, the EPA’s public affairs office stopped responding to many reporters’ questions and sharing his complete schedule. EPA staff reported not being allowed to take notes in meetings or carry their cellphones, limiting the paper trail that can be requested under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). One FOIA request found that Pruitt's Superfund Task Force, chaired by his friend the FDIC-banned Albert Kelly, took no minutes of its meetings and produced just one document — a list of final recommendations. When EPA was mishandling its emergency response of Superfund sites, Pruitt’s press office proactively challenged accounts of disarray. Wasteful Use of Taxpayer Money Administrator Pruitt is under several EPA IG investigations for his wasteful use of taxpayer money. The IG is investigating Pruitt’s decision to enter the EPA into a contract for a new $43,000 secure phone booth inside his office, despite the fact that two secure facilities already exist in the same building. It is also investigating his extravagant travel habits. As has been widely reported, Pruitt spent more than $105,000 on airline travel in his first year as Administrator, including questionable trips to his home state of Oklahoma, $58,000 on chartered and military flights over the summer, $120,000 for a trip to Italy for an environmental summit, and nearly $40,000 on a trip to Morocco where he promoted natural gas exports, seemingly more relevant to his future political aspirations in gas-rich Oklahoma than the statutory responsibilities of the EPA. Pruitt has also almost exclusively flown first class when on commercial flights, along with at least some of his security detail, and often stays at expensive luxury hotels. Pruitt’s defense of these extravagant spending habits on the taxpayer’s dime was his personal security; however, when questioned about these lavish arrangements, he switched tacks saying he would fly coach from now on, calling into question the legitimacy of his “security” arguments. Additional wasteful spending issues have emerged in press reports. In 2017, Pruitt reportedly issued a $120,000 no-bid contract to a Republican opposition research firm to track journalists and EPA employees. The contract was immediately canceled after media exposure, but its initial existence raises serious questions about transparency at the EPA under Pruitt’s leadership. Pruitt has also spent excessively on ensuring secrecy at the EPA: he spent roughly $9,000 on his personal office security, including, the addition of biometric locks for his office and, at his request, a $3,000 sweep of his office to ensure it wasn’t bugged – again, in a no-bid contract. Administrator Pruitt has not, to date, justified to Congress or the public the extreme secrecy and security on which he has expended too many taxpayer dollars. Acting Counter to the Mission of the EPA The EPA’s mission is to protect human health and the environment. Administrator Pruitt has repeatedly directed the agency to act counter to that mission. Pruitt has taken efforts to weaken the agency of its scientific expertise. He has marginalized staff experts, refusing to meet with them, and actively worked to reduce the size of the agency. Some 700 employees have left the agency and another 2,000 positions may be eliminated. These moves, combined with draconian budget cuts, would shrink staffing levels to those of the Reagan administration, before Congress expanded EPA's responsibilities under the 1990 Clean Air Act and other laws. The EPA has two major independent scientific advisory boards, the Science Advisory Board and the Board of Scientific Counselors, to ensure the agency’s policies reflect the best available science. Administrator Pruitt has taken steps to remove independent scientists from the Agency’s science advisory panels and stock these panels with industry representatives and scientists financed by industry interests. Administrator Pruitt has intentionally censored or drummed up public confusion around climate science, which the EPA has stated threatens human health. He personally oversaw the scrubbing of climate change references from the EPA website and has stated that he doesn’t think humans are a “primary contributor” to global warming. Despite near-universal consensus from the global scientific community that climate change is real and caused by humans, Pruitt also attempted the creation of a “red team, blue team” debate over climate science to legitimize outlier voices. Also notable, though not surprising considering Pruitt’s hiring decisions and extensive personal security requirements, EPA enforcement has dropped precipitously during Pruitt’s tenure. According to the Environmental Integrity Project, Pruitt has slashed the number of civil cases filed against polluters by 44 percent and civil penalties have fallen by almost half, compared with averages from the Obama, Bush, and Clinton administrations. Lax enforcement of our environmental laws directly undermines EPA’s core mission of protecting public health and the environment. Equally concerning is Pruitt’s politicization of the grant-making process, assigning political aide John Konkus to review all EPA grants. Traditionally, scientific experts – not political appointees – review EPA grants awards. Konkus has no scientific background or expertise, ensuring that grants will be judged by political criteria rather than on their scientific and technical merits. Konkus’ impartiality is called into question because, in addition to signing off on EPA grants, he is consulting for private clients part-time. Similarly, the regulatory mission of the EPA is in danger. Pruitt has moved to rollback or review nearly 50 existing regulations protecting the air, water, and climate, many of which would help prevented tens of thousands of premature deaths and saved billions of dollars in public health benefits. A snapshot of the regulations is as follows: • Pruitt initiated the repeal of the Clean Power Plan, which would limit carbon pollution, and also reduce emissions of other harmful pollutants from power plants that can adversely affect public health. • Pruitt rescinded the Clean Water Rule, critical for safeguarding the drinking water of more than 117 million Americans. • Pruitt withdrew a 1995 Clean Air Act guidance that protects people against cancer-causing air pollutants. This change will increase hazardous air pollution from major industrial polluters on nearly 200 pollutants, including arsenic, lead, and mercury. • Pruitt has failed to enforce a rule that strengthened limits on ozone pollution, which causes smog. • Pruitt recently moved to roll back federal fuel efficiency standards for cars and light trucks, which will lead to more harmful air pollution and less efficient vehicles, forcing consumers to pay more at the pump. • The EPA has delayed, and is expected to propose to weaken, limits on chemicals like arsenic, lead, and mercury that power plants dump into waterways. • Pruitt withdrew a proposed ban on, chlorpyrifos, a commonly used pesticide that can damage the nervous system, despite the EPA's own scientists arguing risks to human health. • Pruitt granted an industry request to reconsider the coal ash rule, which set national standards for the disposal of toxic coal residue, and has proposed to weaken those standards. • The EPA plans to revise an Obama-era rule that prevents farmworkers younger than 18 from applying dangerous pesticides, threatening the health of children. For these reasons, we ask that you fire Scott Pruitt from the Environmental Protection Agency immediately. A man under numerous investigations both for ethical concerns and wasteful spending, who has actively moved to undermine environmental rules and regulations at industry request, is antithetical to the job of EPA Administrator. Mr. Pruitt needs to go. ###
04.05.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (April 5, 2018) – On Thursday, April 5, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC) released the following statement regarding news that North Carolina would receive $168 million in Community Development Block Grant Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) funds from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). As Ranking Member on the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, Congressman Price played a critical role in securing these funds as part of the supplemental disaster recovery package included in the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, which was signed into law on February 9, 2018. “I’m extremely pleased that North Carolina will receive nearly $170 million in additional disaster recovery funds to assist distressed communities and neighborhoods. This latest tranche of assistance means North Carolina has now secured more than $1.4 billion from HUD and other federal agencies. These resources will help address critical unmet needs in our state as we continue the process of rebuilding and recovering from Hurricane Matthew.” ###
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Mar. 22, 2018) – On Thursday, March 22, Congressman David Price (D-NC), Ranking Member on the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after the House voted 256-167 to pass the Omnibus Appropriations Act. “For months, the Republican majority has lurched from continuing resolution to continuing resolution, bringing our government to the brink of shutting down while failing to invest in critical national priorities. The bipartisan omnibus appropriations bill passed by the House today finally fulfills the fundamental obligation of Congress to keep the government open and makes long-overdue progress on infrastructure, housing, healthcare, scientific research, gun violence prevention, election security, and other critical priorities. I personally secured substantial new investments in housing for the elderly and the disabled, passenger rail, and other programs—the first funding made available in years. I am also pleased that the bill clarifies that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention may conduct research into the root causes of gun violence and its effect on public health—something for which I have long been a leading advocate. We must also be clear about what’s not included in this legislation. Democrats fought for bipartisan legislation to extend protections for the 700,000 Dreamers whose futures remain in limbo thanks to President Trump’s reckless decision to rescind the DACA program. Once again, Republicans and President Trump chose to leave these young people in a state of uncertainty and fear. I remain determined to continue fighting for a long-term solution to protect Dreamers. In the meantime, Democrats successfully rejected funding for new deportation officers, for more ICE detention beds, and for President Trump’s ridiculous southern border wall. In addition, extreme provisions that target immigrant families, women’s healthcare programs, and protections for consumers were all removed. Ultimately, this legislation moves our nation forward. It will help working families, strengthen our communities, and spur economic growth.”
03.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Mar. 13, 2018) – On Tuesday, March 13, Congressman David Price (D-NC) released the following statement after President Trump announced on Twitter that he is firing Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and replacing him with Director of the CIA Mike Pompeo. “President Trump’s firing of Secretary Tillerson over Twitter is another profound example of the chaos and amateurism that has characterized this White House from day one. Rex Tillerson leaves behind a damaged State Department, with key positions unfilled, diplomatic capacity hollowed-out, and morale dangerously low. But he did occasionally counter some of Donald Trump’s worst foreign policy impulses, a role CIA Director Mike Pompeo is ill-equipped and unlikely to play.” ###
03.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Mar. 8, 2018) – On Thursday, March 8, 2018, Congressman David Price (D-NC) released the following statement after the U.S. Department of Transportation announced that North Carolina would be awarded $20 million in federal TIGER grant funding to make major grade separation improvements at Blue Ridge Road in Raleigh. Congress has dedicated nearly $5.1 billion for Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grants since 2009, allowing communities to invest in road, rail, transit, and port projects that have a significant impact on the nation, a region, or a metropolitan area. As the Ranking Member on the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, Congressman Price has made funding for TIGER one of his top priorities. “I’m pleased that North Carolina will receive nearly $20 million in federal TIGER grant funding to complete a critical grade separation project in Raleigh. This project will alleviate congestion and safety problems in this busy multi-modal corridor that serves freight and passenger rail, motorists, and pedestrians near N.C. State University and the North Carolina State Fairgrounds. The competitive TIGER program allows communities across the country to undertake significant infrastructure improvements, and it remains one of my top funding priorities as the Ranking Democrat on the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee. I will continue to oppose efforts by the Trump Administration to eliminate TIGER.” For more information on the TIGER grants program, visit: https://www.transportation.gov/tiger/about ###
02.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Price (D-NC) reintroduced the Standardization of Collegiate Oversight of Revenues and Expenditures (SCORE) Act, which would promote greater transparency in college sports by making information about university spending on athletics publicly available. The SCORE Act (H.R. 5110) would standardize and make public the financial information that institutions of higher education already report annually to the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA). The bill would also require athletic conferences, the NCAA, and any entity that hosts a postseason tournament (such as the College Football Playoff) to report detailed financial information. “As a proud North Carolinian and former college educator, I know that college sports are an integral component of the student and alumni experience. However, students also deserve to know how their tuition and fees are being spent,” said Congressman Price. “My bill would increase transparency and accountability in college athletics spending, without adding undue burdens on universities. It would also provide policymakers and university leaders with reliable and consistent data as they consider further-reaching reforms.” As fans of college athletics know, sustained success in sports can raise the profile of a university nationally, contribute to the university’s educational mission, and offer a deeper community value beyond revenue and wins and losses. However, at a time when the rising cost of attending college is a major concern for American families, university financing of athletic programs has major implications. Schools with fewer financial resources must depend more on institutional funds, student fees, and taxpayer dollars to fund their athletics programs, while higher-resource programs can afford to increase athletics spending disproportionately. But the pressure to invest in athletics is felt across the board. Introduction of the SCORE Act comes amid increased public and legal scrutiny of the NCAA, with more money than ever being generated by college athletics. The NCAA men’s basketball tournament generates nearly $740 million annually. In 2017, the College Football Playoff generated $517 million in profit, according to NCAA financial records. However, according to NCAA financial reports published in 2016, only 24 programs out of all 130 Division I Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) schools reported “positive net generated revenue” in 2015. Since 2004, no more than 25 schools have reported positive net generated revenue in any given year. Athletic departments that are not self-sustaining pose an increasingly greater risk to the financial health of the overall university as schools are pressured to invest increasingly scarce resources in athletics. Nearly all of the revenue and expenditure information that colleges and universities would be required to report under the SCORE Act is already gathered by the NCAA, which created this reporting requirement after a 2005 NCAA task force of 50 college presidents identified financial transparency and lack of comparable data between peer institutions as a major concern. While the reports public universities convey to the NCAA are generally available via public records requests, these laws vary significantly from state to state, and private universities are not subject to the same public records laws. The SCORE Act would make standardized information—from both public and private schools—public and easily accessible, as the Knight Commission urged in 2010. SCORE ACT SUMMARY The SCORE Act would: 1. Make public standardized athletic department revenue and expenditure information that all universities currently report to the NCAA. Making public these reports creates little to no new administrative burden on schools. 2. Require the NCAA to make public, for the first time, a standardized revenue and expenditure report. 3. Require athletic conferences to make public, for the first time, a standardized revenue and expenditure report. 4. Require the College Football Playoff, or any other entity hosting a postseason competition, to make public, for the first time, a standardized revenue and expenditure report. ###
02.27.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman David Price (D-NC) joined Rep. David Cicilline (D-RI), Rep. Ted Deutch (D-FL), and more than 150 colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in introducing the ‘Assault Weapons Ban of 2018’. Congressman Price is a Vice Chair of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force in the U.S. House of Representatives. The full text of the bill can be found here. The Assault Weapons Ban will prohibit the sale, transfer, production, and importation of: Semi-automatic rifles and handguns with a military-style feature that can accept a detachable magazine; Semi-automatic rifles and handguns with a fixed magazine that can hold more than 10 rounds; Semi-automatic shotguns with a military-style feature; Any ammunition feeding device that can hold more than 10 rounds; And 205 specifically-named and listed firearms. “Weapons designed to inflict mass casualties and devastation on the battlefield have no place on our nation’s streets,” said Rep. Price (NC-04), Vice Chair, House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. “It’s past time for the safety of our communities to be a higher priority to lawmakers than their donors in the firearm lobby. I am proud to join Rep. Cicilline, Rep. Deutch, and the more than 70% of Americans who support restrictions on the sale of assault weapons.” “Assault weapons were made for one purpose. They are designed to kill as many people as possible in a short amount of time. They do not belong in our communities,” said Rep. Cicilline (RI-01), the House sponsor of the Assault Weapons Ban. “I am proud to introduce the Assault Weapons Ban with the support of leaders in law enforcement. It’s on all of us to end this carnage.” “Americans don’t own tanks or missiles; so why should our streets be flooded with weapons of war made for the sole purpose of killing people? The Stoneman Douglas community is still reeling from this awful tragedy. But they want and deserve action from Congress,” said Rep. Deutch (FL-22). “Banning assault weapons isn’t a Democratic idea, nor is it new; President Reagan supported the initial ban, which expired in 2004. Most Americans support the assault weapons ban. Now it’s time for Congress to listen and pass sensible legislation to get these weapons of war off our streets.” When an assault weapon or a high-capacity magazine is used in a shooting, the number of victims who are killed increases by 63%. There have been almost 8,300 incidents of gun violence so far in 2018. More than 2,200 Americans have lost their lives. More than 500 children have been killed or injured. As the frequency of mass shootings has increased in recent years, assault weapons have become the weapon of choice for these murderers. Assault weapons were used in attacks on Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Florida and the Route 91 Harvest music festival in Las Vegas. Shooters have also used assault weapons to commit mass murder at Sandy Hook Elementary School and a movie theatre in Aurora, Colorado. In addition to supporting the assault weapons ban, Congressman Price also recently led a letter to Speaker Ryan urging him to take up legislation to repeal the “Dickey Amendment” which inhibits the CDC and other government agencies from researching the causes of gun violence. Congressman Price is also a cosponsor of the Gun Violence Restraining Order Act of 2017, which would allow law enforcement to act on warning signs to temporarily remove firearms from an individual in crisis, and the Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act, which would expand the existing background check system to cover all commercial firearm sales, including those at gun shows, over the internet, or in classified ads. ###
02.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Representatives David Price (NC-4), Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12), Mike Quigley (IL-5), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Nita Lowey (NY-17), Robin Kelly (IL-2), and Stephanie Murphy (FL-7) sent a letter to Speaker Ryan calling on him to allow debate and a vote on legislation to finally repeal the Dickey Amendment and provide adequate funding the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to conduct research about gun violence. Congressman Price is a Vice Chair of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force in the U.S. House of Representatives. In their letter to Speaker Ryan, the members state, “The Dickey Amendment has had a chilling effect on the CDC and other federal agencies who are responsible for conducting life-saving research. The rider serves as an unnecessary barrier to finding meaningful and workable solutions to our nation’s gun violence epidemic, so much so that the ban’s author, the late Representative Jay Dickey, came to regret its effects.” They conclude, “Mr. Speaker, you have said we need more facts and data on this issue and we agree. Federal research is essential to provide us the facts and data we deserve to protect every American and prevent more senseless tragedies.” Full text of the letter below and a PDF can be found here. Dear Speaker Ryan, We respectfully urge you to take up legislation to repeal the “Dickey Amendment” and provide adequate funding for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to research the intersection between firearm-related violence and the public health of all Americans. The Dickey Amendment has had a chilling effect on the CDC and other federal agencies who are responsible for conducting life-saving research. The rider serves as an unnecessary barrier to finding meaningful and workable solutions to our nation’s gun violence epidemic, so much so that the ban’s author, the late Representative Jay Dickey, came to regret its effects. Most recently, in the wake of the tragic Parkland, FL school killings, there appears to be an opening to finally rescind this unwarranted and detrimental impediment on federally funded research and once again conduct research that could save lives. Last week, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar said that, “Our ability to do research on the causes of violence and the causes behind tragedies…is a priority for us.” You yourself are quoted as saying we need more “facts and data.” And House Judiciary Chairman Goodlatte also recently said, “I don’t think it’s inappropriate…to take a look at it.” We agree. Research on gun violence is one important way to help reduce the incidence of gun violence and unnecessary deaths of school children and all Americans. This is a common-sense step that warrants immediate consideration in the House of Representatives. Gun-related deaths now nearly equal deaths from traffic accidents, but for too long, policymakers have lacked the comprehensive tools to craft an effective response to the public health crisis of gun violence. In June 2013, the Institute of Medicine developed a research agenda on gun violence that can be conducted over the next three to five years, including the characteristics of firearm violence, risk and protective factors, and the impact of gun safety technology. Dedicated funding will allow the CDC to conduct this important life-saving research. According to data compiled by the National Center of Injury Prevention and Control, between 1999 and 2010 firearm related violence claimed the lives of more than 360,000 individuals in the United States, including 35,366 children and teenagers. The Institute of Medicine report from June 2013 said, “By their sheer magnitude, injuries and deaths involving firearms constitute a pressing public health problem. Research on the root causes of this important public health concern will better inform policymakers and the American people on how best to address this epidemic. We respectfully urge you to take up legislation that would allow the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to study the issue of firearms safety and gun violence prevention. Mr. Speaker, you have said we need more facts and data on this issue and we agree. Federal research is essential to provide us the facts and data we deserve to protect every American and prevent more senseless tragedies. Thank you for your attention to our urgent request. ###
02.21.2018	WASHINGTON (Feb. 20, 2018) – Today, Congressman David Price (D-NC) and Congressman Pete Olson (R-TX), co-chairs of the Congressional Moldova Caucus, introduced a bipartisan House Resolution supporting enhanced relations between the United States and the Republic of Moldova and affirming U.S. support for Moldovan territorial integrity. The resolution builds upon the two nation’s efforts to deepen their partnership through advancing shared interests in democracy, good governance, anti-corruption, energy independence, economic development, and security cooperation. “The U.S.-Moldova partnership is built on cooperation, mutual appreciation, and a desire to deepen the social, political, and cultural ties of our two nations,” said Rep. David Price. “Since its independence, Moldova has worked tirelessly to strengthen democratic institutions, promote economic prosperity, and achieve self-determination. For many years, my home state of North Carolina has enjoyed a partnership with the Moldovan people leading to substantial ties in our academic, cultural, religious, and military communities. I look forward to North Carolina and the entire U.S. continuing to be a reliable partner as we further the collaboration that has endured more than 25 years.” “America has a critical role to play in helping foster democracy, security and economic prosperity in countries across Eastern Europe,” said Rep. Pete Olson. “That’s why I’m proud to join my colleague Rep. David Price in introducing this resolution focused on strengthening relations between the U.S. and Moldova. I will continue to speak out in hopes that this young democracy continues to improve its governance while remaining free to orient itself towards the West.” The Congressional Moldova Caucus was created to strengthen U.S.-Moldova relations and to serve as an educational tool for House Members and staff to learn about Moldova’s government, history, vibrant culture, and strategic importance. The Caucus also seeks to improve dialogue between our two countries and underscore the importance of free speech and association, strong economic growth, and continued engagement with the United States and European partners. The full text of the resolution can be found here. ###
02.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Feb. 13, 2018) – Yesterday, the House Sustainable Energy and Environment Coalition (SEEC) released its Sustainable Infrastructure Proposal, led by Representatives David Price (D-NC) and Alan Lowenthal (D-CA). The document serves as a blueprint for smart, environmentally sustainable infrastructure investment. The proposal stands in stark contrast to the recently released Trump Administration infrastructure plan that eviscerates core environmental safeguards, fails to meaningfully incorporate forward-looking sustainability and resiliency initiatives, and falls far short of the robust direct federal investment necessary to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure. The vast majority of Americans know that we can build and modernize infrastructure while keeping environment and public health protections in place. They expect us to do both, and that is what SEEC’s proposal is all about. “Our nation is in desperate need of comprehensive investment in infrastructure to modernize our roads, bridges, railways, transit systems, housing stock, and broadband networks” said Congressman Price (D-NC), Ranking Member on the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee. “But ignoring common sense recommendations to improve resiliency and sustainability in our infrastructure systems only serves to expose these assets to future failure and ignores the threat that climate change poses to America’s communities. The SEEC Infrastructure Principles offer concrete policy proposals that bolster our infrastructure against future threats, promote energy efficiency and renewable energy technologies, preserve core environmental safeguards, and encourage federal investment in projects that will lead to good-paying jobs now and in the future.” “Sustainability should be integrated into all of our infrastructure projects,” said Congressman Lowenthal (D-CA), Member on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. “Unfortunately the Trump Administration’s infrastructure proposal is heavy on environmental rollbacks that limit public input and weaken protections for our families and environment. This SEEC infrastructure proposal instead charts a fresh vision of smart, sustainable investments that will promote the well-being of all Americans, including healthier, safer communities and environments. When done right, infrastructure investment can promote commerce, sustain good jobs, and protect our environment. The Administration presents a false choice.” “SEEC’s proposal takes on today’s infrastructure challenges in a sustainable, forward-thinking way. Contrary to what President Trump keeps saying, our environmental protections aren’t slowing infrastructure down—the real problem is a lack of funding,” said SEEC Co-Chairs Reps. Paul Tonko, Gerry Connolly and Doris Matsui. “We are wasting our time and money if we don’t have an infrastructure plan that addresses the need for resilient infrastructure that can stand up to climate change and meaningful federal investment that can help get these projects to completion.” The SEEC document begins with a statement of principles, laying out a broad outline for what “sustainable infrastructure” entails, and then presents a series of brief policy documents that contain specific proposals for multiple categories of physical infrastructure. The document should serve as a model for sustainable principles to be included in any infrastructure package that is considered by Congress. ### The Sustainable Energy and Environment Coalition (SEEC) is a coalition of 55 members of the U.S. House of Representatives that was founded in January 2009 to be a focused, active, and effective coalition for advancing “policies that promote clean energy technology innovation and domestic manufacturing, develop renewable energy resources, and create green collar jobs throughout the product supply-chain, and polices to help arrest global warming and protect our nation’s clean air, water and natural environment.” SEEC is Co-Chaired by Reps. Paul Tonko (D-NY), Gerald Connolly (D-VA), and Doris Matsui (D-CA). SEEC Vice-Chairs are Reps. Jared Polis (D-CO), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Matt Cartwright (D-PA), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), and Mike Quigley (D-IL).
02.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Feb. 12, 2018) – On Monday, February 12, Congressman David Price (D-NC), Ranking Member on the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after the Trump Administration released its FY19 budget. “After blowing up our nation’s debt with a $1.5 trillion tax cut for the wealthy, the Trump administration is determined to further undermine our nation’s middle class and stifle upward mobility – this time by attempting to gut critical economic investments, Medicare and Medicaid, and other human capital programs to pay for a foolhardy $18 billion border wall that the American public continues to oppose. Our nation’s budget is a moral document, and the Trump budget is further evidence of a morally bankrupt Administration.” ###
02.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Feb. 12, 2018) – On Monday, February 12, Congressman David Price (D-NC), Ranking Member on the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after the Trump Administration released its “Legislative Outline for Rebuilding Infrastructure in America.” “Throughout his campaign and his first year in office, President Trump made countless promises to put forward a bold plan to put Americans to work repairing and modernizing our crumbling public infrastructure. In contrast to the many issues that divided Democrats and Republicans during the last election, infrastructure stood out as an area of common ground and potential bipartisan cooperation. Unfortunately, the President’s infrastructure plan neither makes good on his promise nor reflects any attempt at bipartisan compromise. The proposal calls for $1.5 trillion in new investment, but it shifts the overwhelming majority of the costs to states and municipalities, forcing them either to raise taxes or to sell off public assets to private investors. The President’s budget, which was released on the same day, seeks to slash existing infrastructure programs to pay for new federal investment and to gut longstanding environmental protections and labor laws that protect workers on federal projects. This is more than just a mixed message: it is an abdication of the federal government’s role as an equal partner in major public infrastructure investments, and another giveaway to private investors and corporate polluters. The President’s plan is fundamentally flawed, but I hope it jumpstarts a constructive, bipartisan debate about how best to meet our nation’s infrastructure needs. As the Ranking Member of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, I look forward to participating in this debate and advocating for sustained federal investments in our roads, bridges, railways, transit systems, housing stock, and broadband networks. Democrats have put forward a $1 trillion plan that would revitalize our crumbling infrastructure and create more than 16 million high-quality jobs. If President Trump is serious about delivering on his promise, I encourage him and our Republican colleagues to ensure that any infrastructure legislation includes these ideas.” ###
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Feb. 9, 2018) – On Friday, February 9, Congressman David Price (D-NC) released the following statement after the House voted 240-186 to pass a two year federal budget agreement that included no protections for DACA recipients. “The bipartisan budget agreement reached by Senate leaders this week is a long-awaited step to address a number of outstanding funding priorities. It fulfills the fundamental obligation of Congress to keep the government open and paves the way for the delayed passage of our twelve appropriations bills. For too long, Congress has lurched from crisis to crisis, passing short-term spending patches but failing to address the sequestration-level spending caps that hobble economic investments, threaten our national security, and make realistic budgeting impossible. In addition to making dollar for dollar increases in the defense and non-defense budgets above sequestration levels, this agreement contains much-needed relief for millions of families still recovering from natural disasters—including $125 million for ongoing Hurricane Matthew recovery efforts in North Carolina. It also reaffirms our commitment to fight the opioid crisis, secures billions to improve our nation’s infrastructure, and makes critical investments in our nation’s veterans, healthcare, and education programs. Unfortunately, Republican leadership in the House has done nothing to advance bipartisan legislation to protect the hundreds of thousands of Dreamers facing uncertainty thanks to President Trump. His decision to rescind the DACA program, and then blow up the bipartisan proposal to fix the problem that he created, forced Dreamers squarely in the middle of the shutdown battle. What’s worse, the President has yet to learn his lesson, just this week calling for another government shutdown to advance his mass-deportation agenda. My colleagues in the Senate have received assurances by Majority Leader McConnell of an imminent vote that includes DACA, but Speaker Ryan has continued to cater to the extreme wings of his caucus, lacking the political courage to put legislation on the floor. His promise to only put a bill on the floor that President Trump publicly supports is particularly disgraceful. No Speaker should yield our legislative prerogative to the President, particularly this President on this issue. Without assurances in the House similar to those given in the Senate, I cannot vote to support this budget package and let Republican leadership once again kowtow to a President who believes his power cannot be checked.” ###
01.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Jan. 25, 2018) — U.S. Reps. David E. Price (D-North Carolina), Nanette Diaz Barragán (D-San Pedro), and Charlie Crist (D-St. Petersburg) are introducing the Safe Coasts, Oceans, and Seaside Towns (COAST) Act to codify two of the commonsense safety regulations implemented after the 2010 Deepwater Horizon explosion. In late December, the Trump Administration quietly announced that these two rules, dealing with production safety systems and well control, will soon be altered or eliminated in an attempt to minimize the oil and gas industry’s safety obligations. The bill, set to be introduced Monday, has already received wide support from environmental and coastal community business groups, including endorsements from Oceana, Sierra Club, Surfrider Foundation, Defenders of Wildlife, Earthjustice, Business Alliance for Protecting the Atlantic Coast, California League of Conservation Voters, and the Animal Welfare Institute. “Although the disaster at Deepwater Horizon occurred only eight years ago, the oil and gas industry and their allies in Washington remain intent on undermining the very regulations designed to prevent a future environmental catastrophe of its kind,” said Congressman Price. “Our legislation puts the interests of American workers, coastal communities, and marine wildlife first, rather than prioritizing the pocketbooks of large oil corporations. It would ensure that carefully crafted regulations are protected from arbitrary executive actions that would seek to undermine safety and jeopardize our environment.” “At a time when nearly all of America’s coastal waters have been placed on the table for increased oil and gas drilling, the Trump Administration has simultaneously taken steps to ease regulations such as these that govern the oil and gas industry,” said Congresswoman Barragán. “This would be an enormous mistake. Loosening these regulations increases the risk of a devastating oil spill, and threatens to upend the many thriving fishing, tourism, and recreation economies along the Pacific coast. Our bill ensures that safety regulators are not tasked with the concerns of promoting oil and gas development, and that corporate profits are not prioritized ahead of the health and safety of our coastal economies.” “I was Florida’s Governor when the Deepwater Horizon rig exploded and dumped more than 200 million gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico. The full extent of the environmental and economic damages of this tragedy are still unknown,” said Congressman Crist. “We should learn from past mistakes, not hand over the fate of our coasts and oceans to oil and gas industry. These rules are vital to protecting our coastal communities from preventable disasters.” BACKGROUND: The 2010 Deepwater Horizon explosion led to the worst oil spill in U.S. history. Eleven workers lost their lives and 4.9 million barrels of oil were released into the Gulf of Mexico. BP has paid out more than $65 billion in claims and clean-up costs since that time with the total impact of damages still unknown. In the wake of this disaster, several regulations to protect workers and coastal communities were put into place. These include the production safety systems rule, requiring safety and pollution prevention equipment be inspected by independent auditors certified by the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE) and the well control rule, requiring BSEE to confirm that the amount of pressure drillers propose to use in a new well is “safe”, thus reducing the risk of blowouts such as the one that caused the Deepwater Horizon explosion. These are the same two rules—currently targeted by oil and gas interests and the Trump Administration in an attempt to undermine safety—that the Safe COAST Act seeks to preserve. ###
01.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Jan 25, 2018) – On Tuesday, January 30, Congressman David Price (D-NC) will attend the 2018 State of the Union address with America Moreno Jimenez, a high school teacher in Raleigh, NC who immigrated to the United States when she was two years old and has lived here ever since. Thanks to the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, established by President Obama in 2012, America was able to earn a North Carolina teaching license following completion of graduate school. She currently teaches English as a Second Language (ESL) at Sanderson High School, helping students obtain English proficiency and achieve academic success. “I’m honored to be joined by America at this year’s State of the Union address,” said Congressman Price. “Her passion for giving back to the community where she grew up is a testament to the story of many Dreamers in our community and our country. Despite the persistent uncertainty and fear created by her immigration status, America persevered to graduate high school, college, and graduate school. Then, because of the DACA program, she was able to became a certified ESL teacher, filling a crucial need in our state and serving an often overlooked student population. Her success is one of many inspiring stories of Dreamers who came to America as children and have made incalculable contributions to the only nation they have ever known.” In September, President Trump recklessly rescinded the DACA program, putting the futures of 700,000 young Dreamers like America at risk. At the time, Congressman Price issued a statement calling the President’s decision “shameful” and a “betrayal of the very idea of the American dream.” President Trump asked Congress to come up with a bipartisan solution to fix the problem he created. But when a solution was proposed, he reneged on his commitment, leaving Dreamers with no protection from deportation and no guarantee their lives would not be disrupted. Congressman Price has continued to advocate for a bipartisan solution to protect Dreamers and has called on Republican leadership to bring legislation to the floor without delay. In the wake of President Trump’s decision on DACA, the Raleigh News & Observer published an op-ed by America in which she tells her story as a Dreamer and calls on readers to defend the DACA program. Her op-ed can be read here. Congressman Price and America Moreno Jimenez will be available for media interviews upon request. Media outlets interested in media availability should reach out to Sawyer Hackett at sawyer.hackett@mail.house.gov. ###
01.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Jan 22, 2018) – On Monday, January 22, Congressman David Price (D-NC), Ranking Member on the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after the House approved a three-week continuing resolution by a vote of 266-150. “I am voting against the latest continuing resolution because it addresses none of the issues that brought us to the current shutdown and that are likely to do so again. Despite controlling the House, the Senate, and the presidency, Republicans have failed spectacularly to govern, allowing the basic functions of government to fall into disarray. In September, facing the beginning of a new fiscal year, they asked for 90 more days to get the budget together. While I had urged that this basic task be addressed months earlier, I voted for their 90-day continuing resolution in the hope that we could conclude a bipartisan agreement on defense and nondefense spending that would let us write and pass twelve workable appropriations bills—as we have for the past four years. Ninety days came and went. Republicans squandered that opportunity, for two basic reasons. First, they were preoccupied with passing their tax breaks for corporations and the wealthiest Americans and couldn’t be bothered with the basic tasks of governance. Secondly, they continued to defer to their obstructionist Tea Party faction, which stood in the way of a bipartisan budget agreement. And President Trump did not lift a finger. So I, along with other Democrats, said enough is enough! We will vote for no more continuing resolutions without assurances that we are not merely delaying another month, or two weeks, or whatever, but are moving toward a realistic budget that addresses our country’s basic needs. In the meantime, President Trump recklessly ended the DACA program, putting the futures of 800,000 Dreamers—young people brought here as children, who have known no other country—at risk. The President asked Congress to come up with a bipartisan solution to fix the problem he created. But when a solution was proposed, he blew it up. He reneged on his promises, leaving these young people with no protection from deportation and no guarantee their lives would not be disrupted. This placed the Dreamers squarely in the middle of the shutdown battle. My colleagues in the Senate have been given some assurances of a vote on an immigration package that includes DACA. But no such assurances have been made in the House, and the President continues to belittle attempts at compromise. Unfortunately, today’s continuing resolution does nothing to resolve the situation. We have known all along that the Trump Shutdown was completely avoidable. Rather than working with Democrats to support bipartisan solutions that lead to a responsible budget, protect Dreamers, and fund community health centers, disaster recovery, and other critical needs, President Trump and Republican leaders have once again demonstrated their inability to lead, neglecting the responsibilities entrusted to them and failing to carry out the basic functions of government.” ###
01.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Jan 20, 2018) – On Saturday, January 20, Congressman David Price (D-NC) released the following statement on the status of the ongoing government shutdown. Congressman Price serves as Ranking Member on the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee. “President Trump has spent the past year dividing Americans and neglecting the responsibilities of his office, and now he has shut the government down on the anniversary of his inauguration. For years we’ve heard Donald Trump boast about his deal-making abilities and yet he is unable to carry out the basic functions of government, despite Republicans controlling the White House and both chambers of Congress. After spending months ignoring the need to assemble the 2018 budget, as well as the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), the status of Dreamers, and a number of other national priorities, in order to pass massive tax cuts for the wealthy and corporations, President Trump and Republican leadership have now left millions furloughed. We are three-and-a-half months into the fiscal year without a budget, and Republicans are proposing to lurch along another month, with no commitment to address critical investments. I will not be a party to further delay. We know what Republicans must do to get a year-long budget in place, because we’ve done it each of the last four years. We need a bipartisan budget agreement to adjust the top-line numbers so we can pass our twelve appropriations bills. Democrats have been willing to enter such an agreement for at least the last six months. I am the ranking Democrat on the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development appropriations subcommittee, and my Republican Chairman and I could write our bill in a matter of hours if we had such an agreement. But to get there, Republican leaders need to reject their Tea Party extremists and conclude a budget agreement across the aisle. I will support a continuing resolution that moves us toward such an agreement, but not one that offers only further irresponsible evasion and delay. We must also be assured of progress toward resolving the status of Dreamers, the 800,000 young people who were brought here as children and have known no other country. President Trump created a crisis in removing the Dreamers’ protected status. He asked Congress to devise a long-term solution, but last week blew up that bipartisan proposal, leaving the Dreamers dangerously exposed. This emergency joins CHIP, funding for community health centers, the opioid epidemic, and disaster recovery on a list of urgent priorities. A resolution of the Trump shutdown can and must put us on the path of dealing with these pressing needs.” ###
01.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Jan. 12, 2018) – On Friday, January 12, Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement after the Trump Administration announced it would waive sanctions lifted as part of the Iran Nuclear Deal. In October, Congressman Price lead a letter to President Trump signed by 182 members of congress urging the President not to decertify Iran’s compliance with the deal. “For more than two years, the Iran Nuclear Deal has realized its objective of constraining the Iran nuclear program. The Trump Administration’s decision to continue waiving the Iranian sanctions lifted under the JCPOA is prudent, but threatening the future of the agreement will only undermine our international partners, isolate the United States, and embolden the Iranian regime. I urge the President to take heed of the recommendations of his military and intelligence advisers and uphold the U.S. commitment to preventing a nuclear-armed Iran.” ###
01.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Price (D-NC) and Congresswoman Doris Matsui (D-CA), Co-Chairs of the National Congressional Service Caucus, made an appeal to Americans in communities across the United States to join them in participating in the Martin Luther King National Day of Service on Monday, January 15. “As Dr. King said, “Life’s most persistent and urgent question is: ‘What are you doing for others?’” As we honor Dr. King’s legacy this weekend, I urge every American to recommit to his call for service. In giving back we not only achieve progress, but also celebrate our common humanity,” said Congresswoman Matsui. “On Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, we reflect on a movement that transformed our nation and celebrate the teachings of one of America’s greatest champions for equality and justice,” said Congressman Price. “This celebration also offers us an opportunity to reaffirm our collective commitment to honor Dr. King’s legacy through service. As we gather with family and friends on this long weekend, let us join together and make a positive difference in our communities.” About the Martin Luther King National Day of Service: In 1994 Congress passed the King Holiday and Service Act to transform the federal holiday honoring Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr’s birthday into a national day of service. Since then, millions of Americans have participated in volunteer activities, treating it as “a day on, not a day off.” The Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS) -- the federal agency that engages more than five million Americans in service through programs like Senior Corps and AmeriCorps -- leads the National Call to Service initiative as well as the MLK Day of Service effort. For more on the MLK Day of Service, and to find service projects in your community, visit www.MLKday.gov. ###
01.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Jan. 9, 2018) – On Tuesday, January 9, Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement after the United States District Court for the Middle District of North Carolina ruled on North Carolina’s congressional district map: “No state has suffered more than North Carolina from extreme partisan gerrymandering by Republicans—both after the 2010 census and in 2016, after their first map was ruled an unconstitutional racial gerrymander. But the current map is still designed to produce a 10-3 Republican advantage among congressional districts, in a state that is equally divided politically. In fact, Republican legislators admitted in court that they drew both maps for partisan political advantage. That is what the court has now disallowed in an opinion that has national implications. The North Carolina General Assembly must now comply with the court’s order and develop a fair map with compact districts.” ###
01.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Jan 5, 2018) – On Friday, January 5, Congressman David Price (D-NC), Ranking Member on the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement after the Trump administration announced it would delay implementation of the Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing Rule, a program designed to help communities diminish racial segregation and meet longstanding fair housing obligations. “The Fair Housing Act of 1968 is landmark civil rights legislation that outlawed housing discrimination and promotes equal opportunity in the United States to this day. However, for too long, communities across the U.S. have lacked the data and tools they need to take proactive action to identify and mitigate discrimination, as is required under the law. The AFFH rule, introduced by HUD during the Obama administration, represents an important commitment by the federal government to ensure communities can comply with the Fair Housing Act, take meaningful steps to reduce discrimination, and improve opportunity for all citizens. The decision by the Trump administration to delay implementation of this rule is misguided and appears to be based on either purely political grounds or a deliberate misunderstanding of what the rule requires. As with any new regulation, some communities may need more time to comply than others. But this problem could be addressed on a case-by-case basis. Delaying this sensible, carefully crafted rule will only further hinder local communities as they seek to address systemic discrimination, and it is just the latest example of the Trump Administration’s efforts to roll back important civil rights protections.” ###
01.01.2018	Dear Friends, As we celebrate the New Year, we should take a moment to reflect on the successes and disappointments of the past year and the progress we aspire to make in the years to come. It’s also a time to resolve to address the considerable challenges that remain. Over the past year, our state and nation experienced not only volatile change, but often, rancor and unrest. In my opinion, since inauguration day, our democratic norms have been challenged or ignored, our global relationships have been threatened, the hard fought progress of previous administrations has been undermined, and the American people have been divided at every turn. Americans are rightfully concerned about the direction of their country and the courage and capacity of its leaders to solve the many pressing challenges we face. This includes the unprecedented threats to our political system posted by foreign actors and the unanswered questions about their influence in the 2016 election. However, we can remain hopeful that as we look back at this moment in history, we will be able to say that our democratic institutions—and the American people—proved resilient in responding to adversity. There’s a lot of work left to be done, and I am grateful for the opportunity to serve North Carolina’s Fourth Congressional District as we enter the second session of the 115th Congress. My approach to representing you will be the same as it always has been: to find common ground where I can, to fight where I must, and to strive every day for measurable progress. This newsletter features a collection of highlights—some successes and some still works in progress—from the last year. Please participate in my constituent poll to convey your views on the most important issues facing the Congress in the coming year. As we look ahead, please continue to keep in touch with my offices on how I can better serve you in Congress. You can also connect on Facebook and Twitter throughout the year and share your thoughts about federal policy. Sincerely, DAVID E. PRICEMember of Congress What We Accomplished This Year Community Event Highlights 1) Town Hall Meetings: Community Listening Sessions allow me to hear directly from constituents about their goals and concerns for our district and nation. This picture is from a Chapel Hill Community Listening Session held in March—one of 9 community listening sessions held in the district this year. 2) Executive Order Restricting Refugees: In my opinion, the executive order to restrict immigration from several Muslim-majority countries represents an abandonment of our values as a nation. Community members and refugees living in the Triangle came together at the beginning of the year to speak out against this discriminatory and counterproductive measure. 3) Meeting with DREAMers: North Carolina is home to more than 40,000 DREAMers who were impacted by the President’s decision to rescind the DACA program, which allowed young people brought to the United States as children to receive temporary work permits. In December, a group of DREAMers from North Carolina traveled to Washington to tell their stories to lawmakers and advocate for immediately passing a DREAM Act. Taking Legislative Action Here are a few of the major legislative initiatives I have introduced in the 115th Congress. For a complete list, visit: Congress.Gov. Last month I joined colleagues in a press conference to highlight our opposition to the “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act”, passed by Congress last month. I believe we must create a tax plan that grows the economy, simplifies the tax code, and lowers the tax burden for middle class families. Here are a few additional legislative initiatives I cosponsored during the 115th Congress in response to the concerns from constituents. For a complete list, visit: Congress.Gov: Net Neutrality Sponsored a resolution that would overturn the FCC's decision to eliminate Net Neutrality rules using the Congressional Review Act. FAMILY Act (H.R. 947): This bill would create a comprehensive national program to provide paid leave that is affordable for employers of sizes, and to workers and their families. The Equality Act (H.R. 2282): This bill would prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity in places of public accommodation. Dream Act (H.R. 3440) and the American Hope Act (HR 3591): These two bills seek to find a permanent solution for our nation’s DACA recipients, young people who were brought to this country at a young age through no fault of their own. Protecting Our Democracy Act (H.R. 356): This bill would create an independent, bipartisan commission to investigate Russian interference in the 2016 election. OTHER LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY: Signed on to an amici brief in the U.S. Supreme Court case Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission (Docket 16-111 ): A case which may decide whether public accommodations can discriminate against members of the LGBTQ community and other historically marginalized groups. The Trump administration sides with Phillips in the case, arguing that it falls "within the small set of applications of content-neutral laws that merit heightened scrutiny" from the courts. This amici brief outlines the history and significance of federal antidiscrimination laws, such as during the Jim Crow Era in the South, and highlights the unique interest and role of Members of Congress in the proper application of federal nondiscrimination laws. Gun Violence Research: Spearheaded a letter signed by 121 other Members of Congress to House leadership opposing any riders to the finalized fiscal year 2018 appropriations package that would effectively restrict gun violence research. Protecting Federal Employees: Cosigned a letter to Speaker Ryan and Leader Pelosi expressing strong opposition to President Trump’s budget request which significantly reduced the salaries and pensions of middle class federal employees, retirees, and families in order to offset the tax cuts for billionaires. Preventing a Nuclear-Armed Iran: Led the letter sent to President Trump, signed by 181 members of Congress, urging the President to certify Iran’s compliance with the Iran Nuclear Agreement. Committee Work As North Carolina’s only member of the House Appropriations Committee and the Ranking Member of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee, I was proud to advocate for the following funding priorities in the current fiscal year. I’m honored to serve as North Carolina’s only member of the Appropriations Committee, where we are responsible for drafting appropriations bills in the U.S. House of Representatives. As Ranking Member of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee, I strongly advocate for funding for a broad range of programs designed to promote infrastructure, affordable housing, and community development. Veterans Care in North Carolina Negotiated with the Republican-led Congress, the Congressional Budget Office, and the Office of Management and Budget to authorize the release of funds for construction of a Community Based Outpatient Center (CBOC) for veterans in Raleigh, NC. The new facility will enhance primary care, mental health, dialysis, and limited specialty services with a strong focus on mental health, the reduction of veteran’s homelessness, and women’s health services. As the Ranking Member on the Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, I know that we must make critical investments into our housing and transportation infrastructure. This year I had the opportunity to visit Raleigh to check into the progress at Union Station, a multi-modal transportation hub that will meet the needs of a rapidly growing community. Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development Offered a comprehensive amendment to boost infrastructure investment in America’s highways, rail, transit, aviation, and housing infrastructure by $200 billion over ten years. Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Offered an amendment to highlight drastic cuts to the EPA Science and Technology account, which suffered a 15% cut in the House bill. The account funds nearly all EPA Research and Development, including much of the work conducted at the EPA facility in Research Triangle Park
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Dec. 21, 2017) – On Thursday, December 21, Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed an $81 billion supplemental appropriations package for disaster relief. Congressman Price is the only member from the North Carolina delegation to serve on the Appropriations Committee and serves as ranking democrat on the Transportation Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee. “I’m pleased the House has passed a disaster relief appropriations bill providing critical resources for states and territories battered by hurricanes, flooding, and wildfires. At my urging, the bill includes a provision ensuring that North Carolina will receive $63 million in additional funding for ongoing Hurricane Matthew rebuilding and relief efforts. While this package is welcome news for communities across North Carolina, it is likely that even more resources will be required to address the damage in our state as well as communities in Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Texas, and Florida. I’m hopeful the Senate will take action on this bill early in the New Year, and I look forward to continuing to work with Governor Cooper and the North Carolina congressional delegation to ensure that the citizens of our state have the resources they need to make a full recovery.” ###
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Dec. 21, 2017) – On Thursday, December 21, Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement upon House passage of a short-term Continuing Resolution. Congressman Price is a senior member on the Appropriations Committee, serving as ranking democrat on the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development appropriations subcommittee, as well as on the Homeland Security and State and Foreign Operations subcommittees. “This week, rather than working with Democrats to craft an overdue 2018 budget and address a number of other crises facing our country, President Trump and Congressional Republicans passed a tax plan that adds $1.5 trillion to the national debt, explodes healthcare premiums and the ranks of uninsured, and raises taxes on 86 million middle class families. Now, months into the current fiscal year, Congress faces a deadline to pass a spending agreement or face the consequences of an immediate government shutdown. It does not have to be this way. Year-end chaos is not pre-ordained; it is a function of a Republican majority that continues to cater to the most extreme elements of its caucus. This afternoon, House Republicans passed a short-term Continuing Resolution, funding the government for just a few weeks, while doing nothing to address the growing list of urgent matters facing the American people. Despite controlling the House, the Senate, and the White House, Republicans have done nothing to lift the cloud of uncertainty looming over DREAMers, veterans, children and working families, and communities fighting the opioid epidemic. Additionally, their plan does nothing to lift the arbitrary spending caps that threaten our national and economic security and impede critical investments in housing, infrastructure, research and innovation – the types of investments a great nation must make. As long as my colleagues in the majority continue to ignore these major issues and put off funding critical investments, I cannot vote to support these short-term measures. Instead, I call upon Republican leaders to work cooperatively to address the broad range of bipartisan priorities that could be resolved with a simple up-or-down vote on the floor of the House.” Keeping the government open: Despite President Trump stating earlier this year that “our country needs a good shutdown,” Democrats remain committed to keeping the government open. Pass the bipartisan DREAM Act: Congress must vote on the bipartisan DREAM Act before the end of the year. Hundreds of thousands of DREAMers will lose their status and face the risk of deportation in the coming weeks unless Congress acts. Raise the caps: We must be committed to lifting the austerity caps placed on defense and nondefense programs that threaten the long term security and economic well-being of our nation. CHIP and Community Health Centers: Democrats are calling for an immediate reauthorization of these vital initiatives, without Republican-sponsored offsets that would steal from the health care of other children. Unless these programs are funded, millions of children will go uninsured and hundreds of thousands of North Carolinians will lose access to care. Funding for the opioid epidemic: Congress must give communities the resources they need to fight the opioid epidemic, which is inflicting a brutal daily toll on Americans in every corner of the country. Additional veterans funding: Democrats are urging Republicans to join us to provide urgently needed resources to veterans facing a dire shortfall at the VA, meeting our responsibility to ensure no veteran is left behind or denied the care and opportunities they deserve upon return from the battlefield. Saving Americans’ endangered pensions: Millions of hard-working Americans’ pensions are at risk, and Democrats are calling for bipartisan action to enact a responsible reform plan that ensures these workers receive the benefits they were promised. ###
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Dec. 19, 2017) – On Tuesday, December 19, Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement after the House voted to pass H.R. 1, the “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.” “Congressional Republicans have shown their true colors. For years, my colleagues on the right have stressed the need for fiscal discipline and for responsible congressional procedures. They have promised tax reform that simplifies the tax code and benefits working families. They have refused to fund infrastructure, health care, and other vital priorities without offsetting the cost. We can now clearly see their words were nothing but lip service and false promises. Despite not releasing the text of their 1,000-page tax package until late Friday, House Republicans fast-tracked a vote on a sloppily drafted bill that raises taxes on millions of middle class families, adds $1.5 trillion to the national debt, and explodes healthcare premiums and the ranks of the uninsured. Plain and simple, the GOP Tax Scam asks hard-working families and future generations of Americans to foot the bill for huge tax cuts for corporations and the wealthy. An astounding 83 percent of the bill’s tax cuts go to the wealthiest one percent of the population. And the tax code is more complicated than ever! Rather than working with Democrats in Congress to grow the economy, simplify our tax code, and lower the tax burden for middle class families, the GOP has jeopardized our economic future to give tax cuts to corporate lobbyists and their campaign benefactors. Republicans in the Senate should reject this tax scam before it can get to the President’s desk.” ###
12.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Dec. 15, 2017) – On Friday, December 15, Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement after news that former Wake Commissioner and civil rights pioneer, Harold Webb, passed away. “Tuskegee Airman, civil rights pioneer, champion of educational opportunity, director of personnel for our state, outstanding Wake commissioner -- Harold Webb's long life of service touched thousands and made Raleigh and North Carolina better for all of our citizens. I and many others valued him as friend and colleague -- a man who got things done but was quick to share the credit, a kind and generous man skilled at bringing people together, a great source of encouragement and inspiration. We extend condolences to his wife Lucille and their family as we express gratitude for a life well lived.” ###
12.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Dec. 13, 2017) – On Wednesday, December 13, Representatives David Price (D-NC), Robin Kelly (D-IL), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Stephanie Murphy (D-FL), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), and Nita Lowey (D-NY) sent a letter to House leadership urging them to oppose language in the final FY18 appropriations package that would restrict the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and other federal agencies from conducting research about gun violence. “Although Members of Congress may disagree about how best to respond to the high incidence of gun violence, we should all be able to agree that our response should be informed by sound scientific evidence,” the 121 signatories wrote. “Instead of continuing with the status quo, let’s allow the research community to investigate evidence-based solutions that could help prevent gun violence while still protecting the rights of law-abiding gun owners.” In addition to protecting public health and safety through prevention of disease, the CDC has also historically conducted other non-disease related research to prevent injury or illness such as drowning prevention, intimate partner violence, and motor vehicle injuries. Since 1996 however, riders such as the “Dickey Amendment” have been attached to annual appropriations bills that prevent the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) or other agencies from conducting high-quality, peer-reviewed research about gun violence. “Despite the frequency of gun violence in the U.S., we know that the violent tragedies so many families and communities across the nation are experiencing are not inevitable,” said Congressman Price, Vice Chair of the House Democrats Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. “Allowing the CDC to conduct research into gun violence, just as it does with other preventable causes of injury and death, will give citizens and lawmakers the tools they need to understand and confront the horrible epidemic of gun violence that is devastating our country.” “For decades, the Dickey Amendment has silenced lifesaving research and suppressed the policy dialogue around common sense laws that can save American lives,” said Congresswoman Kelly, Vice Chair of the House Democrats Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. “It’s time to let the science and research speak for itself so policymakers can enact the best policies to protect American families.” “There is absolutely no reason to restrict the CDC from studying the rampant gun violence epidemic that devastates communities across the country, including in my hometown of Chicago,” said Congressman Quigley, member of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. “Conducting research about this issue is an easy—and obvious—first step to equip us with a deeper understanding of the actions we can take and policies we can enact to save lives. I’m proud to join my colleagues in urging Republican leadership to break with the status quo, encourage scientific research, and elevate the debate on gun violence prevention.” “Gun-related incidents claim the lives of too many people and tear apart too many families. In deciding how best to confront this challenge, we should encourage evidence-based research into the causes of gun incidents and find commonsense, bipartisan ways to reduce gun deaths and injuries,” said Congresswoman Murphy. “Keeping our families safe from senseless gun violence while upholding the Second Amendment rights of law-abiding Americans should not be mutually exclusive goals. It is past time that Congress have an honest, fact-based discussion about commonsense gun reform.” “In the five years since the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting, there have been 500,000 victims and survivors of gun violence in the United States, “ said Congresswoman DeLauro. “We must honor their lives with action and prevent further gun violence. The CDC should be able to study this issue just as they would any other public health crisis—it is logical and morally responsible.” “This is a matter of life and death,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-17), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee. “Tens of thousands of Americans lose their lives to gun violence every year, yet for decades annual appropriations bills have weakened our ability to figure out how we can prevent these tragedies. Restricting research because of concerns about the outcome is cowardly and wrong. It’s time we thaw the freeze on gun violence research and equip policymakers with the information to confront this public health crisis.” The full text of the letter can be found here.
12.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Dec. 7, 2017) – On Thursday, December 7, Representatives David Price (D-NC) released a new analysis of the GOP Tax Scam that reveals dismantling the individual mandate would spike premiums by an average of 10 percent and lead to 35,400 fewer people having health insurance in North Carolina’s 4th Congressional District. The analysis by the Center for American Progress finds that, under the Senate bill, many healthy Americans who use the marketplaces will stop purchasing insurance, thereby pushing up premiums for all Americans and driving even more individuals out of coverage. At the same time, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) reports that repealing the individual mandate will also result in millions currently enrolled through Medicaid or employer-sponsored plans to go uninsured. The CBO also highlights that, should the Trump administration follow through on their threat to terminate payments for cost-sharing subsidies, average premiums as well as the number of individuals uninsured are expected to spike much further. “Every day, the American people learn more about the staggering consequences of the GOP tax scam,” said Congressman Price. “With the addition of the healthcare provisions, this bill becomes downright deadly. Rather than crafting a bipartisan plan that supports the middle class, Republicans in Congress have fast-tracked an overhaul of the U.S. tax code based on voodoo trickle-down economics. As the Republicans go to conference on this bill, I will continue to speak out for the 408,000 North Carolinians poised to lose healthcare coverage with the passage of this scam.” The CAP report follows a report from the nonpartisan CBO that found that the GOP tax plan would significantly increase premiums and lead to 13 million Americans nationwide becoming uninsured. # # #
12.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Dec. 6, 2017) – On Wednesday, December 6, Representatives David Price (D-NC), Peter Welch (D-VT), John Yarmuth (D-KY), Barbara Lee (D-CA), and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) issued the following joint statement following the announcement that President Trump will recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. “President Trump’s announcement demonstrates, once again, his complete disregard for long-standing American and international diplomatic practice. It unilaterally undermines prospects for a peaceful resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and recklessly endangers U.S., Israeli, and regional security. For more than 50 years, Republican and Democratic Administrations have recognized that the United States should stand as a good faith arbiter for peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians. Recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of Israel outside the framework of a final status agreement between the parties does more to sabotage than to advance peace. A two-state solution is the only outcome that guarantees Israel’s existence as a Jewish, democratic, and secure state, and provides the Palestinians a just and secure future. The decision jeopardizes the future of a two-state solution and the United States’ ability to work with regional partners to foster the conditions for the resumption of peace negotiations.” ###
11.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Nov. 30, 2017) – On Thursday, November 30, Congressman David Price (D-NC) and Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-CA) introduced legislation to reauthorize Title VI of the Higher Education Act. HEA-Title VI supports foreign language and international education programs at colleges and universities which help to educate citizens as they engage with diverse cultures both at home and around the globe. The ‘Advancing International and Foreign Language Education Act’ will increase and expand existing foreign language and area studies programs across the country; build international education capacity at minority-serving institutions; and promote opportunities for students and professionals to increase their knowledge of world regions, international business, and over 200 foreign languages at all levels of higher education. “Investment in cultural and language education is essential to boosting our nation’s economic and intellectual competitiveness,” said Rep. Price. “For too long, the U.S. has neglected incorporation of international education and foreign language programs in academic curricula. With the reauthorization of HEA-Title VI, we are hoping to change that, giving Americans the tools to succeed in economic, governmental, and cultural arenas that are international in scope.” “I’m proud to support this bill because it speaks to the importance of investments in international education experiences,” said Rep. Davis “Given today’s competitive global market, our students need opportunities to live and study abroad so that they can bring that valuable expertise back to benefit our country” "The Coalition for International Education heartily supports the ‘Advancing International and Foreign Language Education Act’ as a significant step forward for HEA-Title VI and for U.S. international education overall,” said Miriam Kazanjian of the Coalition for International Education. “The bill addresses our nation’s human resource needs for successful global engagement, security and economic competitiveness in the more complex world of the 21st century.” The ‘Advancing International and Foreign Language Education Act’ will: Fund Title VI programs at $125 million in FY18 and index to inflation for each successive fiscal year; Extend authorization of six currently funded programs: National Resource Centers; Foreign Language and Area Studies Fellowships; Language Resource Centers; Undergraduate International Studies and Foreign Language Programs; American Overseas Research Centers; and Centers for International Business Education and Research; Modernize and streamline five existing programs into two new programs that address the 21st century needs for educational opportunities that promote language, cultural, and business competencies for students, teachers, and employers; and Codify an existing grant process that allows the Secretary of Education to give priority to qualified minority-serving institutions or institutions of higher education that apply for grants and propose significant and sustained collaboration with a minority-serving institution. ###
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Nov. 16, 2017) – Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement regarding the passage of the House Republican tax plan. "Today, House Republicans passed a tax bill that asks working families, students, seniors, and sick people to foot the bill for corporations and the super-rich. If this plan is enacted, 36 million American families would see a tax increase and our nation's deficit would explode upwards of $1.5 trillion over ten years. In North Carolina alone, more than 700,000 households earning less than $136,000 a year would see a tax hike. Rather than crafting a bipartisan plan that supports the middle class, Republicans in Congress have once again embraced the voodoo science of "trickle down economics", hoping giveaways to corporations will somehow benefit average Americans. As this bill moves through the legislative process, I will continue to advocate for real tax reform that increases wages, grows the economy, and protects middle class families." ###
11.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Nov. 9, 2017) – Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following news release on efforts to eliminate key housing and infrastructure investments in the House GOP tax plan. Congressman Price serves as Ranking Member on the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations subcommittee. *** As I said recently on the House floor, it has become increasingly obvious that the tax plan proposed by House Republicans is a sham—slashing taxes for the super-rich and large corporations at the expense of the middle class. It would also repeal many important provisions that provide tax relief to working families such as the deductions for student loan interest, out-of-pocket medical expenses, and state and local taxes. What hasn’t received as much attention is the repeal of tax-exempt Private Activity Bonds (PABs), which are used by state and local governments and private partners to finance infrastructure projects including highways, airports, hospitals, water treatment facilities, and affordable housing developments. According to the North Carolina Housing Coalition, repeal of PABs would result in a $1 billion loss for affordable housing in our state, including $700 million in multifamily development currently underway and $300 million in mortgage revenue bonds that assist first-time homebuyers. Some notable examples of PAB projects include: Terminal 2 upgrade and improvements at RDU International Airport New affordable housing projects for families and seniors like The Bluffs at Walnut Creek in Raleigh (198 units), Briar Green Apartments in Durham (200 units), Capital Towers Apartments in Raleigh (298 units), and Washington Terrace in Raleigh (162 units) In addition, the Republican tax plan would repeal the Historic Tax Credit (HTC) and the New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC), both of which incentivize private investment that can revitalize aging buildings and offer economic opportunity to distressed urban and rural communities. Public and private entities often use HTC, NMTC, or a combination of both to make projects a reality. Notable examples in North Carolina include: American Tobacco Campus in downtown Durham Golden Belt redevelopment in Durham Revolution Mill redevelopment in Greensboro At a time when federal funding for infrastructure and housing is continually squeezed, the last thing Congress should do is push through a flawed tax plan that would hurt working families, hamstring our state and local governments, and destroy our ability to leverage private investment for projects that benefit the public. ###
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Nov. 2, 2017) – On Thursday, November 2, Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement upon release of the House Republican Tax Plan. “Today, House Republicans released a tax plan that raises taxes on millions of middle class families, slashes taxes for large corporations and the wealthiest earners, and adds more than $1.5 trillion to the national debt. By every measure, the GOP tax plan is borrowing from the future to benefit corporate interests and the well-connected. The plan would eliminate or curtail deductions for student loan interest, state and local taxes, and medical expenses to pay for tax cuts for millionaires, while working-class families will be lucky to break even. In 1997, I authored the original bipartisan provision allowing individuals to deduct the interest on their student loans, including thousands in North Carolina. At a time when student loan debt is at an all-time high and wages remain stagnant for many, provisions like these provide relief for working families Rather than rushing a severely flawed tax plan through Congress without hearings or deliberation, President Trump and Republicans in Congress should be working with Democrats to create a tax system that puts the middle class first and strengthens our economy for the long term.” ###
10.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Oct. 30, 2017) – On Monday, October 30, Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement after news that former Trump Campaign Chairman Paul Manafort and associate Rick Gates have been ordered to surrender to federal custody today: “Today’s indictments underscore the importance of an independent, uninterrupted investigation of Russian influence in the 2016 presidential election and alleged collusion between the Trump campaign and Russian entities. The Special Counsel investigation, as well as separate Congressional investigations already underway, should continue unimpeded by the Trump administration or the President’s allies in Congress. The American people deserve all of the facts about what may have happened, and Congress should take immediate steps to prevent future attacks on our democratic institutions.” ###
10.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Oct. 13, 2017) – On Friday, October 13, Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s announcement of his new “strategy” on Iran. Last week, Congressman Price lead a letter to President Trump signed by 182 members of congress urging the President not to decertify Iran’s compliance with the deal. “President Trump’s decision to decertify Iran’s compliance with the Iran Nuclear Deal threatens to alienate the U.S. from our allies and embolden the Iranian regime. Countless military and intelligence advisers—including the President’s own Secretaries of Defense and State—have affirmed Iran’s compliance with the agreement, but the President seems intent on appealing to his political base regardless of the facts and at the expense of our national security. Additionally, an attempt by the President or Congress to unilaterally renegotiate or terminate terms of this agreement through executive action or legislation would undercut our international partners and jeopardize diplomatic efforts to prevent a nuclear-armed Iran. Time and time again, this President has demonstrated that he has no capacity or desire to lead on the domestic or international stage—from betraying DREAMers, to walking away from the hard-won Paris climate accords, to tweeting insults to all who challenge him. He threatens our reputation as a country that keeps its word and stands with its allies. Congress must now fill the gap, reaffirming our commitment to a non-nuclear Iran, solidarity with our allies, serious diplomacy, and leadership that inspires trust and confidence.” ###
10.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Oct. 6, 2017) – On Friday, October 6, Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement on reports that President Trump’s plans to ‘decertify’ Iran’s compliance with the Iran Nuclear Deal “Once again, President Trump has abdicated the responsibilities and expectations entrusted in him as Commander-in-Chief. Media reports now indicate that the President is likely to decertify Iran’s compliance with the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) despite zero evidence that Iran has violated the agreement. The President’s decision puts him at odds with our international negotiating partners, with the International Atomic Energy Agency, and with countless military and intelligence officials—including, apparently, his own Secretary of Defense. This short-sighted and reckless decision based solely on the President’s disdain for his predecessor will only embolden Iran and put our national security at risk by undermining our relationship with our international negotiating partners and making proliferation by North Korea and other states more likely. On Wednesday, I sent a letter to President Trump signed by 181 of my colleagues in the House—including both supporters and opponents of the Iran deal—urging the President not to take this action. I am calling on the President now to reconsider this irresponsible and foolhardy decision and recertify the agreement before the October 15th deadline.” ###
10.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Oct. 5, 2017) – On Thursday, October 5, Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement upon adoption of the FY2018 House Republican Budget Resolution. “Today, the House of Representatives passed a purely partisan Budget Resolution—an extreme, scorched-earth proposal that slashes vital lifeline programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, puts the burden of deficit reduction on the middle class, and hands out large tax breaks to the wealthiest one percent—exploding the deficit by $2.4 trillion over 10 years. It would also repeal the Affordable Care Act, slash support for college and community college students, and abandon our already crumbling infrastructure.” “Our nation’s budget is a moral document that should reflect our values and priorities. Rather than asking seniors, veterans, children, and working families to bear the cost of tax breaks for President Trump and his millionaire-club Cabinet, Republicans in Congress should work with Democrats to grow the economy for everyone, create jobs, level the playing field, and make critical investments in the middle-class.”
10.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Oct. 4, 2017) – On Wednesday, October 4, Representatives David Price (D-NC) and Ted Deutch (D-FL) will send a letter to President Trump signed by more than 180 Members of Congress, including the entire House Democratic Leadership, urging the President to recertify Iran’s compliance with the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). Announced in July of 2015, the JCPOA is an international agreement negotiated by the “P5+1” (United States, China, France, Russia, United Kingdom, and Germany), the European Union, and Iran that sought to cut off Iran’s path to nuclear weapons capability. The letter comes in response to recent suggestions by President Trump that the administration may withhold certification of Iran’s compliance with the JCPOA, which must be re-certified every three months under the terms of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act (INARA). INARA also requires the President to provide Congress with credible evidence of Iranian noncompliance, should violations of the JCPOA occur. No such evidence has been provided to Congress to-date, and the International Atomic Energy Agency, U.S. military and intelligence officials, and U.S. allies have indicated that Iran remains in technical compliance with the agreement. “For more than two years, the JCPOA has realized its objective of constraining Iran’s nuclear program to prevent a nuclear-armed Iran,” said Congressman Price. “Without ironclad evidence of Iranian violations of the agreement, withholding Iran’s certification of JCPOA compliance would jeopardize our national security, harm our international relationships, and embolden Iran. We urge the President to heed the advice of his military and intelligence advisors rather than play politics with national security.” “We forced Iran to the negotiating table in the first place because of the multilateral sanctions imposed on Iran by the U.S. and our global partners,” said Congressman Deutch. “Now, we need the help of this international coalition to keep up the pressure on Iran for its other malign activities outside of the JCPOA – its support for terrorism, its gross human rights violations, and its ballistic missile weapons program. If President Trump decertifies Iranian compliance without clear evidence of Iranian violations, it will jeopardize this united front against Iran. The JCPOA is an imperfect agreement, but to address the problematic provisions including the sunset clauses, we will need stay in lockstep with our global partners.” In the letter, the Representatives emphasize that withholding certification without credible evidence of a material breach on the part of Iran would threaten national security, isolate the U.S. from our international partners and allies, and undermine efforts to defuse the nuclear crisis with North Korea. “Absent credible and accurate information confirming a material breach, we are concerned that withholding certification of Iran’s compliance or walking away from the JCPOA would harm our alliances, embolden Iran, and threaten U.S. national security. We are further concerned that non-certification based on justifications beyond the scope of the nuclear agreement would threaten global non-proliferation efforts and send exactly the wrong message to North Korea at the moment we are trying to diplomatically defuse that crisis.” The full text of the letter can be viewed here. Signatories include the following Members of the U.S. House of Representatives: Adams, Alma Aguilar, Pete Barragan, Nanette Diaz Bass, Karen Beatty, Joyce Bera, Ami Beyer Jr., Donald S. Bishop, Jr., Sanford D. Blumenauer, Earl Blunt Rochester, Lisa Bonamici, Suzanne Bordallo, Madeleine Z. Brady, Robert Brown, Anthony Brownley, Julia Bustos, Cheri Butterfield, G.K. Capuano, Michael E. Carbajal, Salud O. Cárdenas, Tony Carson, Andre Cartwright, Matt Castor, Kathy Castro, Joaquin Chu, Judy Cicilline, David N. Clark, Katherine Clarke, Yvette D. Clay, William Lacy Cleaver, II., Emanuel Clyburn, James E. Cohen, Steve Coleman, Bonnie Watson Connolly, Gerald E. Conyers, Jr., John Cooper, Jim Costa, Jim Courtney, Joe Crist, Charlie Crowley, Joseph Cuellar, Henry Cummings, Elijah E. Davis, Danny K. Davis, Susan DeFazio, Peter A. DeGette, Diana Delaney, John K. DeLauro, Rosa L. DelBene, Suzan Demings, Val DeSaulnier, Mark Deutch, Ted Dingell, Debbie Doggett, Lloyd Doyle, Mike Ellison, Keith Engel, Eliot L. Eshoo, Anna G. Espaillat, Adriano Esty, Elizabeth Evans, Dwight Foster, Bill Frankel, Lois Fudge, Marcia L. Gabbard, Tulsi Gallego, Ruben Garamendi, John Gomez, Jimmy Green, Al Green, Gene Grijalva, Raul M. Gutiérrez, Luis V. Hanabusa, Colleen Hastings, Alcee L. Heck, Denny Higgins, Brian Himes, Jim Hoyer, Steny H. Huffman, Jared Jackson Lee, Sheila Jayapal, Pramila Jeffries, Hakeem Johnson, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Hank Kaptur, Marcy Keating, William R. Kelly, Robin L. Kennedy, III, Joseph P. Khanna, Ro Kihuen, Ruben J. Kildee, Dan Kilmer, Derek Krishnamoorthi, Raja Kuster, Ann McLane Langevin, Jim Larsen, Rick Larson, John Lawrence, Brenda Lawson, Alfred Lee, Barbara Levin, Sander Lewis, John Lieu, Ted W. Loebsack, Dave Lofgren, Zoe Lowenthal, Alan Lowey, Nita Lujan Grisham, Michelle Luján, Ben Ray Lynch, Stephen F. Maloney, Carolyn B. Maloney, Sean Patrick Matsui, Doris McCollum, Betty McEachin, A. Donald McGovern, James P. McNerney, Jerry Meeks, Gregory W. Meng, Grace Moore, Gwen Moulton, Seth Nadler, Jerrold Neal, Richard Nolan, Rick Norcross, Donald Norton, Eleanor Holmes O’Rourke, Beto Pallone Jr., Frank Panetta, Jimmy Pascrell Jr., Bill Payne Jr., Donald Pelosi, Nancy Perlmutter, Ed Peters, Scott H. Pingree, Chellie Plaskett, Stacey Pocan, Mark Polis, Jared Price, David E. Quigley, Mike Raskin, Jamie Rice, Kathleen Richmond, Cedric Rosen, Jacky Roybal-Allard, Lucille Ruiz, Raul Ruppersberger, Dutch Rush, Bobby L. Ryan, Tim Sablan, Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sánchez, Linda T. Sarbanes, John Schakowsky, Jan Schiff, Adam Schrader, Kurt Scott, David Scott, Robert C. "Bobby" Serrano, José E. Sewell, Terri Shea-Porter, Carol Sires, Albio Slaughter, Louise M. Smith, Smith Soto, Darren Speier, Jackie Suozzi, Thomas R. Swalwell, Eric Takano, Mark Thompson, Bennie G. Thompson, Mike Titus, Dina Tonko, Paul D. Torres, Norma J. Tsongas, Niki Veasey, Marc Velázquez, Nydia Visclosky, Peter J. Walz, Tim Wasserman Schultz, Debbie Welch, Peter Wilson, Frederica S. Yarmuth, John
10.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Oct. 2, 2017) – On Monday, October 2, Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement regarding the horrific mass-shooting in Las Vegas, Nevada. “Last night, our country witnessed yet another senseless and despicable act of gun violence, this time at a concert in Las Vegas. Lisa and I join the American people in grieving with the families and loved ones of the more than 50 people who lost their lives and more than 400 wounded survivors of what we now know is the largest mass shooting in our nation’s modern history. And yet we are well past the point where grieving is enough—we must summon the will and courage to take concrete action to prevent future tragedies. Anything short of that is a betrayal of the thousands of Americans who lose their lives each year to gun violence, and a betrayal of our values as a great nation.”
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON (Sep. 27, 2017) – Today, U.S. Congressman David Price (D-NC) and U.S. Senator Tom Udall (D-N.M.) introduced the We the People Democracy Reform Act of 2017. This bicameral legislation addresses a series of comprehensive democratic and electoral reforms to restore integrity, accountability, and transparency to our broken political system. This legislation is more expansive than past versions and includes proposals to comprehensively reform campaign finance laws, increase transparency and accountability in the political system, end extreme partisan gerrymandering, increase voter participation, and strengthen lobbying and revolving door laws. A summary of its provisions is available here. “For too long, Washington has neglected the systemic issues undermining our democracy,” Price said. “A lack of accountability in our political system has left the door open for mega-donors, foreign actors, and other groups to exploit our elections and curtail our ability to get things done on behalf of the American people. The ‘We the People Democracy Reform Act’ offers common-sense solutions that would boost accountability, empower regular citizens, and restore public confidence in our democratic institutions.” “Our democracy has reached a crisis point,” Udall said. "The American people are losing faith in our electoral process and in our institutions – because they’ve seen too much evidence that our government no longer answers to ordinary citizens. Disastrous Supreme Court decisions have opened up the floodgates for secret, special interest money to drown out the voices of regular people. Foreign adversaries are interfering in our elections. Voting rights are under attack across the country. And big money donors are being rewarded with cabinet posts, high-ranking positions and special access. It’s long past time that we took action to restore confidence and accountability in our democracy. The ‘We the People Democracy Reform Act’ will empower us to take back our democracy and return it to the hands of all Americans, instead of a privileged, powerful few." This new legislation builds upon a number of bills introduced by Udall, Price and many others to address various shortcomings in our voting and political system. This package would make significant strides toward repairing our broken political system, which has contributed tremendously to diminishing public confidence and lack of voter participation. Additionally, this bill will serve as a model for states and localities to implement reform at the local level. The bill has received endorsements from The Brennan Center for Justice, Common Cause, Democracy 21, the League of Women Voters, People for the American Way, the Center for American Progress, and Public Citizen as well as policy leaders such as Norman Eisen, board chair of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW) and chief White House ethics lawyer for President Obama (2009-2011) and Richard Painter, chief White House ethics lawyer for President Bush (2005-2007). Additional information about the ‘We the People Democracy Reform Act’ is available here. Read quotes from supporters of the bill here. ###
09.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Sept. 27, 2017) – On Tuesday, September 26, Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement following the devastating effects of Hurricane Maria on Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. “The devastation we have seen this week in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands is heartbreaking. Millions of American citizens are now without access to food, electricity, and potable water. The Trump administration should act immediately to make Department of Defense and other additional resources available to aid in search-and-rescue, law enforcement, transportation, and medical assistance. In the immediate wake of a disaster of this scale, these resources could literally mean life or death for thousands of affected residents. Additionally, Congress should move to swiftly pass a comprehensive relief package that provides assistance for these American territories and addresses unmet need in Texas, Florida, North Carolina and other states still recovering from recent disasters.”
09.19.2017	Washington - Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s address to the United Nations General Assembly. Congressman Price serves on the State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Subcommittee. “President Trump’s speech to the United Nations General Assembly served only to further alienate the United States from its allies, and to sow doubts among our adversaries and rivals as to our steadfastness and resolve. In an incoherent series of brash threats, the President called on the international community to ‘totally destroy’ a nuclear-armed North Korea, while undermining the international effort to restrain Iran’s nuclear program. Furthermore, the President failed even to mention serious concerns like climate change, cyber-warfare, and heightened tensions with Russia. The President’s hypocritical threats and childish name-calling do nothing to advance American interests or project American strength. Instead, they send a clear signal of incoherence and incompetence.” ###
09.18.2017	Washington - Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) issued the following statement regarding the Graham-Cassidy healthcare proposal: “The American people have overwhelmingly rejected proposals to dismantle the Affordable Care Act. The Graham-Cassidy bill is nothing more than a last-ditch effort to resuscitate Trumpcare and deny insurance coverage to tens of millions of Americans. It should be rejected just as previous versions were. Rather than joining Democrats to take bipartisan action to enable Obamacare markets to operate as intended and drive down health costs, Republicans in Congress seem intent on raising premiums, slashing Medicaid funding, jeopardizing health coverage for millions, and eradicating protections for pre-existing conditions.”
09.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Sept. 7, 2017) – This week, Congressman David Price (NC-4)–along with a bipartisan coalition of 34 current and former Members of Congress—submitted an amicus brief to the United States Supreme Court in a pending case before the High Court that could stop the undemocratic, partisan gerrymandering of political districts in the United States. “For too long, partisan gerrymandering has systematically stifled our democratic process, encouraging lawmakers to narrow their vision and curtailing their ability to reach common ground,” said Congressman David Price. “It is time we put an end to a system where politicians have the ability to cherry pick their voters. My home state of North Carolina has been ground-zero for hyper-partisan gerrymandering, and I am proud to add my voice to this effort.” The case before the Court, Gill v. Whitford, involves a group of Wisconsin voters who in 2015 challenged the Wisconsin state legislature’s 2011 redistricting map in federal court as an excessively partisan gerrymander barred by the Constitution. A lower court ruling last year found the map violated both the Constitution’s Equal Protection Clause and the plaintiffs’ First Amendment freedom of association. This fall, the Supreme Court is set to hear oral arguments on the appeal to the lower court ruling. “Extreme partisan gerrymandering harms our political system, and harms the functioning of the House in particular,” wrote the Members in the brief. “Extreme partisan gerrymandering is undemocratic, and cannot be reconciled with the Framers’ idea of a House of Representatives that would be directly accountable to the People through competitive and broad-based elections. Partisan gerrymandering makes it more difficult for Members to do the one job voters expect above all: delivering results for their constituents.” In the brief, the Members also pointed out that the Supreme Court explained in 2015: “[T]he core principle of republican government [is] that voters should choose their representatives, not the other way around.” When legislators’ draw districts that ignore traditional criteria such as representational fairness, natural geography, and cohesive communities of interest, in favor of pure partisan gain, the brief explains, that “core principle” is violated. To read the full brief, click here. The full list of signers to the amicus brief: Rep. Mark Amodei (R-Nev.) Rep. Don Beyer (D-Va.) Rep. Rod Blum (R-Iowa) Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) Rep. Brendan Boyle (D-Penn.) Fmr. Rep. Mike Castle (R-Del.) Fmr. Rep. Rod Chandler (R-Wash.) Fmr. Rep. William Clinger (R-Penn.) Rep. Mike Coffman (R-Colo.) Rep. Jim Cooper (D-Tenn.) Rep. Carlos Curbelo (R-Fla.) Rep. Ted Deutch (D-Fla.) Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (R-Penn.) Rep. Josh Gottheimer (D-N.J.) Rep. Raul M. Grijalva (D. Az.) Rep. Andy Harris (R-Md.) Fmr. Rep. David Jolly (R-Fla.) Rep. Walter Jones (R-N.C.) Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-Ohio) Rep. Dan Kildee (D-Mich.) Rep. Derek Kilmer (D-Wash.) Rep. John Larson (D-Conn.) Rep. Alan Lowenthal (D-Cal.) Rep. Beto O’Rourke (D-Tex.) Rep. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.) Rep. Seth Moulton (D-Mass.) Rep. Chellie Pingree (D-Maine) Rep. David Price (D-N.C.) Rep. Jamie Raskin (D-Md.) Rep. Tom Reed (R-N.Y.) Fmr. Rep. Claudine Schneider (R-R.I.) Fmr. Rep. Christopher Shays (R-Conn.) Fmr. Rep. Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) Rep. Thomas Suozzi (D-N.Y.) Rep. Scott Tipton (R-Colo.) Fmr. Rep. Zach Wamp (R-Tenn.)
09.06.2017	Washington - Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) issued the following statement regarding the passing of Reverend Dr. W.B. Lewis, former Pastor at the First Cosmopolitan Baptist Church in Raleigh, North Carolina. "This week, the city of Raleigh and State of North Carolina lost a great spiritual and community leader in Reverend Dr. W.B. Lewis. For more than half a century, Dr. Lewis served as the distinguished pastor of the First Cosmopolitan Baptist Church in Raleigh, leading his congregation and putting his faith to work in the service of his congregants, neighbors, and community members. Over many years working alongside Dr. Lewis and his congregation on housing, social justice, and other shared priorities, I have come to count him as a mentor and a friend. Last month, upon announcement of his retirement, I spoke on the floor of House of Representatives to honor his legacy as a pillar in the Raleigh community. I know I join countless North Carolinians who will deeply miss his benevolent spirit and indispensable capacity for fellowship, and Lisa and I express our deepest condolences to his family and to the First Cosmopolitan Baptist community during this time." ###
09.05.2017	Washington - Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) issued the following statement regarding the Trump Administration’s decision to rescind the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “President Trump’s shameful decision to rescind the DACA program puts the futures of 800,000 young Americans at risk. This callous decision isn’t just a betrayal of ‘DREAMers’ in North Carolina and across the country; it is a betrayal of the very idea of the American dream. These young people were brought to our country without their consent and have known no other country as their own. They are our neighbors, our classmates, our colleagues, and members of our Armed Services. They pledge allegiance to our flag, pay our taxes, and contribute to our economy. President Trump has said repeatedly that he would treat DREAMers with ‘great heart.’ While we have become accustomed to his broken promises, this may be his most heartless decision yet. Make no mistake: today’s announcement was driven entirely by cynical political calculations, not by any constitutional or legal requirement. But now that the decision has been made, Congress must act to fix it. In 2010, I voted with my colleagues in the House to pass the DREAM Act, only to see Senate Republicans defeat the measure. House leadership must bring the DREAM Act, or equivalent legislation, back to the floor for a vote without delay. We must protect these families from the anguish and suffering inflicted by the Trump Administration’s mass deportation agenda.”
08.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressmen David Price (D-NC) and Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA) released the following statement after the Trump Administration refused this week to reaffirm the United States’ commitment to a two-state solution. In March, following the President’s remarks that, “I’m looking at two-state and one-state, and I like the one both parties like,” Connolly and Price sent a bipartisan letter signed by 191 members of Congress urging the President to clearly reaffirm the United States’ longstanding, bipartisan commitment to a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. “The Trump Administration must stop equivocating on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict—a two-state solution is the only viable and just path to achieve peace and security for the Israeli and Palestinian people. This week, the State Department refused to acknowledge whether the Administration would commit to endorsing a two-state solution. This is irresponsible and damaging to the prospects for peace and American leadership in the region. Furthermore, it undermines and reverses decades of longstanding, bipartisan U.S. foreign policy. As 191 Republican and Democratic members of Congress warned President Trump in March of this year, “a one-state outcome risks destroying Israel’s Jewish and Democratic character, denies the Palestinians fulfillment of their legitimate aspirations, and would leave both Israelis and Palestinians embroiled in an endless and intractable conflict for generations to come.” We implore the State Department and the Trump Administration to reaffirm the United States’ support for a viable, lasting, and mutually-agreed upon two-state solution and to make this support clear in public and private statements. The Israeli and Palestinian people deserve a peaceful and secure future—and the United States must not waiver in our conviction to realize a democratic, Jewish state and a demilitarized Palestinian state, coexisting side-by-side in peace and security.” The March 2017 Connolly-Price letter can be found here.
08.22.2017	Washington - Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s remarks on U.S. strategy in Afghanistan. “Last night, President Trump, reversing his previous position, declared that the United States was not going to abandon Afghanistan. But his statement fell far short of the kind of strategic plan and full accounting he owes the American people. I view Afghanistan through the prism of a ten-year effort to support and strengthen the Afghan parliament through the House Democracy Partnership (HDP). The parliament has at times struggled to resist corruption, take a broad view of the country’s interests, and responsibly challenge the executive. At the same time, I have come to admire many of the parliament’s members and staff, including a number of especially courageous women, and I am convinced that their success is critical to their country’s survival. “We are not nation-building again,” President Trump said last night. “We are killing terrorists.” These statements are dangerous oversimplifications. Terrorists thrived in Afghanistan when it was a failed state, and they could do so again. Therefore, it is absolutely critical that the country develop effective, legitimate representative institutions. In helping to bring this about, our country is not necessarily “nation-building,” and we certainly are not trying to exactly replicate our own system. But it is extremely shortsighted to denigrate or abandon efforts that are fully as important as military prowess to Afghanistan’s survival and success.” ###
08.15.2017	Last weekend, America witnessed a repugnant display of hatred, bigotry, and vitriol organized by white supremacists, neo-Nazis, and Ku Klux Klansmen, who convened in Charlottesville, Virginia to protest the removal of Confederate monuments and memorials from public spaces. The so-called “Unite the Right” rally reached its tragic conclusion when a self-described neo-Nazi drove his car through a crowd of counter-protesters, killing 32-year-old Heather Heyer and injuring 19 others. But even before this act of domestic terrorism, the rally had produced haunting images of crowds carrying torches through a Southern town at night and wielding military-grade weapons in broad daylight, chanting “Jews will not replace us,” “blood and soil,” and other hateful slogans. Events such as this understandably provoke strong, emotional reactions for Americans of all backgrounds. In communities across the country, large rallies and vigils have been held to express solidarity with the victims in Charlottesville and focus attention on the continued presence of thousands of Confederate monuments and memorials in public spaces. One such rally, held last night in Durham, ended with the toppling of a monument dedicated to Confederate soldiers that had stood in front of the old Durham County Courthouse for nearly a century. Although there are legitimate debates as to their tactics, it is easy to understand the convictions that led these citizens to take this action. While communities in other states have taken steps to remove their own monuments, the North Carolina General Assembly enacted a law in 2015 taking this power out of local leaders’ hands. This misguided and cynical law diminishes the power of citizens to petition their government and should be repealed immediately. We must honestly face the elements of racism, bigotry and anti-Semitism that poison our society today. This is not just about who we have been as a nation; it is about who we are today and who we aspire to be tomorrow. It is about ensuring that each successive generation of Americans continues, to paraphrase Dr. King’s inspirational words, bending the arc of the moral universe ever more toward justice. I have always considered myself fortunate to have come of age politically during the Civil Rights movement. For a young man from a small town, the movement was a profound example of the power of people with conviction to right ancient wrongs. Three short years after I helped organize student protests against Chapel Hill’s segregated businesses, I sat in the gallery of the United States Senate as the Civil Rights Act passed in a dramatic vote I will remember forever. Looking back on these years, I often marvel at how far we have come as a nation toward ending institutionalized discrimination and achieving a more perfect union. Yet, like the Charleston massacre two years ago—and the many smaller acts of bigotry and racism that draw far less attention in the media—the events in Charlottesville this weekend remind us of how much work we have left to do. It is in moments like these that we must summon the determination and courage to come together as a community to reject the voices of hate, to draw upon the values we share as Americans, and to chart a better path forward.
07.28.2017	Washington – Today, Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) introduced the We the People Act of 2017 (H.R. 3537), legislation that would address a series of fundamental problems facing our democracy and help restore integrity, accountability, and transparency to our political system. This legislation is part of a bicameral effort—led by Rep. Price and Senator Tom Udall (D-NM) in the Senate—to improve campaign finance and ethics in government. "Our most deeply-held democratic values are under threat. This legislation offers common-sense reforms that would put regular citizens ahead of special interests and ensure that federal representatives--including the President--remain accountable to the people who elect them," said Congressman Price. "I look forward to working with Senator Udall and other colleagues to advance these proposals to truly 'drain the swamp' and restore transparency and accountability in government." The We the People Act includes proposals to comprehensively reform campaign finance laws, restrict gerrymandering through nonpartisan redistricting commissions, increase the number of eligible voters who vote by allowing same day registration, strengthen lobbying laws, and address integrity and transparency problems in the Executive Branch. A summary of its provisions is attached. This legislation builds on earlier legislation introduced in in 2016 by Representative Price and Senator Udall and will serve as a model to help educate the American people on effective solutions to major structural problems facing our democracy. The bill provides a number of reform solutions that can be used in state and local legislative reform efforts. H.R. 3537 is supported by The Brennan Center for Justice; Common Cause; Democracy 21; the League of Women Voters; People For the American Way; and Public Citizen; and by Norman Eisen, chief White House ethics lawyer for Barack Obama (2009-2011), and Richard Painter, chief White House ethics lawyer for President George W. Bush (2005-2007). A summary of the We the People Act is available here. The full text of the bill is available here. ###
07.27.2017	Washington– New legislation introduced today by Representatives David Price (D-NC) and Jared Huffman (D-CA) would protect local television markets across the country from corporate consolidation by permanently ending the so-called “UHF discount,” an obsolete FCC loophole that the Trump Administration wants to revive to benefit right-wing media conglomerates. If the UHF discount is allowed to go into effect, a series of pending corporate mergers, including one with the Sinclair Broadcast Group and Tribune Media, would dramatically reduce competition among local TV stations across the country. “Our democracy depends on a diverse media that can address local needs and serve the public interest,” said Rep. Price.“The FCC’s decision to reinstate the technically obsolete UHF discount is a thinly veiled attempt to fast track mega mergers at the expense of Americans who want reliable and trustworthy news from their local broadcasters. The issue of continued corporate media consolidation isn’t a problem for just Democrats or just Republicans – it’s a problem for anyone who wishes to receive news and other programming from a local broadcaster that isn’t captive to a political or corporate agenda.” “Preventing monopolies in local media and turning back the tide of corporate consolidation has never been more vital than it is today,” said Rep. Huffman.“In Eureka, California alone, the FCC’s recent decision to reinstate the discredited and antiquated UHF discount means that a single right-wing media owner, Sinclair Broadcast Group, will control a majority of the news that my constituents in Eureka see on television, no matter which news broadcast they choose to watch. This is not the Soviet Union: Americans deserve a meaningful choice in their local news, and our Local and Independent Television Protection Act would ensure that every American has access to a variety of local news sources that report on the local – and national – issues they care most about.” "Local television remains an important source of local news. It's especially important for people of color, Spanish speakers, elderly populations, low-income individuals, and others less likely to have cable TV and affordable internet access. Yet we're not getting the diversity of competing viewpoints and local content that we need from broadcasters because of runaway consolidation, aided and abetted by loopholes like the UHF Discount,”said Free Press Action Fund Deputy Director and Senior Counsel, Jessica J. González. “That discount is a relic of a bygone era, from a time when UHF signals were too weak to reach everyone. With today's technology, these signals are actually stronger than other broadcast channels. Yet the current FCC, despite its supposed focus on getting rid of obsolete technical rules, revived this one to pave the way for mega-mergers proposed by conglomerates like Sinclair. We thank Reps. Huffman and Price for introducing this bill to close that loophole." As John Oliver recently pointed out, the Sinclair Broadcast Group has “must-run” segments and slanted polls that it requires all of their stations to run. On April 20, 2017, President Trump’s Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission Ajit Pai called a vote to reinstate the UHF discount, which allows television station owners to significantly increase their national reach. Federal law establishes a national television ownership cap to prevent any single company from owning television stations that collectively reach more than 39% of the country, a competition requirement to ensure the continuation of the diverse and local news sources essential to a robust democracy. The UHF discount, by contrast, makes this cap meaningless, letting media companies “discount” UHF stations (channels 14-83) by half when calculating whether the company is subject to the national television ownership cap. With the UHF discountreinstated, a single company can buy enough local TV stations to reach up to 78% of Americans, dramatically increasing their national scope, public influence, and control of household news content. One day after the FCC’s reinstatement of the UHF discount, Sinclair Broadcast Group announced that it had entered an agreement to purchase Bonten Media Group for $240 million, expanding its reach in Northern California and elsewhere across the nation. With this purchase, Sinclair will own four of the seven commercial television stations in the Eureka, CA, community. The Trump administration’s reinstatement of the UHF discount is currently being reviewed by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit after a lawsuit was filed by several public interest groups. Specifically, the Local and Independent Television Protection Act: · Requires the FCC to act within 90 days to permanently end the UHF discount; and · Grandfathers any stations owned prior to September 26, 2013, which is commensurate with the FCC’s previous efforts to end the UHF discount. The legislation is cosponsored by Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Jerry McNerney (D-CA), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), and Jackie Speier (D-CA). The legislation is supported by: Free Press Action Fund, Public Knowledge, National Hispanic Media Coalition, Common Cause, and Consumers Union. The full text of the legislation is available here. ###
07.27.2017	Washington – Congressman David E. Price (NC-04), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations subcommittee responsible for housing funding, announced today that the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) will provide an additional $31.86 million to North Carolina for disaster relief and recovery from Hurricane Matthew. The HUD funding will be allocated through the Community Development Block Grant Disaster Relief (CDBG-DR) program. Under the 2017 appropriations omnibus, HUD had previously allocated only $6 million for additional North Carolina Matthew recovery funding. Congressman Price – alongside Senator Tillis and Governor Cooper – has led the North Carolina delegation’s bipartisan efforts to urge HUD to revisit the data used to calculate the earlier omnibus allocation. This additional funding reflects HUD’s updated analysis. “This additional funding, which will prove vital to North Carolina’s recovery from Hurricane Matthew, is the result of bipartisan advocacy from the delegation and Governor Cooper,” said Congressman Price. “Make no mistake, however: the new allocation still leaves us hundreds of millions of dollars short of the demonstrated need. The delegation must continue to stress to the Administration and congressional leadership that many North Carolinians are living in the devastation wrought by Hurricane Matthew, and we will not stop fighting to get them the funding they deserve.” Governor Cooper has estimated that the state will require close to $1 billion to fully recover, in addition to the hundreds of millions in FEMA, CDBG-DR, and other federal relief funding that North Carolina has already received. Congressman Price, who recently introduced an Appropriations amendment to provide $5 billion dollars in additional relief for states impacted by Hurricane Matthew and other disasters, will continue to advocate for funding as the Fiscal Year 2018 Appropriations process unfolds.
07.17.2017	Washington -- At tonight's full committee markup of the FY18 Transportation-Housing and Urban Development (T-HUD) Appropriations bill, Ranking Member David E. Price (NC-04) will offer an amendment to invest $200 billion in rebuilding our nation's crumbling transportation and housing infrastructure, including $5 billion of urgent disaster relief funding for North Carolina and other states impacted by Hurricane Matthew and other recent and future storms. The amendment would provide desperately-needed funding for highways, bridges, railroads, aviation safety, and affordable housing and community development. A full summary of the amendment is attached. "If there is one area that should garner broad bipartisan support it would be an infrastructure package that would tangibly improve the lives of each of our constituents," said Ranking Member Price. "As it stands, the T-HUD bill is not up to the task of building the infrastructure our country needs and deserves. Adopting my amendment would be a good start to restoring and repairing the infrastructure that we all depend on. "My amendment also includes disaster funding for roads, transit and community development, so that when a community experiences a natural disaster, funding is available immediately to address critical infrastructure needs. My home state of North Carolina and several other states continue to slowly recover from Hurricane Matthew and other recent disasters. This funding would accelerate the ongoing rebuilding effort and provide prospective funding for future disasters." "When this year began, I was optimistic that the Administration and Congress would work together in a bipartisan way to invest in our nation's infrastructure to create jobs and improve communities," said Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Member of the full Appropriations Committee. "The majority's negligence in failing to pursue this critical priority is extremely disappointing. I am pleased this amendment would invest meaningfully in our nation's roads and bridges, mass transit, and housing infrastructure, which would benefit both our national economy and local communities."
07.14.2017	Washington – Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement on the two-year anniversary of the adoption of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), also known as the Iran Nuclear Agreement. “Two years after the JCPOA’s adoption, the agreement remains our best means of preventing a nuclear-armed Iran. Rather than rashly abandoning the JCPOA as some Republicans have suggested, the United States must continue to work with our negotiating partners to hold the Iranian regime to the highest standards of monitoring and verification.” ###
07.11.2017	Washington – Congressman David E. Price (NC-04), Ranking Member of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (T-HUD) Appropriations Subcommittee, gave the following opening statement at this evening’s subcommittee markup of the Fiscal Year 2018 T-HUD Appropriations bill. Mr. Chairman, before I begin I want to thank you again for the collaborative process you have led during the formulation of this bill. You continue to be accessible and receptive to concerns that subcommittee Members have raised. It has been a pleasure working with you. As you have already stated, this year’s mark includes $56.5 billion for vital transportation, housing, and community development programs at DOT, HUD, and related agencies. Unfortunately, this represents a funding decrease of more than $1.1 billion compared to the recently enacted omnibus. The Chairman was dealt a very difficult hand, and as a result, we are not investing enough in our housing and transportation infrastructure to maintain it, let alone expand it. Despite the unfavorable allocation, most core housing programs—including the 202 program for the elderly and the 811 program for the disabled—will receive modest funding increases to ensure those who currently receive assistance can remain housed. On the transportation side, key safety programs at the modal agencies are adequately funded, and the Federal Aviation Administration received targeted funding increases in various accounts to help accelerate NextGen implementation. I want to point out that the bipartisan efforts of this Committee to strengthen and modernize the air traffic control system, all while ensuring safety, remain paramount. This is in stark contrast to the partisan and controversial plan being advanced by Republicans on the authorizing Committee, which would jeopardize NextGen’s progress and hand over federal assets and control of the skies to private industry. The mark also includes a significant $475 million increase for the Federal Railroad Administration’s Federal-State Partnership for State of Good Repair program, which will jump-start critical infrastructure improvement projects within the national rail system. I hope this is intended to be more than just a one-time infusion of funding for programs of national significance. Unfortunately, that’s about where the good news ends. Despite these bright spots, as a result of our unworkable allocation this mark makes cuts to vital capital programs within DOT and HUD—programs that create jobs and spur economic growth. At DOT, funding for the highly competitive and popular TIGER program is zeroed out, despite the overwhelming need for additional infrastructure investment. Republican and Democratic mayors and governors across the country are clamoring for more TIGER grants—it seems the program’s only fault, in the view of its critics, is that it was established by President Obama. The Federal Transit Administration’s Capital Investment Grants program, often referred to as New Starts, receives a cut of $659 million, though I’m very appreciative the Chairman included bill language to ensure FTA continues to rate and review projects in the New Starts pipeline. At HUD, the Choice Neighborhoods Initiative that has transformed dozens of public housing developments into thriving mixed-income communities would only receive $20 million, compared to $137.5 million last year. I am grateful the Chairman has included this placeholder amount, and I look forward to working with him to improve this number as the process moves forward. Also on the housing side of the ledger, the Community Development Block Grants and the HOME program are each cut by $100 million despite calls from local elected officials across the country to preserve these important funding streams. Meanwhile, the Section 4 Capacity Building Program utilized by Habitat for Humanity and other reputable nonprofits receives a $5 million cut. While simply funding these programs represents a rebuke of the Trump Administration, we should not use the draconian Trump budget as a baseline for anything other than a warped vision of America. We are in the midst of a national housing crisis—only one in four people eligible for federal rental assistance can receive it—and we still have a massive public housing capital backlog. Our infrastructure continues to crumble, resulting in decaying highways and bridges and congested roads and airports. We should be increasing our commitment to these housing and transportation programs, not making cuts. While the Chairman is doing the best he can under the circumstances, the real culprit is the complete failure by Congress to address the main drivers of the deficit: tax expenditures and entitlement spending. Instead, we have returned again and again to appropriations, and especially critical domestic investments, to bear the whole brunt of deficit reduction. The result is a disaster for our economy and for the work of most of our appropriations subcommittees. It is truly the worst of both worlds: we don’t significantly reduce the deficit, but we do untold damage to critical national investments. We should not pretend that these bills as currently written have the resources necessary to meet our challenges as a nation. The majority’s inability to enact a budget resolution – the most basic act of governing – coupled with a plan to push forward with all twelve appropriations bills without bipartisan buy-in on overall spending levels will surely result in yet another scramble at the end of the year, with the only question being whether we shut down the government, kick the can down the road with another Continuing Resolution, or salvage some semblance of our constitutional responsibilities by passing another omnibus. Finally, I am strongly opposed to several controversial policy riders that were attached to this bill that unnecessarily attack high speed rail, roll back transportation safety for the traveling public, and harm labor rights. Mr. Chairman, although I do not intend to offer amendments to the subcommittee mark, I do want to point out that this bill faces many hurdles in order to garner bipartisan support. I remain hopeful however that a multi-year bipartisan budget agreement can be reached that would allow this bill and others to be vastly improved. I look forward to continued collaboration with you to achieve that goal in the days, weeks, and months ahead. Thank you.
06.22.2017	Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement about the Senate Republican ACA repeal proposal. "The mean-spirited and disingenuous Senate Republican ACA repeal proposal would strip health care from millions of Americans -- particularly low-income families and seniors -- in order to fund a tax break for the wealthy. It's no wonder this bill was negotiated in secret -- Senate Republicans cannot credibly claim to their constituents that this proposal will provide affordable coverage or improve quality of care. I remain open to improving and building on the progress of the Affordable Care Act, but I am strongly opposed to the Republican Trumpcare proposal that would jeopardize the health and well-being of my constituents."
06.21.2017	Washington – Last night, Congressman David E. Price (D-NC) and Congressman Bradley Byrne (R-AL) introduced the Joint Consolidation Loan Separation Act alongside Senators Mark R. Warner (D-VA), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), and Marco Rubio (R-FL). From January 1, 1993 until June 30, 2006, the U.S. Department of Education issued joint consolidation loans to married couples. Both borrowers agreed at the time to be jointly liable for repayment, which proved problematic in the event of divorce. Congress eliminated the program effective July 1, 2006 but did not provide a means of severing existing loans, even in the event of domestic violence, economic abuse, or an unresponsive partner. As a result, there are borrowers nationwide who remain liable for this consolidated debt without legal options for relief. The Joint Consolidation Loan Separation (JCLs) Act would allow both borrowers to submit a joint application to the Department of Education (ED) to split their joint consolidated loan into two separate federal direct loans. It would also allow one borrower to submit a separate application if they are experiencing domestic or economic abuse or are unable to reasonably reach the other borrower. The joint consolidated loan remainder will be split proportionally and borrowers will be able to transfer eligible past payments towards income-based repayment programs or the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program. “This bill is a direct response to my constituent’s experience with a damaging joint consolidation loan. This carefully crafted bill will provide relief to borrowers who are victims of abusive or uncommunicative spouses and allow them to sever their joint financial responsibility. Congressional action to fix this problem is long overdue,” said Congressman Price. "This is an example of an unintended consequence that Congress must address. I'm pleased we are able to come together in a bipartisan manner with my House and Senate colleagues to put forward a solution. This commonsense legislation offers a simple fix that provides relief to some Americans caught in a difficult situation,” said Congressman Byrne. “When survivors escape abuse, they should be able to start over without the debts of their abusers. We applaud this bill for creating a solution for those survivors who consolidated loans either in good faith or under duress and are now rebuilding their lives,” said Monica McLaughlin, Director of Public Policy at the National Network to End Domestic Violence. “For far too long, many student loan borrowers have been stuck in joint consolidation loans, and this bill ensures that struggling borrowers, including survivors of domestic and economic abuse, who previously consolidated their student loan debts, have the opportunity to regain their financial footing. We applaud the sponsors of this bill for their efforts. This bill would benefit many vulnerable student loan borrowers, and we are proud to support it,” said National Consumer Law Center Attorney Joanna Darcus. “Many survivors of intimate partner violence in North Carolina find themselves burdened with their abuser’s debt after escaping their abusive partner. The North Carolina Coalition Against Domestic Violence applauds that our state representative, David Price, is sponsoring this bill so that survivors may be truly free to rebuild their lives,” said Dana Mangum, Executive Director of the North Carolina Coalition Against Domestic Violence. “The Action Alliance is pleased to support these efforts to provide victims of domestic and economic abuse with student loan relief. This bill will make a difference for the people who need it, and we hope Congress will move swiftly to enact it,” said Kristine Hall, Policy Director at the Virginia Sexual and Domestic Violence Action Alliance. More information about the Joint Consolidation Loan Separation Act is available here. ###
06.08.2017	Washington – Congressman David E. Price (NC-04), Ranking Member of the Transportation-Housing and Urban Development (T-HUD) Appropriations Subcommittee, delivered the following opening statement at a subcommittee hearing with HUD Secretary Ben Carson. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to join you in welcoming the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, Dr. Ben Carson. For years, nearly all of HUD’s affordable housing and community development programs have been underfunded compared to demonstrated need. These programs serve some of the most vulnerable people in our society—the elderly, the disabled, children, veterans, and single parents trying to make ends meet. It’s not an exaggeration to say that America—the most prosperous nation in the world—is in the midst of an affordable housing crisis. More and more families are struggling to pay rent. Meanwhile, only one of four people eligible for federal rental assistance can actually receive it due to funding constraints. This is not a reality that any of us should be comfortable with. In fact, it should force us to ask tough questions about our values and priorities. Unfortunately, the Department’s FY 2018 budget request before us today would make these daunting problems even worse. The request includes $36.3 billion in funding offset by $9.5 billion in receipts. The total budget authority provided in the request would be lower than last year’s level by approximately $7.4 billion, or nearly 17 percent. Since more than three-quarters of HUD’s budget is devoted toward simply maintaining current residents in housing, cuts of this magnitude disproportionately impact community development grants and other targeted housing programs. For example, Community Development Block Grants, a flexible source of funding for hundreds of urban and rural communities to help meet the needs of low and moderate income people, would be completely eliminated. The HOME program, which is the largest federal block grant to state and local governments designed exclusively to produce affordable housing for low-income families, would also be eliminated. My colleagues and I have heard from hundreds of local elected officials and housing practitioners that these programs play a critical role in helping them address affordable housing shortages and other pressing community needs. Mr. Secretary, in your Senate confirmation hearing you spoke about addressing housing instability and poverty in a “comprehensive” manner, including providing greater access to health care and economic opportunity. These are goals we certainly both share, but the proposed budget fails to advance this vision in any meaningful way. It’s especially troubling that your budget would eliminate the Choice Neighborhoods Initiative. This program helps transform aging public housing developments into vibrant mixed-income communities, and it leverages non-federal funding to promote small business and bring other services into the community. If this isn’t a comprehensive approach, I don’t know what is. Even the Self-Help Homeownership Opportunity Program (SHOP) and Section 4 Capacity Building would be zeroed out. SHOP is used by Habitat for Humanity and other reputable nonprofits to help create affordable homes for low-income people using the “sweat equity” model, while Section 4 helps expand their capabilities and technical expertise. Finally, the National Housing Trust Fund, which doesn’t even constitute discretionary budget authority, would be eliminated. This is a real head scratcher, since these mandatory funds are derived from contributions by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The Housing Trust Fund has only recently been tapped by the states, but already it is being used to finance the development, rehabilitation, and preservation of affordable housing for low-income people. These sweeping program eliminations, I must say, fail to demonstrate the surgical precision we might expect from you. They are the equivalent of taking a meat axe to the HUD budget, which has already faced steep reductions in recent years. The budget request says that state and local governments should pick up the slack, but how? Frankly, this is unacceptable. I haven’t even touched on the numerous reductions proposed in the budget: · Tenant Based Section 8 is cut by 5 percent, which could force as many as 265,000 people nationwide back onto the streets · Public housing is cut across the board, including a massive two-thirds cut to the capital fund · HOPWA is cut by 7 percent · Homeless Assistance Grants are cut by nearly 6 percent · Housing Counseling is cut by nearly 15 percent The list goes on. Without sustained increases in funding commensurate with need, people will lose housing and the supportive services that they rely upon. I’d also like to register my serious concerns with the Department’s so-called rent “reforms” which would essentially shift HUD program costs onto residents. Raising minimum rents, eliminating utility allowance reimbursements, and ending higher payments for new enhanced vouchers could have serious repercussions for the people who rely on housing assistance. These changes are best left to the consideration of the authorizing committees. Further, the decision to first roll out these reforms in Project-based Rental Assistance along with the 202 and 811 programs—which serve vulnerable elderly and disabled individuals—seems counterintuitive at best and ill-considered at worst. As I said up front, the current state of housing in America should force us to ask tough questions. Unfortunately, looking at this budget proposal unsettling questions come to mind. Does this Administration even care about the most vulnerable amongst us? Have you been appointed only to preside over the demise of HUD? Finally, before I close, I want to remind my colleagues that although it’s the beginning of June, we still have no budget resolution, no top-line spending number, no subcommittee allocations, and the debt limit is rapidly approaching. Without another bipartisan budget deal, we will also be forced to cope with the devastating return of sequestration. In past years, we know this has been a recipe for disaster and we saw the appropriations process completely break down in Committee and even on the House floor. Mr. Secretary, I look forward to hearing your testimony today and working with you to ensure that vital housing and community development programs remain adequately funded. ###
06.05.2017	Washington – Congressman David E. Price (NC-04), Ranking Member of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement opposing President Trump’s proposal to privatize air traffic control. “Our national airspace is the most complex and the safest in the world. To guarantee it remains a public good, Congress must ensure that all aviation stakeholders—not just large commercial airlines—have access to the skies. President Trump’s proposal to privatize the air traffic control system—a process that the nonpartisan Government Accountability Office reports will take at least 5 to 7 years—would represent an unprecedented giveaway of taxpayer-funded assets to an untested private entity. It would threaten the FAA’s ongoing efforts to modernize and improve air traffic operations, a process which has already saved airlines and consumers billions in recent years. Congress should continue to build on bipartisan efforts to improve efficiency and innovation in aviation, not weaken oversight and accountability by handing management of our air traffic system over to private interests.” ###
05.23.2017	Washington – Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement about President Trump’s budget request for Fiscal Year 2018. “A budget is a moral document that says a great deal about the priorities and principles of the president proposing it. We shouldn't be surprised, then, that the Trump budget demonstrates the same lack of regard for vulnerable populations that has tainted his campaign and presidency. “This budget proposal eviscerates our basic social safety net — including Medicaid, Social Security Disability Insurance, and nutrition assistance — in order to lavish tax cuts on our wealthiest citizens. It slashes funding for transportation, housing, education, and health care. It would completely eliminate TIGER transportation grants that were used to help fund Raleigh’s new Union Station and the flexible Community Development Block Grants that dozens of our cities and small towns rely upon to fund public improvements. It would also eliminate all funding for the HOME program, which is used as critical gap financing for new affordable housing construction in North Carolina and across the country, and make deep cuts to public housing and low-income tenant vouchers that could put our most vulnerable citizens at risk. It decimates our research programs at the Environmental Protection Agency and the National Institutes of Health, investments that make us all better off—and that support thousands of researchers in the Triangle. And it doubles down on a flawed ideology that seeks to hamstring diplomacy and international assistance, our most effective tools to promote peace and prosperity on the global stage. “This budget wouldn’t make America great again—quite the opposite. It would undermine our nation’s competitiveness and economic mobility while unilaterally withdrawing America from world leadership. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, I look forward to working with my colleagues—on both sides of the aisle—to forcefully reject the President’s budget. The best way to do this is by enacting another bipartisan budget agreement to lift the unrealistic spending caps and ensure that we are able to make the investments a truly great country must make.”
05.22.2017	Washington – Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement responding to the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision to affirm a lower court ruling that the North Carolina congressional districts drawn by the General Assembly in 2011 were unconstitutional. “This decision confirms what we already knew: Republicans in the General Assembly violated the Constitution with their discriminatory gerrymander in 2011. “General Assembly Republicans clearly cannot be trusted to draw fair districts. We can only guarantee true equal protection for North Carolina voters regardless of race or party by establishing an independent, non-partisan redistricting commission.” ###
05.18.2017	Washington, DC– Congressman David Price (NC-04) announced the winners of the Fourth District Congressional Art Competition, which brings together talented high school artists from across the district, at a recent reception in Research Triangle Park. Brooke Connolly of Cardinal Gibbons High School took first place in the competition with her photograph, “Red Light; Green Light.” Cardinal Gibbons art teacher Rebecca Grant Dason mentored Connolly. The winners were selected by a panel of judges from local arts organizations. “I was very impressed with all of the drawings, paintings, and photographs submitted by the participants this year, and I am thankful for the support that these young artists have received from their teachers and families,” Congressman Price said. Later this year, Art Competition winners from around the country will come to Washington for the formal awards ceremony and the unveiling of the exhibit featuring their work. The winning entries will hang in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Art from other students placing in the competition will be displayed in Congressman Price’s Washington office and district offices. Placing in the competition were: · 1st Brooke Connolly, Cardinal Gibbons High School, Raleigh, NC Art Teacher – Rebecca Grant Dason Title of Entry – “Red Light; Green Light” · 2nd Isabella Salazar, Cardinal Gibbons High School, Raleigh, NC Art Teacher – Rebecca Grant Dason Title of Entry – “Face Off” · 3rd Jennifer Yu, Enloe High School, Raleigh, NC Art Teacher – Trish Klenow · 4th Hannah Shipley, Green Hope High School, Cary, NC Art Teacher – Teresa Prichard ###
05.16.2017	Washington – Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement responding to reports that President Trump shared highly classified information with Russian officials.“Whatever President Trump's motivation for leaking intelligence to the Russians, his actions threaten the safety of members of the U.S. intelligence community, the lives of foreign intelligence assets, and our relationships with key allies. Such actions undermine the international community's efforts to degrade and destroy ISIS. We are clearly in uncharted territory -- the President has no respect for longstanding diplomatic norms or the grave responsibilities of his office, and his Administration is regularly misleading the American people. It’s time for my Republican colleagues to join Democrats in holding President Trump accountable for his actions. A good place to start would be an independent investigation into the troubling allegations of collusion between Trump’s campaign and Russian officials.”###
05.15.2017	Raleigh –Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement regarding the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision to leave in place a lower federal court ruling declaring North Carolina’s so-called Voter ID law unconstitutional.“Much like the poll taxes and literacy tests of the Jim Crow era, North Carolina’s shameful Voter ID law is nothing more than racial discrimination in the guise of voter protection. Rather than erecting unconstitutional barriers to participation in our democracy, the General Assembly should be making it easier for all eligible North Carolinians to make their voices heard at the ballot box.”###
05.15.2017	Raleigh –Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement regarding the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision to leave in place a lower federal court ruling declaring North Carolina’s so-called Voter ID law unconstitutional.“Much like the poll taxes and literacy tests of the Jim Crow era, North Carolina’s shameful Voter ID law is nothing more than racial discrimination in the guise of voter protection. Rather than erecting unconstitutional barriers to participation in our democracy, the General Assembly should be making it easier for all eligible North Carolinians to make their voices heard at the ballot box.”###
05.10.2017	Raleigh - Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement responding to President Trump's firing of FBI Director James Comey."President Trump's rash and unprecedented actions threaten the integrity of our democratic institutions and the credibility of ongoing investigations into his campaign's alleged ties to and collusion with Russia. We must immediately establish an experienced and independent special prosecutor to ensure that we pursue this matter wherever the facts may lead."###
05.04.2017	Washington – Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement on the Republican Affordable Care Act repeal legislation.“After seven years of empty promises to repeal the Affordable Care Act, House Republicans finally seem to have cut enough backroom deals to pass a cobbled-together abomination of a bill. And what a bill it is: this legislation will take affordable health care away from more than 24 million Americans, allow insurers to discriminate against those with pre-existing conditions, cause premiums and out-of-pocket costs to skyrocket, and threaten women’s health and special education.“Incredibly, House Republicans – the self-described champions of fiscal restraint and open government – are forcing a vote on legislation introduced late last night that has not been scored by the CBO and which many members admit they haven’t had a chance to read. The only thing we know for certain is that it would cut the numbers of people covered, and the quality of their coverage, more than the Republican bill that collapsed in the House last month. A word of advice for Speaker Ryan: if you’re going to pass a bill that will jeopardize the lives of tens of millions of Americans, you should at least have the integrity to do so with full information and transparency.”###
05.03.2017	Washington – Congressman David E. Price (NC-04), Ranking Member of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (T-HUD) Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement on the passage of Fiscal Year 2017 omnibus appropriations legislation.“This omnibus legislation demonstrates that bipartisan leadership can still overcome President Trump’s attempts to cut vital investments in the American people and undermine the congressional budget and appropriations process.“Just last week, it seemed possible that we were headed toward another government shutdown over the President’s outrageous demands for border wall funding and plans to strip health care from millions of Americans. But Democratic and Republican negotiators came together to reject these demands and provide adequate funding for programs that President Trump has proposed eliminating. I helped ensure increased funding for initiatives that will benefit the Research Triangle -- including biomedical research, public transit, and affordable housing programs -- and I am also pleased that the bill includes common-sense investments in our future like year-round Pell Grants and foreign development assistance.“This omnibus agreement does nothing to resolve our long-term budget challenges or to undo the self-inflicted damage imposed by the mindless spending caps in the Budget Control Act, leaving many programs funded well below demonstrated need. Yet I am pleased this legislation reflects a basic commitment to federal programs that support economic empowerment and improve quality of life for all Americans. As we look ahead to the next fiscal year, I will continue working to build on this progress and protect these priorities against President Trump’s proposed cuts.“I am grateful the final bill provides funding for recent natural disasters, but the amount falls well short of what is needed for North Carolina to recover and rebuild from Hurricane Matthew. Residents of North Carolina continue to feel the devastating impact of Matthew as they work to rebuild their businesses and communities, and I will continue fighting alongside Governor Cooper and our state’s congressional delegation to get our state the funding it deserves.”###
04.07.2017	Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement on the Syria conflict."Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s use of chemical weapons against his own people was an act of barbarism that I condemn in the strongest possible terms. Assad’s attack is the latest in a series of horrors that have brutalized his own people, driven millions from their homeland, and horrified the world. We must ensure that last night’s targeted airstrike and any further U.S. action are part of a comprehensive strategy to bring the horrific conflict in Syria to an end without drawing our Armed Forces into a broader military engagement that could threaten American lives and regional stability."Having ordered this attack without congressional authorization, President Trump owes Congress and the American people an explanation of what comes next. Any credible strategy must take into account the need for a political transition in Syria, ongoing efforts to eliminate the grave threat posed by ISIS and other extremist groups, the humanitarian crisis facing Syrian refugees, and the role of regional diplomacy in addressing all of these challenges. The President made empathetic overtures about saving Syrian children in his remarks last night; he could start making good on his words by reversing his xenophobic refugee ban and fully funding international refugee assistance efforts."
04.05.2017	Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) today announced the opening of the 2017 Fourth District Congressional Arts Competition, part of a national competition for high school age art students. The winning student artist will have his or her work of art displayed in the U.S. Capitol, while the runners-up will have their works displayed in Congressman Price’s Washington, DC and Fourth District offices. All participating students and their art teachers will be recognized by Congressman Price at a reception on May 9. Students are encouraged to submit two-dimensional, original works in the following media:· Paintings: oil, acrylics, watercolor, etc.· Drawings: colored pencil, pencil, ink, marker, pastels, charcoal (It is recommended that charcoal and pastel drawings be fixed.)· Collages: must be two dimensional· Prints: lithographs, silkscreen, block prints· Mixed Media: use of more than two mediums such as pencil, ink, watercolor, etc.· Computer-generated art· PhotographsSubmissions must also be no larger than 26 inches wide by 26 inches tall by 4 inches thick and weigh less than 15 pounds. Students must also fill out a release form and review the official rules. A submission checklist is provided to guide students through the process.Deadlines are as follows:Orange County May 1st – 4th (to Orange County Arts CommissionWake County May 5th – (United Arts of Raleigh & Wake County)Durham County May 5th – (Durham Arts Council) Students or teachers with questions about the 2017 Arts Competition should contact Nadia Alston in Congressman Price’s office at nadia.alston@mail.house.gov or 919.859.5999.
04.04.2017	Washington – This afternoon, Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) delivered the following remarks on the House Floor honoring the 2017 NCAA Champion UNC Men’s Basketball team. Video of the remarks can be accessed here. MR. SPEAKER, I rise today to congratulate the University of North Carolina Men’s Basketball team for winning the 2017 NCAA Division I National Championship last night.As a proud alumnus of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, the nation’s first public university, I was delighted to cheer on the entire team—the players, coaches, and staff—during their outstanding performance yesterday in the nation’s most competitive and most popular college athletics tournament.There is no question that the University’s tradition of excellence is among the greatest our nation has ever produced. The Tar Heels have now played in a record 20 NCAA “Final Four” games—the most of all time—and last night marked their sixth NCAA national championship, and seventh overall national championship.The years 1957, 1982, 1993, 2005, and 2009 are seared in the mind of Carolina basketball fans—and I know I speak for the entire Tar Heel Nation when I say how delighted we are to add 2017 to that list. The teamwork, comradery, and determination of this year’s team were evident throughout the entire season, as they struggled to overcome their heartbreaking defeat in the last seconds of the 2016 National Championship Game. While their tournament play may have been a little closer than some Carolina basketball fans wanted, the team managed six wins against a formidable slate of opponents. These fifteen young men truly demonstrated the Carolina Way—playing hard, playing smart, and playing together. I ask for unanimous consent to insert into the record the names of the players, coaches, and staff. I want to reiterate how proud I am of our team’s victory last night. To paraphrase the greatest basketball player of all time and a fellow UNC alumnus, Michael Jordan, the ceiling truly is the roof. Hark the sound, and Go Heels.###
03.26.2017	Raleigh -- Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement remembering Al Adams."Lisa and I are saddened by the death of Al Adams, a good friend, exemplary citizen, and gifted political leader. Al loved politics and was a master of it, in both the electoral and legislative arenas. His leadership was good-natured but determined; he was a happy warrior who fought for all the right things. We will miss him."###
03.24.2017	Washington – Today, Representatives David Price (D-NC) and Gerry Connolly (D-VA) sent a bipartisan letter signed by 191 of Members of Congress urging President Trump to reaffirm support for a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. “There must be absolute clarity regarding the United States’ continued support for a negotiated settlement leading to a sustainable two-state solution,” Price and Connolly said.In their letter the Members of Congress wrote, “For decades, American presidents and Israeli prime ministers of all political parties have publicly supported and worked toward attaining a peace agreement that recognizes Israel’s right to exist as a democratic, Jewish state and establishes a demilitarized Palestinian state, coexisting side-by-side in peace and security.”“We stand ready to help facilitate an environment that fosters the resumption of direct peace negotiations between the Israelis and Palestinians in order to achieve a viable, lasting, and mutually agreed upon two-state solution.”The letter was signed by the following Members: Price, Connolly, Adams, Aguilar, Barragán, Bass, Beatty, Bera, Beyer Jr., Bishop (GA), Blumenauer, Bonamici, Boyle, Brady (PA), Brown, Brownley, Bustos, Butterfield, Capuano, Carbajal, Carson, Cartwright, Castor, Castro, Chu, Cicilline, Clarke (NY), Clark (MA), Clay, Clyburn, Cohen, Coleman, Conyers Jr., Cooper, Courtney, Crist, Crowley, Cummings, Davis (CA), Danny Davis, DeFazio, DeGette, Delaney, DeLauro, DelBene, DeSaulnier, Deutch, Dingell, Doggett, Doyle, Duncan Jr., Ellison, Engel, Eshoo, Espaillat, Esty, Evans, Foster, Frankel, Fudge, Gabbard, Garamendi, Al Green, Gene Green, Grijalva, Gutierrez, Hastings, Heck, Higgins, Himes, Hoyer, Huffman, Jackson Lee, Jayapal, Jeffries, Johnson (TX-30), Johnson (GA), Jones, Kaptur, Keating, Kelly (IL), Kennedy, Khanna, Kihuen, Kildee, Kilmer, Kind, Krishnamoorthi, Kuster, Langevin, Larsen (WA), Larson (CT), Lawrence, Lawson, Lee, Levin, Lewis (GA), Lieu, Lipinski, Loebsack, Lofgren, Lowenthal, Lowey, Lujan, Lujan Grisham, Lynch, Sean Maloney, Matsui, McCollum, McEachin, McGovern, McNerney, Meeks, Meng, Moore, Moulton, Murphy (FL), Nadler, Neal, Nolan, Norcross, O’Halleran, O’Rourke, Pallone Jr., Panetta, Pascrell, Payne, Pelosi, Perlmutter, Peters, Pingree, Plaskett, Pocan, Polis, Quigley, Raskin, Richmond, Rosen, Roybal-Allard, Ruiz, Ruppersberger, Rush, Ryan (OH), Sanchez, Sarbanes, Schakowsky, Schiff, Schneider, Scott (VA), Serrano, Sewell, Shea-Porter, Sherman, Sinema, Sires, Slaughter, Adam Smith, Soto, Speier, Suozzi, Swalwell, Takano, Thompson (CA), Thompson (MS), Titus, Tonko, Torres, Tsongas, Veasey, Velazquez, Visclosky, Walz, Wasserman Schultz, Welch, and Yarmuth.The full letter follows and can be found here. The PresidentThe White HouseWashington, DC 20500Dear Mr. President,As strong supporters of Israel, we write to urge you to reaffirm the United States’ long-standing, bipartisan commitment to supporting a just and lasting two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.For decades, American presidents and Israeli prime ministers of all political parties have publicly supported and worked toward attaining a peace agreement that recognizes Israel’s right to exist as a democratic, Jewish state and establishes a demilitarized Palestinian state, coexisting side-by-side in peace and security. Today, we remain convinced that a two-state solution is the only outcome that would quell ongoing incidents of violence, maintain Israel as a secure, Jewish, and democratic state, and provide a just and stable future for the Palestinians. It is our belief that a one-state outcome risks destroying Israel’s Jewish and democratic character, denies the Palestinians fulfillment of their legitimate aspirations, and would leave both Israelis and Palestinians embroiled in an endless and intractable conflict for generations to come.Leadership from the United States is crucial at this juncture. We must ensure that a comprehensive agreement between the two parties is not imposed and oppose unilateral actions by either of the two parties that would push the prospects for peace further out of reach.To that end, we stand ready to help facilitate an environment that fosters the resumption of direct peace negotiations between the Israelis and Palestinians in order to achieve a viable, lasting, and mutually agreed upon two-state solution.Sincerely, DAVID E. PRICE GERALD E. CONNOLLYMember of Congress Member of Congress
03.24.2017	Washington – This morning, Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) delivered the following remarks on the House Floor during debate over the Republican ACA repeal proposal. Congressman Price is strongly opposed to the Republican bill.“I rise today in strong opposition to this misguided and short-sighted ‘Pay More for Less’ bill, also known as ‘TrumpCare.’“In all my time in Congress, I have never seen such a blatant disregard for the best interest of the American people. 24 million hard-working Americans will lose their health coverage. TrumpCare will eliminate the critical premium subsidies that millions of individuals depend on, meanwhile deductibles and out-of-pocket expenses will go up.“Particularly hurt will be the Americans aged 50-64, who will have to pay five times more than others for health coverage, no matter how healthy they may be themselves. TrumpCare then goes on to ransacks the Medicaid funds that older Americans rely on for long-term care they need and shortens the life of the Medicare Trust Fund by 3 years. “North Carolina consumers in the marketplace who have been insured for the first time would face the second-highest health care cost increases in the entire country, an average of over $7,500. Again, mainly the older, poorer North Carolinians. For instance, a 64-year old resident making $22,000 a year would see a premium spike of over $14,000. That is over half of his income!“After years of trying to destroy the ACA, this is the best that Speaker Ryan, and President Trump could come up with. Defeat this bill.”###
03.22.2017	Washington – North Carolina will see the second highest consumer cost increases in the nation under the Republican ACA repeal legislation, according to new data from the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation. By 2020, the average North Carolinian will face a health care cost increase of over $7,500, including a $5,921 premium increase and $1,628 a year in increased out-of-pocket costs. These cost increases will disproportionately impact lower-income and older North Carolinians. A 60-year-old with $22,000 in income would face a premium increase of over $14,500, or roughly 66 percent of income.Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) has released a report detailing the impact of the Republican proposal.
03.16.2017	Washington – Congressman David E. Price (NC-04), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations subcommittee responsible for transportation and housing funding, released the following statement on President Trump’s proposed “skinny budget.”“This isn’t a skinny budget; it’s a starvation budget. President Trump clearly has no intention of fulfilling his campaign promises to rebuild our nation’s infrastructure or provide new opportunities for economic mobility. These radical cuts would make it impossible to make the investments in our future that a great country must make. Ironically, they would also fail to address the main drivers of the deficit – which makes this budget the ultimate lose-lose proposition.”###
03.08.2017	Washington –Congressman David Price (D-NC), the former Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, released the following statement today after news reports that the Trump Administration planned to slash funding for the United States Coast Guard in order to fund border operations.“Gutting the Coast Guard to pay for increases at ICE and CBP shows a fundamental misunderstanding of what homeland security is all about. Focusing our efforts exclusively on the border with Mexico might be good political theater, but doing so will weaken our homeland security and undermine the Coast Guard's vital national security and immigration enforcement directives. This proposal is as laughable as the President’s claim that Mexico is going to build the border wall.”###
03.07.2017	Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released a statement opposing the Republican health care bill. The Republican health care proposal, crafted behind closed doors with zero transparency, threatens coverage for millions of Americans. It would also eliminate vital protections of the ACA and gut Medicaid by shifting costs to the states -- which would lead to care rationing for the most vulnerable populations -- in order to provide huge tax breaks to health care industry insiders and the wealthiest Americans.This misguided legislation would not only increase taxes and premiums for older Americans, it would also eliminate the current requirements for coverage of maternity care and mental health care and defund Planned Parenthood's vital women's health programs.Like other products that carry his name, TrumpCare is not what it promises and would be harmful to consumers. I strongly oppose this legislation.
02.28.2017	Washington, DC – This afternoon, Congressman David Price (NC-04) announced that he will host Faisal Khan, a Muslim-American peace activist from Morrisville, at this evening’s address by President Trump to a Joint Session of Congress. Mr. Khan has been a tireless advocate for immigrants and refugees in the Triangle. He has led interfaith dialogue between leaders of diverse communities of faith, work for which he was awarded CAIR’s 2007 Courage Award. Mr. Khan also founded the Carolina Peace Center to advocate for tolerance in North Carolina, and he serves on the Board of Directors of the Coalition for Peace with Justice, an organization that promotes a just and sustainable peace between Israel and Palestine.“I am pleased to welcome Faisal to Washington,” said Congressman Price. “I have been honored to work closely with him on behalf of refugee and immigrant families in the Fourth District, and I have long admired his advocacy for tolerance and peace. In the face of the President’s continuing attacks on immigrants and refugees, I am particularly pleased to welcome Faisal Khan, a courageous voice for our national values of acceptance and equality.”###
02.28.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressmen David E. Price (D-NC), Leonard Lance (R-NJ), Joe Crowley (D-NY), and Don Young (R-AK) introduced the World Language Advancement and Readiness Act, legislation that would create and support high-quality world language programs in elementary and secondary schools.Foreign language education is vital to our national security and economic competitiveness. Multiple GAO reports have cited shortfalls of languages and culture skills in the U.S. military and intelligence community, finding that our nation’s language deficit could threaten our priorities and missions around the globe. Meanwhile, American business and their clientele are diversifying and globalizing their operations, requiring language skills to access global markets and serve a multilingual population.The World Language Advancement and Readiness Act would direct the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary of Education, to authorize three-year competitive grants to support local and state school districts that want to establish, improve, or expand innovative programs in world language learning.“Giving school districts across the country new resources for teaching foreign languages will enrich the education of elementary and secondary students and expand their horizons. This legislation will ensure we have the educational capacity and infrastructure to provide our citizens with global understanding and competencies and will equip the next generation of leaders with the skills necessary to communicate and collaborate internationally,” said Congressman Price.The bill is supported by some of the leading international education and foreign language advocacy organizations, including the Joint National Committee for Languages - National Council for Languages and International Studies (JNCL-NCLIS) and the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages (ACTFL).JNCL-NCLIS Executive Director Bill Rivers notes that "the World Language Advancement and Readiness Act will help make America more secure and will prepare our children for the challenges of the 21st Century.”According to ACTFL Executive Director Marty Abbott, “ACTFL is grateful for the leadership of Representatives David Price (NC), Don Young (AK), Joe Crowley (NY), and Leonard Lance (NJ) as they continue to push for language learning to be a national priority and to improve language capacity for our country's national security. The World Languages Advancement and Readiness Act would provide crucial educational opportunities to carry out the recommendations in seminal report released today by the American Academy of Arts and Sciences."More information about the World Language Advancement and Readiness Act is available here.
02.01.2017	As a member of the House of Representatives, I do not have the opportunity to weigh in formally on President Trump’s appointments to executive branch positions. But as a former teacher and the son of educators, I feel compelled to share my concerns about Betsy DeVos, his nominee for Secretary of Education. In her confirmation hearings, Ms. DeVos failed to demonstrate that she is qualified to effectively advocate for public education and the best interests of all students and educators. Hundreds of Fourth District residents have called my office to voice similar concerns, and I join them in calling on the Senate to reject Ms. DeVos’s misguided nomination.
01.31.2017	Washington, DC -- Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) urges residents of the Fourth District to sign up for health coverage under the Affordable Care Act before the 2017 deadline of midnight tonight, January 31. Interested constituents can learn more and shop for plans at healthcare.gov. “The Affordable Care Act provides affordable health care coverage to tens of millions of Americans, including over 545,000 North Carolinians who have secured coverage through the marketplaces,” said Congressman Price. “It is not too late to sign up for 2017 coverage, and I encourage anyone interested to explore plans on healthcare.gov.” Since the Affordable Care Act was enacted in 2010, the uninsured rate in North Carolina has fallen by 33 percent. In addition to the hundreds of thousands of marketplace enrollees, millions of North Carolinians with employer-sponsored health insurance have seen their coverage improve, with free preventative care and new protections for women and those with pre-existing conditions.More information about 2017 plans is available at healthcare.gov.###
01.29.2017	Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) announced the following action to fight back against President Trump's order on refugees.UPDATE: Price is an original co-sponsor of Rep. Zoe Lofgren's Statute of Liberty Values Act 2.0 (SOLVe 2.0) of 2017, which would repeal the "revised" version of President Trump's executive order."I have heard an outpouring of concern and outrage about the President's executive order, which violates our most basic constitutional principles. Over the coming days, I will take the following action. Tomorrow afternoon, I will meet with refugee families and organizations in Durham to discuss the impact on our local community. Tomorrow evening, I will join House and Senate leaders on the steps of the United States Supreme Court to call for the order to be repealed. As soon as Congress gavels back into session, I will also co-sponsor legislation to repeal it and defund its enforcement."As a senior member of the House subcommittee responsible for immigration funding, I expect a thorough accounting from White House officials about the justification for and execution of President Trump's order, and I plan to hold the Trump Administration to account during the coming weeks."
01.28.2017	Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement about President Trump's executive order on refugees."I condemn in the strongest possible terms President Trump's shameful order on refugees, which flies in the face of our most deeply held democratic values. I have been outraged by many of Mr. Trump's comments on the campaign trail and his actions as president, but this executive order is especially horrifying. We must never forget that we are a nation of immigrants, founded as a refuge for the persecuted and oppressed. I will fight to ensure that our constitutional commitment to equality, inclusion, and freedom of religion is protected against this unprecedented attack."
01.19.2017	"I will attend the Inauguration on January 20 with pride -- pride in our country and the values we must uphold, pride in the rule of law -- and determined to make certain that no one, including our president, places himself above the law."This is not about Donald Trump. Like many of my colleagues, I am appalled by Donald Trump -- his evident disregard for democratic values and his willingness to stoke bigotry and the politics of hatred and exclusion. Grave questions about how he got elected and his ties to a foreign power are currently under investigation. I have serious doubts about his intention or willingness to govern within the bounds of our laws and Constitution, and I anticipate that Congress may well need to carry out our constitutional duty to call him to account. That is my main reason for affirming democracy and the rule of law on Friday."In addition, I am angered and disgusted by Donald Trump's personal attacks on my colleague John Lewis, for whose personal and moral courage all Americans should be profoundly grateful. I will be wearing a symbol of my respect for Rep. Lewis and the rule of law on my lapel on Friday -- and I look forward to giving a grateful and enthusiastic welcome to Hillary Clinton as well."
01.13.2017	Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to the sham Republican budget resolution before us today.After wringing their hands for the last eight years about debt and deficits, today’s resolution makes clear that Republicans throw so-called “fiscal discipline” to the winds when they have a Republican president.This budget resolution would add $9.5 trillion to the debt over the next ten years. It has only one purpose—to provide for the eventual repeal of the Affordable Care Act—and it would ruin our fiscal health as well.Of course, the ACA was fully paid for by Democrats with new revenue and cost containment measures. Nonpartisan budget experts say repealing it would actually increase the deficit by $350 billion!The hypocrisy of Republicans on this issue is stunning, even by Washington standards.Of course, repeal of ACA wouldn’t just blow a hole in the budget, it would:· destabilize the insurance market and cause premiums to skyrocket· eliminate insurance coverage for 30 million Americans, including 4 million children· raise taxes on the middle-class· burden local and rural hospitals with more uncompensated care· eliminate Medicaid benefits for millions of vulnerable citizens· and abolish vital patient protections, including the provision that stopped insurance companies from discriminating against those with preexisting conditionsAfter more than six years, we are still waiting for the comprehensive Republican plan to replace the ACA. News flash: they don’t have one.Rather than work with Democrats to improve the ACA, Republicans continue to put their own political ideology over the health and well-being of Americans.I urge all Members to forcefully reject this sham budget resolution.
01.10.2017	Washington– Today, Reps. David E. Price (NC-04), G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), and Alma Adams (NC-12), the Democratic members of North Carolina’s congressional delegation, sent the attached letterto the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) in strong support of a State Plan Amendment to expand Medicaid in the State of North Carolina.Medicaid expansion is a core provision of the Affordable Care Act. Under North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper’s proposal, North Carolina will receive $4 billion in federal funding while saving over $330 million in uncompensated care. Studies have shown that expanding Medicaid in North Carolina will provide access to care for over half a million state residents, streamline care delivery, and create tens of thousands of new jobs.“I strongly support Governor Cooper in his planned expansion of Medicaid in North Carolina,” said Congressman Price. “The McCrory administration and Republicans in the General Assembly stood in the way of this expansion for political reasons, despite the very real benefits it will provide for lower-income North Carolinians and our state’s economy.”“Since the passage of the Affordable Care Act in 2010, I have urged our governor to expand Medicaid and provide more quality health coverage for North Carolinians,” said Congressman Butterfield. “More than half a million North Carolinians stand to gain coverage under Governor Cooper’s plan. Access to basic health coverage is a right that all North Carolinians and Americans deserve and I stand ready to protect the Affordable Care Act and Medicaid from Republican efforts to derail the healthcare progress we have made.” “Expanding Medicaid in North Carolina would broaden coverage to an additional 650,000 beneficiaries, create jobs, and save our state millions,” said Congresswoman Adams. “I’m proud to support Governor Cooper in this common sense measure that could save hundreds of lives every year, many of whom are minorities. We can’t let politics get in the way of doing what’s right for North Carolina families.”###
12.29.2016	Washington -- Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement responding to Secretary of State John Kerry's remarks regarding the Israeli-Palestinian conflict."Secretary of State John Kerry’s address both reaffirmed our nation’s historical commitment to a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and reflected just how endangered this possibility has become."The vision of two states for the Israeli and Palestinian people, living side-by-side in peace and security, has been the foundation of a bipartisan consensus that has guided U.S. policy toward the Middle East for generations. The tenets of this consensus, upheld by broad majorities of Congress and by presidents of both parties, have included support for Israel’s qualitative military advantage, advocacy on Israel’s behalf against biased attacks in international organizations, and support for moderate and effective Palestinian institutions. They have also included the condemnation of actions by either side that diminish the prospects for peace—especially the incitement of violence by Palestinians and illegal settlement activity by Israelis."Yet today the vision of a two-state solution faces an existential threat. This is not an ideological statement but a factual one: with continued settlement construction on the West Bank, the day will soon come when it will be impossible to divide the land between the Mediterranean Sea and the Jordan River into two viable states, and Israel will be forced to choose between its Jewish identity and its democratic character. Leaders of Israel’s political right, joined by some in the United States who claim to be Israel’s most ardent defenders, appear to have given up on the two-state solution already. But majorities of Israelis, Palestinians, and Americans have not, and nor should our nation’s leaders."In this context, Secretary Kerry’s speech offered a powerful defense of the bipartisan consensus that has guided U.S. policy for decades. Of course the final terms of a peace agreement must be negotiated directly by Israelis and Palestinians—but that does not preclude the United States, as Israel’s closest friend and ally, from articulating non-binding parameters for what such an agreement could look like. In doing so, the Obama Administration demonstrated the type of international leadership called for in the resolution I coauthored with Rep. John Yarmuth and 62 other colleagues (H. Res. 686), earlier this year."As Secretary Kerry emphasized, true friendships require mutual respect and, occasionally, hard truths. His remarks should be a call to action for all who support the vision laid out by Israel’s founders of a democratic state in the homeland of the Jewish people."###
12.21.2016	"I am appalled but sadly not surprised that General Assembly leadership failed to uphold its end of the bargain by cleanly repealing H.B. 2. We’ve unfortunately come to expect this from Raleigh Republicans – promoting a rigid ideology no matter the damage to our state’s economy or reputation or the well-being of its residents."These are the facts: with H.B. 2, the same legislature that attempted to undermine the hard-fought voting rights of African Americans calculatedly did great harm to another historically marginalized community of people for political gain. In so doing, Republican state legislators and Governor McCrory sent a clear message to lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender North Carolinians – a group that has faced widespread discrimination, harassment, and violence – that they do not deserve equal rights. I will continue to advocate for this discriminatory law's full and immediate repeal."We must remember that the North Carolinians harmed by H.B. 2 aren't pawns in a political game; they are our neighbors, coworkers, fellow congregants, friends, and family members, and they deserve to be treated with dignity, empathy, and respect. We owe it to them to build a more inclusive state that offers its great promise equally to anyone who proudly chooses to call North Carolina home."
12.20.2016	Congressman David E. Price (NC-04), co-chair of the Congressional Moldova Caucus, released a statement marking the 25th anniversary of U.S. diplomatic relations with Moldova."Today, we are reminded of the shared values and mutual commitment to the rule of law that undergirds our important relationship with Moldova. Over the course of the past 25 years, the Moldovan people have worked to build a stable, modern democracy, with a great deal of cooperation and institutional support from the United States. Moldova has also become an invaluable military partner, which I have seen firsthand in visiting the Moldovan-based National Guard soldiers from my home state of North Carolina. In an increasingly uncertain world, we must redouble our efforts to strengthen our relationship with the Moldovan people and to help protect its democracy against outside threats and aggression. As co-chair of the Congressional Moldova Caucus, I look forward to continuing that work next year."
12.13.2016	Chapel Hill -- Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement honoring Rev. Dr. John "J.R." Manley of First Baptist Church in Chapel Hill. "Lisa and I were saddened to learn of the passing of the Rev. Dr. John Manley, a pastor, community leader, and friend whom we have known and admired during our entire time in Chapel Hill. During his uniquely long and fruitful pastorate at First Baptist, from 1946 to 2011, the church's membership expanded greatly, as did its impact on the wider community. "Dr. Manley will go down in history as the first African-American member of the Chapel Hill Board of Education and as a prophetic figure during turbulent times. I always felt warmly welcomed in his church and in his pulpit, and I particularly remember the joyous two-days-long celebration of his 60th anniversary in 2006. I also knew him as a champion of affordable housing and as the driving force behind Manley Estates, a HUD-supported rental development for older citizens, which appropriately bears his name. "Lisa and I join thousands in this community in giving thanks for the life and ministry of John Manley and in recognizing the witness he has made and the lives he has touched." ###
12.07.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman David E. Price (NC-04), Ranking Member of the House Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement on the Fiscal Year 2017 Continuing Resolution (CR).I am pleased that the CR includes significant funding for disaster relief, which will help ensure that North Carolina has the resources it needs to recover and rebuild in the wake of Hurricane Matthew. As our state’s only member of the House Appropriations Committee, securing this funding has been my top priority since the storm, and I am grateful for the bipartisan cooperation of Governor McCrory, Governor-elect Cooper, Senator Tillis, and other colleagues in the congressional delegation throughout this process.Unfortunately, the CR also contains an assortment of partisan provisions that would block workforce and safety protections for commercial truck drivers, continue the ideological attack on women’s health, and maintain the senseless ban on gun violence research. It also includes an unprecedented waiver for President-elect Trump’s nominee for Secretary of Defense. Whatever the merits of this nomination, setting aside the seven-year waiting period designed to protect civilian control of the military deserves more deliberation and debate than this CR provides.Overall, this CR represents an unfortunate decision by House Republican leadership to abandon the appropriations bills we negotiated on a bipartisan basis in favor of yet another stopgap measure. As we enter a period of political uncertainty, I hope that we can commit in future fiscal years to an appropriations process that allows us to exercise responsible judgment about the budget and make the long-term investments that a great country must make.###
11.28.2016	Durham, NC– Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement about North Carolina Central University (NCCU) Chancellor Debra Saunders-White, who passed away on Saturday.“I join the North Carolina Central University and Durham communities in mourning the passing of Debra Saunders-White, who set the university on a path toward a bright future with her wise stewardship and strategic vision. I always enjoyed working with Chancellor Saunders-White, and I look forward to completion of the student center and opening of the business school as major components of her legacy. I especially admired her courage and determination in continuing to provide leadership throughout her battle with cancer. My thoughts are with her family, her many friends, and the students, faculty, and staff of NCCU.”###
11.18.2016	Raleigh, NC – Last night, Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) hosted the 2016 Fourth District Congressional App Challenge Pitch Competition and Awards Ceremony at North Carolina State University’s Friday Institute for Educational Innovation. The Congressional App Challenge, established in 2013, is a national contest designed to promote STEM education by encouraging coders to create a concept or source code for an online or mobile application. The ceremony recognized the over 30 students from across the Triangle who submitted apps for the Fourth Congressional District’s competition, which also provided mentorship opportunities for students interested in the STEM fields.At the event, the top five teams from the Fourth District were invited to pitch their app ideas before a live panel of judges from local start-ups, tech companies, and educational institutions. After the scores were tallied, Congressman Price announced the winning app, Keep Me Safe, which was developed by Michael Webb, Amon Ferrell, Abijah Gibson, and Nassir Ford from Southeast Raleigh Magnet High School. Their teacher and mentor at Southeast Raleigh Magnet High School, Scott Meserve, was in attendance along with Monnie Sutton, the Academy of Information Technology and Cybersecurity Director, and Sophia Overdiep, Assistant Principal.“These student coders give me great hope for the future of innovation, and they all demonstrated great passion, creativity, hard work, and imagination” said Congressman Price. “This competition helps showcase the Research Triangle’s next generation of entrepreneurs and innovators. I am confident these students will be ready to tackle the complex problems of tomorrow.”The winning app will be displayed on the house.gov website and in the United States Capitol. The Keep Me Safe team will also be invited to participate in a special open house on Capitol Hill for competition winners.Congressman Price congratulates the winners at the awards ceremony.
11.17.2016	Washington, DC– Congressman David E. Price (NC-04), Raking Member of the House Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement responding to reports that House Republicans will not consider the remaining Fiscal Year 2017 Appropriations bills.“The apparent decision by House Republicans to abandon the appropriations process for Fiscal Year 2017 is a profound disappointment and a troubling sign of things to come. These appropriations bills – which reflect months of bipartisan negotiations between appropriators and staff at funding levels agreed to in a bipartisan budget deal – would have provided sustainable investments in critical priorities that will now be jeopardized under a short-term continuing resolution. It’s clear that the extreme right wing of the Republican party has no interest in fulfilling the most basic responsibilities of government, but if their party leadership and President-elect are unwilling or unable to restrain them, we are in for a long four years. I urge Senate leaders in both parties to reject the House’s proposal and insist that Congress fulfill its constitutional responsibility to fund the government.”###
11.16.2016	Raleigh, NC– This Thursday evening in Raleigh, Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) will host an Awards Reception for the Fourth District participants in the 2016 Congressional App Challenge, a national contest designed to promote STEM education by encouraging young coders to create a concept or source code for an online or mobile application. Over thirty high school students have worked in teams to develop and submit applications for the competition, and all App Challenge participants are invited to attend the reception, along with their families, teachers, and administrators.At the Awards Reception, the top five teams will have three minutes to “pitch” their apps before a live panel of local judges in the technology and innovation fields, and the winning team will be selected that evening. The winning app will be displayed on the House.gov website and in the United States Capitol Building. Winners also will be invited to showcase their apps at a House of Code event on Capitol Hill in the Spring of 2017.The Awards Reception is open press. Details are below.2016 Congressional App Competition Awards ReceptionThursday, November 17, 6 PM to 8 PMFriday Institute for Educational Innovation, NCSU1890 Main Campus DriveRaleigh, NC 27606###
11.15.2016	Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement about President-elect Trump's appointment of Steve Bannon to a senior administration post."I condemn in the strongest possible terms President-elect Trump’s appointment of Steve Bannon, who has repeatedly demonstrated his sympathy to white nationalism and bigotry. Donald Trump won the Presidency -- at least in part -- by courting the support of far-right extremists like Bannon, and the only way he can begin to restore his administration's credibility is by vocally and unequivocally renouncing the promotion of racism, sexism, homophobia, xenophobia, and anti-Semitism."
10.31.2016	Chapel Hill, NC– Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement about Rep. Paul Luebke of Durham.“Lisa and I were saddened to hear of our friend Paul Luebke’s death. We have long admired Paul as an insistent and persistent champion of social justice, and I have valued his colleagueship as we have collaborated on issues ranging from health care to housing and voting rights. We will miss him, as will the community he served.”###
10.28.2016	While my office in Fayetteville remains closed in the aftermath of Hurricane Matthew, my staff will be available for local office hours. Details are below:Festival Park Plaza225 Ray AvenueSuite 160Fayetteville, NC 28301Tuesdays and Thursdays 8:30AM – 1:30PM and by appointment.Visitors should enter Festival Park Plaza from the ground floor and proceed to Suite 160.
10.11.2016	Although Hurricane Matthew has moved away from North Carolina, there is still significant danger from flooding and structural damage. Many bodies of water have not yet fully crested. Those living near rivers, streams, and low-lying areas can visit readync.org to see if they are at risk of additional flooding. Addtionally, drivers should not attempt to proceed along flooded roadways. When in doubt, seek a different route.Yesterday, President Obama issued a major disaster declaration for the State of North Carolina, triggering the release of Federal funds to help individuals and communities recover from the storm. You can find out if you qualify for individual disaster relief by visiting disasterassistance.gov or calling 1-800-621-FEMA. The Small Business Administration also offers Hurricane Recovery Loans, and the Internal Revenue Service is offering tax relief. Additional information from FEMA is below and in this fact sheet addressing common questions about disaster relief.PLEASE NOTE THAT MY FAYETTEVILLE OFFICE REMAINS CLOSED UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE. PLEASE CALL 919-859-5999 FOR IMMEDIATE ASSISTANCE. North Carolina Residents Encouraged to Register for Federal Assistance RALEIGH, N.C. – Disaster survivors inBeaufort, Bladen, Columbus, Cumberland, Edgecombe, Hoke, Lenoir, Nash, Pitt, and Robeson Countiesare encouraged to register for federal disaster assistance with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).additional designations may be made at a later date if requested by the state and warranted by the results of further damage assessments.Individuals, including homeowners, renters, and business owners, in the above designated counties who suffered loss or damages due to Hurricane Matthew may register for assistance online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov, by downloading the FEMA mobile app,or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362). For those who use 711 or Video Relay Service (VRS), the number is also 1-800-621-3362. For people using TTY, the number is 1-800-462-7585.These toll-free telephone numbers will operate from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. (local time) seven days a week until further notice; operators are standing by to assist survivors in multiple languages.The President declared a major disaster October 10, 2016 for the above North Carolina counties to assist individuals and households as they recover from the effects of Hurricane Matthew beginning October 4, 2016 and continuing.Grant assistance provided by FEMA for homeowners and renters can include funds to help with rent, temporary housing and home repairs to their primary residences, as well as other serious disaster-related needs, such as personal and necessary items, moving and storage expenses, transportation, medical and dental expenses, or funeral and burial and reinternment costs caused by the disaster. Other relief programs include crisis counseling and legal assistance.Survivors should also contact their insurance company to file an insurance claim. FEMA is unable to duplicate insurance payments. However, those without insurance or who may be underinsured may still receive help after their insurance claims have been settled. ### Disaster recovery assistance is available without regard to race, color, religion, nationality, sex, age, disability, English proficiency or economic status. If you or someone you know has been discriminated against, call FEMA toll-free at 800-621-3362 or TTY at 800-462-7585.FEMA’s mission is to support our citizens and first responders to ensure that as a nation we work together to build, sustain, and improve our capability to prepare for, protect against, respond to, recover from, and mitigate all hazards.The latest updates on road closures can be found at ReadyNC.orgor by calling 5-1-1. Residents can also get real-time traffic and weather on the ReadyNC mobile app. Follow us on Facebook at NCEmergencyManagement and Twitter @NCEmergency or @femaregion4.
10.07.2016	While recent forecasts indicate Hurricane Matthew’s eye may veer east avoiding landfall in North Carolina, impacts are expected to be felt far from the center of the storm. Residents and visitors in the southeastern part of the state can expect winds of 45 to 55 miles per hour beginning late Saturday morning, with some higher gusts possible. The Piedmont and northern Coastal Plain will see breezy conditions with gusts to 35 miles per hour. Heavy rainfall of eight to 10 inches is expected in southeastern counties with one to three inches of rain expected along the I-95 corridor. The northeastern counties can expect to see one to two inches of rain offering them a potential respite from the recent heavy flooding.Several coastal communities are issuing local states of emergency and some also have instructed visitors to evacuate. Numerous eastern and coastal counties are meeting today to decide whether additional evacuations are needed. Meanwhile, Representative Price encourages residents to be ready by doing the following:1. Replenish supplies and update your emergency kit.Every family should have an emergency kit with enough bottled water (one gallon/person/day), nonperishable food and clothing to sustain each family member for three to seven days. The kit should include a flashlight, radio and spare batteries. Blankets, rain gear and appropriate footwear also are recommended. Special considerations must be made for the young or disabled. Remember to include baby food, diapers and medicines as appropriate. In addition, the kit should include photo copies of important family documents, such as birth certificates and insurance policies. A complete checklist of items for your emergency kit can be found here.2. Determine if you are in a storm surge zone.Residents living in storm surge zones may be ordered to evacuate. Evacuation zones will be identified by local emergency managers through the news media. You also should know if your home is located in a flood plain. These areas suffer from heavy rains associated with hurricanes. Visit ncfloodmaps.com to determine if you are in a flood zone.3. Plan for your pets.Some shelters will allow small, domestic pets, but pet owners should bring supplies and vaccination records with them. Residents should attach identification and rabies tags to their pets' collars. 4. Obtain supplies to protect the home.If residents are ordered to evacuate, there will be little time to protect their homes from the storm. Supplies, such as lumber and shutters, should be purchased now, and window casing pre-drilled. Homeowners should clear their property of all debris that could damage buildings in strong winds. Cars should be stored in the garage.5. Stay InformedListen to local meteorologists and stay tuned to local media. Keep cell phones and other mobile devices charged in anticipation of power outages.Download the free ReadyNC or FEMA mobile applications for emergency information on-the-go. The ReadyNC app provides real-time weather updates, traffic and flood conditions, shelter openings and evacuation listings. It also includes information about what to include in emergency kits and where to report power outages in North Carolina. The FEMA mobile app provides National Weather Service alerts, safety reminders, locations of shelters and where to talk to FEMA in person. Users can also upload and share disaster photos to help first responders.Both mobile apps will provide further information about disaster recovery assistance should it be implemented after the storm passes.Representative Price reminds residents to heed the directions of local officials and evacuate immediately if instructed to do so. Those who experience life-threatening emergencies should call 9-1-1.For more information about how to get ready for a hurricane and what to do during or after a storm, go to ReadyNC.org. Follow N.C. Emergency Management on Twitter and Facebook for the latest on Hurricane Matthew.
09.22.2016	Our state is shocked and saddened by the tragic news from Charlotte. We must find ways to address the discrimination that the African American community has faced and to rebuild trust in law enforcement. We will continue to wrestle with these difficult issues for many years to come. But violence is certainly not the answer. Our disagreements can only lead to progress if we engage each other peacefully rather than giving in to feelings of anger and frustration.Government and police must do their part to engage in a dialogue with citizens, faith leaders, and community organizations. To that end, it is important that Mayor Roberts and Chief Putney conduct their investigation of the Scott shooting and ensuing protests in a fully transparent manner. Chief Putney has invested in new technology and outreach strategies to rebuild trust with the community; now is the time to make good on those investments and take immediate action to prevent further violence and unrest.
09.20.2016	Fayetteville, NC –Today, Congressman David E. Price (NC-04), Ranking Member of the House Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (T-HUD) Appropriations Subcommittee, announced that the City of Fayetteville will receive a $10 million grant to expand the terminal building at Fayetteville Regional Airport. The grant will be provided by the Federal Aviation Administration’s Airport Improvement Program (AIP), which is funded by the Airport and Airway Trust Fund as part of the annual T-HUD Appropriations bill. The AIP program helps eligible airports pay for improvements to enhance airport safety, capacity, and security or mitigate environmental and noise concerns. “I am thrilled that the City of Fayetteville has received this grant,” said Congressman Price. “As Cumberland County and the Fayetteville area continues to grow and evolve, we must ensure that its residents and businesses have access to affordable and convenient aviation travel options.”“The Fayetteville Regional Airport and Airport Commission are very excited to be awarded $10 million in 2016 from the FAA’s designated discretionary funding for non-hub airport terminals,” said Bradley S. Whited, Director of the Fayetteville Regional Airport. “This is the first year of a multi-year project that will transform our 47 year old airline terminal by updating the look and functionality to modern standards. This would not be possible if not for this dedicated funding and the FAA’s willingness to program Fayetteville Regional Airport for this award. Our goal is to improve the entire experience for our dedicated and loyal customers.”###
09.08.2016	Mr. Speaker, we often hear from our constituents who are frustrated by Congress’s failure to act on many of the most pressing issues facing our country. Seven weeks ago, as if we were determined to confirm this indictment, Congress adjourned for summer “recess” with a long list of critical unfinished business.We came nowhere near finishing our appropriations bills, leaving open the question whether we can even keep our government open past September 30th. We failed to pass the most rudimentary gun violence measures, leaving the tragedies of San Bernardino and Orlando unaddressed.And then there was Zika, perhaps the most incredible failure of all. With an epidemic bearing down on us, an epidemic with disastrous human consequences, but with a prescribed course of action that could do so much to prevent and mitigate the catastrophe – still, Congress refused to act.Now we are back in session, facing daily headlines about the dangers posed by Zika. The number of Zika travel-related cases in the continental US is increasing, the number of pregnant women infected with Zika is growing, and the number of babies being born (or worse, lost) with microcephaly or other Zika-related complications is rising. Increasing numbers of mosquito-borne cases have been reported in Puerto Rico and south Florida, and I learned this week that 5 service members and retirees from Fort Bragg, in North Carolina, are being treated for Zika. It has been more than six months since the President requested an emergency supplemental appropriation of $1.9 billion from Congress to fund Zika preparedness, response and prevention, as well as critical research. The request was carefully and comprehensively documented and justified.In the meantime, our local, state and federal public health agencies and authorities have continued to shift funds and reorder priorities in an attempt to get a handle on this public health emergency. Indeed, our own universities and other research institutions have been shifting money around for months, as I learned at a conference I helped organize in North Carolina on June 7th.Researchers testified there as to the great promise of the work they are doing, but also as to the great efforts they have been required to make, in the face of inadequate and uncertain funding, to ensure that the work continues. I left that conference impressed and encouraged by the work that was going on. I also left chagrined and angered at the way Congress –under Republican leadership, with no serious attempt at bipartisan cooperation – is letting these dedicated researchers and the entire country down.The House and Senate Republican conference report contains only $1.1 billion of the requested funds. But the larger problem is that it robs other critical public health priorities—notably Ebola, but also disaster preparedness—in order to satisfy Republican budget ideologues.Adding insult to injury, the Republican conference report also includes several misguided and dangerous policy riders. These poison pills would severely limit access to contraceptives in Puerto Rico, where thousands of cases of Zika virus have been recorded, would take yet another shot at Planned Parenthood, and would roll back certain clean water regulations, ostensibly to allow for the increased spraying of pesticides.I recently met with Director Anthony S. Fauci of the National Institute of Allergic and Infectious Diseases who explained the incredible lengths that NIH and CDC have gone to in order to protect the health of the American people. They have desperately cobbled together a budget, most recently taking money from vital research into cancer, Alzheimer’s, heart disease, and other diseases. Despite such extraordinary efforts, the CDC and NIH will run out of money after October 1st.Mr. Speaker, it is imperative that we honor the President’s request of $1.9 billion in a bill free of destructive offsets and ideological riders. It is crucial that Congress take action for the pregnant women in their first trimesters who are scared to leave their homes; for the children born with a range of disabilities of which microcephaly is only the worst; for the servicemen and women stationed across the globe, who are at particular risk; and for the 25 percent of Puerto Rico’s population who will potentially contract this disease. We can and we must, as a country, do better than this. Let’s do the right thing for our constituents, our country, and the rest of the world by finally funding this public health emergency. We have long since run out of excuses. We can wait no longer.
08.17.2016	Chapel Hill, NC– Today, Congressman David E. Price (NC-04), the former Chairman and current senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded a $295,298 Fire Prevention and Safety Grant (FP&S) to the North Carolina Jaycee Burn Center in the UNC School of Medicine’s Surgery Department. This funding, which is administered under the FEMA Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, will be used to educate lower-income North Carolinians about fire safety and train first responders in burn treatment.“I am thrilled that the Jaycee Burn Center has received this funding, which will help prevent dangerous house fires and ensure that first responders have the resources and training they need to effectively treat burn victims,” said Congressman Price. “The research conducted by the Jaycee Center – especially their work with low-income and other vulnerable populations – provides a great public health service to our state’s residents and can save lives.”“As Chair of a leading public academic department of surgery, I could not be more proud of the work of our people in the Burn Center,” said Dr. Melina Kibbe, MD, FACS, FAHA, Chair of the UNC Medical Center’s Department of Surgery. “Burn prevention and education remains a critically important issue for our state and the nation and so I am very grateful and appreciative for this recognition and grant award from FEMA.”The North Carolina Jaycee Burn Center at UNC Health Care is the nation’s leading center for burn research. The research funded by the FEMA grant will focus on identifying at-risk populations who could benefit from fire safety education and early warning devices and conducting first responder trainings to improve pre-hospital treatment of burn victims.This research will be directed by Dr. Bruce Cairns, MD, Medical Director, and Mr. Ernest Grant, PhD, RN, FAAN, Director of Burn Outreach. Dr. Cairns also serves as Chair of the UNC-Chapel Hill Faculty.###
08.04.2016	Washington, DC – This week, President Obama signed into law a provision authored by Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) and sponsored by Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) that modernizes the outdated formula used to distribute funds for the Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS (HOPWA) program. HOPWA provides grants to states, municipalities, and non-profit organizations that offer affordable housing and supportive services for low-income Americans with HIV and AIDS. The only federal program dedicated to this purpose, HOPWA previously used a funding formula based on the cumulative number of AIDS cases in states and municipalities since the beginning of the AIDS epidemic. As a result, more than 50 percent of the people counted in the HOPWA formula last year were deceased. The Price provision modernizes the funding formula to count only living cases of HIV and AIDS and incorporates housing cost and poverty factors, ensuring the program can distribute resources equitably to communities where the need for support is most acute, including several jurisdictions in North Carolina.“I have been advocating for a HOPWA formula change for many years, and I am thrilled that President Obama has signed this common-sense provision into law,” said Congressman Price. “With a modernized formula, we can help ensure that communities bearing the brunt of the current HIV/AIDS epidemic have the resources they need to ensure vulnerable residents battling this disease can lead healthier, more fulfilling lives.”Rep. Price successfully offered the HOPWA formula modernization provision on the House floor in February as an amendment to H.R. 3700, the Housing Opportunities Through Modernization Act. Last month, the Senate passed H.R. 3700 by unanimous consent and the President subsequently signed the measure into law (P.L. 114-201). The formula change has been endorsed by national advocacy organizations, including the National AIDS Housing Coalition, AIDS United, the National Low Income Housing Coalition, and the AIDS Institute.###
07.29.2016	Raleigh, NC –Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement praising today’s federal appeals court decision striking down North Carolina’s Voter ID, same-day registration, and early voting restrictions.“The most basic principle of our participatory democracy is that all Americans have the right to cast a vote. The North Carolina General Assembly and Governor McCrory violated that principle by enacting discriminatory voting restrictions; in doing so, they disregarded the hard lessons that our country learned in the long struggle for voting equality and civil rights. I am pleased today’s decision reverses this shameful legislation and restores the unimpeded right to vote for all North Carolinians.”###
07.18.2016	Washington, DC -- Today, Congressman David Price (NC-04), Congresswoman Alma Adams (NC-12), and Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) sent a letter urging the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to reject the McCrory administration’s request to reorganize and partially privatize North Carolina’s Medicaid program. The State of North Carolina’s request, known as a Section 1115 Demonstration waiver, would replacethe award-winning Community Care of North Carolina (CCNC) program with a complex and unproven model that could disrupt established provider networks, diminish access to care, and degrade health outcomes for North Carolina’s Medicaid population.While requesting a complete overhaul ofthe successful Medicaid program, Governor McCrory and General Assembly leaders continue to reject expanding Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act,despite the fact that the federal government would cover nearly all of the costs of expansion. Studies have shown that expanding Medicaid could provide improved quality of care for as many as half a million North Carolinians, save the state some $300 million over the next three years, and create thousands of jobs statewide. “Governor McCrory’s proposed Medicaid scheme would significantly weaken and privatize portions of the existing program, which has been a national model for success and cost-efficiency,” saidCongressman Price. “Some states that have implemented models similar to the proposal have faced significant cost overruns and dissatisfaction from providers. If Republican leaders really want to improve health care in our state, they should put political considerations aside and accept the Affordable Care Act’s generous Medicaid expansion funding.”“The proposal to change the Community Care of North Carolina (CCNC) program is a rushed and partisan decision,” said Congresswoman Adams. “Governor McCrory and the General Assembly have ignored the success of the Affordable Care Act and the need for Medicaid Expansion in the State of North Carolina. An overhaul of state’s current CCNC program without public input, or consideration of other state’s best practices, could result in the loss of thousands of potential new jobs and leave over 500,000 residents without health care coverage. We are looking to provide critical access to health care and create jobs for North Carolinians — not the reverse.”“The working families of North Carolina deserve access to quality and affordable healthcare,” said Congressman Butterfield. “Unfortunately, Governor McCrory’s proposal would provide the exact opposite, by creating a complex, convoluted, and unproven system that would weaken access to coverage. Even more troubling is Governor McCrory’s refusal to build on the state’s current Medicaid system that already has a proven record of excellence in caring for North Carolinians. It is clear that the plot to replace North Carolina’s current Medicaid system is purely political and not in the best interest of our families.”The State of North Carolina’s waiver request was submitted on June 1 and is subject to a public comment period through July 20, 2016. CMS officials will work with the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services in the coming months to determine whether to approve the waiver. A copy of the letter can be found here.###
07.14.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman David Price (NC-04) gave the following remarks on the one-year anniversary of the Iran nuclear agreement, the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). House Republicans took votes this week on the latest in a series of bills designed to undermine the deal.Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this and the other two bills before the House this week regarding Iran—all of which weaken our national security and our international standing, and all of which the President has rightly threatened to veto.If there is a silver lining to this debate, it is that the majority has given us an opportunity to acknowledge the one-year anniversary of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, which has made the world safer by severely constraining Iran’s nuclear activities and subjecting them to unprecedented international oversight.Yet instead of celebrating this landmark achievement, the majority is seeking to undo it. H.R. 5119, H.R. 4992, and H.R. 5631 collectively would deny Iran even limited access to foreign investment and other meaningful incentives that encourage compliance with the JCPOA.These are just the latest in a series of Republican efforts to undermine this historic nuclear agreement negotiated with the world’s major powers. Since the deal was finalized, Republicans have tried again and again to undermine not just the JCPOA but also the credibility of the President of the United States on the international stage.It appears the Iran nuclear agreement has become the “Obamacare” of foreign policy. Republicans repeatedly proclaim it a failure, despite its objective success. They call for its immediate repeal without offering any viable alternative, despite the potentially disastrous consequences of such action. And they continue to clutter the congressional calendar with so-called message votes – instead of addressing issues facing our nation.These legislative antics continue even though opponents of the JCPOA know full well that strong sanctions on Iran remain in place targeting the country’s human rights violations, ballistic missile development, and support of terrorism. The bill before us, H.R. 5631, would impose additional, mandatory sanctions on the Iranian regime for these same violations.There is no one in this chamber about to let Iran off the hook for its egregious human rights violations or its proliferation of terrorism and ballistic missile technology. And our Republican friends know full well that should a violation of the JCPOA occur, we can put sanctions like these in place immediately. So why are we doing this bill now?Must we conclude that our colleagues are more interested in unraveling one of President Obama’s signature accomplishments than they are with the facts of the matter? Let’s take a look at the facts:Because of this agreement, an Iranian nuclear weapon is not an imminent threat to the United States or our allies, including Israel. Because of the agreement, the breakout time for Iran to develop enough weapons-grade material for a nuclear weapon went from two or three months to a year or more; the international community has 24/7 access to Iran’s critical nuclear sites; and we possess an enforcement mechanism to verify Iran’s compliance. By all objective accounts, Iran has upheld its end of the bargain, and it is vital that we uphold our end.This isn’t just my opinion: this week, a bipartisan group of more than 75 national security experts sent a letter to President Obama stating that “Iran has remained in compliance with its commitments” and “all pathways to an Iranian nuclear weapon have been blocked.” I ask that this letter be included in the Congressional Record in its entirety.This agreement is too important, and the stakes are too high, to treat the issue as another political football. The safety and security of the United States, of Israel, and of the region depend on the successful implementation and diligent enforcement of the JCPOA. Instead of scoring political points, or seeking to deny the President a significant foreign policy achievement, we should be working together in a bipartisan manner to ensure the agreement’s success. We should be working together to explore ways to enhance coordination and cooperation with Israel and the international community to address unacceptable Iranian behavior, such as support for Hezbollah and abuse of human rights. And yet we find ourselves here, one year after the agreement’s announcement, still dealing with “Obamacare”-style gamesmanship. It is beneath this institution, and the world is watching. We may think a bill that has no chance of being signed into law doesn’t matter, but to the leaders of China, or Russia, or Iran, it sends a signal of hesitation and disunity.I urge my colleagues to oppose this bill, and the bills that will come before us tomorrow, and to focus instead on ensuring the success of the JCPOA and reinforcing the agreement’s role in making the world a safer place.
07.14.2016	Washington, DC – During last night’s floor debate on the Fiscal Year 2017 Interior Appropriations bill, Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) gave the following remarks in support of a bipartisan amendment that would have prohibited seismic testing in the Atlantic. The amendment failed 192-236.“Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this common-sense, bipartisan amendment to prohibit seismic testing in the Atlantic, which I have cosponsored along with my colleagues from New Jersey, Maryland, Virginia, and South Carolina.“After taking into account the overwhelming opposition to offshore drilling in the Atlantic, including in my home state of North Carolina, the Obama Administration wisely removed the prospect of drilling from its five-year Oil and Gas Leasing program for the Atlantic Outer Continental Shelf.“Now that there are no foreseeable plans to drill among the dynamic ecosystems and pristine beaches of the Atlantic coast, we should move immediately to prevent seismic testing and other geological and geophysical activities.“Not only are these activities unnecessary in light of the Administration’s decision; they also pose a significant environmental threat in their own right.“Seismic testing is hugely disruptive to marine ecosystems. Its negative impacts include displacing fish over large geographical areas, reducing catch rates for commercial fishermen, and impacting the reproduction, foraging, communication, and other vital behaviors of marine mammals—including the North Atlantic right whale, one of the most endangered whales on the planet.“Further, the data generated from seismic testing is proprietary, and therefore unavailable to the public or policymakers who might rely on it to inform public policy, planning, or debate regarding the economic and environmental impact of offshore energy exploration.“Instead of allowing oil and gas companies to conduct an unnecessary and ecologically damaging activity just miles from our nation’s coastline, we should be investing our time and money in advancing energy efficiency, renewable fuels, and alternative energy technologies—including offshore wind development to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels.“I urge the adoption of this amendment.”###
07.07.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman David E. Price (NC-04), Vice Chair of the House Democrats’ Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, gave the following remarks on the House floor calling for action on meaningful legislation to prevent gun violence.I rise today as a Vice Chair of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force and in solidarity with the majority of Americans who are demanding that Congress take meaningful action to prevent gun violence.We all know the statistics. Whether it’s through mass shootings that make the headlines, or the unseen violence that happens daily in our districts, gun violence takes the lives of more than 30,000 of our nation’s citizens each year, a number that far exceeds other industrial nations. All have their share of violent extremists and madmen, but none have our easy access to weapons of mass killing. And that makes all the difference for America.Rather than seeking out common-sense solutions to address this crisis, the Republican majority continues to cower to the gun lobby and firearms manufacturers. They plead the Second Amendment, but Constitutional Law 101 would tell us that all of our rights, including freedom of speech and religion, must be balanced with the protection of innocent third parties and the safety of the wider community.One common-sense measure we should all agree on is background checks to keep guns out of the hands of criminals, domestic abusers, and the dangerously mentally ill. Your freedom of speech doesn’t allow you to shout “fire” in a crowded theater, and neither ought you be able to buy a weapon if you have a history of violence and criminality. In fact, almost 90 percent of Americans—including the majority of gun owners—support universal background checks for all gun purchases.The problem is that our current background check system is rife with loopholes. Background checks are not required for private sales at gun shows. They are also not required when individuals purchase weapons online.Bipartisan legislation (H.R. 1217) has been introduced by Reps. Peter King of New York and Mike Thompson of California that would finally close these egregious loopholes. This represents an entirely sensible reform that would have a measurable impact on the safety of our schools, homes, and neighborhoods—without preventing law-abiding citizens from using guns for self-defense or recreational purposes.Despite attracting 186 cosponsors, including several Republicans, the background check legislation has never been brought to the floor, or even received a hearing in Committee. It’s been languishing for more than 15 months! Meanwhile, the shootings and suicides and massacres continue to accumulate. We must do better. Our fellow citizens are totally fed up, both with the unspeakable killing and suffering and with a feckless Congress that hasn’t lifted a finger to prevent it.This week, after intense public criticism and a historic protest by Democrats on the House floor, Republicans seemed willing to hold a vote on legislation they claim would prevent suspected terrorists from purchasing firearms. After all, nearly 2,500 individuals on the terror watch list have successfully purchased weapons since 2004, according to the Government Accountability Office.But rather than embrace existing bipartisan legislation to actually fix the problem, Republicans put forward a woefully inadequate proposal that would require law enforcement and the courts to grapple with an unworkable process, with unreachable standards, to be completed in an unreasonably short period of time.Their bill would allow suspected terrorists to receive firearms by default, after only three days, if the court is unable to work through a complicated process —the same flaw that allowed the white supremacist Charleston shooter to obtain the weapon that he used to murder nine people at Emanuel AME Church.In other words, the bill is totally inadequate, and now, under pressure from their most extreme members, Republican leaders have failed to put even this bill forward.What we should be voting on is bipartisan legislation, H.R. 1076, that would permit the Attorney General to immediately block gun sales to suspected terrorists. This legislation, based on a proposal from the Bush Justice Department, would still allow individuals to challenge the government in court to restore their gun ownership rights. We don’t have to choose between protecting our communities and respecting due process.And so we ask our colleagues, how much longer must we wait? How many more people must die to move us to act? How many more American towns and cities must be added to the constantly growing list of places like Orlando, and Columbine, and Aurora, and Charleston, and Newtown?Moments of silence are not enough. Our thoughts and prayers are not enough. In fact, the scriptures teach that such pieties give grave offense when they mask a refusal to do what we know to be right.We need action, and I call on my colleagues to bring these common-sense proposals to the floor for a vote!###
06.22.2016	Congressman David E. Price (NC-04), the senior Democratic member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development, gave the following remarks in support of an Appropriations Committee amendment that would have prohibited suspected terrorists from purchasing firearms.“Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of the Lowey amendment, which would take the common-sense step of taking guns out of the hands of terrorists – closing the ‘terror gap.’“I also acknowledge that the Committee has rejected similar efforts previously. But we all know that this time is different.“The lives of 49 families have been changed forever. 49 families devastated by the loss of their loved ones in the most deadly mass shooting in the history of our nation.“A deranged and self-proclaimed ISIS sympathizer, someone the FBI had interviewed and monitored before, LEGALLY got his hands on the type of weapons no one outside the military should have access to – let alone a potential terrorist.“Now we’ve heard a lot of political talk about the terminology the President uses when discussing the threats we face.“We hear a lot of incendiary and inaccurate statements about a religion with more than 1 billion worldwide followers.“What we don’t hear are reasonable solutions from the majority to the threats we face as a nation from those who are intent on manipulating loopholes in our laws to kill innocent Americans.“Well, now you have one before you.“Some will plead the Second Amendment, but this amendment does not threaten the Second Amendment, no matter how you interpret it.“Your freedom of speech does not give you the right to yell “fire” in a crowded theater. Your freedom of religion does not give you the right to subject your children to dangerous practices.“And nothing in the Second Amendment says we cannot protect our communities, keeping weapons out of the hands of those who have vowed to destroy us.“So I rise in support of this amendment as a means of honoring the 49 innocent individuals taken from us too soon and as a means of preventing further massacres.“I rise in support of this amendment for Shane Tomlinson, a native of Ms. Lowey’s district and proud graduate of East Carolina University, who was senselessly gunned down in this PREVENTABLE massacre.“I rise in support of this amendment for Tevin Crosby, a native of Statesville, North Carolina whose life was taken too soon because THIS CONGRESS refused to act to protect the American people.“I rise in support of this amendment for Eddie Justice, a 30 year old accountant, who texted with his mother for what must’ve been the most terrifying 44 minutes any parent could possibly endure.· 2.06AM: “Mommy I love you,” “In club,” “They shooting.”· 2.07AM: “Trapp in bathroom,” “Pulse downtown. Call police.”· 2.09AM: “I’m gonna die.”· 2.39AM: “He’s coming. I’m gonna die.”· 2.40AM: “Still here in the bathroom. He has us. They need to come get us.”“How can anyone hear those texts from a terrified son and still not be compelled to act? How can we continue to harden our hearts?”
06.16.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman David Price (NC-04) introduced the We the People Act, comprehensive legislation designed to strengthen and modernize our nation's campaign finance system. The bill would implement new disclosure and transparency requirements designed to decrease the influence of outside money in politics, to limit the influence of Super PAC special interest organizations, to strengthen the Federal Elections Commission, and to reduce conflicts of interest between regulatory employees and the financial services industry."Since the Citizens United decision, billions of dollars in outside money has flooded our political system with extremely limited oversight," said Congressman Price. "We must take action to take our politics back from the special interests and to limit the influence of unregulated Super PACs. The We the People Act is designed to give our democracy back to the voters."Congressman Price was the original author of the 2002 Stand By Your Ad law, which requires candidates to take responsibility for their advertisements on television and radio. The We the People Act includes provisions updating the Stand By Your Ad disclosure requirements to cover new forms of paid political advocacy, including online advertisements and robocalls, and to require SuperPACs to disclose their funding sources.Specifically, the We the People Act would:· Require mandatory disclosure of special interest donations to SuperPACs and other “independent” political groups· Require SuperPACs to be truly “independent,” forbidding them from coordinating with campaigns· Require real time reporting of major campaign contributions for federal candidates· Reform and strengthen the Federal Election Commission· Apply Stand By Your Ad disclosure requirements to SuperPAC-funded advertising and to online political communications and robocalls· Reduce conflicts of interest for people moving between employment in the financial services sector and regulatory agenciesSimilar legislation has been introduced in the Senate by Senator Tom Udall (D-NM).###
06.08.2016	Washington, DC – This week, a bipartisan group of 146 Members of Congress, led by Congressman David E. Price (NC-04), called on Speaker Paul Ryan and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to lift the de-facto ban on federal gun violence research. Appropriations amendments first adopted in the 1990s currently prevent the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and other federal agencies under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services from conducting research into the public health impact of gun violence, which kills approximately 32,000 Americans each year. The letterurged Speaker Ryan and Leader Pelosi to direct Appropriators not to include these provisions in this fiscal year’s funding legislation.“These deeply misguided appropriations provisions and their chilling effect on research means that we do not have adequate data to assess the causes and impact of gun violence,” said Congressman David E. Price (NC-04), who led the effort. “This is a critical public health priority, and we are preventing the research community from providing lawmakers the support we need to implement effective policies to address it. Surely we can all agree that there is no harm in learning more about how to stop gun violence.”“It is unconscionable to continue to tie the hands of researchers who could help find solutions to end the 32,000 gun deaths every year,” said Ranking Member Nita Lowey (NY-17) of the House Appropriations Committee. “As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will fight to remove the senseless restriction on research so we can save lives and end this public health emergency.”“Knowledge is power. And when we’re dealing with a gun violence problem of epidemic proportions, we need every tool at our disposal,” said Congresswoman Robin Kelly (IL-02). “The only way we can craft meaningful legislation to combat gun violence is to have a full and accurate assessment of the impact of gun violence on our communities, our public health and on our economic future. Lifting the ban on federal gun violence research is a crucial step in stemming senseless gun violence and making our country safer.”“Every year, gun violence kills more than 32,000 people in the United States, tearing apart families and communities. We must end the federal ban on gun violence research that is stopping us from studying how we can help stop gun violence and save lives,” said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03). “Even Jay Dickey – the former Republican Congressman who led efforts to ban federal research – agrees, ‘Doing nothing is no longer an acceptable solution.’ Now is the time for Congress to act.”“Our nation is facing an epidemic of gun violence, where nearly 90 people die every day from guns. These repeated tragedies beg many questions. But because the federal government has prohibited funding for research aimed at reducing gun violence for two decades, the answers do not exist. By limiting our knowledge, we prevent ourselves from protecting our citizens,” said Congressman Mike Quigley (IL-05), a member of the House Appropriations Committee. “If my colleagues are serious about keeping guns out of the hands of criminals and the mentally ill, they must allow the CDC to research the problem. It’s time to stop listening to the gun lobby and start listening to the American people.”The Fiscal Year 2017 Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations bill, which includes the gun violence research ban, has yet to be considered by the House Appropriations Committee. The full text of the letter is available here.###
05.26.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman David Price (D-N.C.) and Congressman Darell Issa (R-Calif.) introduced a bill to provide accountability for American contractors and government employees working abroad. The Civilian Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act (CEJA) builds on efforts in previous Congresses to close a gap in current law to ensure that government employees and contractors working overseas are not immune from prosecution for criminal acts. The number of private contractors employed by the U.S. government overseas has increased dramatically in recent years, even surpassing the number of U.S. military and civilian personnel in some locations, particularly as the U.S. reduces its military footprint in Iraq and Afghanistan. While contractors are increasingly performing functions once reserved for government personnel, they are held to a different legal standard than uniformed personnel because the laws governing their activities remain unclear and outdated.The Civilian Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act will allow the U.S. Justice Department to prosecute government contractors and employees for certain crimes committed overseas. Tragedies like the 2007 killing of unarmed civilians in Baghdad by private security contractors with Blackwater underscore the need for clear jurisdiction and trained investigative and prosecutorial task forces able to hold wrongdoers accountable.“Contractors employed by our government must not be allowed to operate in an opaque, legal no-man’s land when they commit serious crimes abroad,” said Congressman Price. “The actions of our country’s employees must be subject to the rule of law. By holding contractors accountable, this legislation will strengthen our diplomatic relations, enhance our national security, and improve oversight and effectiveness of taxpayer-funded government contracts.“Contractors working for and representing the U.S. abroad should have to abide by U.S. law. It’s really that simple,” said Congressman Issa. “Unfortunately, when wrongdoing occurs, the current legal system leaves many civilian contractors in a legal gray zone where its not immediately apparent which jurisdiction, local or American, should be responsible for prosecution. The legislation sponsored today will help make it clear that when U.S. civilian contractors do something wrong, its the job of the U.S. Courts to hold them accountable. It’s an important protection that will help U.S. contractors avoid prosecution in unfair and unjust jurisdictions where the local legal system may not provide for the same level of due process while increasing accountability and ensuring our contractors abroad uphold the laws our country holds dear."The bill will complement the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act (MEJA), which provides similar criminal jurisdiction over Department of Defense employees and contractors but does not clearly apply to U.S. contractors working overseas for other federal agencies, such as the Department of State. The Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act was originally enacted in 2000, with additional improvements to the law secured in 2004. As the United States military withdraws from Iraq and Afghanistan, leaving behind thousands of civilian government employees and contractors, the broader jurisdictional scope of CEJA will become a critical accountability tool.The Civilian Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act will:Expand criminal jurisdiction over certain crimes committed by United States employees and contractors overseas;Direct the Justice Department to create new investigative task forces to investigate, arrest and prosecute contractors and employees who commit serious crimes overseas;Require the Attorney General to report annually to Congress about the offenses prosecuted under the statute and the use of new investigative resources.Allow the Justice Department to prosecute government contractors and employees for certain existing serious crimes without impacting the conduct of U.S. intelligence agencies abroad.
05.26.2016	“I am deeply saddened by the news of Howard Clement’s death. I have known and respected Howard since I returned to North Carolina in the 1970s, and I have been honored to work alongside him over the years to help build a better future for the City of Durham. Howard played a pivotal role in Durham’s rebirth as a thriving economic and cultural hub for central North Carolina, and the community has benefited greatly from his decades of leadership.”###
05.26.2016	“I am deeply saddened by the news of Howard Clement’s death. I have known and respected Howard since I returned to North Carolina in the 1970s, and I have been honored to work alongside him over the years to help build a better future for the City of Durham. Howard played a pivotal role in Durham’s rebirth as a thriving economic and cultural hub for central North Carolina, and the community has benefited greatly from his decades of leadership.”###
05.18.2016	Mr. Chairman, I want to begin by commending you for the open, collaborative, and bipartisan process you have led this spring, culminating with the fiscal year 2017 T-HUD bill before us. In your tenure as Chairman, you have continued to accommodate Subcommittee Members on both sides of the aisle, and it’s been a pleasure working with you again this year.As you have already stated, this year’s mark includes $58.19 billion for critical transportation, housing, and community development programs at DOT, HUD, and related agencies. This represents an increase over last year’s funding level and reflects a much more favorable allocation than when we started this process last year. Although I don’t agree with everything in this bill—particularly several problematic policy riders that I will seek to remove at full Committee—I’m supportive of the Chairman’s mark. In particular, I want to thank the Chairman for including $450 million for the TIGER program and $100 million for the Choice Neighborhoods Initiative. Both programs remain critical in our efforts to improve and modernize our nation’s transportation and housing infrastructure, and I look forward to working with the Chairman as well as our Senate colleagues to ensure maximum funding for these programs as the process moves forward.I’d also like to highlight substantial increases in funding for several other important programs under our Subcommittee’s purview. First, the Federal Transit Administration’s Capital Investment Grants program would receive $323 million over last year’s funding level, allowing us to fund all existing grant agreements. Meanwhile, HUD’s Homeless Assistance Grants program would receive $237 million more than last year’s enacted level, which will provide a significant boost to local anti-homelessness efforts across the country. I’m glad the Chairman has identified these areas as significant priorities this year.The bill before us also provides notable funding increases for lead hazard prevention, housing counseling assistance, and consumer safety and recall activities at NHTSA. Further, the bill provides full funding for the FAA and ongoing NextGen implementation; it ensures that Amtrak is adequately funded; and it guarantees that all existing tenants in HUD-supported housing can continue to receive assistance. It’s true that many members on this side of the aisle, myself included, could point out additional areas of need. As I’ve said many times before, having a modest budget agreement that avoids the worst impacts of sequestration is better than the alternative, but it is not enough. We still have a massive public housing capital backlog, decaying highways and bridges, and congested roads and airports; we have not constructed new rental units for the elderly or the disabled, under sections 202 and 811, for several years; and we are still far short of the comprehensive neighborhood renovation HOPE VI used to make possible.We can never make the bold investments that are necessary to address these problems without a comprehensive, bipartisan budget deal to address the main drivers of our deficits—namely, tax expenditures and mandatory programs. The scope of this problem is much bigger than this Subcommittee or the full Appropriations Committee.Given the fiscal constraints we are under, it’s a welcome development that this bill not only maintains core programs at both DOT and HUD, but also provides targeted funding increases for a number of important programs. The Chairman has made reasonable efforts to accommodate Democratic priorities, and I look forward to working closely with him as the process moves forward. Aside from certain policy riders, I’m pleased to support this bill and hope that my colleagues will do the same. Thank you, and I yield back.
05.09.2016	“The U.S. Department of Justice (DoJ) has acted within its clear authority, as granted by Congress, to enforce the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Governor McCrory’s criticism of DoJ and his call for congressional action is a misguided attempt to deflect blame for actions that have deeply damaged North Carolina’s reputation and threatened billions of dollars of annual federal funding. H.B. 2 is a state law, passed by the General Assembly and signed by Governor McCrory, and the state bears responsibility for reversing its discriminatory provisions.”
04.21.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman David Price (NC-04), Congresswoman Alma Adams (NC-12), and Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) sent a letter to Governor McCrory and Republican leaders of the North Carolina General Assembly calling for the immediate repeal of H.B. 2. This legislation, which Governor McCrory signed into law last month, strips LGBT individuals of nondiscrimination protections, bars North Carolinians from filing discrimination suits in state court, and prohibits municipal and county governments from passing local nondiscrimination and minimum wage ordinances.North Carolina has faced substantial backlash over the law, which threatens millions of dollars in travel revenue and major corporate investment in new jobs and facilities throughout the state.Price, Adams, and Butterfield, the Democratic Members of North Carolina's congressional delegation, expressed particular concern over potential federal funding implications. The Obama administration has indicated that it is reviewing whether H.B. 2 violates federal nondiscrimination provisions, putting at risk billions of dollars in federal aid to North Carolina.###
04.14.2016	Good afternoon Chairman Sessions, Chairman Stivers, Ranking Member Slaughter, and other Members of the Committee. Thank you for inviting me to testify this morning in opposition to the proposals to change House Rule XXI offered by Mr. McClintock and Mr. Griffith. While I am here primarily as a representative of the House Appropriations Committee minority, it is fair to say that the concerns I will raise are shared by many appropriators in both parties.I want to begin, however, by acknowledging something on which I think we can all agree: in recent years, the congressional budget and appropriations process has broken down to the point of dysfunction. Budget resolutions are adopted late or not at all; appropriations bills are stitched together into omnibuses, usually after a series of continuing resolutions, necessary to avoid a government shutdown; and, as the authors of these proposals highlight, far too many federal agencies and programs languish without proper congressional authorization.In this context, it is understandable that that the idea of radical reforms to the House Appropriations process would hold some appeal for Members in search of solutions to our current woes. But this is truly a case in which the proposed remedy would be worse than the disease.The rule changes before us today would weaken Congress’s power of the purse by undermining its authority to enact mandatory spending and by prohibiting appropriations for programs that, for whatever reasons, are unauthorized.They would further politicize and immobilize the once-bipartisan appropriations process by opening the floodgates to mandatory spending changes in the annual appropriations process.And to top it off, they would punish federal employees for carrying out directives under the law.In short, the changes would only exacerbate our current dysfunction, not relieve it.The set of rules comprising House Rule XXI predates the states of Florida, California, and Texas joining the Union. They’ve survived the Civil War, the abolition of slavery, two world wars, the new deal, and the great society. They most certainly predate the current dysfunction in Congress, which is presumably the problem the proposals before us attempts to address. Of course, long-standing rules do not automatically have merit. However, in this case, time has proven the 25th Congress correct in separating the appropriations process from the authorizing process through rule XXI to “prevent delay of appropriation bills because of contention over propositions of legislation.”Nothing in rule XXI has prevented us from enacting balanced budgets over the past 179 years. Instead, such failure is has resulted from an unwillingness to compromise on revenues and expenditures. Many of us in the room today were here for the multi-year budget agreements in 1990, 1993, and 1997, which, coupled with a growing economy, produced several years of balanced budgets and allowed us to pay down more than $400 billion of the national debt. I would contend the consequences of the George W. Bush Administration’s fiscal policies—which plunged us back into deficit financing through trillions of dollars in lost tax revenue, and two unpaid-for wars, - plus the necessary, but expensive countercyclical response to the Great Recession, have contributed to the past five years of extremely partisan and largely dysfunctional congressional budgetary politics. The members offering the proposals before us today are attempting to scapegoat House Rule XXI for the problems of partisan dysfunction, driven largely by right-wing budgetary ideology. They are trying to change House Rules in order enact longtime right-wing priorities that are too politically unpopular to pass through regular order; namely cuts to America’s safety net.I want to focus on the major changes proposed by the McClintock and Griffith amendments to rule XXI. Both would affect the authorizing and appropriations processes in significant ways, to the detriment of both. As I mentioned earlier, Rule XXI was set up by the 25th Congress to avoid the delay of appropriations because of conflicts and debates inherent to the establishment of new policy unrelated to the annual budget. The proposal before you today offered by Mr. McClintock would, among other changes, enable a point of order against unauthorized appropriations and allow reductions in mandatory spending to be enacted through appropriations bills.Let me start with the first. Ostensibly, the provision aimed at unauthorized appropriations is put forth as a way to force Congress, under threat of shutdown, to review unauthorized programs. Let me be clear: the solution to the problem of unauthorized appropriations is for the authorizing committees to do their job and reauthorize or eliminate unauthorized programs. To hold annual appropriations legislation – must-pass legislation that funds critical authorized and unauthorized government functions - hostage to the inaction of the authorizing committees would only serve to create even more brinksmanship and manufactured crises.What are the practical implications of this measure? Proponents of this change cite CBO estimates that in Fiscal Year 2016, Congress appropriated approximately $310 billion in funding, approximately one-third of the budget, for programs operating under expired authorizations as evidence that rule XXI needs reform. What that number highlights is the breakdown of the authorization process, but it’s certainly not an indictment of the appropriations process or evidence that most unauthorized programs lack broad, bipartisan or bicameral support. To eliminate such funding through a point of order on the House floor would force such entities as the National Institutes of Health, National Weather Service, and NASA to shut down immediately, pending action of the authorizing committees. Further, a number of agencies and programs critical to our national security would be forced to put up a “closed” sign – namely, the U.S. Coast Guard, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), the Federal Prison System, the Secret Service, Customs and Border Protection (CBP), along with federal grants to state and local law enforcement agencies. We would also have to close a little known and rarely discussed agency known as the U.S. State Department.Adopting this proposed rule change would require us to shut down each of these core government functions, and more, unless the authorizing committees acted to reauthorize every aspect of these departments or agencies, a process itself fraught with longstanding partisan divisions unrelated to funding. It is a recipe for chaos and a threat to our national security. We regularly pass the defense authorization act after the DOD appropriations bill. The proposal before us would jeopardize our national defense by tying critical annual funding to the NDAA process. Further, if a member wants to eliminate an unauthorized program or department, like the Department of State, for example, they are welcome to introduce an amendment on the House floor doing so and put it to a vote. There is nothing stopping a member from coming to the floor during debate on an Appropriations bill to attempt to strip out funding for a program or agency in that bill.As a senior appropriator, I am naturally sensitive to major changes in the appropriations process. But the annual work of appropriations serves the entire institution and its place in the constitutional balance of power, regardless of who is President. That is why appropriations has historically been relatively bipartisan, and it is why the Congress’s place in the constitutional order is compromised to the extent appropriations is swamped by partisan maneuvers—whether they be poison-pill riders, ideological budget resolutions, or politically divisive cuts to unauthorized programs or entitlements that distract from the work of crafting workable annual funding billsNow, let me take a moment to address the proposal before us to allow reductions in mandatory spending in appropriations bills. It should be clear to all political observers that conservative Republicans are pushing this proposal as a means of catering to their most right-wing supporters who are unrelenting in their desire to slash entitlements and savage our nation’s social safety net. This effort isn’t rooted in any new ideas: we’ve seen numerous Ryan Budgets that voucherize Medicare, block-grant Medicaid, and slash nutrition assistance to low-income Americans. And we remember President George W. Bush’s efforts to partially privatize Social Security. This is just another effort to placate the most conservative elements of the Republican Party.I want to be clear, there is nothing wrong with scrutinizing our fiscal situation, reviewing spending and tax expenditures, including appropriated and mandatory spending. In fact, it is our basic responsibility. All elements of the federal budget should be considered as part of a comprehensive budget deal – BUT we should not simply single out entitlements, much less use them to gum up appropriations bills. Today’s effort has more to do with conservative than any clear-eyed and balanced approach to budgeting.The only thing currently preventing Congress from reducing or increasing mandatory spending is political will. Any one of the authorizing committees that meet down the hall could gavel into session today and report a bill with changes to entitlement programs. The reason they will not is not because of Rule XXI, but because Members of Congress lack the courage to compromise on long-term spending priorities.This rule change will not solve that problem; it would only raise the stakes of partisan impasse by attaching such debate to legislation needed to prevent a shut down. Mandatory spending programs such as Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, veterans’ benefits, federal employee retirement and disability, and food and income security programs are a lifeline for millions of American families, many of whom have earned their benefits through years of paying into these programs and through federal service. When Congress originally created these retirement and social safety net programs, it explicitly decided that beneficiaries should not be subject to the vagaries of the annual appropriations process.Further, this provision is biased in favor of reducing mandatory, or entitlement spending, allowing only reductions in such spending, not increases, to be included in Appropriations legislation. Why should we tie the hands of future Congresses to increase entitlement spending on behalf of the American people? After all, entitlement programs exist to provide for the most vulnerable members of society. This rule jeopardizes long-term and future assistance for the poor and elderly by favoring cuts over increases or even minor adjustments, and tying long-term and sensitive entitlement funding like Medicare to the annual budgets of agencies like the Departments of Education and Labor. To put it plainly – if the majority wants to cut entitlements, they should put a bill on the floor and hold a straight up or down vote. Everyone in this room knows such an effort would fail because it would be at odds with the will of the overwhelming majority of the American public. Instead of honoring the public’s preference in a straightforward manner, we are instead, entertaining an effort to end-run the House budget process through a rules gimmick. It’s as if the conservative wing of the majority is admitting they can’t win the debate straight up, so they now want to change the rules of the game. It’s no wonder our politics are filled with cynicism.It’s clear the existing congressional budget process has broken down. We’ve passed ideological and unrealistic budget resolutions that make passing appropriations bills nearly impossible. The proposed changes before us today would fix none of this and only make it worse. We must muster the political will to make difficult and politically costly decisions, including a comprehensive budget plan that addresses the main drivers of our deficits and debt: tax expenditures and entitlement spending. I urge my colleagues to reject the proposed changes to Rule XXI and redouble their efforts to address the underlying causes of our long-term fiscal challenges.
03.31.2016	I join many of North Carolina’s families, business owners, faith leaders, and advocates for equality in strongly condemning this deeply-misguided and discriminatory law. For decades, North Carolinians have worked hard to learn the difficult lessons of the past, to recognize the common bonds we share with all of our neighbors, and to build a state that makes us proud. Since 2010, Governor McCrory and Republicans in the General Assembly have managed to undo this progress and to turn us into a national embarrassment.
03.22.2016	“I was honored to join President Obama and several of my congressional colleagues for this historic visit to Cuba. After 57 years of mutual distrust and an ever-widening economic and cultural divide between Cuba and the United States, the remarkable diplomatic progress made by the President, Secretary Kerry, and other American officials over the past several months gives our two countries the chance of a new beginning. As President Obama made clear in his address today, the Cuban government must still be held to account for its gross human rights and political abuses, and we have a long way to go before relations are normalized. But I strongly believe that diplomatic engagement and inclusion in the international community will greatly benefit the Cuban people, who have suffered through generations of isolation.”
03.16.2016	Washington, DC –Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement responding to President Obama’s nomination of Judge Merrick Garland to the Supreme Court.“I applaud President Obama’s nomination of Judge Merrick Garland, an eminently well-qualified candidate, for the Supreme Court. The President has fulfilled his constitutional duty, and the Senate must now do the same.”###
03.15.2016	Washington, DC –Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement in response to the Obama Administration’s announcement that it will not pursue offshore drilling in the mid-Atlantic region, which includes North Carolina.“I am very pleased that the Obama Administration has removed the mid-Atlantic from its offshore drilling plan, heeding the calls that I and thousands of North Carolinians have made to abandon its ill-advised proposal. Today’s announcement is a victory for North Carolina’s economy, environment, and quality of life, especially in our coastal communities. The message should be clear -- as we work to build a more secure energy future, we must carefully weigh the environmental risks and, beyond that, shift from fossil fuels to renewable sources that will drive economic growth and preserve our natural treasures for generations to come.”###
03.08.2016	Raleigh, NC – On Thursday, Congressman David E. Price (D-NC) will host his annual Grants Workshop for Fourth District residents and organizations interested in learning more about competitive grant opportunities. Representatives from federal agencies and the private sector will be on hand to offer information about the grant-making process and resources available to the non-profit community. Constituents will learn what makes an effective grant proposal, how to find funding opportunities, how to network and collaborate with other non-profits, and how to integrate technology and intellectual property into new or existing programs.The workshop will take place on Thursday, March 10, 2016 from 8:00 AM to 3:00 PM at Wake Tech Community College’s Perry Health Sciences Campus, 2901 Holston Lane, Building HS2, Raleigh, NC 27610. Interested constituents and organizations can register online here. The event is open press, but members of the media are asked to contact Lawrence Kluttz at 202.225.1784 for more information.
02.23.2016	Washington, DC –Congressman David E. Price (D-NC) announced that he will continue to accept requests for Appropriations funding and bill language on his website through Tuesday, March 1.As a member of the Appropriations Committee, Congressman Price is able to advocate for federal programs and initiatives that benefit North Carolina's Fourth Congressional District. Although Members of Congress can no longer secure funding designated to a specific local project or organization, Members can still advocate for the annual budgets of agencies, programs, or activities of importance to constituents. Congressman Price can also request appropriations language that encourages an agency to take certain actions, such as considering a new technology or reporting to Congress on a policy issue.Interested Fourth District organizations can learn more and submit a request on Congressman Price’s website.
02.17.2016	Washington, DC –Congressman David E. Price (D-NC) released the following statement about the proposed congressional districts drawn by North Carolina General Assembly’s Joint Select Committee on Congressional Redistricting.“The new districts are no more legitimate than the old. A three-ten split in the House delegation does not reflect the current demographics or voter registration of our state, where more than 50 percent of the popular vote for House seats went to Democrats in the last presidential cycle. The fact that Republicans decided to maintain the current partisan split of seats before they began drawing these new maps demonstrates that they did not set out to ensure fair representation.”###
02.11.2016	“I find incredible suggestions by House Republicans that they will defy decades of precedent and refuse to hold a hearing on President Obama’s final budget request. Disagreements about policy priorities are part of the political process, but refusing to even engage with the Administration significantly limits Congress’s ability to effectively fund the federal government.“President Obama’s request calls on Congress to make the investments a great country must make and lays out a comprehensive blueprint to reduce our long-term deficits. The proposal includes robust funding for urgent needs, such as rebuilding our crumbling transportation infrastructure and stopping the spread of the Zika virus epidemic; it also increases support for forward-looking priorities, including science and technology research and initiatives to lift millions out of the crippling cycle of poverty.“This balanced proposal deserves the full consideration of the Congress, and I urge House Republicans to answer the Administration’s requests for a hearing.”
02.02.2016	Washington, DC – Today, a bipartisan amendment introduced by Congressman David E. Price (D-NC) and Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL) passed the House of Representatives during consideration of H.R. 3700. The Price-Aderholt amendment would update the outdated funding formula for the Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS (HOPWA) program, which provides affordable housing grants for Americans with HIV and AIDS, to better serve communities where the need for support is most acute. Research has shownthat the epicenter of the HIV/AIDS crisis has shifted to smaller cities and rural areas in states like North Carolina.The formula change has been endorsed by national AIDS advocacy organizations, including the National AIDS Housing Coalition, AIDS United, the National Low Income Housing Coalition, and the AIDS Institute.Congressman Price gave the following remarks in support of his amendment. “This bipartisan amendment would provide a long-overdue update to HUD’s statutory funding formula for the Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS program, also known as HOPWA.“HOPWA is the only federal program solely dedicated to providing housing assistance and related supportive services for low income people living with HIV/AIDS, and their families. “In short, this amendment would base the distribution of HOPWA funds on the current number of people living with HIV/AIDS, who desperately need this support. “This would replace the current formula, based—incredibly—on the cumulative number of AIDS cases since the epidemic began. Last year, more than 50 percent of the people counted in the HOPWA formula were deceased!“To say the least, this has drastically reduced HOPWA’s ability to aid jurisdictions where the need is most acute. This is particularly true in rural areas and cities that are currently bearing the brunt of the HIV/AIDS epidemic.“Congress has adjusted other AIDS support programs—including the Ryan White program—so formula funds are distributed based on the number of living HIV and AIDS cases in a given jurisdiction. Only the HOPWA formula remains out of whack, and it is denying thousands of those with HIV/AIDS the housing support they need.“The Price-Aderholt amendment makes three changes to the current HOPWA formula. First, it utilizes living HIV/AIDS cases as the major source of funding distribution, consistent with changes made to the Ryan White program.“Second, it directs HUD to take into consideration housing costs and local poverty rates to ensure the HOPWA program can better address varied housing needs within jurisdictions.“And third, the amendment provides for a gradual implementation of the new funding formula over five years, to ensure jurisdictions have adequate time to adjust to new funding levels. A stop-loss provision is included so that no jurisdiction can lose more than five percent of its funding or gain more than ten percent of its funding on a year-over-year basis.“Since 1997, the Government Accountability Office has identified the need to update the HOPWA formula. “HUD has included similar proposals to update the formula for the last several years. And according to the Department’s most recent formula projections, 115 out of 139 jurisdictions would benefit under the proposed formula change.“The AIDS advocacy community also supports updating the HOPWA formula to account for living cases of HIV/AIDS, including The National AIDS Housing Coalition, AIDS United, the National Low Income Housing Coalition, and the AIDS Institute.“In closing, this bipartisan amendment will ensure that our existing federal dollars are allocated most efficiently and equitably to help those living with HIV/AIDS—without additional spending or new revenue.“HOPWA is often the difference between homelessness and access to life-saving treatment for low-income people with this awful disease. It’s long past time to update the HOPWA formula to bring it in line with Ryan White and other AIDS support programs.“I urge my colleagues to support this amendment.” ###
01.19.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement about the implementation of the Iran nuclear agreement.“The Iranian regime's compliance with its obligations under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) and the subsequent implementation of the next stages of this agreement mark historic progress toward preventing a nuclear-armed Iran.“I was also pleased to learn that the Iranian regime has released four American prisoners who had been held in Iran on dubious political charges. Last fall, I joined several colleagues from the Senate in urging the release of these Americans and other political prisoners in talks with high-level representatives of the regime. I continue to urge the release of all Americans unjustly imprisoned in Iran.“We must remain vigilant in holding Iran accountable for its human rights abuses and sponsorship of terrorism, which threatens the security of our allies in the region, and I support the Obama administration's imposition of new sanctions to punish the regime for its recent weapons tests. But I strongly believe that our diplomatic progress on the nuclear issue can provide new opportunities to cooperate with Iran not just in overcoming its bad behavior, but also in areas of mutual interest, including combating the threat posed by ISIL.”
01.12.2016	“Tonight, President Obama described a new kind of American leadership: leadership sustained by our values of acceptance and equality, our diversity of thought, and our ingenuity and determination; and leadership putting first reliance on diplomacy rather than military intervention. During the President’s administration, this new paradigm has allowed us to negotiate an historic nuclear agreement with Iran, to overcome the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression, to protect the rights of LGBT Americans, to broaden access to health care, and to secure a global commitment to address climate change. This kind of leadership is our greatest strength in combating extremism and intolerance, and it allows us to protect our core economic and cultural values.“We still face serious threats as a country, both domestically and internationally. But I share President Obama’s optimism that this new American leadership and the values behind it will allow us to address these challenges and continue to thrive in the 21st century.”###
01.05.2016	Washington, DC – CongressmanDavid E. Price (NC-04), Vice Chair of the House Democrats’ Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, released the following statement on President Obama’s gun violence executive action.“As I said after Sandy Hook, Charleston, Aurora, Virginia Tech, Roseburg, San Bernardino, and Chapel Hill, I categorically reject the notion that we can’t develop reasonable reforms that will save lives while protecting the rights of law-abiding gun owners. I have long advocated for proposals like requiring background checks for gun sales at gun shows or over the Internet and lifting the ban on federally-funded gun violence research, ideas that have widespread support throughout the country.“The reforms President Obama announced today are limited in scope, but they are a well-designed first step and fall well within his constitutional authority. He has repeatedly emphasized that he would much prefer congressional action on gun violence; unfortunately, Republican leadership in Congress refuses to consider even the most common-sense gun reform proposals. Executive action is his only recourse.“Pretending the problem doesn’t exist won’t make it go away. Neither will pandering to special interests over the concerns of the majority of the American people. Congress must finally get the message that something can and must be done about gun violence. The future of our country is at stake.”###
12.17.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman David E. Price (NC-04), Ranking Member of the House Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, delivered the following floor remarks in support of the Fiscal Year 2016 Appropriations omnibus bill, which would fund the federal government for the remainder of the fiscal year.“I urge my colleagues to support this omnibus bill. It will provide funding certainty for the balance of the fiscal year. It casts off the deeply misguided sequester caps that have crippled our appropriations process and also gets rid of the poison pill riders that threatened everything from fair housing to truck safety to environmental protection to women’s health.“This bill will allow us to begin repairing and modernizing our aging highway and transit system. It makes critical investments in railroad and aviation safety and the grants programs, such as TIGER, that will allow us to build a smarter transportation future.“The omnibus also makes limited – but significant – progress toward addressing the affordable housing crisis. It provides desperately-needed funds to maintain and rehabilitate public housing, including increased funding for the Choice Neighborhoods program. It includes an increase in HOME Investment Partnerships to promote affordable housing.“The bill fails to fully address our known transportation and housing needs. We still have a great deal of work to do. But whatever deficiencies this omnibus contains would only be made far worse by defeating this bill. That would likely lead to a full-year continuing resolution. That would be funding essentially at sequestration levels, decimating if not eliminating programs like TIGER, HOME, Choice Neighborhoods, and transit New Starts.“Finally, we must resolve to get our budgetary house in order. We should pass this bill and thank everyone who worked tirelessly to bring it together, but we must stop lurching from crisis to crisis. Surely, we can do better than to depend on the threat of a shutdown to make us perform our most basic tasks.“This bill is a small step in the right direction – far better than the alternative – but it is past time for Congress to conclude a comprehensive budget agreement, one that sets responsible funding and revenue levels and allows us to make the investments a great country must make.”
12.03.2015	Washington, DC –Ranking Member David E. Price (NC-04) of the House Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee released the following statement about the compromise transportation authorization bill, which passed the House of Representatives Thursday afternoon.“I am pleased that Congress has finally passed a long-term transportation authorization after a decade of primarily short-term patches. This bill, which is the product of months of bipartisan negotiation, will provide funding certainty as we work to rebuild our crumbling roads and bridges, improve safety standards for railroads and public transportation, and give states and cities the ability to plan for a smarter transportation future. The bill will also advance research into promising transportation technologies and promote innovative financing that can help leverage federal dollars. And I am pleased that the bill boosts funding for important safety measures, such as improving highway-rail grade crossings and helping commuter railroads to implement Positive Train Control, as well as enhancing federal oversight of automobile safety.“This authorization is an important first step in addressing our transportation deficit, the hundreds of millions of dollars in productivity and maintenance costs lost by American travelers to bad roads and inefficient transit each year. But it falls well short of providing the level of funding needed to truly modernize our transportation system. We need this funding to begin work on forward-thinking projects, like major new transit and highway construction and transportation upgrades in North Carolina, instead of merely fixing the most dangerous and glaring problems. The bill also moves away from the user fee model of funding transportation infrastructure, relying on budget gimmicks rather than identifying a sustainable funding mechanism.“Fully investing in infrastructure is an economic imperative – it will create hundreds of thousands of jobs and vastly improve the flow of commerce. This investment shortfall is holding us back, and I will continue fighting for more robust transportation funding during the Appropriations process.”
12.02.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement about the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) reauthorization, which passed the House of Representatives on Wednesday evening.“This long-overdue reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act – more than 8 years in the making – is a compromise that will address many of the shortcomings of No Child Left Behind (NCLB). By significantly de-emphasizing testing and providing states and local school districts with more flexibility to implement standards of success, this legislation will help remedy the most pressing issues facing our education system. “Critically, this bill maintains the federal government’s commitment to education equity by increasing Title I funding by more than $1.2 billion over the next four years. It also empowers states to create their own accountability measures and develop challenging academic standards while still providing for federal interventions when students aren’t succeeding.“I have made teacher recruitment and retention a priority during my time in Congress, and I am especially pleased to see that this bill maintains support for teacher programs, including formula grants that states and school districts can use to improve teacher and administrator quality. I am hopeful that Congress will deepen its commitment to teachers by supporting successful teacher recruitment efforts, such as NC Teaching Fellows, and innovative teacher retention programs, as proposed in my Keep Teachers Teaching Act.“Finally, I applaud this bill’s recognition that foreign languages are essential for a well-rounded education. I strongly believe that the federal government should support foreign language instruction, and I will continue to advocate for passage of the World Language Advancement Act, which would make federal grants available for world language instruction in elementary and secondary schools.”###
12.02.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement about the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) reauthorization, which passed the House of Representatives on Wednesday evening.“This long-overdue reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act – more than 8 years in the making – is a compromise that will address many of the shortcomings of No Child Left Behind (NCLB). By significantly de-emphasizing testing and providing states and local school districts with more flexibility to implement standards of success, this legislation will help remedy the most pressing issues facing our education system. “Critically, this bill maintains the federal government’s commitment to education equity by increasing Title I funding by more than $1.2 billion over the next four years. It also empowers states to create their own accountability measures and develop challenging academic standards while still providing for federal interventions when students aren’t succeeding.“I have made teacher recruitment and retention a priority during my time in Congress, and I am especially pleased to see that this bill maintains support for teacher programs, including formula grants that states and school districts can use to improve teacher and administrator quality. I am hopeful that Congress will deepen its commitment to teachers by supporting successful teacher recruitment efforts, such as NC Teaching Fellows, and innovative teacher retention programs, as proposed in my Keep Teachers Teaching Act.“Finally, I applaud this bill’s recognition that foreign languages are essential for a well-rounded education. I strongly believe that the federal government should support foreign language instruction, and I will continue to advocate for passage of the World Language Advancement Act, which would make federal grants available for world language instruction in elementary and secondary schools.”###
11.19.2015	"Syrian refugees already face a higher barrier to entry than all other immigrants to the United States. Each refugee is thoroughly vetted and interviewed by the U.S. military, intelligence community, and diplomatic corps before he or she is permitted to travel to the United States, a process that takes an average of 18 months, and the federal government continues oversight of all refugees for years after they are resettled. I welcome credible recommendations for strengthening these vetting procedures, but I will not support efforts to end refugee resettlement altogether."
11.16.2015	Congressman David E. Price (NC-04), former Chairman and current senior member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement in response to the request of a number of Republican governors – including Governor McCrory – that President Obama cease resettlement of Syrian refugees in their states.“Closing our borders to refugees fleeing the Syrian civil war not only flies in the face of our national values of protecting the persecuted and providing refuge for the oppressed; it also undermines our nation’s standing in the world and our ability to confront the scourge of violent extremism.“Refugees from Syria are already subject to an extensive vetting process designed to ensure the safety of the families and communities in which they are placed. In the aftermath of the horrific attacks in Paris, we must do everything possible to protect American citizens at home and abroad. But to conflate refugees with terrorists doesn’t make us safer; it merely perpetuates an environment of suspicion and anxiety and risks lending more credibility to terrorist propaganda and recruitment efforts.”Learn more about the screening and vetting process for Syrian refugees here.
11.14.2015	It was with great sadness that Lisa and I received word last Tuesday of the death of former Representative Tim Valentine. We extend our condolences and good wishes to his wife Barbara and their family and will be joining them on November 14 for the funeral services in Rocky Mount.I remember very well when I first met Tim Valentine, in his law office in Nashville. I had recently returned to North Carolina with my young family and had been tasked with organizing two congressional districts for the Jimmy Carter campaign. Tim was generous with his time and advice, but I could hardly have imagined how much I would come to appreciate his political wit and wisdom over the years, much less that we would ever serve together in Congress.Being Tim’s colleague was thoroughly enjoyable and rewarding. He was a judicious, conscientious legislator who worked effectively on the Public Works and Transportation, and the Science, Space, and Technology Committees. On the latter, he was my mentor, and we frequently collaborated. Members across the political spectrum valued him as a cooperative, congenial colleague, easy to work with but not afraid to engage in vigorous debate or take a courageous stand when the need arose.Tim was remarkable for his wit and good humor and his gift for friendship. I was in awe of his ability to use humor to defuse a tense situation. He made me look forward to coming to the House floor, where invariably he would have a story to tell or a quip to make that brightened the day—and often cut to the heart of whatever we were dealing with.Tim, in short, was a treasured friend and colleague. I am grateful for his life and work personally, and also on behalf of the institution in which we served and the citizens on whose behalf he labored. Tim was a gracious and generous human being and a dedicated public servant; we are better for his having lived and served among us, and we will miss him greatly.
11.06.2015	On Tuesday, November 10, Congressman Price will host his annual Veterans’ Briefing from 8:30 AM to 10:00 AM at the North Carolina National Guard Headquarters in Raleigh. The annual Veterans’ Briefing is an opportunity for veterans, their families, and the organizations that serve them to learn about legislation before Congress and to let Congressman Price know their views on issues of concern. Representatives from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs will also be available to provide information about benefits and services available to veterans, and there will be a light breakfast provided at no cost.Due to security procedures at the National Guard Headquarters, attendees and media should RSVP to Robyn Winneberger in Congressman Price’s Raleigh Office at 919.859.5999 or robyn.winneberger@mail.house.gov.###
11.05.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement about the revised National Defense Authorization Act for 2016 (NDAA), which passed the House of Representatives Thursday.“Today, I voted in favor of the revised National Defense Authorization Act for 2016 (NDAA). This legislation, which reflects the responsible funding levels allowed for under the recent, bipartisan budget agreement, will provide robust funding for programs that are critical to keeping our country safe and supporting members of the Armed Forces and their families, including in North Carolina’s Fourth District. I am also pleased that the bill retains a provision supporting the 440th Airlift Wing’s continued co-location at Fort Bragg, thanks to a bipartisan effort from the North Carolina delegation.“Despite my support of this agreement, the final NDAA includes several troubling provisions that should be removed in future years. I strongly oppose the limitations it imposes on the President’s ability to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, which flies in the face of our fundamental principle of equal justice under the law and threatens national security by providing propaganda for terrorist recruiters. More broadly, the bill continues to rely on budget gimmicks by using Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) fund for priorities that should be part of the normal budget process. While this agreement greatly reduces the use of OCO relative to earlier versions, we must end this practice entirely moving forward.”###
11.04.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement about former Congressman Howard Coble, who passed away Tuesday at the age of 84.“It was less than a year ago that we took to the House floor to bid farewell to Howard Coble on the occasion of his retirement after three decades of service to the people of North Carolina.“The series of heartfelt tributes that day, from Members of both sides of the aisle, was a striking reflection of the respect and admiration that so many of us felt for him. The remarkable thing about Howard was how naturally and generously he returned our respect and admiration. Whether he was asking after the well-being of family members or chatting with staff about their hometowns and high schools, he always made the extra effort to get to know those with whom he worked, regardless of their title or party affiliation.“Howard was also an effective legislator and a tireless advocate for the Sixth District, especially in the areas of agriculture and transportation, and he took on complicated and difficult issues in his leadership role on the Judiciary Committee. I was fortunate to partner with him on a number of bipartisan initiatives over the years, from textile research to funding for his beloved Coast Guard.“In an era where our politics are too often characterized by excessive partisanship and animosity, Howard’s camaraderie, good humor, and generosity of spirit reflected the best of what this institution can be. Lisa and I are saddened by his passing, and we join his many friends and former colleagues in extending condolences to his family and celebrating his life.”###
10.29.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman David Price (NC-04) released the following statement about the election of Speaker of the House Paul Ryan.“I congratulate Paul Ryan on his election to the Speakership, and I am hopeful that under his leadership we will see more of the bipartisan cooperation that led to last night’s budget agreement.“Only by working together can we complete our appropriations work for 2016 and advance long-delayed and desperately-needed legislative priorities like a long-term transportation bill and comprehensive immigration reform. I join my fellow House Democrats in calling on Speaker Ryan to get to work immediately on these pressing issues and pledging my cooperation as we attempt to make a fresh start in the House.”###
10.28.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement on the passage of a bipartisan budget deal in the House of Representatives.“Today all House Democrats and 79 Republicans overcame the radical forces that have dominated Republican politics since the 2010 elections, forces that have constantly threatened government shutdowns and default on the country’s financial obligations. With today’s budget agreement, we finally begin to break this cycle of dysfunction, albeit for only two years.“The agreement provides funding levels that will allow us to avoid the devastating impacts of sequestration and pass acceptable appropriations bills, making critical investments in priorities like transportation, medical research, and education. It will put in place reforms – with no negative impact on benefits – to sustain the Social Security Disability Insurance Trust Fund for an additional six years, avoiding the sweeping benefit cuts that loomed in 2016. And it will significantly reduce Medicare deductible and Part B premium increases that would have affected beneficiaries beginning next year.“This deal has its flaws, and it falls well short of the comprehensive budget agreement that we need to secure our fiscal future and make the investments a great country should make. It reflects the Republicans’ strict anti-revenue ideology, which continues to hamstring our ability to rebuild our crumbling highways and provide adequate federal support for priorities like research, housing, and education. But today’s vote is a step in the right direction which we should have taken months ago. I commend President Obama and House and Senate leadership for working together to finally move us forward.”###
10.28.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Reps. David E. Price (D-NC), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Nita Lowey (D-NY), Mike Quigley (D-IL), and Robin Kelly (D-IL) led 110 Democratic colleagues in urging House leadership to end the longstanding de facto ban on federal funding for gun violence research. As a result of this ban, there has been very limited academic research into the causes of gun violence and its impact on public health, weakening efforts to make our communities safer and to implement bipartisan gun reforms.“If Republican leadership is unwilling to consider reasonable, common-sense reforms to stem the tragic tide of gun violence, let us at least lift this ill-advised ban,” said Congressman Price. “Congress must have access to gun violence research to fully understand the extent of gun violence, its causes, and possible policy solutions. The funding ban is tantamount to plugging our ears and pretending there isn’t a problem as 32,000 Americans die each year unnecessarily.”“Scientists and other researchers conduct evidence-based studies into car crashes, prescription drug usage, smoking and all sorts of other accidents and injuries,” said Rep. DeLauro. “But for years, this type of federal inquiry on firearms has been effectively banned for ideological reasons. We should be conducting more examinations into how to prevent these injuries and save lives, not hiding from the truth. Congress should be doing everything possible to enhance public health, not intimidating researchers. We must end the prohibition on federal gun violence research.”“It’s time to end mindless, ideological roadblocks and begin researching causes and prevention strategies related to gun violence in the United States,” said Rep. Lowey. “That’s why I’m calling on House Leadership to reject the abusive prohibition on basic research on gun violence. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue working to advance this commonsense step to improve public health and safety.”“Our nation is facing an epidemic of gun violence. And for many of the residents in my hometown of Chicago, gun violence is not just a headline – gun violence is an everyday reality,” said Rep. Quigley. “These restrictions cut off the debate on guns and resign our country to the status quo. Conducting unbiased, comprehensive research to better understand the epidemic of gun violence is necessary to ensure the safety of the American people. We have to be able to talk openly about gun violence to effectively address public safety issuesand keep dangerous weapons out of the hands of dangerous people.”“America has suffered the tragedies of mass shootings, urban violence, and firearm suicides for far too long,” said Rep. Kelly. “Congress has a responsibility to the American people to pass meaningful legislation to combat gun violence. In order to do so, we need the best data available on the impact gun violence has on our communities, our nation’s public health, and on our economic future. The Dickey Amendments have denied crucial gun violence prevention research. Lifting the ban on federal gun violence research is a crucial first step to putting an end to this senseless violence.”The ban on gun violence research was first implemented in 1996 at the urging of Former Rep. Jay Dickey (R-AR). Dickey has since reversed his stance on the legislation, arguing that "[i]f we had somehow gotten the research going, we could have somehow found a solution to the gun violence without there being any restrictions on the Second Amendment.” Democrats in the House Appropriations Committee offered an amendment this year to end the ban, but the measure was rejected largely along party lines.A copy of the Price-DeLauro-Lowey-Quigley-Kelly letter can also be accessed here.
10.09.2015	“As leaders of the House Democracy Partnership, we congratulate the members of the National Dialogue Quartet on their historic achievement,” said Chairman Roskam and Ranking Member Price. “Thanks in no small part to their outstanding work, Tunisia is a democratic beacon of hope in the region, building a future as a parliamentary democracy. We are very pleased that the Nobel Committee has recognized the leadership of civil society in this remarkable story, and we call on the international community to redouble its commitment to supporting the Tunisian people as they build a brighter future.”
10.07.2015	Washington, DC –Today, Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) announced the appointment of Asher Hildebrand as his new Chief of Staff, succeeding longtime Chief of Staff Jean-Louise Beard following her recent retirement. Beard, a Raleigh native, served in Congressman Price’s office since 1988 and as Chief of Staff since 2001.“Jean-Louise has been an essential member of my team since my earliest days of service,” said Congressman Price. “She has provided invaluable counsel on matters of policy and politics, effective leadership of my congressional staff, and tireless service to the people of North Carolina. I am very fortunate to have had her at my side all of these years, and I wish her the very best in her retirement.”Hildebrand first joined Price’s staff in 2003 and has held various senior positions in the office, including Legislative Director and District Director. “I am delighted that Asher has assumed this new role and confident that my office’s service to the Fourth District won’t skip a beat under his leadership,” Price added.###
09.30.2015	“Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this continuing resolution, which will allow us to avoid another completely unnecessary and potentially devastating government shutdown. My vote in favor of the CR does not mean I support the irresponsible sequestration-level budget resolution that has made it impossible to pass FY 2016 appropriations bills, much less the reckless manner in which the Republican majority continues to manage the budget process.“The Republican budget announced this spring made no room for the critical investments in infrastructure, housing, research, health care, and education that our country needs to thrive. In fact, it made deeply damaging reductions.“Defense appropriators were able to avoid sequestration levels only by using the so-called OCO gimmick, amounting to a $38 billion sleight of hand.“It was evident from the beginning that we would have to negotiate new budget numbers -- if not a comprehensive agreement of the sort that balanced the budget in the 1990s, then at least a more modest deal like the Ryan-Murray agreement of the last two years -- in order to pass our appropriations bills. I and other Democratic colleagues took to the floor again and again to decry these unacceptable budget numbers that simply set us up for failure. Our leaders have been offering to negotiate for months, knowing full well that President Obama would be forced to veto any appropriations bills passed under the Republican budget. Will it take a government shutdown, we asked, to make us do our job?“Apparently the answer is ‘yes’. The Senate couldn’t pass a single appropriations bill. The House passed a few with Republican votes alone, and then the process collapsed under the weight of the Confederate battle flag debate. That was a particularly disgraceful episode, but the process was already on life support. It was never going to work, and Republican leaders have known that all year.“Despite the failure of the appropriations process, as represented by this short-term CR, all hope is not lost. We can still salvage the hard bipartisan work of my and other appropriations subcommittees, if, when this CR expires, we can stitch together an omnibus appropriations bill for the balance of the year.“The Appropriations Committee still avoids some of the ideological battles that divide this body, and I have been able to work closely with Chairman Diaz-Balart to negotiate a framework for transportation and housing funding. I know that many of the other subcommittee Chairs and Ranking Members have made similar progress. Given realistic funding levels, these bills can relatively quickly be converted into acceptable appropriations legislation.“So I once again join my colleagues in urging Speaker Boehner to resume bipartisan budget negotiations and produce reasonable, responsible funding levels that can allow the appropriations process to move forward. Today, we’re buying ourselves a couple of months. Instead of lurching toward another crisis in December, let’s actually come to a consensus on the kind of investments in our future that a great country must make.”###
09.25.2015	"Speaker Boehner’s resignation marks the culmination of the Tea Party ascendancy that began with the 2010 elections. He rode this right-wing extremism to power, and it has now brought him down. I have now served under six Speakers of the House, and never have I seen a Speaker face such dissension and disarray within his own ranks. His tenure will not be remembered for major legislative accomplishments; it will instead be remembered for a series of artificial and unnecessary political crises forced upon the country in order to placate the far right. "John Boehner's and my years in the House largely coincide. We have been personally cordial, and in earlier years he was well-regarded as a legislator, mainly on education policy. He seemed willing, early in his speakership, to work with the President in crafting a comprehensive budget agreement of the sort that balanced the budget in the 1990's -- until it became clear that the new-model Republican Conference would never support such an endeavor. "As we reflect on Pope Francis’s historic visit yesterday, for which Speaker Boehner deserves a great deal of credit, we can only hope that the next Speaker can find a way to restore order within the Republican Party and return to the many important challenges that face this nation—including the looming threat of another potentially devastating government shutdown. But I fear that Speaker Boehner’s resignation means we can only expect more of the same extremism and dysfunction." ###
09.24.2015	"I was honored to be present for Pope Francis’s historic address and moved by his call for Congress to redouble its efforts to serve the most vulnerable among us and to renew our vocation as servants of the common good."It is not every day that we hear the Golden Rule – that universal maxim of mutual responsibility and reciprocity – invoked and applauded on the House floor. The immediate context was Pope Francis’s moving description of the refugee crisis, challenging us to 'view them as persons, seeing their faces and listening to their stories.' But the teaching took its place in a moving address that touched on numerous critical challenges facing America and the world, from the plight of the impoverished, to stewardship of the earth, to the rejection of 'ideological extremism.'"Pope Francis returned again and again to our responsibilities to the young and to the need for citizens and elected leaders alike to devote ourselves to realizing the common good. It was an historic moment for Congress and our country, one that should prompt reflection and a renewed dedication, as he stated, 'to defend and preserve the dignity of [our] fellow citizens in the tireless and demanding pursuit of the common good.'"###
09.23.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) will host a meet-and-greet for Fourth District residents visiting Washington for Pope Francis’s address to a joint session of Congress on Thursday, September 24. The event, which is free and open to the public, will take place from 12:00 PM to 2:00 PM in 2108 Rayburn House Office Building, Congressman Price’s Washington office. Light refreshments will be served, and visitors will have the opportunity to meet the Congressman and his staff.“Pope Francis’s visit is an historic event, and I am pleased to welcome those residents of the Fourth District who have made the trip to Washington,” said Congressman Price. “I look forward to hearing the Pope’s message to Congress, and I encourage visitors to stop by 2108 Rayburn to meet me and my staff after the address.”Visitors planning to attend the meet-and-greet should be aware that the Capitol complex will be operating under enhanced security protocols. More information is available at http://bit.ly/PapalVisitSecurity.What: Meet-and-Greet with Congressman PriceWhen: September 24, 2015 12:00 PM to 2:00 PMWhere: Congressman Price’s Washington Office 2108 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515###
09.11.2015	“Today, our country comes together to remember those who perished in the tragic attacks of September 11, 2001, to celebrate the heroic actions of our first responders, and to renew our resolve that such attacks must never recur. This is a day to put politics aside and reflect on the common bonds and values that unite us.”“In an effort to renew the spirit of unity and shared purpose that emerged after the attacks, Congress has designated September 11 as a National Day of Service and Remembrance. This weekend, thousands of community service events are taking place around the country. I will take part in a service project this evening at Red Hat Amphitheater in downtown Raleigh, and I invite and encourage residents of the Fourth District to join me or to participate in similar efforts. You can find more information at www.serve.gov.”“We must also ensure that the first responders who survived the September 11 attacks receive the medical care that they need and deserve. Congress must pass the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reauthorization Act to continue providing critical benefits to these men and women, who demonstrated such a selfless commitment to their country, and to give them the assurance that Congress will not turn its back on them in their time of need.”
09.10.2015	“Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the historic nuclear agreement reached by the United States and our negotiating partners with Iran.“For the sake of our national security and that of our allies, we must seize this opportunity. This agreement goes far beyond any negotiated nuclear deal in history. It will reduce Iran’s stockpiled uranium by more than ninety-eight percent; it will permanently prevent the plutonium pathway to a nuclear weapon at Arak; it will disable and mothball two-thirds of Iran’s enrichment centrifuges, including more advanced models; it will terminate all enrichment at Fordow; and it will provide for intrusive inspections of nuclear sites in perpetuity. This is an unprecedented degrading—not just a freezing, but a substantial degrading—of Iran’s nuclear program. No military strike or strikes could achieve as much.“I challenge any of the agreement’s detractors to present a viable alternative that achieves this same result and will verifiably prevent a nuclear-armed Iran for the foreseeable future. They won’t -- and they haven’t -- because they can’t. There simply isn’t a viable diplomatic or military alternative for preventing an Iranian nuclear weapon.“The notion that we could somehow unilaterally reject the agreement and still compel the P5+1 to resume negotiations is pure fantasy. Our international partners have made clear that reinstating the effective sanctions regime that brought Iran to the negotiating table would be impossible. For Congress to scuttle the deal would also destroy our credibility as a negotiating party and likely set Iran back on the path to developing a weapon.“The stakes couldn’t be higher. The nuclear issue should transcend political opportunism and partisan rancor. We should be working together across party lines to ensure the swift and effective implementation of the JCPOA. We should be exploring ways that we can enhance cooperative efforts with Israel and the international community to address Iran’s support for Hezbollah and its gross abuse of human rights, as well as other critical challenges in the region. “Today we can start down that path by supporting the agreement, and I urge my colleagues to vote YES on the resolution of approval.”###
07.30.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman David Price (NC-04) released the following statement on the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), the international nuclear agreement with Iran.“After carefully reviewing the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) – including its classified annex – and consulting extensively with President Obama, Secretaries Kerry and Moniz, senior Administration and Pentagon officials, and a broad array of independent experts, I am confident that this deal will verifiably prevent a nuclear-armed Iran and make the world a safer place.“The JCPOA isn’t perfect, but it is remarkably strong in its surveillance and enforcement provisions. This isn’t just my opinion: it is the view of the European Union, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, China, and Russia; the U.S. Departments of State, Defense, Energy, and Treasury; members of the Iranian diaspora; prominent academics and regional experts; current and former diplomats; and many Israeli military and intelligence experts. No other viable diplomatic alternatives exist.“For the U.S. Congress to unilaterally reject the JCPOA would likely destroy the multilateral sanctions regime and leave Iran free to resume its nuclear program. Doing so would threaten not just our credibility on the international stage, but also our national security and that of our allies. That is not a risk I am willing to take.”###
07.23.2015	“Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to this misguided legislation, offered under the false pretense that it has something to do with the tragic murder of Kathryn Steinle in San Francisco.“Make no mistake: Ms. Steinle’s killer should not have been on the streets. We must get to the bottom of the official misjudgment and negligence and the bureaucratic breakdown that led to this tragedy.“As the former Chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, I take a backseat to no one when it comes to deporting dangerous criminal aliens who pose a threat to public safety.“But we need to be very clear: this tragedy has nothing to do with so-called sanctuary cities. The bill before us would punish some of our most vulnerable cities, high on the VASI list -- places like San Francisco, New York, Miami, and Chicago -- for exercising their lawful discretion in dealing with non-criminals or those with minor violations.“They do this in order to protect the public and enforce the law, which requires trust and cooperation with immigrant communities. To scapegoat entire cities and make law enforcement less effective through this bill is inexcusable.“I urge its defeat.” ###
07.22.2015	“Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the Butterfield-Rush-Clarke-Price-Adams amendment. “The December 2014 coal ash rule was a reasonable compromise between the EPA and the energy industry, based on sound science and three decades of research into the significant human and environmental health consequences of ash spills. I will oppose the underlying legislation because, as my colleagues have noted, it would unjustifiably eliminate, undermine, or delay the well-thought out protections included in this compromise rule.“Our amendment gets at another issue. There is a great risk that this legislation could be especially harmful to some of our nation’s most vulnerable populations -- and here I mean pregnant women, children, the elderly, low-income Americans -- because nearly 70% of coal ash ponds are located in communities where the majority earns an income that falls below the national average, and where communities of color are disproportionately represented. “Our amendment is very simple – it would require the Administrator of the EPA to determine whether this legislation unfairly affects these vulnerable populations. If it does, its provisions would not go into effect.“Misguided deregulation is one thing; outright discrimination is another. Let’s make sure that we’re not prioritizing the energy industry’s bottom line over the health and welfare of women, children, the elderly, and low-income Americans.“I urge my colleagues to support the amendment, and I yield back.” ###
07.16.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Reps. David Price (D-NC), Leonard Lance (R-NJ), Joe Crowley (D-NY), and Don Young (R-AK) introduced the World Language Advancement Act (H.R. 3096), which would help state and local school districts implement innovative K-12 language programs.“In today’s global economy, K-12 foreign language and cultural knowledge have become necessary skills for government, private-sector, and non-profit employers,” said Congressman Price. “Federal incentives will help to ensure we are providing these competencies and equipping the next generation of leaders with the skills to communicate and collaborate across borders.”“Fluency in a foreign language is critical in today’s 21st Century global economy,” said Congressman Lance. “The World Language Advancement Act will help state and local school districts implement the type of innovative language learning programs in elementary and secondary schools that will help increase U.S. economic global competitiveness for future generations of American workers."Early language learning has been shown to strengthen performance across all academic subjects and on standardized tests. The benefits of foreign language education also extend far beyond academics, as students who study a foreign language have an openness and acceptance to people who speak other languages and come from other cultures. However, only 25 percent of elementary schools in the United States offer any world language studies and only half of all American high school students take even one year of a world language. “With over 150 languages spoken in Queens, I’ve seen firsthand how language can be a gateway to cultural understanding,” said Congressman Crowley. “In addition to increasing our young people’s interest in other cultures, studies show that learning a foreign language greatly benefits students’ success in other core areas, such as math and critical thinking. We should do everything we can to prepare and equip the next generation of American workers with the skills needed to compete in the global economy, and that includes expanding opportunities to learn foreign languages.”“I am proud to cosponsor the World Language Advancement Act and appreciate Congressman Price for leading up this bipartisan legislation,” said Congressman Don Young. “In addition to increasing academic achievement through innovative, community-based learning programs, I am particularly pleased to see this bill include a focus on Alaska Native and American Indian languages. Teaching, preserving, and promoting the use of indigenous languages is tremendously important for Native communities in my state, and around the country. ”Since 2012, there has been no federal support for world language instruction in elementary and secondary schools. The World Language Advancement Act would fill in this gap and foster the language learning pipeline by providing competitive grants to states and local school districts to support the establishment, improvement, or expansion of innovative programs in language learning in grades K-12. The bill is supported by some of the leading international education and foreign language advocacy organizations, including the Joint National Committee for Languages - National Council for Languages and International Studies (JNCL-NCLIS) and the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages (ACTFL).JNCL-NCLIS Executive Director Bill Rivers notes that "This bipartisan bill demonstrates leadership and commitment to providing American children access to world-class world language programs. It will advance American education, helping to close achievement gaps and prepare American children for one of the linchpin skills of the 21st century knowledge economy.”According to ACTFL President Jacque Van Houten, “The ACTFL membership is excited to see this level of support for language education, particularly at a time when knowledge of other languages and cultures is a critical skill for all students in the U.S.”###
07.15.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) gave the following remarks during floor debate on H.R. 3038, a 5-month federal highway and transit funding extension.“Roads, bridges, and railroads are crumbling all across America. In North Carolina, which used to be known as the ‘good roads’ state, over 5,500 bridges are structurally unsound, and poor roads cost drivers $1.5 billion a year. That’s why I am so frustrated that instead of seizing the opportunity to build a viable transportation system with a long-term highway-transit bill, Republican leaders have instead elected to once again kick the can down the proverbial road and forgo critical repairs and safety improvements, to say nothing of new construction.“Despite these grave reservations, I will vote for today’s 5-month extension because I believe it will allow congressional leaders to negotiate the comprehensive transportation overhaul we so desperately need. However, like President Obama, I will not support future efforts to shirk the responsibility of rebuilding our nation’s infrastructure.“Short-term, stop-gap, extension-to-extension governance has become the norm over the past few years, and I’m frankly fed up with it. House Democrats are ready to get serious about making the investments we need to make to thrive as a country – I strongly encourage Republicans to answer the call.”###
07.14.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) offered an amendment at today’s Department of Homeland Security Appropriations markup to restore funding for Flood Hazard and Risk Mapping Analysis, a critical disaster planning and mitigation program. Congressman Price gave the following statement in support of his amendment.“My amendment would restore funding for Flood Hazard Mapping and Risk Analysis to the President’s requested level. The bill before us provides flat funding for the program, which, as we all know, amounts to a cut once we factor in inflation. The amount provided for flood mapping activities hinders our nation’s ability to prepare for natural disasters, which is particularly important as we face growing threats from climate change.“Floods continue to be the nation’s most frequent and costly natural hazard, affecting every state in the nation. In the wake of a disaster, half of businesses that experience flood damage fail to recover and are lost within two years of flooding. “The national flood insurance program, which I’ll note is more generously funded in this year’s bill, depends directly upon data gathered through the Flood mapping program. I commend the majority for their support of the Flood insurance program, but let’s not kid ourselves, cutting flood mapping and risk analysis funding directly undermines the flood insurance program.“Cuts to mapping activities means major delays in providing our communities with accurate flood hazard data to help them plan new developments and manage their risk of flooding. In turn, these delays result in lost mitigation opportunities and higher financial risks to the communities and their residents. “I understand the subcommittee was forced to work within its budget allocation, but the cuts made to flood mapping and pre-disaster mitigation funding will result in higher financial risk to taxpaying Americans. This process highlights that our inability, or unwillingness, to reach a long-term budget deal continues to result in pennywise and pound-foolish policies that will ultimately cost taxpayers more money.“I appreciate your consideration, and I urge the adoption of my amendment.”###
07.09.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) gave the following floor remarks opposing the Calvert amendment to the FY2016 Department Interior Appropriations bill, which would have allowed the Confederate flag to be flown on federal lands. House Republican leadership announced this afternoon that the bill would not come up for a vote. “Mr. Speaker, we have just learned that the Interior Appropriations bill will be pulled from the floor. A number of the Southern, irreconcilable Republican Members apparently plan to vote against the bill unless it permits the display of the Confederate battle flag in our national parks and permits vendors to sell Confederate souvenirs.“This is unbelievable, after the tragedy in Charleston and the action in the South Carolina legislature yesterday to remove the battle flag from Capitol grounds. But the House Republican leadership last night chose to accommodate the Southern Republican irreconcilables with an amendment, and now they are pulling the interior bill lest those irreconcilables bring it down.“Mr. Speaker, we shouldn’t have to debate whether a symbol of hatred and oppression and a reminder of our nation’s darkest hour should be displayed on federal lands. Is the Republican majority really that out of touch? Let us join together and take down the battle flag.”###
06.26.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement following the Supreme Court’s decision on marriage equality. “I join many of my constituents, some of whom have been waiting for this moment for a long time, in celebrating today’s Supreme Court decision, which continues the remarkable progress we have made as a country toward equal rights for all Americans, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity. I am reminded this morning of the landmark cases of the Civil Rights era, when justice finally won out over long-standing prejudice.“But we should also remember that we still have a long way to go – in many parts of the country, including North Carolina, LGBT Americans still don’t enjoy equal protection against discrimination in the workplace, in schools, by medical providers, or in public facilities. We must redouble our efforts to ensure that all of our neighbors, colleagues, friends, and family members are treated fairly under the law.”###
06.25.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement following the Supreme Court’s decision in King v. Burwell, upholding the Affordable Care Act (ACA).“I am glad that the Supreme Court has once again confirmed what we already knew – the Affordable Care Act stands on solid legal ground. We finally have the unfounded legal challenges behind us, and we can focus on continuing to effectively implement the law’s reforms and making progress toward ensuring access to health care for millions of previously-uninsured Americans.”###
06.24.2015	Washington, DC – During today’s full committee markup of the Fiscal Year 2016 Labor, Health and Human Services, Education (LHHS) Appropriations bill, Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) offered an amendment to provide funding for critical educator support programs that would be cut or eliminated by the draft legislation. “Our nation is falling short when it comes to recruiting and equipping teachers for the job, and ensuring that they have the resources, support, and training that they need to remain in the classroom,” said Congressman Price. “My amendment would reverse ill-advised cuts in this bill to state grants for improving teacher quality and other programs that support the recruitment and retention of teachers and principals.”Congressman Price’s amendment would increase or restore funding to the following programs: State Grants for Improving Teacher Qualityo Provides formula grants that serve as a flexible source of funding for states and school districts to strengthen the skills and knowledge of teachers, principals and administrators. Math and Science Partnership Programo Creates partnerships between institutes of higher education and schools to enhance the content knowledge for teachers and improve classroom instruction of science and math. Transition to Teachingo Provides grants for national, regional statewide and local programs that recruit, train, and support mid-career professionals and recent graduates and place them as teachers in high need schoolsSchool Leadership Programo Offers competitive grants for the development, enhancement or expansion of innovative programs to recruit, train and mentor principals and assistance principals in high-need schools. Teacher Incentive Fundo Provides competitive grants to states, districts, or partnerships with nonprofits to support the development and implementation of innovative compensation systems for teachers and principals in high-need schools.Teacher Quality Partnership (TQP) Grant Programo Improves the quality of new teachers by enhancing preparation programs and professional development activities, and recruiting effective individuals from other occupations into the teaching force, as well as by supporting programs to train school leaders in high-need or rural schools.###
06.18.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement about the attack on Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, SC.“On behalf of myself and my constituents in North Carolina, I want to express deep sadness and outrage at last night’s terrible attack in Charleston, which once again has laid bare our struggles with prejudice, hatred, and gun violence. Our churches and communities of faith are meant to be refuges from the chaos of modern life, places of peace and understanding open to all people. This despicable act of hatred violates that spirit of shared humanity and everything we hold dear as Americans.“Today, we come together in mutual faith, confident in our shared values, to express sympathy and solidarity. We resolve anew to find a way to put a stop to such violence. And we pray with Reverend Absalom Jones, a founding bishop of the AME Church, ‘Give peace in our day, we beseech thee, O thou God of peace.’”###
06.12.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) gave the following remarks during floor debate on legislation providing Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) for the Administration and Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) for displaced workers.“Over the past two years, I have been part of good-faith efforts to write the strongest possible Fast Track bill. But the process the TPA legislation has gone through recently, with Ways and Means Democrats denied every opportunity to improve the legislation in Committee, while Republicans were accommodated in the customs bill with anti-environmental and anti-immigrant provisions, has moved in precisely the wrong direction from what might have gained my support. “Therefore, I plan to vote against TPA today. But I strongly oppose devious and reckless efforts to bring down TPA by trying to defeat the Trade Adjustment Assistance bill. TAA is a good bill which reflects long-standing Democratic priorities, and the objectionable Medicare offset that it contained has been removed. It has been critically important to North Carolina, and I refuse to put displaced workers at risk for the sake of a political tactic. I urge my colleagues: Play it straight. Support TAA, whether or not you plan to support TPA."###
06.10.2015	"I wish to congratulate and thank Dr. James Billington upon completion of his 42 years of distinguished public service, culminating in 28 years as the 13th Librarian of Congress. He presided over a doubling of the Library’s holdings and a major enhancement of the Library’s role in American cultural life."As a member of Congress and a leader of the House Democracy Partnership (HDP), I have particularly appreciated Dr. Billington’s application of his background as a scholar of Russia and his extensive international experience to the establishment of the Open World Leadership Center, a unique legislative branch initiative that has bought some 24,000 young leaders from post-Soviet states to the U.S. for intensive exposure to our people and community life. The Library and the Congressional Research Service have also been invaluable in HDP’s outreach to parliaments in democratizing countries, helping build their staff, research, and IT capabilities."###
06.09.2015	Washington, DC – This morning, Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) delivered the following testimony before the U.S. International Trade Commission in support of stronger tariffs against the Chinese tire industry. Domestic tire producers – including the Goodyear plant in Fayetteville and the Bridgestone-Firestone plant in Wilson – have been forced to compete against Chinese competitors that use unfair trade practices to gain an advantage in the U.S. market. Mr. Price previously co-authored a letter to Secretary of Commerce Penny Pritzker in support of action against the Chinese tire industry.“Chairman Broadbent, Commissioners, I appreciate the opportunity to be here today to testify before the Commission. As the representative of North Carolina’s Fourth Congressional District, I am here today to support the United Steelworkers’ petition for relief from dumped and subsidized imports of passenger and light truck tires from China.“North Carolina is home to two passenger car and light truck tire plants: a facility run by Bridgestone in Wilson, North Carolina and a Goodyear tire plant in Fayetteville, which is located in the Fourth Congressional District. Together, these plants have the capacity to produce 75,000 tires a day and employ thousands of workers. They provide significant economic benefit to their local communities and to the state of North Carolina. “I will not recount the entire history of the actions taken by the commission against unfair Chinese imports; the history of Chinese abuses, particularly in the area of passenger car and light truck tires, is well documented. The 421 safeguard relief from Chinese dumping provided by the commission in 2009 was warranted and proved effective in curtailing the market-distorting effects of Chinese actions through the end of the 2011 calendar year. Following the implementation of the safeguard, imports from China fell, domestic production and prices recovered, and the U.S. tire industry was able to retain and add workers in North Carolina and around the country. “It is also clear, however, that once the 421 sanctions were lifted in 2012, the problem returned. The Commission’s pre-hearing report clearly shows that tire imports from China have increased by 84 percent since 2012. From 2011, the last full year of the 421 safeguard, to 2014, U.S. imports of Chinese tires more than doubled. Moreover, these imports have undercut U.S. producers.“Again, the Commission’s pre-hearing report shows that Chinese producers undersold domestic producers in 100 percent of the Commission’s price comparisons. The result is that Chinese producers have increased their market share from 11.5 percent of the U.S. market in 2012 to 19.3 percent of the U.S. market in 2014. This increase came at the expense of our domestic producers, whose market share fell from 46.6 percent to 41.9 percent in that period. As a result, domestic production is down, domestic sales are down, and employment is down.“There seems to be ample evidence that the increased competitiveness of Chinese tire manufacturers can be directly tied to state-sponsored efforts to boost production, including but not limited to below-market loans from state-owned banks, grants, tax breaks, and the provision of key raw materials from state-owned suppliers. Other witnesses will provide you with additional details on that front, but it’s safe to say that this is nothing new, particularly with regard to the trade-distorting practices historically employed by the Chinese government. “To illustrate the importance of ITC action on this front, let me share with you how my constituents at the Goodyear plant in Fayetteville have been affected. As Darryl Jackson, President of USW Local 959 at Fayetteville testified last June, with the 2009 421 relief in place and the domestic market stabilized, the Fayetteville facility was able to maintain steady production through 2012. However, since the safeguard expired, the facility’s production has been reduced from 33,000 tires a day to 31,500 tires a day. Such reduced capacity threatens the livelihood of the plant’s employees and their families. However, in the few short months since Commerce imposed preliminary duties, production is returning to Fayetteville. “I understand that a month after Commerce’s preliminary countervailing duty determination, the plant’s management decided against cutting the plants work schedule by two weeks due to stabilized demand. Layoffs at the plant have also ceased. Moreover, it is my understanding that Goodyear is actively investing in and upgrading the Fayetteville facility to help it remain competitive in the future. I am deeply concerned that a negative determination by this Commission would result in a flood of subsidized Chinese tires back into the U.S market, debilitating facilities like Goodyear’s plant in Fayetteville.“Throughout my career, I have always said that given a level playing field, American workers will out-compete anyone. I urge you to make an affirmative determination in this matter and level the field for U.S. workers.“Thank you again for your attention to this matter.”###
06.03.2015	Mr. Chairman, as we begin consideration of H.R. 2577, the Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies Appropriations bill, I want to first thank Chairman Diaz-Balart for his work on this bill. He has been open and accessible throughout this year’s process and has been receptive to my concerns and the concerns that subcommittee Members and other colleagues have raised. It is a pleasure working with him, and I look forward to continuing to do so throughout this process.I also want to thank and acknowledge the hardworking staff – Dena Baron for the majority and Kate Hallahan and Joe Carlile on our side of the aisle, as well as Laura Thrift and Kate Roetzer from my personal staff.Unfortunately, I have to say that further work is going to be both necessary and difficult. That is not the Chairman’s fault. He was dealt an impossible hand in the Republican budget and an allocation that is simply unworkable.At first glance, it may appear that this bill is a relative winner when compared to the other appropriations bills, as Chairman Rogers increased this Subcommittee’s allocation by $1.5 billion. However, the reality is that once you factor in declining Federal Housing Administration receipts, increased Section 8 renewal costs, and other inflationary adjustments, this bill is actually $1.5 billion below last year’s funding level – resulting in fewer services and capital investments than last year.The programs under the jurisdiction of this Subcommittee are critical to our nation’s economic and social well-being – providing necessary funding to improve housing and transportation options, creating infrastructure jobs for hardworking American families, and ensuring safe and adequate transportation networks for goods, commuters, and travelers. But our nation’s transportation and housing systems face daunting challenges, and on almost every count, this bill falls short.The President requested a robust increase for this bill in FY 2016, calling on Congress to provide the critical investments necessary to accelerate and sustain economic growth. Unfortunately, the bill before us would not even begin to address our infrastructure needs.In transportation, the bill levies deep cuts to capital programs. As we learned from the Amtrak derailment last month in Philadelphia, these cuts can have clear, direct consequences for the safety of our transportation system. The bill before us cuts Amtrak by 18 percent below last year. There is no funding for the expansion of safety mechanisms, including Positive Train Control, which regulates the excessive speeds that caused the Philadelphia derailment.No one can say whether Positive Train Control would have prevented the tragedy in Philadelphia, but cutting funding certainly isn’t making our transportation system safer. How many train derailments or bridge collapses will it take before the Majority agrees that we must invest in our crumbling transportation infrastructure?The bill before us would also reduce funding for the New Starts program by 8 percent below this year and 40 percent below the President’s request, and it would cut DOT’s enormously popular TIGER program by 80 percent. It also cuts the Federal Aviation Administration’s capital program by $355 million below the request and $100 million below last year, which will hamper FAA’s ability to maintain and improve aging facilities and will slow down progress on the NextGen program.This bill doesn’t just provide insufficient funding for critical investments – it also includes toxic provisions completely unrelated to the appropriations process. For instance, riders on truck length and weight have no place in this bill and should be left to the authorizers. The bill also continues to delay full implementation of DOT’s hours-of-service rule for driver safety by including additional, unmanageable study requirements. These riders value the bottom line of the trucking industry over driver safety and will make our roads more dangerous.The bill also attempts to undermine President Obama’s new policy related to the United States’ relationship with Cuba by preventing scheduled air service and cruise ship travel to Cuban ports of entry.On the housing side, the bill fails to adequately address the capital needs of public housing. For example, the bill provides only the token amount of $20 million for Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) Choice Neighborhoods Initiative. At such a low funding level, the program will not be able to fulfill its mission—transforming clusters of poverty into functioning, sustainable mixed income neighborhoods and allowing the children who live there from having the opportunities that all Americans deserve.The bill contains $1.68 billion for the Public Housing Capital Fund, which is a $194 million cut from last year. If enacted, this level would be about the same as the funding level in 1989 – 26 years ago! Given that new maintenance needs accrue at $3.4 billion per year, this level of funding would cover less than half of the need while doing nothing to address the $25 billion backlog.The majority’s bill transforms, or more accurately devolves, the Housing for the Elderly and Housing for the Disabled programs into purely rental renewal programs. Without capital funding, the supply of safe, decent and affordable housing for the elderly or the disabled will not keep up with the demand.Mr. Chairman, for centuries, our country’s economic competiveness has been built upon a world-class infrastructure that enabled innovation and ingenuity to flourish. This bill and the budgetary levels it reflects undermine the continued viability of our nation’s infrastructure and our economic vitality. We simply cannot write a credible bill until we have a new budget agreement.This bill clearly illustrates the folly of dogmatically cutting domestic appropriations as the sole focus of deficit reduction, while leaving the main drivers of the deficit unaddressed. Under sequestration funding levels, any advancement of appropriations bills is simply delaying the day of reckoning. Let’s stop this charade now, and begin serious, broad budget negotiations.I know we can responsibly chart a course to fiscal balance; we've done it before, as recently as the 1990s. We achieved budget surpluses as the result of a concerted, bipartisan effort to balance the budget through a comprehensive approach. Revenues, entitlements, military and domestic appropriations – all were on the table. We balanced the budget four years in a row, paying off more than $400 billion of the national debt.By contrast, the current Republican budget strategy fails as fiscal policy, while decimating the investments a great country must make.In its current form, I cannot support the Fiscal Year 2016 THUD appropriations bill. However, I remain hopeful that this bill can be improved as it goes through the appropriations process and I will continue working with the Chairman as we move forward. I am confident that a new agreement on spending levels can give this bill and America’s transportation and housing infrastructure the resources that our national interest requires.###
06.02.2015	“It was with great shock and sorrow that my wife, Lisa, and I learned of Jonathan Howes’s death last Sunday morning. Jon and his wife, Mary, have been friends of ours for over 40 years, and compatriots in many endeavors.“Jon was the epitome of a public servant. We know first-hand of his accomplishments as Mayor of Chapel Hill, for Lisa worked as his assistant during those years. He served North Carolina for five years as Secretary of the Department of Environment, Health and Natural Resources. He directed the University of North Carolina’s Center for Urban and Regional Studies and later co-chaired development of the Campus Master Plan. He led nationally through the National Academy of Public Administration and the National Association of Regional Councils.“Through these decades of service to campus, community, state, and nation, Jon displayed a remarkable capacity to inspire and persuade, to collaborate and build consensus, and to give generously of himself. Chapel Hill recently recognized him as a Town Treasure, an apt designation for how many of us feel about Jon and our association with him.”###
06.01.2015	Raleigh, NC – Congressman David E. Price (NC-04), co-chair of the National Service Caucus, today announced $4.3 million in new federal grants for that will support AmeriCorps members serving throughout North Carolina. The grants are administered by the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS), the federal agency that oversees AmeriCorps. Over the past 20 years, more than 820,000 men and women have joined AmeriCorps, serving more than one billion hours with over 15,000 nonprofits, public agencies and faith-based organizations to address community needs across America. AmeriCorps has also built strong public-private partnerships and helped to harness the potential of millions of additional community volunteers. The competitive CNCS funding, totaling $1.03 million, will go to programs based in Chapel Hill, Greenville, and Greensboro. CNCS will also provide $3.32 million in funding to North Carolina Commission on Volunteerism and Community Service, the state government’s community service agency, to support additional community grants this summer. “I am pleased to announce these grants, which will provide support to hundreds of AmeriCorps members across North Carolina,” said Price. “AmeriCorps is one of the best investments the federal government makes – a relatively modest amount of funding pays back remarkable dividends in terms of community development and educational advancement.” Details on the grants can be found below. National College Advising Corps, Chapel Hill, NC$336,000 for 223 AmeriCorps members who will provide college advisement assistance, including help with college searches and applications, to low-income, first generation, underrepresented students. Operation LINK, East Carolina School of Education, Greenville, NC$253,826 for 65 AmeriCorps members who will leverage an additional 650 volunteers to provide mentoring services to approximately 1,980 military children and youth in after school programs in Craven, Cumberland, Onslow, and Wayne counties.AmeriCorps ACCESS Project, UNCG Office of Research Services, Greensboro, NC$447,456 for 64 AmeriCorps members who will provide employment services, interpretation services, disaster preparedness education, as well as recruit volunteers to assist immigrants and refugees so they can gain employment and obtain services within the state. North Carolina Commission on Volunteerism and Community Service, Raleigh, NC$3,324,305 to make additional grants to North Carolina nonprofits this summer. Raleigh, NC – Congressman David E. Price (NC-04), co-chair of the National Service Caucus, today announced $4.3 million in new federal grants for that will support AmeriCorps members serving throughout North Carolina. The grants are administered by the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS), the federal agency that oversees AmeriCorps. Over the past 20 years, more than 820,000 men and women have joined AmeriCorps, serving more than one billion hours with over 15,000 nonprofits, public agencies and faith-based organizations to address community needs across America. AmeriCorps has also built strong public-private partnerships and helped to harness the potential of millions of additional community volunteers. The competitive CNCS funding, totaling $1.03 million, will go to programs based in Chapel Hill, Greenville, and Greensboro. CNCS will also provide $3.32 million in funding to North Carolina Commission on Volunteerism and Community Service, the state government’s community service agency, to support additional community grants this summer. “I am pleased to announce these grants, which will provide support to hundreds of AmeriCorps members across North Carolina,” said Price. “AmeriCorps is one of the best investments the federal government makes – a relatively modest amount of funding pays back remarkable dividends in terms of community development and educational advancement.” Details on the grants can be found below. National College Advising Corps, Chapel Hill, NC$336,000 for 223 AmeriCorps members who will provide college advisement assistance, including help with college searches and applications, to low-income, first generation, underrepresented students.Operation LINK, East Carolina School of Education, Greenville, NC$253,826 for 65 AmeriCorps members who will leverage an additional 650 volunteers to provide mentoring services to approximately 1,980 military children and youth in after school programs in Craven, Cumberland, Onslow, and Wayne counties.AmeriCorps ACCESS Project, UNCG Office of Research Services, Greensboro, NC$447,456 for 64 AmeriCorps members who will provide employment services, interpretation services, disaster preparedness education, as well as recruit volunteers to assist immigrants and refugees so they can gain employment and obtain services within the state.North Carolina Commission on Volunteerism and Community Service, Raleigh, NC$3,324,305 to make additional grants to North Carolina nonprofits this summer.
05.27.2015	Congressman David E. Price (NC-04), senior Democratic Member and former Chairman of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, has announced two Fourth District awards from the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). Moncure Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $41,667 grant to purchase a new air compressor to fill self-contained breathing apparatus equipment, and the Office of the North Carolina Fire Marshal will receive $173,550 to make improvements to the state fire training school. “I am pleased that these organizations have secured funding to help improve fire and emergency service in the Fourth District,” said Price. “Whether supporting rural fire departments like Moncure FD or state-wide organizations like the North Carolina Fire Marshal’s Office, AFG grants are a critically important resource for first responders.” The AFG Grant Program is administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), a component of the Department of Homeland Security. These Fourth District grants were appropriated under the Fiscal Year 2014 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill, which Congressman Price negotiated as Ranking Democratic Member.Washington, DC -- Congressman David E. Price (NC-04), senior Democratic Member and former Chairman of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, has announced two Fourth District awards from the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). Moncure Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $41,667 grant to purchase a new air compressor to fill self-contained breathing apparatus equipment, and the Office of the North Carolina Fire Marshal will receive $173,550 to make improvements to the state fire training school. “I am pleased that these organizations have secured funding to help improve fire and emergency service in the Fourth District,” said Price. “Whether supporting rural fire departments like Moncure FD or state-wide organizations like the North Carolina Fire Marshal’s Office, AFG grants are a critically important resource for first responders.” The AFG Grant Program is administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), a component of the Department of Homeland Security. These Fourth District grants were appropriated under the Fiscal Year 2014 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill, which Congressman Price negotiated as Ranking Democratic Member.
05.20.2015	Washington, DC – During today’s full committee markup of the FY2016 Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations bill, Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) offered an amendment to increase funding for the National Science Foundation (NSF) to the levels requested in President Obama’s budget. This funding supports basic research, innovation, and economic growth. Congressman Price gave the following remarks in support of his amendment.“Mr. Chairman, my Amendment would address a critical shortfall in the underlying bill by increasing funding for National Science Foundation (NSF) research to the level requested by the President.“This amendment would require a revision of the sequestration-level caps, sooner rather than later, which is exactly what this appropriations committee should insist upon. This bill’s inadequacy with respect to our long-term national research endeavor is just one of the compelling reasons for breaking out of this Tea Party-imposed straitjacket.“In the 2010 America Competes Act, we committed to increase funding for NSF research to $6.6 billion by Fiscal Year 2013. The bill before us is way below that level. And later today, the majority’s COMPETES Act reauthorization bill will be on the House floor, authorizing next year’s NSF research budget $400 million below the 2013 Authorized level. Based on these differences, it would appear that this body’s commitment to scientific research has waned. “I have the privilege of representing the Research Triangle in Congress, but you don’t have to represent a high-tech district to understand the importance of scientific research to the American economy.“Economists estimate that nearly half the growth in America’s GDP since World War II is related to the development and adoption of new technologies. “And while private capital plays a key role in scientific research and development, federal investments are the bedrock of our nation’s R&D enterprise. About two-thirds of the nation’s basic research is directly supported by federal agencies.“NSF’s specialty is in basic research, research that may be slow and with outcomes that may be difficult to predict, but that serves as the catalyst for innovation.“Let’s not fool ourselves - Don’t think for a second that underfunding, or flat funding NSF and the basic research it supports will not harm other Federal research activities. The more applied research endeavors at NASA, NIH, and DOD depend on the foundational knowledge gained through NSF-supported research. This bill would continue that trend.“And there is an additional problem; the bill before us, in an unprecedented manner, disproportionately reduces funding for two NSF directorates - namely the Social, Behavioral and Economic Sciences and Geosciences directorates. At first, I planned to offer an amendment to challenge this, both procedurally and substantively. It is a bad idea to specify directorate funding in report language, as this bill does, and it is a bad idea to translate ideological attacks on social science and climate science into cuts in vital research in these areas.“All of this will need to be revisited as this bill proceeds. But for now, my amendment focuses our attention on the bigger picture; the dangers of declining commitment of a great nation to basic research and this bill’s failure to reverse that trend.“I urge support of my amendment.”
05.15.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) introduced the Keep Teachers Teaching Act (H.R. 2321), which would provide federal seed money to develop innovative teacher retention programs. The bill would also direct the Department of Education to identify the most promising teacher retention programs and share best practices with school districts around the country. H.R. 2321 is supported by the National Education Association and the American Association of Colleges for Teacher Education, and it has been co-sponsored by Congresswoman Alma Adams (D-NC), Congresswoman Corinne Brown (D-FL), Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), Congressman John Conyers (D-MI), Congressman Alcee Hastings (D-FL), Congressman Mike Honda (D-CA), Congressman Gregory Meeks (D-NY), and Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC).Experienced educators are critical to the success of our schools, but for the first time since the 1960s, teachers with 10 years of experience or less now constitute a majority of the teaching force. Some estimates show that the nation may lose as many as half of its teachers to retirement over the next decade, but research has found that a majority of teacher turnover is actually a result of job dissatisfaction resulting from poor working conditions, low pay, low morale, or lack of opportunities for advancement. The Keep Teachers Teaching Act would help reverse this trend by building upon the success of existing teacher retention programs, such as North Carolina’s Kenan Fellows program, with new programs nationwide.“During my Teacher Appreciation Week events last week, I heard time and time again that we must be doing everything we can to train and retain good teachers,” said Congressman Price. “That means providing them with the resources and support they need to thrive. I am hopeful that my bill will help state and local grantees to find innovative ways to improve teacher retention rates across the country.”Congressman Price, a former educator who taught public policy and political science at Duke University, has been a leader in Congress on legislation to improve the quality of public education by bringing teachers of the highest caliber into the profession and then keeping them in the classroom. He spearheaded a similar program at the National Science Foundation to promote innovation at community colleges. The Keep Teachers Teaching Act was first introduced in 2007.
05.14.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) delivered floor remarks during debate on the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act, which would allow Congress to review any final nuclear agreement with Iran.“I thank my colleague from Minnesota, and I rise today in cautious support of this legislation.“Our nuclear negotiators, with the cooperation of a fragile coalition of longstanding allies and new partners, have made historic progress toward preventing Iran from developing a nuclear weapon, a critical foreign policy imperative for our country.“We must continue to give diplomacy a chance and allow our negotiators to build on the framework agreement they negotiated earlier this spring.“Many of our colleagues in the House of Representatives agree, Mr. Speaker. Just last week, Congresswoman Schakowsky, Congressman Doggett, and I sent a letter to the President urging persistence in the negotiations, a letter that was signed by 148 of our colleagues.“Diplomacy isn’t just the best way of preventing a nuclear-armed Iran – it’s the only way. Opponents of the President’s efforts have yet to provide a single viable alternative to diplomacy short of military action, and military action, defense experts tell us, would only delay nuclear development for a few years.“While I can understand why some Members of the House and Senate insisted upon congressional review of a final deal with such historic implications, I have strongly refused to support legislation or other congressional intervention that was likely to drive Iran from the negotiating table or alienate our international partners. We must not set impossible goals for these negotiations or insist that every outstanding issue that our country has with Iran is resolved before the core nuclear issue can be addressed.“The bill before us, which is the product of a thoughtful compromise between Senator Corker and Senator Cardin, Republicans and Democrats, does none of these harmful things. It is free of riders designed to undermine the negotiations, and it provides a reasonable path forward that allows for Congress to weigh in on a final deal without setting it up for failure.“So I rise in cautious support of this bill because I believe that it clears the way for the President’s negotiators to do their job – to work with our international partners to secure a comprehensive, verifiable nuclear agreement that will prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon and thereby make the world a safer place.”
05.13.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement about Bill Guthridge.“Lisa and I have known Bill and his wife Leesie for many years. He had a remarkable career on the basketball court – two national championships in three decades alongside Dean Smith and two Final Four appearances in his three seasons as Carolina’s head coach. But I will remember him most strongly for his friendship and encouragement, and for his loyalty and devotion to the students he coached and to his neighbors in the Chapel Hill community. Lisa and I and many others will miss Bill’s good nature and generosity of spirit, and we are thinking of Leesie and his family at this time of loss.”###
05.08.2015	Raleigh, NC – Today, Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) attended a groundbreaking at Union Station, a new multi-modal transportation hub in downtown Raleigh. Congressman Price helped secure federal funding for the project, which is expected to be completed in early 2017. His remarks as prepared are below.“Hello everyone. I am pleased to be with you today to celebrate the City of Raleigh and the Union Station project groundbreaking! Let me take a moment to thank Carlos Monje from the Federal Railroad Administration and Jay McArthur from Amtrak for joining us in Raleigh today, and to also thank the rest of the distinguished group gathered here – including Governor McCrory, Secretary Tata, Mayor McFarlane, and friends from Triangle Transit, NCDOT, and the Council.“I am proud to represent Raleigh and the Triangle area, which has received well-deserved national recognition as a top place to live, work, raise a family, start a business and retire. We are determined to grow not just rapidly, but smartly. The plans we have put in place to promote sustainable growth require strong leadership, leadership with a tenacity and a collective will to get things done. That kind of leadership has been demonstrated by the City of Raleigh, from the Mayor and City Council, to the City management team, and the community at large. The Union Station project serves as a perfect example of this partnership with support coming from the City, Triangle Transit, and both the state and federal DOT.“Raleigh’s transit and train ridership are on the rise, and current Raleigh facilities are failing to meet the needs of users today, much less anticipated future growth. The multi-modal Union Station project is a well-designed and strategically located facility that will encourage and accommodate intermodal transportation, including local, regional, and intercity bus service, as well as Amtrak’s passenger rail service – moving at faster and faster speed – and future commuter and light rail. Today we share the excitement at the opportunities this transportation center will bring to Raleigh, and we eagerly anticipate its completion.“I am proud that this multi-modal project was awarded two of the very competitive federal TIGER grants. What this federal investment recognizes is that Raleigh’s Union Station signifies the wave of the future: an America that includes revitalized downtowns, increased mobility for people wherever they live and work, reduced traffic congestion and cleaner air, and smart public policy that brings all levels of government together in support of diverse modes of transportation. This project, like other TIGER transportation infrastructure investments, will pay dividends for our economy both now and in the future.“This project was also able to draw on some of the Recovery Act funds awarded to the state for the advancement of rail. These funds were awarded because of the commitment the state had shown to developing inter-city rail as a viable transportation alternative between Raleigh and Charlotte. Sometimes it seemed, as we said back then, that we were doing it “one grade crossing at a time.” But now serious work is underway, and need to resolve that Raleigh to Richmond, and on to Washington, is next!“This year I have begun serving as the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee that allocates funding for the Department of Transportation. I hope to use this position to champion TIGER, inter-city rail, and the other funding streams essential, along with state and local support, for this project. We must also support enhanced bus service, the New Starts program that helps communities develop transit systems, Amtrak and high-speed rail. We also need a long-term surface transportation authorization bill. The stakes for Raleigh and North Carolina are great – we’ve got to get moving!“That said, while federal support is going to be instrumental to modernizing our transportation infrastructure, I also know how important it is that we work closely with state and local officials on these priorities. That’s why I am encouraged that mass transit and rail have been included in Governor McCrory’s 25-year transportation plan, which I know Secretary Tata was instrumental in developing.“Secretary Tata and his team have kept me and others in our delegation informed about his Department’s progress toward realizing that vision. This is one area where Democrats and Republicans and state, local, and federal officials can all work together with advocates and outside organizations to help ensure that our transportation needs are met.“So I am happy to introduce Secretary Tata today, and I look forward to continued cooperation on Raleigh Union Station and many other projects. He is offering effective leadership, and it is significant and appropriate that he be here today to help launch this project.”###
05.07.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman David Price (D-N.C.),Congressman Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), and Senator Tom Udall (D-N.M.) announced that they have introduced legislation to reduce the influence of money in presidential elections by empowering candidates who decline support from wealthy special interests. With mega-donors exerting increasing influence on elections and increasing public disgust for out-of-control special interest electioneering, the Empowering Mass Participation to Offset the Wealthy’s Electoral Role (EMPOWER) Act would modernize the presidential public financing system to help publicly funded candidates compete. By increasing the government's match for small donations to 6:1, increasing the ability of political parties to financially support candidates and taking other important steps, the bill would help restore the public's trust that they — not a few wealthy donors — can affect the outcome of our presidential elections.The presidential public financing system is one of the country's most significant post-Watergate campaign finance reforms. It offers public matching funds to candidates who demonstrate their viability by raising small contributions. In exchange, participating candidates must abide by voluntary limits on private fundraising. Public financing has helped level the playing field for lesser-know presidential candidates, funding almost every presidential campaign for more than two decades. One of the original champions in Congress of public financing legislation was former U.S. Rep. Mo Udall (D-Ariz.), who ran for president in 1976. Several candidates have benefited, including President Ronald Reagan. But the program has not been updated since 1974, and it has become increasingly inadequate for modern, post-Citizens United presidential campaigns. “Presidential public financing was a landmark post-Watergate reform, but the system needs modernizing for the Super PAC era, when a few wealthy donors outspend millions of ordinary citizens,” Price said. “Empowering small-dollar donations with a matching system would be an important first step in taking our elections back from billionaires and corporations.”“With secret special interest spending reaching epic proportions in our electoral process, it is more important than ever to have a system that gives individual voters a voice,”Van Hollen said. “We will keep fighting to make our democracy more accountable to the American people, not well-heeled special interests.”“With the 2016 campaign already getting started, we urgently need a comprehensive plan to roll back big money in politics, which is why I’m leading the push to amend the Constitution to overturnCitizens United. But meanwhile, Congress must act to fix the presidential campaign financing system so it works for today’s candidates and grassroots donors,” Udall said. “Our democracy should be built on the power of ordinary citizens, not a few billionaires with huge checkbooks. But when it comes to presidential elections, one look at recent headlines shows that’s no longer the case. By empowering voters to impact elections, we can restore faith in our democracy and encourage even more people to participate. My uncle Mo Udall was a champion for public campaign financing in the wake of the Watergate scandal, and I'm proud to follow in his footsteps by pushing for this reform.”The EMPOWER Act would modernize the public financing system by increasing public matching funds available to candidates and enhancing the role of donors who contribute $250 or less by increasing the match to 6:1 (from 1:1). The bill would also eliminate spending limits on participating candidates, require publicly funded candidates to agree to accept contributions of no more than $1,000, empower national parties to compete alongside Super PACs by allowing them to make unlimited expenditures for publicly funded candidates, ensure candidates have broad support to qualify for public financing by requiring them to first raise a minimum amount to qualify for the program, and increase funding for the program through the voluntary income tax “check-off.”Several leading campaign finance reform organizations support the legislation, including Brennan Center for Justice, Campaign Legal Center, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, Common Cause, Democracy 21, Issue One, League of Women Voters, People For the American Way, and Public Citizen. The New York Times editorial board has endorsed several ideas to reform the presidential public financing system, many of which are incorporated into the bill. Core Provisions of the Empowering Mass Participation to Offset the Wealthy’s Electoral Role (EMPOWER) Act- Eliminates spending limits on participating candidates: Candidate spending limits are no longer viable in the wake of Citizens United since outside groups can now make unlimited expenditures funded by unlimited contributions to oppose candidates. There would be a limit on the total amount of matching contributions available to a presidential candidate, to avoid draining public funds. - Increases the amount of matching funds for participating candidates: The first $250 of contributions by individuals to presidential candidates would be matched with public funds at a 6:1 ratio, increased from the current 1:1 match. For example, a candidate participating in the system would receive $1,500 in public funds for a $250 contribution, and would end up with a total of $1,750. This would provide important new incentives for citizens to give and for candidates to seek small donations from supporters.- Requires participating candidates to agree to accept contributions of no more than $1,000: The current individual contribution limit of $2,700 per donor, per election, would be reduced to $1,000 per donor, per election, for candidates who participate in the system. The present contribution limit would remain unchanged for candidates who do not participate in the system.- Empowers national parties to compete alongside Super PAC dollars:In order to allow candidates to respond to a deluge of Super PAC dollars, national parties could make unlimited expenditures in coordination with candidates participating in the system, provided the unlimited expenditures were made from a pool of contributions raised by the party that was limited to $1,000 per donor, per year. - Ensures candidates have broad support to qualify for public financing:To qualify for public financing, a presidential candidate would have to raise a threshold amount of individual contributions — totaling $25,000 in each of 20 states — counting only the first $250 of any individual contribution toward the threshold.- Increases funding for the presidential campaign financing system: The bill would increase the current voluntary income tax “check-off” amount from $3 to $20 per individual and from $6 to $40 for a married couple, and index these amounts for inflation. Additionally, the bill would allow Americans, through their taxes, to donate to the public financing system fund.###
05.06.2015	Raleigh, NC– This week, Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) has planned a series of events in celebration of National Small Business Week. On Tuesday, May 5, Congressman Price visited small businesses in Mebane with Mayor Glendel Stephenson and in Graham with Mayor Jerry Peterman. On Wednesday, May 6, he will tour American Underground Raleigh and meet with entrepreneurs from Raleigh and Durham. On Thursday, May 7, he will give remarks at The Support Center’s Small Business Week Awards Luncheon in Raleigh and tour several small businesses in Southeast Raleigh. On Friday, May 7, he will have lunch with small business owners from Cumberland County at Off the Hook Taco in Fayetteville.“Small businesses are the backbone of the economy, both in the Fourth District and around the country,” said Congressman Price. “My events this week will give me an opportunity to hear directly from small business owners and entrepreneurs about how the federal government can better serve their needs and support their growth.”Details for the events are below. All events are open press. Mebane Small Business VisitsMebane, NC Tuesday, May 5, 20159:00 AM – 10:15 AM Graham Small Business VisitsGraham, NCTuesday, May 5, 201512:00 PM – 1:30 PM American Underground Entrepreneur VisitAmerican Underground Raleigh213 Fayetteville Street, Raleigh, NCWednesday, May 6, 20152:00 PM – 3:00 PM Small Business Awards LuncheonMarriott Crabtree Valley 4500 Marriott Drive, Raleigh, NCThursday, May 7, 201511:30 AM – 1:00 PM Southeast Raleigh Small Business Visit918 Rock Quarry Road, Raleigh, NCThursday, May 7, 20151:30 PM – 2:30 PM Lunch with Cumberland County Small Business OwnersOff the Hook Taco124 Hay Street, Fayetteville, NCFriday, May 8, 20151:30 PM – 2:45 PM###
05.05.2015	Raleigh, NC– This week, Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) has planned a series of events in celebration of Teacher Appreciation Week. On Tuesday, May 5, national Teacher Appreciation Day, Price presented a commemorative flag at Cummings High School to Mrs. Aeron Sizemore, the 2014 Alamance-Burlington School System teacher of the year. He also met with Mr. Kent Byrd, Executive Director of Secondary School Leadership for the Alamance-Burlington School System.On Wednesday, May 6, he will offer remarks at a meeting of the Wake County Retired School Personnel in Raleigh regarding federal efforts to reauthorize the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. On Friday, May 8, he will meet with the final graduating class of North Carolina Teaching Fellows from Meredith College and N.C. State University, and he will host a Teacher Appreciation Week reception with Cumberland County educators in Fayetteville. The reception is open to all Cumberland County teachers and administrators.“I come from a family of educators, so I know how important great teachers are to fulfilling our promise as a state and a nation,” said Congressman Price. “I look forward to hearing about the priorities of educators across the Fourth District during Teacher Appreciation Week.”Details for the events are below.Cummings High School Visit Burlington, NC Tuesday, May 5, 201510:30 AM – 11:45 AM Wake County Retired School Personnel MeetingRaleigh, NCWednesday, May 6, 201511:30 AM – 12:45 PM Meredith & NCSU Teaching Fellows MeetingMeredith College, Raleigh, NCFriday, May 8, 20159:00 AM – 10:00 AM Cumberland County Educator ReceptionThe Sweet Palette, Fayetteville, NCFriday, May 8, 20153:30 PM – 5:00 PM# # #
04.30.2015	Washington, DC– Today, Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) introduced the Online Credit Card Disclosure Act, which would require credit card companies to inform consumers about the risks associated with minimum debt payments by regularly publishing clear, personalized, pay-down disclosures online. This bill follows up on an earlier law that requires such disclosures be made on paper statements distributed to consumers.“The impact of unmanageable debt is significant for both individual families and the public at large. Many creditors employ confusing minimum payment practices that keep consumers locked in a cycle of debt,” said Congressman Price. “The resources that this bill offers have proven to help credit card consumers pay down and manage their credit card debt, and it makes sense to extend them online as consumers move online to manage their credit card accounts.” This legislation would ensure that consumers are educated about responsibly paying down their debt by giving them more transparent access to:· Disclosure that making only the minimum monthly payment will increase the total amount of interest they pay· The total cost, including interest payments, of paying only monthly minimum payments on their credit card balance· Quarterly assessments of the monthly payment they must make pay off their current balance in 12 months, 24 months, and 36 months· Access to credit counseling and debt management services via a toll-free telephone numberThese resources are already available on paper statements under a provision Rep. Price authored in the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights Act (Credit CARD Act) of 2009. Extending these provisions online will ensure that all consumers are able to make responsible decisions about paying down their debt.# # #
04.23.2015	Washington, DC– Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement on the confirmation of Loretta Lynch, a North Carolina native, as U.S. Attorney General.“I congratulate Loretta Lynch on her historic confirmation as the first female African-American U.S. Attorney General. Today’s bipartisan vote was a validation of Ms. Lynch’s sterling qualifications and marks the end of politicized attempts by Senate Republican leadership to stand in the way of her nomination.“I wish Ms. Lynch the very best as she prepares to take office. The patience, thoughtfulness, and good nature she demonstrated throughout her unnecessarily long nomination process will serve her well as she takes the helm at the Department of Justice.”
04.22.2015	Washington, DC– Today, Congressman David E. Price offered an amendment to provide an additional $15 million for Department of Veterans Affairs research into traumatic brain injury, PTSD, prosthetics, and other critical areas in the FY 2016 Military Construction-Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill. Congressman Price’s amendment passed the House Appropriations Committee by unanimous vote.“I am pleased that the Appropriations Committee passed my amendment, which will provide critical support to VA research programs in mental and physical health and prosthetics,” said Congressman Price. “This additional funding will help ensure that current veterans have access to the highest quality of care and could allow for medical innovation that will benefit future generations of veterans and civilians.” Congressman Price’s amendment will now be included in the FY 2016 Military Construction-Veterans Affairs funding bill, which will come before the full House of Representatives in the coming weeks.
04.22.2015	Chapel Hill, NC -- Congressman David Price (NC-04) announced today his schedule of “Neighborhood Office Hours,” which allow him to meet personally with constituents in communities throughout the Fourth District to answer questions about his work in Washington and help them resolve any issues they are having with the federal government. These Neighborhood Office Hours are part of a series of outreach events Congressman Price will be conducting this spring in all seven counties in the Fourth District, including the four Town Hall Meetings he held in March and April.The first two Neighborhood Office Hours will be held this Saturday, April 25, in Durham and Pittsboro. The second two will be held in Lillington on May 2 and in Raleigh on May 16. These events are open to the public and members of the media; no appointments are required. Full event details are below. Durham Neighborhood Office HoursSaturday, April 25, 10:00 AM - 12:00 PMSouth Regional Library4505 S. Alston Avenue, Durham, NC Pittsboro Neighborhood Office HoursSaturday, April 25, 1:00 PM - 3:00 PMChatham County Courthouse and Museum12 East Street, Pittsboro, NC Lillington Neighborhood Office HoursSaturday, May 2, 10:00 AM - 12:00 PMHarnett County Public Library601 South Main Street, Lillington, NC Raleigh Neighborhood Office HoursSaturday, May 16, 1:00 PM - 3:00 PMQuail Ridge Books & MusicRidgewood Shopping Center3522 Wade Avenue, Raleigh, NC # # #
04.21.2015	Washington, DC– Congressman David Price (NC-04) announced the winners of the Fourth District Congressional Art Competition, which brings together talented high school artists from across the district, at a reception last night in Raleigh.Rachel Geoffrion of C.E. Jordan High School in Durham took first place in the competition with her photograph, “Liminality”. C.E. Jordan photography teacher Erin Ryan mentored Geoffrion.“As an enthusiastic supporter of arts education, I was pleased to see so many excellent entries in this year’s Art Competition,” Congressman Price said. “The truly impressive quality of the drawings, paintings, and photographs submitted by these students reflects their talent and hard work and the commitment of their teachers.”Later this year, Art Competition winners from around the country will come to Washington for the formal awards ceremony and the unveiling of the exhibit featuring their work. The winning entries will hang in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Art from other students placing in the competition will be displayed in Congressman Price’s Washington office and district offices.Placing in the competition were:· 1st Rachel Geoffrion, C.E. Jordan High School, Durham, NCArt Teacher – Erin RyanTitle of Entry – “Liminality”Medium – Photography· 2nd Francesca Mule, Westover High School, Fayetteville, NCArt Teacher – Namera GraybealTitle of Entry – “I See Right Through You”Medium – Micron Pen· 3rd Sydney Vaught, Athens Drive High School, Raleigh, NCArt Teacher – Margaret RothTitle of Entry – “Generation Z”Medium – Digital Art· 4th Margaret Allen, Cardinal Gibbons High School, Raleigh, NCArt Teacher – Rebecca DasonTitle of Entry – “Lack of Ambition”Medium – Acrylic paint· 5th Grace Li, Enloe Magnet High School, Raleigh, NCArt Teacher – Ray PuckettTitle of Entry – “Portrait of my Sister”Medium – Acrylic paint###
04.16.2015	Washington, DC– Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement about Dr. Scott Ralls, who announced today that he will leave the North Carolina community college system after seven years as its President.“President Ralls has been an exemplary leader of North Carolina’s community college system, which is one of our state’s greatest educational assets. He guided the system through the economic downturn and state budget cuts and oversaw a period of remarkable growth. Thanks to his tireless efforts, thousands of North Carolinians have had the opportunity to obtain the education and training they need to realize their full potential.“I thank Dr. Ralls for his years of service to North Carolina, and I wish him the very best at Northern Virginia Community College.”###
04.06.2015	Chapel Hill, N.C. – Congressman David Price (NC-04) announced that he will host town hall meetings this week in Raleigh and Chapel Hill to provide an update on developments in Washington and take questions from constituents. Staff from his office will also be on hand to provide assistance to constituents experiencing problems with federal agencies and programs, such as the Department of Veterans Affairs, Social Security, or Medicare. The town hall meetings are open to all Fourth District residents.These meetings are part of a series of events that will take place this spring in all seven counties in the Fourth Congressional District. In addition to town halls in Fayetteville, Burlington, Raleigh, and Chapel Hill, Congressman Price plans to host “neighborhood office hours” in Raleigh, Durham, Pittsboro, and Lillington in the coming weeks. Details for these events will be released at a later date. Raleigh Town HallTuesday, April 7, 6:30-8:00 PMHalifax Community Center1023 Halifax Street, Raleigh, NC Chapel Hill Town HallThursday, April 9, 7:30-9:00 PMEast Chapel Hill High School500 Weaver Dairy Road, Chapel Hill, NC# # #
04.02.2015	Raleigh, NC– Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement responding to NC Senate Bill 181, which creates new Wake County Commission districts."Senate Bill 181, a blatantly partisan power grab by Republicans in the General Assembly, is another egregious example of state lawmakers redrawing district maps to marginalize Democratic and minority voters. This legislation brings the statewide scourge of gerrymandering to the local level, attempting to reverse the verdict of the voters and to win by manipulating districts that Republicans couldn't win at the ballot box. Wake County residents should have more say in their elections than the Republican Caucus in the General Assembly. Governor McCrory and state lawmakers should focus on finalizing a budget that works for all North Carolinians, not meddling in local politics."
03.27.2015	Washington, DC – Representatives David Price (NC-04), Alma S. Adams (NC-12), and G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) today sent a letter urging North Carolina’s two U.S. Senators to support Loretta Lynch, who is a North Carolina native, in her nomination for U.S. Attorney General. Senators Burr and Tillis previously announced their opposition to Lynch’s nomination.The Senate has yet to move forward with a vote on the floor on Lynch’s nomination and does not come back into session until April 13th. Lynch has now waited longer than the last seven U.S. Attorneys General combined to have a floor vote in the U.S. Senate. During her nomination hearing, Loretta Lynch endured more than eight hours of testimony and has since responded to nearly 900 questions entered into the Congressional record.“I just don’t understand how Senators Burr and Tillis could not support this North Carolina native,” said Congresswoman Adams. “Her resume is impeccable and she is rightly positioned to be our U.S. Attorney General. With every week that passes, our nation is denied a leader to the highest law enforcement post in the country. I urge Senators Burr and Tillis to do what is right by our State and our country, and support Loretta Lynch for Attorney General.”“Loretta Lynch is abundantly qualified to serve as the next Attorney General, and the time she has waited to receive a simple up-or-down vote on her nomination is unprecedented,” said Congressman Butterfield. “Ms. Lynch deserves the support of Senators Burr and Tillis. Their support stands to be deciding factors in whether or not she will make history as the first African American woman to serve as United States Attorney General.” “The broad bipartisan support for Ms. Lynch’s nomination reflects her distinguished record as a U.S. Attorney and excellent testimony in her confirmation hearing,” said Congressman Price. “Our North Carolina Senators are uniquely familiar with her character and credentials, and they have every reason to support her. I hope they will agree with their Republican and Democratic colleagues that she is extremely well-qualified for the position of Attorney General when her nomination comes before the full Senate for a vote.”In their letter to Senators Burr and Tillis, the Representatives wrote, “We recognize that as members of the Senate it is your duty to ensure that our Attorney General meets the qualifications for this important position. This is a sacred duty that must be taken seriously. That is why we ask that you judge Ms. Lynch’s nomination solely on her qualifications and not allow partisan distractions to cloud your judgements.”
03.18.2015	Washington, DC -- Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement on the violence in Tunisia. Congressman Price is a co-chair of the bipartisan House Democracy Partnership, which provides parliamentary assistance and training for lawmakers in developing democracies, including Tunisia. "I am disturbed and saddened by the violence in Tunisia today. This act of terrorism was clearly intended to threaten the peace and stability that have made Tunisia the greatest success story of the Arab Spring to date. I was privileged to witness firsthand the successful presidential elections last year as an international election observer, and I know that the Tunisian people are rightly proud of the robust young democracy they have created. The United States and the international community must stand by the Tunisians as they work to overcome this senseless violence and continue to build on the promise of the Arab Spring."
03.05.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Price (NC-04) announced that he will host town hall meetings next week in Fayetteville and Burlington to provide an update on developments in Washington and take questions from constituents. Staff from his office will also be on hand to provide assistance to constituents experiencing problems with federal agencies and programs, such as the Department of Veterans Affairs, Social Security, or Medicare. The town hall meetings are open to all Fourth District residents.“As the 114th Congress gets underway, it is important for me to hear what’s on my constituents’ minds and keep them informed of my work on their behalf," Price said. "I encourage any Fourth District resident who wants to share his or her views or is experiencing problems with a federal agency to join me.”These are the first in a series of planned events that will take place this spring in all seven counties in the Fourth Congressional District. Congressman Price will also be hosting town hall meetings in Raleigh and Chapel Hill and “neighborhood office hours” in Raleigh, Durham, Pittsboro, and Lillington. Details for these events will be released at a later date. Fayetteville Town HallMonday, March 9, 6:00-7:30 PME.E. Smith High School Auditorium1800 Seabrook Road, Fayetteville, NC Burlington Town HallTuesday, March 10, 6:00-7:30 PMCrump Village Education and Resource Center1211 Chandler Court, Burlington, NC # # #
03.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House passed a Fiscal Year 2015 Appropriations bill for the Department of Homeland Security, narrowly averting a full agency shutdown. Congressman David Price, who previously served as Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement about the bill’s passage.“I am pleased that after months of unnecessary brinksmanship, Speaker Boehner finally allowed a vote on a clean, full-year funding bill for the Department of Homeland Security. Not surprisingly, the bill passed with wide bipartisan support, much as it did in the Senate.“As Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee through 2014, I negotiated this legislation in the last Congress with Republican and Democratic colleagues from the House and Senate. I am pleased that its responsible funding decisions will now become law, providing critical support for national security priorities like White House security, first responder and anti-terror grants, drug and human trafficking interdiction, and immigration enforcement.“This shutdown controversy, while great political theater, was completely unnecessary and avoidable. Beginning with the “Cromnibus” negotiations in December, I have continuously called for the Speaker to let us vote on this bill, and I am glad that he finally decided to stop bending to the demands of the most radical conservatives in his party. Today was a good day for the Appropriations process and for the safety and security of the American people. I thank Speaker Boehner for finally taking the right course of action.”###
02.27.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) formally announced his nominees for appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, and the Naval Academy.“Nominating promising young leaders to our nation's Service Academies is one of the most rewarding aspects of my job as a congressman,” said Price. “Their commitment to public service at such a young age is truly admirable.”Young people who are interested in attending one of the service academies may apply directly and also may seek a nomination from their US Representative and US Senators. After receiving nominations from Members of Congress, admissions authorities at each institution determine which nominees will receive appointments. Rep. Price invited all the Fourth District nominees and their families to a reception in their honor at his Raleigh district office earlier this week.Students interested in a nomination should contact Robyn Winneberger in Rep. Price's Raleigh office (919-859-5999) in the spring of their junior year in high school. More information on the nomination process and eligibility requirements is available on Rep. Price's "Service Academy Nominations" webpage.A complete list of local service academy nominees is below. Naval AcademyBraden Barnett Walter DanielsChristian DouglasEthan R. FoyBlake HoldenMegan HuberDaniel JohnstonJoshua MitchellDonovan Recny Jonathan Tran U.S. Air Force AcademyAdreas AdellAlex DanchiPervis LouderJames ScottChristian Ulrici Merchant Marine AcademyMelissa McBrideFallon WulffElyscia Brown U.S. Military Academy (West Point)Samuel BlobeGiuseppe GuarinoKylie MattinglyIshmael P. McGintyDrew RoeberErik SerauskasTemuulen Sodgerel ###
02.25.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement regarding next week’s address to Congress by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.“I do not plan to attend Prime Minister Netanyahu’s address to Congress next month. I make this decision without regard for policy agreement or disagreement; I have often attended such addresses by leaders, including Prime Minister Netanyahu, with whom I have disagreed. My reason, rather, is that this address should not be occurring in the first place, and abstention from attendance is therefore a particularly appropriate response. Speaker Boehner should never have extended the invitation, given the proximity of the speech to Israel’s national elections and the fact that delicate international negotiations, which the Prime Minister wishes to upend, are hanging in the balance. And Prime Minister Netanyahu should never have accepted the invitation, which was extended without the usual consultation of bipartisan leadership and the normal notification of and consultation with the President. “I remain a strong and steadfast supporter of the US-Israeli security relationship, and of a negotiated two-state agreement that allows Israel and the Palestinians to live side-by-side in peace. Despite occasional political disagreements, I have met with dozens of Israeli leaders in furtherance of the values and interests that unite our two countries. Just last month, prior to Speaker Boehner’s invitation, I had an extensive conversation with Ambassador Dermer in my Washington office. An open dialogue is fundamental to our special relationship with Israel, and I will always be ready to engage in these important conversations with Israeli leaders from across the political spectrum.”###
02.19.2015	Washington, DC -- Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released the following statement about former Congressman Cass Ballenger."Cass Ballenger and I entered Congress at the same time, and we worked together on many bipartisan initiatives. He was a very effective legislator for Western North Carolina, well-informed and politically agile, but with a gentlemanly demeanor and a wonderful sense of humor. Cass and I also shared a strong interest in international affairs, and the work that he did both in Congress and on behalf of his foundation greatly benefited developing democracies in Haiti, Honduras, and Nicaragua."
02.19.2015	Washington, DC -- Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) released a statement about the UNC Board of Governors' decision to close three of the university centers."I am extremely disappointed that the UNC Board of Governors plans to close UNC Chapel Hill's Center on Poverty, Work and Opportunity, ECU's Center for Biodiversity, and NC Central's Institute for Civic Engagement and Social Change. With this announcement, the Board of Governors has once again made clear that it will not hesitate to put politics above the university system's long tradition of independence and diversity of opinion. This ill-advised decision may appease the majority in the General Assembly, but it also threatens the reputation of the UNC system and thereby violates the Board's mission of protecting our state's greatest educational asset."###
02.11.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman David Price (NC-04) released the following statement about the shooting of three students in Chapel Hill.“I join our community in shock and sorrow at the shooting of three students in Chapel Hill last night, and in the desire to reach out to the families, friends, and classmates of the victims.“This appalling act of violence has shaken our community's sense of peace and reminded us once again that we still face serious barriers to mutual acceptance. We must redouble our efforts to bridge the gaps of intolerance and hatred that divide our society.” ###
02.09.2015	"North Carolina lost one of its most accomplished and admirable citizens yesterday. Dean Smith will long be remembered for his historic successes as coach of the Tar Heels, for the genius and also the integrity he brought to college basketball. He was also a powerful force for good in the community, working actively and courageously for civil rights and equal justice throughout his life."I have known Dean since my student days, when he was a beginning coach and an active member of Binkley Baptist Church, a fledgling congregation focused on social justice. I was honored to join his family at the White House in 2013,when he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom. The intervening years mark a remarkable career, a life well-lived, and thousands of lives positively shaped and influenced."
02.05.2015	In response to recent aviation tragedies, Congressman David E. Price (D-NC) and Congressman John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) re-introduced two bills Thursday to prevent lengthy searches for missing airliners by improving flight tracking and the recovery of in-flight data.The Safe Aviation Flight Emergency Tracking (SAFE-T) Act would direct the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to require passenger aircraft to be equipped with technology to better identify and track instances when aircraft experience abnormalities or distress and to more quickly recover information when accidents occur.The Safe Aviation Flight Enhancement (SAFE) Act would require the installation of floating “Black Box” data recorders on domestic commercial aircraft. These recorders, which are already used in military aircraft around the world, eject on impact and immediately transmit a signal identifying the location of a crash site, thereby enabling quick recovery of missing aircraft and data critical to investigations.“Unfortunately, the recent searches for Malaysia Airlines 370 and AirAsia 8501 are just the latest reminders of how desperately aviation recovery reforms are needed,” said Congressman Price. “These bills would vastly improve our ability to learn from aircraft in distress and would all but eliminate costly and dangerous searches for downed planes.”“Had Malaysia 370 been equipped with a deployable flight recorder, it would have likely led to the plane’s discovery and provided closure for the families of those onboard,” said Congressman Duncan. “It also could have saved many millions of dollars in search costs that are still being accrued and possibly provide answers critical to preventing a future crash.”The SAFE Act and SAFE-T Act would address several issues recently identified by the National Transportation Safety Board and bring domestic aviation regulations in line with international standards. Congressman Duncan and Congressman Price first introduced the SAFE Act in the 108th Congress and the SAFE-T Act in the 113th Congress. Both bills have been referred to the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure’s Subcommittee on Aviation.
01.22.2015	Washington, DC –This week, to mark the fifth anniversary of the Citizens United decision, Congressman David Price (NC-04) and Chris Van Hollen (MD-08) reintroduced the Empowering Citizens Act (H.R. 424), designed to modernize the presidential public financing system, to institute public matching of small contributions for congressional campaigns, and to stem the growing influence of individual-candidate Super PACs by further restricting their direct affiliation with campaigns. This bill is part of House and Senate Democrats’ Defend Democracy Legislative Package, comprised of campaign finance reform legislation introduced in the House and Senate. “On this shameful anniversary, we are reminded that Congress can and should take action to reverse the dangerous onslaught of outside money in our elections,” said Congressman Price. “It will take a more favorable Supreme Court or a constitutional amendment to undo all of the damage wrought by Citizens United and related decisions, but passing a bill like the Empowering Citizens Act would be considerable progress toward restoring our campaign finance infrastructure.”“In the wake of the Supreme Court’s decision in Citizens United and the ongoing effort of secret special interests to buy our democracy, the Empowering Citizens Act is an important piece of our work to ensure that individual voters have a voice in the electoral process,” said Congressman Van Hollen. “We will keep fighting for passage of both this and the DISCLOSE Act – together, this legislation will shine a light on outside money and ensure that our democracy is beholden to the American people and not well-heeled special interests.”H.R. 424 would allow candidates to focus on small-dollar donors by creating a 6-to-1 matching system for small donations. Additionally, the bill would blunt the impact of Super PACs unleashed by Citizens United by strengthening anti-coordination rules to ensure that Super PACs are truly independent and not acting as an arm of a candidate’s campaign to skirt election contribution laws.The Empowering Citizens Act has been referred to the Committee on House Administration for consideration. Congressmen Price and Van Hollen have also reintroduced the anti-coordination provisions as a separate, stand-alone bill (H.R. 425).
01.22.2015	Washington, DC –Today, Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) announced that he has been named Ranking Democratic Member of the House Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (T-HUD) Appropriations Subcommittee, pending approval from the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee. Price will lead the Subcommittee alongside newly-appointed Chairman Mario Diaz-Balart, Republican of Florida.“I am excited to take this leadership position on the T-HUD Subcommittee,” said Congressman Price. “The programs that this bill supports – including infrastructure, transportation, and affordable housing projects – are critical priorities for the Triangle and the rest of the country. I look forward to my new assignment and collaborating with Chairman Diaz-Balart on effective, bipartisan T-HUD appropriations legislation, as well as continuing my work as a senior member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee.”The T-HUD Subcommittee oversees appropriations for the Department of Transportation and the Department of Housing and Urban Development, comprising $53.8 billion in discretionary spending for Fiscal Year 2015. As Ranking Member, Congressman Price will lead Democratic efforts to negotiate appropriate funding levels and programmatic priorities for future bills.
01.16.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman David E. Price (NC-04) and Congressman Leonard Lance (NJ-07) are pleased to announce that they will serve as Co-Chairs of the Congressional Humanities Caucus in the 114th Congress.The Congressional Humanities Caucus, which was created in the 108th Congress, is a bipartisan group of Members committed to promoting the humanities. The Caucus works closely with academic and civic organizations to support the humanities and social sciences. The Caucus also helps Members and staff navigate the various federal humanities programs that enrich American intellectual and cultural life -- from the National Endowment for the Humanities and National Historic Publications and Records Commission to the Institute of Museum and Library Services and the Smithsonian Institution.“As a former political science professor, I know that the humanities are an important part of our national identity,even in the age of the iPhone,” said Congressman Price. “These disciplines shape our cultural and intellectual lives, providing a context for current policy debates and helping us understand our place in the world. I am pleased that Congressman Lance will join me in chairing the Caucus this Congress, and I hope that we find new opportunities to bring attention to the contribution that the humanities and social sciences make to American culture.” “The humanities are forever engrained in our nation’s fabric and the Caucus seeks to honor, promote and educate the country on the roots of our culture,” said Congressman Lance. “Some of the greatest art, music, poetry and prose come from the American imagination. We must give current and future generations the support to learn the past in order to guide the future, conquer new genres and advance these major elements of our national life. I look forward to working with Congressman Price on this new endeavor.”Congressman Price formerly taught political philosophy and ethics at Duke University. In addition to co-chairing the Congressional Humanities Caucus for the past several years, he has been a longtime advocate for the arts. As a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, he has worked to protect funding for the National Endowment for the Humanities and the National Endowment for the Arts.Congressman Lance also serves as the Co-Chair of the Congressional Arts Caucus. He served on the New Jersey Council on the Humanities and was a trustee of the Newark Museum and the McCarter Theatre in Princeton. He previously chaired the annual Congressional Art Contest, a national competition for high school artists judged by Members of the House of Representatives.
01.16.2015	Chapel Hill -- Congressman David Price (NC-04) released the following statement about the resignation of UNC System President Tom Ross."I am shocked and troubled by the news that Tom Ross has been asked to resign as President of the UNC System by its Board of Governors. He has done an outstanding job shepherding our state’s greatest educational asset through a tumultuous period and preparing its students for continued excellence in spite of serious financial constraints."Tom is a personal friend, and I know him to be a man of great integrity and vision. I am baffled by the Board’s decision to forgo his leadership at such a critical point in the UNC System’s history and concerned about the signal it sends regarding our state’s commitment to higher education."
01.13.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman David Price (NC-04), Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, delivered the following floor statement about the Republican proposal to fund the Department of Homeland Security.“Mr. Chairman, the bill before us today, funding the Department of Homeland Security for FY2015, has been ready for final passage for almost two months. I want to thank Chairman Carter and our Senate counterparts, as well as our dedicated committee staff, for working cooperatively through November and December to negotiate a comprehensive and balanced measure. “Chairman Carter has summarized the underlying bill very well. It provides necessary funding increases for the Secret Service to hire new agents for the 2016 Presidential campaign, as well as to make necessary security adjustments at the White House. It provides increased funding for the completion of the Coast Guard’s 8th National Security Cutter, $813 million more in disaster relief funding at FEMA, and funding for NPPD’s efforts to continue enhancing our national cybersecurity capabilities.“But it pains me to say, Mr. Speaker, that all of these positive efforts stand in stark contrast to the poison pill amendments that the Rules Committee has made in order for this bill – amendments designed to inject partisan anti-immigration politics into a bipartisan effort to keep our nation safe.“Unfortunately, there is nothing new about adding highly inflammatory riders to appropriations bills in a way that wrecks months of cooperative work and makes bipartisan support impossible. We’ve seen this in middle-of-the-night Homeland Security anti-immigration amendments for two years running. But today we are seeing the most egregious and irresponsible abuse of the appropriations process yet.“Republican leaders have already delayed a full-year funding bill for Homeland Security by nearly a month longer than for the rest of the government, despite the fact that this bill was fully negotiated and ready for consideration well before the omnibus bill was assembled at the end of the last Congress. Now, more than a quarter of the way through the fiscal year, the Republican leadership is continuing to play dangerous and irresponsible games with the funding of this department, a department that was created to protect the nation from terrorist attacks.“Members are aware of the horrendous murders of 17 individuals last week in France by terrorists. That is an alarming example of the kind of brutal and calculated attack that the Department of Homeland Security and its law enforcement partners are working hard to prevent here in the United States. It’s the kind of attack that keeps Secretary Johnson up at night and that should keep us up at night as well. This alone should make it unthinkable to dawdle on a full-year funding bill for the Department of Homeland Security.“Last Sunday, three million people participated in unity marches in France. But we are sending a very different message by delaying Homeland Security funding. Here we are, six days removed from a heinous terrorist act, and instead of immediately sending the President a bipartisan bill designed to keep the nation safe, we are tacking on politically charged items that will rightfully ensure a veto.“Now, Mr. Chairman, some members seem to be under the mistaken impression that departments and agencies make out just fine under a Continuing Resolution. Perhaps some members even believe that it would be okay for the Department’s funding to expire for some amount of time beginning in late February so they could underscore the political point they want to make. That is a patently false assumption. In a few weeks, the fiscal year 2016 budget will be submitted by the President, and DHS still doesn’t know how much money it will be spending in 2015. How can we expect a department to effectively budget if it has no idea what the baseline will be for its programs and activities? How can we expect an agency to effectively function when the availability of funding for critical new endeavors is undetermined for a quarter of the fiscal year or more? How can we as a Congress even perform effective oversight when we force ourselves to simultaneously finish FY15 spending as we consider the FY16 request?“Ironically, the two agencies that stand to lose the most from this flawed Republican strategy are the very agencies most responsible for immigration enforcement – Customs and Border Protection and Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Under the House bill, these two agencies combined would receive nearly $1 billion more than the current spending levels which a CR would reflect. Republicans, however, appear more interested in scoring political points than actually making progress along the border.“The apparent intent of the House majority in holding back full-year funding for DHS is to help them reverse the President’s executive actions on immigration policy. But how will that really play out? Without 60 votes in the Senate, the bill will go nowhere. Even if the Senate were able to pass the bill with the poison pill riders intact, the President would certainly veto it, with absolutely no chance that the House or the Senate could override that veto.“So what is left of the majority’s strategy? Would the Republican majorities in the House and Senate really be willing to let funding for the Department of Homeland Security lapse when the short-term Continuing Resolution expires? “The vast majority of DHS employees are considered essential, so they would still need to show up for work. Will the House majority really be willing to let front-line agents and officers at CBP and ICE work without pay? Would the House majority be willing to let Coast Guard military personnel continue to risk their lives at sea without compensation? Imagine the outrage if a Democratic Congress ever held funding for the Department of Homeland Security hostage during the George W. Bush Administration – yet that is precisely what House Republicans are doing with these poison pill amendments made in order under the rule. And, believe me, these pills really are poison. They cater to the Republican Conference’s most extreme elements. One of them even targets the “Dream Act” students, reversing the President’s widely acclaimed and accepted decision to focus instead on the deportation of dangerous criminals!“A full-year DHS funding bill was negotiated in good faith on a bicameral, bipartisan basis, and it addresses the most pressing needs of the Department as it works to protect the country from harm. If Republicans want to make mean-spirited and destructive changes in immigration policy, there is a legislative process for doing that. In the meantime, we should be passing a clean full-year funding bill for the Department of Homeland Security, just as we should have in December.“I urge defeat of the anti-immigration amendments and adoption of the underlying appropriations bill.”
01.12.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman David Price (NC-04), Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement about the Republican leadership’s proposed DHS funding bill and immigration amendments.“The Republicans are once again playing dangerous and irresponsible games with our bipartisan FY15 Homeland Security funding bill. I negotiated this bill with Chairman Carter and our Senate counterparts in good faith, to provide responsible funding levels and oversight to the Department of Homeland Security. Our bipartisan measure was ready for a straight up-or-down vote in December and still is today. Unfortunately, the Republican majority seems more intent on scoring political points than securing the border or confronting threats to national security.“Speaker Boehner knows full well that the amendments designed to halt the President’s legal executive action on immigration enforcement stand no chance of enactment and will only bring a veto of the bill and further delay in providing the Department of Homeland Security with the resources it needs. The Speaker has catered to the Republican Conference’s most extreme members with these amendments, even including a reversal of the President’s widely-acclaimed earlier action regarding “Dream Act” students. Imagine the outrage on the other side of the aisle had a Democratic majority thought about playing these kinds of political games with George W. Bush’s Department of Homeland Security.“The heinous terrorist attacks in France should serve as a call to pass the bipartisan Homeland Security funding bill without delay, not co-opt the appropriations process for partisan political gain. I urge my colleagues to defeat all of the amendments and adopt the bipartisan appropriations bill.”###
12.11.2014	Washington, DC –Congressman David Price (NC-04), Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after House passage of the “CROmnibus” spending bill to fund the federal government through Fiscal Year 2015.“Tonight I voted to pass the omnibus appropriations bill for fiscal 2015, avoiding either a government shutdown or short term continuing resolutions that would have forced us to lurch from crisis to crisis again next year.The bill assembles the bipartisan, bicameral work of eleven of our twelve subcommittees and will provide critical, stable support for the work of agencies ranging from health research to infrastructure construction to national defense.The bill has serious flaws, however, and I worked hard all week to include the 12th bill -- Homeland Security, from the Subcommittee I lead -- in the omnibus bill rather than in a 3-month continuing resolution.I also sought leverage to get two particularly objectionable amendments, which removed some Dodd-Frank financial protections and greatly increased limits for contributions to political parties, dropped from the bill.It eventually became clear that Republican leaders, dealing with numerous far-right members and interest-group pressures, could or would not remove these objectionable provisions and might instead give up on the omnibus bill and bring us to the brink of another government shutdown.At that point I supported the most responsible alternative available, the omnibus appropriations bill, as recommended by President Obama and Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson. It was not an easy choice for me and many other members, and the effort leaves me determined to push for a fresh start in the 114th Congress: to avoid right-wing efforts to promote shutdowns and crises and to find ways to cooperate for the good of the country.”###
12.10.2014	Washington, DC –Ranking Member David Price (NC-04)of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee has introduced an amendment to H.R. 83 that would extend the Homeland Security continuing resolution through the end of the fiscal year and provide additional financial flexibility to the Department. Ranking Member Price gave the following testimony before the Rules Committee in support of his amendment, which was co-sponsored by the Democratic Members of the Subcommittee.“Mr. Chairman, Ranking Member Slaughter, and other members of the Committee, my amendment is simple and straightforward. It provides the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) with a year-long continuing resolution (CR), with adjustments to bring the bill’s total up to its fiscal year 2015 allocation level. In addition, it provides sufficient flexibility for the Department to address the needs and priorities identified in its budget request, as modified by the House and Senate Committee bills. It provides the certainty of full-year funding to the Department of Homeland Security, and gives the Secretary the ability to protect this country from terrorist threats, secure our borders, enforce immigration law, and continue to recapitalize the Coast Guard’s aging fleet.“I am offering this amendment with the co-sponsorship of all Democratic members of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, Reps. Roybal-Allard, Cuellar, and Owens.“This amendment is certainly not our first choice of action; the Homeland Security bill has been finished and ready to go for the last week, and I have heard no coherent line of reasoning that would justify anything less than enacting the full year bill. “But the short-term CR extension in this bill for DHS only creates uncertainty, and will:· Limit the Department’s ability to aggressively move forward with the Secretary’s Unity of Effort initiative to make the Department more strategic in carrying out its security missions and improve coordination among its components;· Limit the ability to aggressively move ahead with the Secretary’s Southern Border and Approaches campaign;· Create uncertainty regarding ICE’s capacity to detain and deport dangerous criminals and to transfer unaccompanied children to HHS for humane treatment;· Delay needed procurements, potentially including acquisition of the 8th National Security Cutter, resulting in scheduling delays and added costs; and· Delay needed security upgrades at the White House Complex to prevent fence-jumper intrusions.“The apparent intent of the House majority in holding back full-year funding for DHS is to help them reverse the President’s executive order on immigration early in the next Congress. But how will that really play out? Presumably, the House could send a full-year Homeland Security funding bill to the Senate in January or February that would prohibit the use of any funds to carry out the President’s executive order. Without 60 votes in the Senate, however, it’s likely that such a bill would go nowhere. Or, if the Senate were able to pass legislation to defund the executive order, the President would certainly veto it, with absolutely no chance that the House or the Senate could override that veto.“So what is left of the majority’s strategy? Would the Republican majorities in the House and Senate really be willing to let funding for the Department of Homeland Security lapse when the short-term CR expires? Cutting off funding for DHS would appear to be the only leverage available at that point.“The vast majority of DHS employees are considered essential, so they would still need to show up for work. Will the House majority really be willing to let front-line agents and officers at CBP and ICE work without pay? Would the House majority be willing to let Coast Guard military personnel continue to risk their lives at sea without compensation? Imagine the outrage that would have occurred had a Democratic Congress ever held funding for the Department of Homeland Security hostage during the George W. Bush Administration – yet that is precisely what House Republicans are setting up right now by including only a short-term CR for DHS in this bill.“A full-year DHS funding bill should be part of this omnibus package. It was negotiated in good faith on a bicameral, bipartisan basis, and it addresses the most pressing needs of the Department as it works to protect this country from harm. Short of that, I urge the Committee to permit consideration of our amendment by the House.”###
12.04.2014	Washington, DC –Congressman David Price (NC-04) gave the following statement in opposition to H.R. 5759, a bill designed to reverse the President’s immigration action. “Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this misguided and politically-motivated legislation.“In fact, it would be dangerous and irresponsible for this body to prohibit the Department of Homeland Security from exercising prosecutorial discretion. DHS and ICE must be able to prioritize the detention and the deportation of people who pose a threat to public safety and national security, as opposed to deporting, for example, college students who were brought to this country by their parents. Or, perhaps, spouses of U.S. citizens serving in the military!“It’s not even a close question.“The reality is, discretion is and always has been exercised by every prosecutor in this country. To my knowledge, Republicans had never questioned this, never challenged it, until the current President began prioritizing dangerous criminals for immigration enforcement.“As former Solicitor General Walter Dellinger recently wrote, “In light of how legally conservative the [Justice Department] opinion really is, it is a wonder that this issue has become the subject of such heated, occasionally apocalyptic commentary…. Those who object to the president’s efforts to unite families should stop hiding behind unfounded legal alarums and debate the president’s actions on the merits.” “Very good advice. I urge defeat of this cynical and unwarranted legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.”###
11.21.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman David Price (NC-04) released the following statement on President Obama’s immigration Executive Order.“I welcome President Obama’s immigration reform announcement, which will finally free from the specter of deportation millions of Americans who contribute positively to their communities. I am also pleased that the President’s Executive Order strengthens enforcement for violent criminals, which has been a priority of mine since I served as Chairman of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee.“After two years of failed promises and delay tactics from Speaker Boehner and House Republicans, the time has come for decisive action to fix our broken immigration system. The cost of inaction has simply become too great. Republicans who have criticized the administration would be wise to consult their history books. Every President since Eisenhower has exercised Executive authority on immigration, including five Republicans. Arguing that President Obama’s actions are unconstitutional is both false and disingenuous.“That said, the President’s action is limited in scope and should not be interpreted as a substitute for congressional action – in fact, the administration has strongly encouraged the House and Senate to pass a comprehensive reform bill that would supersede the Executive Order and deal with the full range of immigration challenges. I hope my Republican colleagues will heed this call.“We must always remember that we are a nation of immigrants, and I commend the President for using his Executive authority to correct broken immigration policies that have persisted for too long and are doing our country great damage. My hope is that this action will at long last break the partisan logjam and allow for real progress on comprehensive immigration reform.”
10.22.2014	Washington, DC – This afternoon, UNC-Chapel Hill Chancellor Carol Folt and UNC President Tom Ross announced the findings of Kenneth Wainstein’s investigation into academic irregularities involving student athletes. Congressman David Price (NC-04) released the following statement on the Wainstein report.“I commend Mr. Wainstein for his thorough investigation, and I am confident that Chancellor Folt and President Ross will use the findings as a basis for continued positive change at UNC-Chapel Hill. As the Wainstein report makes clear, the administration must build on the reforms it has already implemented to the advising and athletics programs if it is to uphold the University’s high academic standards and bolster its reputation as a world-class institution.”###
10.17.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman David Price (NC-04) released the following statement on the retirement of Steve Beam, Director of the Raleigh Housing Authority.“I have enjoyed working with Steve for almost twenty years. Under his leadership, the Raleigh Housing Authority has gained a reputation as one of the most effective and efficient in the country. He has successfully overseen numerous major neighborhood renewal efforts, including Chavis Heights and Capitol Park, and he is currently working to revitalize the Walnut Terrace community.“Throughout his tenure, Steve has demonstrated a commitment to delivering quality affordable housing for Raleigh residents. I commend Steve for his excellent work, and I wish him luck in the next chapter of his life.”
10.16.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman David Price (NC-04), Ranking Member and former Chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement on the retirement of Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Administrator John Pistole.“I commend and thank Administrator Pistole for his four years of exemplary leadership at the Transportation Security Administration and for his three decades of service to his country. Since his confirmation in 2010, Administrator Pistole has worked tirelessly to transform the agency by making security screening more efficient and the workforce more professional. He successfully implemented risk-based security screening, such as the popular TSA PreCheck program, which has resulted in millions of dollars of savings for the American taxpayer, and he significantly improved employee morale and professionalism by instituting collective bargaining rights for airport screeners. In a difficult budget environment, these efforts have increased the safety of the traveling public while reducing the headaches associated with travel. Thanks to his hard work, Administrator Pistole is leaving behind a more mature and effective agency.”
10.10.2014	Chapel Hill, NC – Today, the U.S. District Court in Asheville ruled that North Carolina's 2012 ban on same-sex marriages is unconstitutional. Congressman David Price (NC-04) released a statement on the ruling."In ruling for marriage equality, the court has put North Carolina on the right side of a key human rights issue of our time. Lisa and I celebrate this wonderful news and congratulate the North Carolinians who are finally able to exercise their right to marry those they love."###
09.24.2014	Fayetteville, NC – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) announced that the Fayetteville Police Department (FPD) will receive $1.87 million in funding from the Department of Justice’s COPS Community Hiring Program (CHP). The CHP grant is the largest this year to any police department in North Carolina, and it will allow FPD to hire 15 new police officers.“This COPS grant is great news for the police department and the city of Fayetteville,” said Price. “The new officers will support FPD’s public safety mission as Fayetteville continues to grow.”The Community Hiring Program supports hiring at state, local, and tribal police departments nationwide. Grants provide 75 percent of entry-level salaries and benefits for 36 months for new officers, or for rehired officers were laid off due to budget cuts. CHP puts special emphasis on hiring military veterans and community outreach officers.The 2014 Community Hiring Program will award $121.4 million in grants to 212 law enforcement agencies around the country. ###
09.17.2014	Washington, D.C.– Today, the House of Representatives voted 319-108 to pass a continuing resolution (CR), which will fund the government at current levels through December 11. The CR includes an extension of operating authority for the Export-Import Bank, $88 million in emergency funding to combat the Ebola Virus outbreak in West Africa, and the authority to train and equip Syrian opposition forces engaged in fighting ISIL. Representative David Price (NC-04), Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, released the following statement.“This continuing resolution offers yet another instance of Republican intransigence standing in the way of serious budgeting and a responsible appropriations process. Thanks to the hard work of House Appropriations Committee Members from both parties, the vast majority of FY2015 Appropriations bills have been written and reported. Unfortunately, political considerations have once again gotten the better of House Republican leaders, who have decided not to require their rank-and-file to consider these bills before November. I am hopeful that the hard work of the Appropriations Committee will be completed and compiled into an omnibus bill soon after the election.” ###
09.17.2014	Washington, D.C.– Today, the House of Representatives voted 273-156 to pass the McKeon Amendment, which gives President Obama authorization to begin training Syrian opposition forces in response to the growing threat of the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). Representative David Price (NC-04) spoke on the House floorin support of the amendment and released the following statement after it passed. “It has become clear that ISIL’s brutal campaign of conquest in Iraq and Syria imperils U.S. security interests and that this extremist organization could, in the absence of immediate action, further destabilize the Middle East and establish a staging ground for terrorist activities aimed at American assets. President Obama has laid out a carefully-targeted military and diplomatic strategy for confronting this grave threat with the cooperation of a strong coalition of allies in the region and from around the world.“The President and his senior advisors have acknowledged and taken great pains to address the potential consequences of intervention, and we all recognize there are no perfect or easy solutions. But the President believes – and I agree – that the consequences of inaction far outweigh the risks posed by a narrowly-targeted and well-considered U.S. role. “Today, the House of Representatives voted to approve one component of the President’s strategy – training and equipping credible Syrian opposition forces who have taken up arms against ISIL. The House resolution is limited in timing and in scope, lasting only as long as the Continuing Resolution it is attached to, December 11. Further, it specifically states that this language does not constitute an authorization of the use of force beyond air strikes.“As an elected official, I take seriously my responsibility to weigh the costs and benefits of alternative courses of action and inaction. We must make the best decision we can, and that means countering this immediate threat in a careful and measured way that gives Congress considerable power of oversight. This resolution is necessary to getting underway an important part of the President’s strategy to degrade and destroy ISIL, and it will give the House of Representatives the ability to oversee the implementation of that strategy and make course corrections over the coming months.”###
09.16.2014	Washington, DC -- Representative David Price (NC-04) today announced that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has awarded $923,000 to expand primary care capacity at three local community health centers:Lincoln Community Health Center, Durham: $327,054Piedmont Health Services, Carrboro: $359,186Wake Health Services, Raleigh: $237,976"Community health centers like Lincoln, Piedmont and Wake have a proven record of success in meeting the needs of underserved populations, and they are key partners in effective implementation of the Affordable Care Act," said Price. "Expanded access to community health centers like these will ensure that new insurance translates to cost-effective care."The grants were awarded through HHS's Health Center Program, which allocates funds under the Affordable Care Act to expand the ability of community health centers nationwide to provide care to the newly insured. Health centers provide primary care services to vulnerable patients regardless of their ability to pay.The three Fourth District grants were part of almost $300 million in new HHS Health Center funding nationwide.###
09.12.2014	Washington, DC -- Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) announced that two Fourth District organizations will receive $2.7 million in Navigator funding from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). This funding will help North Carolinians shop for and enroll in 2014-2015 health plans in the Health Insurance Marketplace this fall. Legal Aid of North Carolina, as the leader of the North Carolina Navigator Consortium, will receive $2.3 million, and the Alcohol/Drug Council of North Carolina will receive $427,610."This funding from CMS will allow the North Carolina Navigator Consortium, the Alcohol/Drug Council of North Carolina, and their allies to help even more North Carolinians apply for and enroll in affordable health care coverage," said Price. "The success of Navigator programs in our state is proof positive that thousands of North Carolinians can now live healthier lives thanks to the Affordable Care Act."The Navigator program was created to provide in-person assistance to applicants in the Health Insurance Marketplaces created by the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The innovative work of the North Carolina Navigator Consortium and the Alcohol/Drug Council of North Carolina has helped the state exceed this year's ACA enrollment goals by 187 percent.Enrollment for 2015 ACA health care plans under the ACA begins on November 15, 2014.###
09.10.2014	Washington, DC -- Representative David Price (NC-04) and Representative G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) announced today that the City of Durham has been awarded $222,700 in funding from the United States Department of Transportation's TIGER program for the Duke Beltline Trail Master Plan. "I've been working with the city for over a decade on the Duke Beltline Trail Master Plan, which would make Durham an even better place to live," said Representative Price. "The Department of Transportation TIGER grant is a smart investment that will create new outdoor recreation and transportation opportunities for residents of central Durham." The Duke Beltline Trail Master Plan will turn a 2-mile stretch of historic Norfolk-Southern rail corridor into a crescent trail connecting Duke Park with downtown Durham. The trail will be open to walkers, bikers, and horseback riders. "As the City of Durham and the Triangle area continue to grow, it becomes even more vital to invest intelligently in ways to make the area more livable and more connected," Representative Butterfield said. "The future of transportation in North Carolina must enable people to access different modes of transport easily and improve the quality of life by providing opportunities for people to stay active. This TIGER grant is positive for people who live in, work in, or visit Durham, and I thank Secretary Foxx for supporting this project." Since the signing of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act in 1976, rails-to-trails projects have created over 20,000 miles of healthier spaces nationwide, including the American Tobacco Trail. The Duke Beltline will join a network of trails connecting Durham, Wake, and Chatham counties. A conversion of the Beltline into trail use has been part of the Durham Trails and Greenways Master Plan since 2001. ###
08.27.2014	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) announced today that four organizations in North Carolina will receive a combined $4.875 million from the Department of Treasury's Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) program to serve low-income and economically distressed communities. “This funding is critically important to families, communities, and small businesses across North Carolina,” Rep. Price said. “The CDFI program revitalizes communities by assisting families in buying their first homes, supporting entrepreneurs opening small businesses, and enabling existing small businesses to expand.”The organizations receiving funding are:Latino Community Credit Union (Durham) - $1,750,000Rural Economic Development Center, Inc. (Raleigh) - $125,000Self-Help Federal Credit Union (Durham) - $2,000,000The Support Center (Raleigh) - $1,000,000The federal CDFI program invests in and builds the capacity of community-based CDFIs, empowering them to grow and contribute to the revitalization of communities by providing financial and technical assistance awards. The CDFI program creates opportunity in underserved communities by providing access to financial products and services. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Representative Price has consistently pressed for CDFI funding. More than $1.4 billion has been provided for CDFI since its inception, including $195.4 million in Fiscal Year 2014.###
08.08.2014	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04), the top Democrat on the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, announced today that North Carolina State University will receive $1,422,024 and the North Carolina Department of Insurance, Office of the State Fire Marshal, will receive $586,625 from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Fire Prevention and Safety grant program. These grants are part of the Fiscal Year 2013 Assistance to Firefighter Grant (AFG) program.“I am proud to announce this funding because it will help protect communities and first responders,” Rep. Price said. “Ensuring that our communities and firefighters can access the most up-to-date fire detection and protective equipment is a critical component of keeping the public safe.”The NCSU grant will be utilized by the Textile Protection and Comfort Center, within the College of Textiles, to develop new materials designed to enhance firefighter protection while combating wildfires.Funding for the State Fire Marshall will enable the purchase and installation of life-saving equipment such as carbon monoxide alarms, deaf and hard-of-hearing alarms, and 10-year lithium smoke alarms, as well as the implementation of educational and training programs.The AFG Program offers grants for activities under Fire Prevention and Safety (FP&S) in order to reach high-risk groups and mitigate incidences of deaths and injuries caused by fire and fire-related hazards.As the Chair, and now ranking member, of the subcommittee responsible for funding the Department of Homeland Security, Rep. Price has been the leading supporter of first responder grant programs in Congress. Since 2001, the AFG program has provided approximately $5.6 billion in grants to first responder organizations to obtain much-needed emergency response equipment, protective gear, firefighting and emergency response vehicles, and training. During FY2013, AFG is expected to award $320 million to first responder organizations in need of support. # # #
08.07.2014	Washington, D.C.– Today, Representatives David Price (NC-04) and Rush Holt (NJ-12), along with Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-03) and Congressman Gerry Connolly (VA-11), released a letter urging the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management to exclude planning areas in the Atlantic Ocean from the upcoming 2017-2022 Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Program. Their letter, which is cosigned by 32 additional members of Congress, points out that the area is rightfully excluded from the current 2012-2017 Five-Year Program and that significant federal, state, and local resources have been expended to improve environmental integrity and economic opportunities along the Atlantic coast. The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, located within the Department of the Interior, oversees assessments of the oil, gas and other mineral resource potential for the Outer Continental Shelf.Cosigners of the letter included Representatives Brown (FL) Capuano, Carney, Castor, Cicilline, Clark, DeLauro, Deutch, Frankel, Hastings (FL), Keating, Kennedy, Kuster, Langevin, Lynch, McGovern, Meng, Michaud, Moran, Neal, Norton, Pallone, Pascrell, Pingree, Sarbanes, Shea-Porter, Scott (VA), Sires, Tierney, Tonko, Van Hollen, Wasserman Schultz.The complete letter follows.August 7, 2014Dr. Walter CruickshankActing DirectorBureau of Ocean Energy Management1849 C Street, NWWashington DC 20240Dear Dr. Cruickshank:We are writing in response to the initial Request for Information on the preparation of the 2017-2022 Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Program (Five-Year Program). As members of Congress with an interest in the health and economic vitality of the Atlantic Ocean, we would like to specifically request that all planning areas in the Atlantic be excluded from the 2017-2022 Five-Year Leasing Program.Under the current 2012-2017 Five-Year Program the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) determined that lease sales in the Atlantic would not be appropriate due to the lack of infrastructure to support oil and gas exploration and development, as well as spill preparedness and response. Complex issues relating to potentially conflicting uses, including those of the Department of Defense, were also factors in making the determination under the current Five-Year Program.We believe that the circumstances that informed the exclusion of Atlantic planning areas under the existing Five-Year Program remain unchanged. Additionally, significant federal, state, and local resources have been expended in an effort to improve the health of Atlantic fisheries, protect endangered and threatened species that rely on the Atlantic Ocean and coast, and ensure the continued economic vitality of coastal areas through recreation and tourism. We believe that allowing oil and gas development in the Atlantic would be inconsistent with and contrary to these ongoing efforts.We are not opposed to offshore energy development in the Atlantic when that development is done carefully, sustainably, and protects critical coastal and marine environments and industries. We commend BOEM for its effort to lease and permit offshore wind energy projects along the Atlantic seaboard. The development of wind energy resources in the Atlantic will support jobs, generate revenues, and provide much needed clean, sustainable energy without threatening existing jobs and economic activity that would be endangered by oil and gas activities in the Atlantic. Advances in tidal and marine hydrokinetic power may similarly provide opportunities to harvest the energy potential of our oceans without subjecting our coasts and the marine environment to the threats associated with offshore oil and gas production.Furthermore, climate change and ocean acidification have already begun to stress the Atlantic environment and ecosystem. Sea level rise and extreme weather events, exacerbated by warmer air and ocean temperatures, already threaten coastal communities. The massive destruction caused by Hurricane Sandy emphasized these risks and demonstrated the fragility of our coasts. We appreciate the work that BOEM has done to help our communities rebuild, but are concerned that these rebuilding efforts could be severely undermined by offshore oil and gas leasing. The Atlantic Ocean and the individuals that depend on this area, whether for their livelihoods or as recreational users, should not also be forced to contend with the threats of a major oil spill, or for that matter the widespread industrial development that would be necessary for developing an oil and gas industry in the Atlantic.While states bordering the North Atlantic Planning Area are united in their opposition to offshore oil and gas drilling, we understand that elsewhere in the Atlantic there is likely to be interest in proceeding with oil and gas exploration and development. We believe that an analysis of drilling in the Atlantic should be holistic: ocean currents and marine species do not recognize artificially drawn planning boundaries, and the consideration of any individual Atlantic planning area should also include an analysis of the potential effects on neighboring planning areas and throughout the entire ocean ecosystem.We appreciate the efforts of the Department of the Interior to improve the safety and oversight of offshore drilling, but we are simply unwilling to accept the tremendous risks of an oil spill in the Atlantic, which would vastly outweigh any potential gains from drilling. We again thank you for excluding Atlantic leasing from the 2012-2017 program and ask that you consider our strong opposition to future leasing in the Atlantic through all stages of development of the 2017-2022 Five-Year Program.Sincerely, # # #
08.04.2014	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) announced today that the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services will receive $3,562,511 in grant funding from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Maternal, Infant and Early Childhood Home Visiting (MIECHV) Program.“This funding is critically important to vulnerable children and families across North Carolina and is another example of the positive impacts of the Affordable Care Act,” Rep. Price said. “Home visitation programs are proven to improve pregnancy outcomes and reduce incidents of domestic violence and child neglect, while ensuring school readiness and achievement for thousands of children across our State.”The MIECHV Program, created by the Affordable Care Act, works with states to develop and implement locally-managed, voluntary, evidence-based home visiting programs for pregnant women and families and helps parents of children from birth to age five. Families that elect to participate in local home visiting programs receive advice, guidance and other help from health, social service and child development professionals. Over time, families and home visitors build partnerships and work together to improve health and development; prevent child injuries, child abuse, neglect, or maltreatment, and reduce emergency department visits; improve school readiness and achievement; reduce crime, including domestic violence; and improve family economic self-sufficiency. ###
07.31.2014	Washington, D.C.– Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) delivered the following remarks on the House floor during consideration of H.R. 5230, Supplemental Appropriations to Address the Southwest Border Crisis. Mr. Speaker I rise in strong opposition to this misconceived and woefully under-resourced legislation.For a while it looked like we might do better than this. As the Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, I was pleased to take part in a recent delegation to Central America ably led by Chairwoman Kay Granger. But as successive versions of the Republican bill have surfaced over the past two weeks, in an apparent quest for votes among Republicans, they have reflected less and less of what we learned on that trip.The bill under consideration provides less than $1 billion for the Department of Homeland Security, Department of Health and Human Services, and Department of Justice –far below the President’s request, what is being considered by the Senate, or what is required to deal with the crisis on our borders and beyond.The bill only provides funding for anticipated needs for the remainder of the fiscal year, a mere two months. I would object to that less if the majority had any plans for actually completing our appropriations bills before the end of September, but we all know that they do not. Indeed, it appears unlikely that our Homeland Security Appropriations bill will make it to the House floor.The approach taken in this legislation shows a fundamental misunderstanding of the issue before us. This is not a border security crisis; it’s a humanitarian crisis. We don’t need to deploy the National Guard or surge our border capacity, because we are not failing to catch individuals as they cross. In fact, they are turning themselves in!Now, we do have some agreement on the need to expedite consideration of the claims of these minors for asylum or other forms of relief. But at $12.9 million, the House bill falls short of even the Administration’s modest request for more immigration judges.Instead of focusing on an area of agreement -- more immigration judges to adjudicate claims -- the majority relies upon a questionable and controversial rewriting of the Wilberforce law, enacted in 2008 to deal with child trafficking. My own view is that the Cuellar-Cornyn proposal incorporated in the bill both fails to address deficiencies in our present screening of Mexican youth for signs of torture or fear of persecution, and risks transferring these deficiencies to the treatment of Central American children. In any event, it is not wise to complicate or delay consideration of the emergency supplemental request with an authorization bill that requires more deliberation.There have been some recent signs of progress down at the border. Over the past few weeks, the average daily apprehensions of unaccompanied children were approaching 400; over the past few weeks, such apprehensions have dropped to an average of well under 200. But that does not mean the crisis is over. We could easily see another spike in apprehensions in the coming weeks.We need a bill that not only provides resources to DHS but one that reflects our values, providing care for these unaccompanied minors through adequate funding for HHS as well. Faith leaders of all traditions across the country are calling on Congress to provide the social and health services these children desperately need. Perhaps the greatest failing of this legislation is that it fails to move us toward any viable, long-term strategy to address the causes of the current crisis. Beyond any funding we appropriate to help manage the flow of unaccompanied children or families over the next several months, we are setting ourselves up for similar crises in the future if we aren't willing to invest in a long-term strategy to help Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador -- the three countries that are the source of the vast majority of unaccompanied minors -- stabilize their economies; modernize their institutions; and reduce the level of violence and the grip of the drug cartels and street gangs. Mr. Speaker, the bill before us today seriously addresses neither the short- or long-term needs, and much of what it does appropriate is irrelevant to the current crisis. I urge a resounding NO vote.
07.25.2014	Washington, D.C.– Representative David Price (NC-04), the Ranking Member on the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, announced today that North Carolina will receive $17,574,469 in grant funding from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), an increase of more than $1.1 million over the previous year.“This grant funding is critically important to North Carolina and our communities because it will allow first responders to prepare for and respond to manmade and natural disasters,” Rep. Price said. “We know firsthand that investments in preparedness can save huge sums of relief and recovery money when disasters strike.”Rep. Price, the former chair of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security, has been a champion of first responder funding. The Fiscal Year 2014 DHS Appropriations bill provided a total of $1.5 billion under FEMA’s State and Local Grants, an increase of $34 million from Fiscal Year 2013.The breakdown in funding includes:$9,085,469 under the Emergency Management Performance Grant Program.$5,489,000 under the State Homeland Security Grant Program, a 15 percent increase in funding.$3,000,000 for Charlotte under the Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI)###
07.24.2014	Price Issues Statement on Situation in Gaza Washington, D.C.– Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) issued the following statement regarding the continued violence in Gaza and Israel, now in its third week of armed hostilities. “I am deeply troubled by the ongoing violence in Gaza, the tragic loss of life on both sides, and the deepening grievances and hatreds that will take decades to heal. I strongly support the efforts by Secretary Kerry and those in the international community working to effect an immediate cease-fire. I firmly believe that Israel has a right to defend its citizens from rocket attacks perpetrated by militant elements that oppress and endanger the very people they claim to protect. I also know that history is replete with examples of belligerent responses to aggression—however justified—that achieve little lasting change. I believe that Israel’s interests will ultimately be served best by a response that is both measured and proportionate, with every possible effort made to prevent civilian casualties. This latest escalation only further underscores the need to resume negotiations toward a permanent, two-state solution that secures enduring peace and security for Israel and Palestinians alike.” # # #
07.15.2014	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement today after voting in support of a bill extending the Highway Trust Fund.“Today in the House, I voted for H.R. 5021, which would provide $10.8 billion to restore solvency to the Highway Trust Fund (HTF), and would extend funding for our federal surface transportation programs through May 2015. Without taking action, the HTF balance would reach zero by August and the authorization would expire on September 30, putting hundreds of thousands of jobs at risk and hindering future transportation investments."While I am pleased that Congress is moving to prevent any immediate default of the HTF, I am disappointed that the bill simply kicks the can down the road. America’s transportation infrastructure network requires a long-term federal commitment. Once this short-term Highway Trust Fund crisis is resolved, I hope that Congress will work to pass a long-term authorization bill that provides certainty for cities, States and businesses and ensures that our surface transportation system facilitates jobs and economic growth and delivers the long-term assets needed to keep the U.S. economy functioning and provide mobility to all Americans.”# # #
07.14.2014	Washington, D.C. – As highlighted by USA Today, Representatives David Price (D-NC) and Tom Petri (R-WI) have introduced the bipartisan Standardization of Collegiate Oversight of Revenues and Expenditures (SCORE) Act (HR 5100) to open the books on the financing of college athletics. The SCORE Act would promote greater transparency in college athletics by standardizing and making public the financial information that institutions of higher education report annually on their athletics programs. The bill would also require athletic conferences, the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), and any entity that hosts a postseason tournament (such as the new College Football Playoff) to report detailed financial information publicly.“College sports are one of America’s proudest traditions, but the current system isn’t working equally well for all participants,” Rep. Price said. “Congress and the American public at-large are engaged in a conversation about how we can promote fair competition, protect student-athletes, and lessen the burden athletics place on the wallets of students and parents. We believe constructive, realistic reforms depend on a clear understanding of the financial pressures and benefits of intercollegiate athletics. This bipartisan bill would allow for the first ‘apples-to apples’ comparison of athletic revenues and spending across universities, conferences and the NCAA. It is a modest, but long overdue, first step toward a healthy, productive discussion of the role that money plays in college sports.”“Sporting events are an exciting part of the college experience for millions of students across the country,” said Rep. Petri. “And that excitement carries on for alumni and fans in the form of millions of dollars in economic activity associated with these sports. At a time when outstanding student loan debt is over $1 trillion, it makes sense for the public to have an idea about how colleges and universities account for and use revenue from ticket sales, advertising, and contracts. This legislation requires only the disclosure of information that is already collected by the schools and stored by the NCAA, and it will provide helpful insight on the financial impact of college sports.”As fans of college athletics know, sustained success in sports can raise the profile of a university nationally, contribute to the university’s educational mission, and offer a deeper community value beyond revenue and wins and losses. However, at a time when the rising cost of college is a major concern for American families and the federal government, the existing system has implications for university finances which need to be considered. Lower-resource schools must depend more heavily on institutional funds, student fees, and taxpayer dollars, while higher-resource programs can afford to increase athletics spending disproportionately. But the pressure to invest in athletics is felt across the board.Introduction of the SCORE Act comes amid increased public and legal scrutiny of the NCAA, and as more money than ever is being generated by college athletics due to television contracts and the expansion of athletic conferences. The NCAA men’s basketball tournament generates nearly $740 million annually. The new four-team College Football Playoff is expected to generate nearly $470 million in revenue this season. However, according to NCAA financial reports published in 2013, only 23 programs out of all 125 Division I Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) schools reported “positive net generated revenue” in 2012. Since 2004, no more than 25 schools have reported positive net generated revenue in any given year. Athletic departments that are not self-sustaining pose an increasingly greater risk to the financial health of the overall university as schools are pressured to invest increasingly scarce resources in athletics.The SCORE Act would require conferences and the NCAA to provide detailed information on corporate sponsorships, television contracts and royalties associated with the sporting events managed by the conferences and the NCAA. It would, for example, require schools report, by sport, financial information on ticket sales, third-party corporate support, salaries, team travel, fundraising, merchandise, concessions, broadcast rights, game and medical expense, the use of government support, student fees, and contributions. See the attached bill for a full list of reporting categories. Almost all of the revenue and expenditure information colleges and universities would be required to report under the SCORE Act is already gathered by the NCAA. The NCAA created this reporting requirement after a 2005 NCAA task force of 50 college presidents identified financial transparency and lack of comparable data between peer institutions as a major concern. While the reports public universities convey to the NCAA are generally available in some form via Freedom Of Information Act (FOIA) requests, NCAA reports conveyed by private universities are not. The SCORE Act would make standardized information—from public and private schools—public and easily accessible, as the Knight Commission urged in 2010.SCORE ACT SUMMARYThe Price-Petri SCORE Act would:1. Make public standardized athletic department revenue and expenditure information all universities currently report to the NCAA. Making public these reports creates little to no new administrative burden on schools.2. Require the NCAA to make public, for the first time, a standardized revenue and expenditure report.3. Require athletic conferences to make public, for the first time, a standardized revenue and expenditure report.4. Require the College Football Playoff, or any other entity hosting a postseason competition, to make public, for the first time, a standardized revenue and expenditure report.USA Today: House bill on Financial Reporting Targets College SportsBy Steve Berkowitz7-14-14Congressional interest in college sports continued growing Monday evening, when two members of the House introduced a bill that would require wide-ranging, easily accessible financial reporting not only by schools, but also by the NCAA, conferences, bowl games and the new College Football Playoff.The new bill essentially would result in the U.S. Department of Education making available for all schools — including private schools — the detailed, sport-by-sport revenue and expense data they report to the NCAA every year. The NCAA, which is shielded from open-records laws because it is a private, non-profit organization, does not make the figures available on a school-by-school basis in order to get private schools to participate in this reporting.This is the third time in less than a year that a bill relating to college athletics has been introduced in Congress. The new bill also comes in the wake of a Senate committee hearing last week on a variety of college sports topics, including financial transparency, and a House committee hearing in May related to the effort to unionize scholarship football players at Northwestern.Rep. David Price (D-N.C.) has titled his bill the Standardization of Collegiate Oversight of Revenues and Expenditures (SCORE) Act, and it is being co-sponsored by Rep. Tom Petri (R-Wis.). Petri is a senior member of the House Education and the Workforce Committee, which could help the bill's chances of getting committee consideration. That committee held the May hearing during which there was party-line disagreement about the prospect of college athletes' unions, but bipartisan criticism of the NCAA's and Division I schools' approach to addressing athlete concerns that triggered the effort at Northwestern."I've followed this for a long time and I've asked myself what, if any, is an appropriate federal role in college and university athletics," Price said in an interview with USA TODAY Sports. "Why now? The most succinct way I can put it is that I think it is time and it's important now to open the books on the financing of college athletics. …"The larger context now is all the rising concern over the cost of college in general and a pretty large set of questions within that has to do with what part athletics plays in this — to what extent the athletic budgets are part of a larger phenomenon or a larger problem. And then it's pretty clear also that reform is in the air. … There's a lot of discussion about various aspects of university athletics. I'm not taking all that on here. What I am doing is trying to figure out what kind of information base is it desirable for the public to have that will offer a basis for sound judgment, for sound analysis and will offer a kind of resource for whatever reform proposals people may make down the road."Asked about his optimism for the bill, Price said: "That's a good question in the current Congress, the way things go here."According to a Library of Congress website, more than 9,000 bills have been introduced in this Congress and fewer than 200 have been passed by both chambers. Of those, fewer than 130 have become law. But Price said: "I have a good Republican co-sponsor and we are intending to … talk with the relevant committee people about what kind of hearing we might get. I'm going to push on that."USA TODAY Sports annually compiles a school-by-school database of Division I public schools' finances by collecting their NCAA reports through individual open-records requests.Asked about private schools' ability to shield these data, Price said: "That needs to change. I think these NCAA requirements, with a couple of exceptions, are quite comprehensive – and they should be accessible, and that's true for publics and privates. I certainly don't feel any hesitancy about requiring that."Price also expressed no reservation about making a requirement that could impact his home state's flagship school, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, which is in his district. UNC allows its coaches to have private deals outside of their employment contracts with, among others, shoe-and-apparel companies and local broadcasters. Citing state open-records laws, it declines to make public these arrangements or the amounts involved — which may appear as third-party compensation on the school's reports to the NCAA."Our intention is to give a full account of the compensation these coaches and other athletic personnel are getting," Price said, "and I think we've got it covered."The Education Department annually collects and makes public a variety of school-by-school athletics data for public schools and private schools under the Equity in Athletics Disclosure Act (EADA), but those figures are not as detailed as those collected by the NCAA. They do not include total compensation figures for individual coaches or for athletic-facility debt payments and they do not allow schools to report an annual expense total that exceeds its annual revenue, so no schools are shown with annual operating deficits.The EADA data are not available in a way that "permits very good analysis," Price said.Price's bill also creates a new set of annual revenue-and-expense disclosures for the NCAA, conferences, bowl games and the College Football Playoff by saying no school receiving federal funding can "be a member of any intercollegiate athletic association or participate in an national intercollegiate athletics competition organized by any person, unless such association or person" meets a series of reporting requirements on a sport-by-sport, event-by-event or – as applicable – a contract-by-contract basis.These various entities would have to provide the Education Department "executive compensation schedules" and make reports involving at least 13 revenue categories, including broadcast and media rights revenue, and at least 13 expense categories. Many of these entities are organized as non-profit organizations, which results in disclosure of some of these figures on federal tax return forms. But the bill's requirements are more detailed and could result in more up-to-date reporting. Current IRS rules allow non-profits to routinely extend their filing deadlines until 10½ months after the end of the applicable fiscal year. The IRS also requires that compensation figures cover an organization's most recently completed calendar year, often resulting in those figures being 18 months old – or older -- by the time they are reported.The two bills concerning college athletics and the treatment of college athletes that have been introduced by members of the House were referred to the Education and Workforce Committee.Last August, Rep. Charles Dent (R-Penn.) and Rep. Joyce Beatty (D-Ohio) introduced a bill with provisions that include increased due process for NCAA athletic programs accused of misconduct, and making four-year scholarships mandatory for athletes participating in contact/collision sports.In November, Rep. Tony Cárdenas (D-Calif.) introduced legislation that would require colleges with high-revenue sports programs to provide their athletes with a package of benefits, including financial aid when an athletic scholarship is lifted for reasons other than misconduct or academic failure.# # #
07.14.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Price (D-N.C.) and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) renewed their partnership on bicameral legislation to provide accountability for American contractors and government employees working abroad. The Civilian Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act (CEJA), which the lawmakers introduced Monday, would close a gap in current law and ensure that government employees and contractors working overseas can be prosecuted for criminal acts they commit abroad. The two lawmakers have worked together on the legislation for years. Similar legislation passed the House in 2007.The legislation allows the U.S. Justice Department to prosecute government contractors and employees for certain crimes committed overseas. Tragedies like the 2007 killing of unarmed civilians in Baghdad by private security contractors with Blackwater underscore the need for clear jurisdiction and trained investigative and prosecutorial task forces able to hold wrongdoers accountable. Four Blackwater guards involved in the Nisour Square shooting are currently on trial.“Although the number of American military personnel in Iraq and Afghanistan has been reduced in recent years, our commitment to the rule of law has not, and closing the accountability gap for U.S. contractors operating overseas is more urgent than ever,” Representative Price said. “We have seen the peril of allowing firms such as Blackwater to operate in a legal no-man’s land—a few bad actors can put our international relationships at risk and undermine the missions we ask our military and diplomatic personnel to complete. The bottom line is: if contractors working on behalf of the United States commit crimes abroad, DOJ should be able to prosecute them.”“The Blackwater trial is only just now under way, seven years after this tragedy, and the defendants continue to argue in court that the U.S. government does not have jurisdiction to prosecute them,” Senator Leahy said. “This bill would also provide greater protection to American victims of crime, as it would lead to more accountability for crimes committed by U.S. government contractors and employees against Americans working abroad.”CEJA also lays the groundwork to expand U.S. preclearance operations in Canada – which would enhance national security and facilitate commerce and tourism with our largest trading partner. The United States currently stations U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Officers in select locations in Canada to inspect passengers and cargo bound for the United States before they leave Canada, and Leahy has long called for an expansion of land, rail, marine and air preclearance operations that would greatly benefit the U.S. economy. CEJA would ensure that the U.S. has legal authority to hold our own officials accountable if they engage in wrongdoing, and thereby help pave the way to finalizing the expanded Canada preclearance agreement.Other provisions in the Civilian Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act include:Expand criminal jurisdiction over certain crimes committed by United States employees and contractors overseas; Direct the Justice Department to create new investigative task forces to investigate, arrest and prosecute contractors and employees who commit serious crimes overseas; Require the Attorney General to report annually to Congress about the offenses prosecuted under the statute and the use of new investigative resourcesThe text of the Civilian Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act is available online.# # #
06.25.2014	Washington, DC – Rep. David Price (NC-04) today congratulated Durham County for being one of six winners of the RWJF Culture of Health Prize awarded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. Durham County was selected from more than 250 applicants across the country. The county will receive a cash prize of $25,000 in recognition of its commitment to building a Culture of Health.“Durham County has been a consistent leader creating innovative programs to improve public health,” Rep. Price said. “The county has helped low-income individuals access care, created school-based initiatives that ensure all children have a chance to play outside and enacted policies that encourage physical activity and promote public health. I am proud that Durham County is being recognized for years of positive change that has made it possible for countless members of our community live healthier lives.”The awards were announced today at the Aspen Ideas Festival Spotlight: Health. Representatives from Durham County were on hand to accept the award from RWJF President and CEO Risa Lavizzo-Mourey.“Our community has worked tirelessly and collaboratively for many years to improve health in Durham County and now, our efforts are now being recognized on a national level,” said Gayle B. Harris, Durham County public health director. “As a lifelong resident of Durham, this is truly a monumental achievement and every resident, regardless of whether they live in the city or county, should be proud of. As we continue to work together as ‘One Durham,’ there is no health disparity that we can’t overcome.”The RWJF Culture of Health prize winners excelled in six criteria:Harnessing the collective power of leaders, partners, and community members. Working strategically across the multiple factors that influence health. Addressing problems that disproportionately affect vulnerable populations. Developing sustainable, long-term solutions to shared community priorities. Leveraging and maximizing resources. Measuring and sharing results.# # #
06.18.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives David Price (NC-04) and G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) released a letter urging Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy for tougher standards regarding the storage and disposal of coal ash. Their letter, which is cosigned by 83 members of Congress, presses for stricter standards and enforcement under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act by year’s end, and follows several recent coal ash spills, including the Dan River spill in North Carolina in March.The congressmen write, “It appears we are only now beginning to see the alarming truth about coal ash in our communities. It is troubling that it has taken large coal ash spills like those in North Carolina and Tennessee to mobilize stakeholders to engage in a frank dialogue about its dangers and propose changes to mitigate those hazards. Those catastrophes could have been avoided and we owe it to all Americans to put the necessary safeguards in place to ensure similar disasters do not occur in the future.”Coal ash is the byproduct left from coal combustion. Although it can be safely reused, if it is not stored properly the chemicals in coal ash can contaminate ground water, posing significant harm to human health and the environment.“Coal ash can enter the watershed through the catastrophic failure of an impoundment wall or can slowly leach into groundwater and surface water when the impoundment is unlined,” wrote Butterfield and Price. “Our constituents deserve to be able to count on safe drinking water and to have their waterways protected from harmful contaminants.”Supporters of the rule include Representatives Blumenauer, Brownley, Capps, Cartwright, Castor, Christensen, Cicilline, Cleaver, Cohen, Connolly, Conyers, Jr., Courtney, Cummings, DeGette, DeLauro, Deutch, Doggett, Edwards, Ellison, Engel, Eshoo, Esty, Farr, Fattah, Grayson, Grijalva, Gutiérrez, Himes, Holt, Honda, Huffman, Israel, Jackson Lee, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Hank Johnson, Keating, Robin Kelly, Kuster, Langevin, Lee, Levin, Lewis, Lofgren, Lowenthal, Lynch, Carolyn Maloney, Matsui, McCollum, McDermott, McGovern, Michaud, George Miller, Moran, Nadler, Norton, Pallone, Pascrell, Scott Peters, Shea-Porter, Pingree, Quigley, Rangel, Roybal-Allard, Ruppersberger, Rush, Sarbanes, Schakowsky, Schiff, Schneider, Schwartz, Bobby Scott, Serrano, Sherman, Slaughter, Adam Smith, Speier, Mike Thompson, Tierney, Tonko, Tsongas, Van Hollen, Waters, and Waxman.The complete letter to Administrator McCarthy follows.June 17, 2014The Honorable Gina McCarthyAdministratorUnited States Environmental Protection AgencyAriel Rios Building1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, D.C. 20460Dear Administrator McCarthy:We write to respectfully urge the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to finalize strong federal standards for the safe disposal of coal ash under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) by the end of 2014. We support a final coal ash rule which establishes federal backstop protections including financial assurance, enforceable deadlines, and stringent requirements for coal ash management and cleanup. We encourage the EPA to finalize protections that phase out dangerous wet impoundments, including those at legacy sites, and ensure that facilities use protective liners and groundwater monitoring to safeguard against contamination.Coal ash, the byproduct left from coal combustion, has several safe reuses but excess coal ash is often stored in more than 400 landfills and more than 1,000 wet impoundments near power plants across the country. Chemicals in coal ash can be harmful to human health and the environment if storage impoundments fail and they contaminate ground water, streams, rivers, or lakes. Coal ash can enter the watershed through the catastrophic failure of an impoundment wall or can slowly leach into groundwater and surface water when the impoundment is unlined. Our constituents deserve to be able to count on safe drinking water and to have their waterways protected from harmful contaminants.Major coal ash spills in 2014 into the Dan River in North Carolina and in 2008 in Kingston, Tennessee are examples of full impoundment failures and show that our constituents must be better protected. Both spills originated from wet coal ash impoundments located near power plants adjacent to rivers where the failure of impoundment walls sent harmful chemicals directly into the waterways. The Dan River spill caused coal ash to travel 70 miles downstream and the Kingston spill caused more than one billion gallons of coal ash to enter the water supply and destroyed residential communities. The EPA has evaluated wet coal ash impoundments across the country and found more than 300 sites which would endanger human life, or cause significant economic, environmental, or infrastructure damage if full failures occurred.Far more common than full impoundment failure is the slow leaching of coal ash contaminants from wet impoundments into ground and surface waters. The majority of wet impoundments across the country lack adequate liners and groundwater monitoring systems. The EPA has identified more than 200 cases of water contamination from coal ash in 27 states.It appears we are only now beginning to see the alarming truth about coal ash in our communities. It is troubling that it has taken large coal ash spills like those in North Carolina and Tennessee to mobilize stakeholders to engage in a frank dialogue about its dangers and propose changes to mitigate those hazards. Those catastrophes could have been avoided and we owe it to all Americans to put the necessary safeguards in place to ensure similar disasters do not occur in the future.Thank you for your attention to this matter. We look forward to its timely resolution.Sincerely,DAVID PRICEMember of CongressG. K. BUTTERFIELDMember of Congress# # #
06.17.2014	Washington, D.C. – At a reception Monday evening on N.C. State University’s campus, Representative David Price (NC-04) recognized the high school student finalists and winner of the First Annual Congressional Science, Technology Engineering and Math (STEM) Competition House App Challenge. Saurin Kantesaria and teammates Tian-Shun Jiang, Sammy Lou and Jenny Wang from the North Carolina School of Science and Mathematics won for their app, Puzzlebot, an innovative, challenge-response test that helps determine whether or not a website user is human. The app would replace difficult-to-use CAPTCHA tests with color-coded matching puzzle that is simple for human users and theoretically impossible for computer generated “bots” to bypass. The NCSSM team, along with two other teams of finalists, gave video and oral presentations of app mock-ups focused on how their app would change people’s lives to a panel of judges who work in STEM fields.Watch the “Puzzlebot” app mock-up“I was very impressed by the entries students prepared for the first Congressional STEM Competition, and I congratulate the NCSSM team on their winning app,” Rep. Price said. “I’ll be posting the team’s app mock-up on my website and maybe one day consumers will be downloading it to their smartphones.“In the coming years, I will be hosting an annual STEM competition bringing together educators and workers from cutting-edge STEM companies to encourage students to take an interest in these fields as they’re considering colleges and careers. While our economy will create approximately 8.5 million STEM jobs over the next decade, the U.S. will face a shortage of 1 million STEM graduates. Few challenges are as central to our future economic competitiveness and prosperity as the need to better educate our children in the STEM fields.”NCSU Vice Chancellor for Research, Dr. Terri Lomax and Professor of STEM Education, Dr. Kathy Trundle also spoke at the reception on the importance of STEM education. Device Solutions CEO Bob Witter spoke about working in a STEM industry. After their apps were judged students also had a chance to meet with the 14 competition judges, including a number of STEM education, academic and industry professionals—many with experience in high-tech entrepreneurship.Also placing in the competition were:Finalist: Rosemary Yin and Cassie Xin of Chapel Hill High School for their app concept, Delectable. Based on photographs of the ingredients users have at hand, the app would query a database and produce suggested recipes and nutritional information. Finalist: Christofer Chang of Chapel Hill High School for his app concept ANOVA. The app would employ cellphone users who report weather data to produce more accurate predictions and weather readings. The concept utilizes global positioning software in all cell phones and could provide millions of mobile weather predictors that, if harnessed, could provide society with even more robust meteorological analysis. Honorable Mention: Justin Harris of East Chapel Hill High School for his app concept Envision with me, which envisions a social network based on the model of LinkedIn but specializing on connecting teenage visionaries and entrepreneurs. Honorable Mention: Sanjana Vasudevan of Chapel Hill High School for her app concept Erudite, a comprehensive science and math game that challenges multiple players on timed quizzes. Honorable Mention: Sarah Wu and Charles Wang of Chapel Hill High School for their app concept Lumen, a mobile app that saves energy by turning off lights and other appliances automatically when it detects that the user is not home via a phone’s GPS system.Established by Members of the U.S. House of Representatives in 2013, the App Challenge competition is a nationwide event that allows high school students from across the country to compete by creating and exhibiting their mock-up of a software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice.The winning student’s video mock-up will be featured on Rep. Price’s congressional website price.house.gov and on the website of the U.S. House of Representatives. It will also be displayed in the U.S. Capitol. All entrants will be honored with a statement in the Congressional Record later this week.In recent years, Congress and the Obama Administration have undertaken several major initiatives to recruit and train STEM educators, attract students to STEM-related fields, and build pipelines connecting educational institutions and STEM industries. Continuing challenges in the STEM education fields include closing the STEM graduate shortfall, closing the STEM field achievement gap between male and female students and among different racial and ethnic groups, and increasing the number of high school graduates ready for college level math.Rep. Price is a member of the Congressional STEM Education Caucus, which works to advance STEM issues in Congress.# # #
06.10.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, during the House Appropriations Committee’s markup of the FY2015 Department of Defense Appropriations Bill, Republicans defeated an amendment by Representative David Price (D-NC) that would have blocked deactivation of the 440th Airlift Wing stationed at Fort Bragg. The amendment was defeated on a voice vote after being opposed by the senior Republican on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee.“I am disappointed that my amendment to sustain the 440th Airlift Wing at Fort Bragg did not receive the support it needed, particularly among my Republican colleagues on the Committee,” Rep. Price said. “After meeting with military personnel at Fort Bragg and Pope Field, hearing from countless constituents and business leaders in the Cumberland County community, and reviewing the earlier recommendations of the Air Force Intra-Theater Airlift Working Group, I am more convinced than ever that the 440th is an indispensable element of the training and rapid deployment capability of our Airborne and Special Operations assets.”Over the last four years, the 440th has provided nearly one-third of all airborne training and lift capacity for the 82nd Airborne Division. The Wing has been central to global rapid response capabilities—as a direct result of its co-location with Fort Bragg, it provided the first American response to the 2010 earthquake in Haiti, helping put American personnel on the ground only 14 hours after the disaster. Rep. Price’s amendment would have prohibited any funds in the appropriations bill from being “used to inactivate, relocate, or otherwise disrupt the mission, personnel, or aircraft” of Air Force Reserve units like the 440th.“While it purports to save money over the next several years, the Air Force seems to overlook the fact that nearly $60 million has already been spent to upgrade facilities at Pope, including the construction of a nearly-completed C-130J training simulator facility,” Rep. Price said. “Deactivating the 440th and diverting aircraft to a facility hundreds of miles away would be a bad idea for training and readiness at Fort Bragg, and for our airborne capabilities in general.”# # #
06.02.2014	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) issued the following statement today after the Environmental Protection Agency issued its Clean Power Plan (CPP), new rules which will cut greenhouse gas emissions at existing power plants 30 percent below 2005 levels by 2030.“The Clean Power Plan will help keep the air we breathe and the water we drink clean, it will protect public health, and it will foster innovations and efficiencies that are good for consumers,” Rep. Price said. “After years when Congress has failed to act, I applaud the administration for taking an important step toward addressing climate change and for rejecting the false choice, advanced by some, that we have to decide between growing our economy leaving a cleaner planet to future generations.”The CPP builds on significant, successful efforts to curb carbon pollution at the state level. Nearly a dozen states have already implemented market-based plans that give utilities maximum flexibility as they adopt plans to cut carbon emissions. Many states have also seen pollution levels drop as older, coal fired power plants have been decommissioned and replaced by natural gas and renewable plants. The CPP is expected to spur further investments in renewables and alternative energy—a growth area in North Carolina’s economy. In North Carolina, renewable energy production has increased by more than 40% since 2009.Earlier this month, hundreds of scientists declared that climate change is no longer a distant threat – it “has moved firmly into the present.” Expected consequences of climate change include increased severe weather events; sea level rise, which will endanger homes and businesses; and higher prices for food (spurred by water shortages), insurance, and rebuilding.By 2030, the Clean Power Plan will:Cut carbon emission from the power sector by 30 percent nationwide below 2005 levels, which is equal to the emissions from powering more than half the homes in the United States for one year; Cut particle pollution, nitrogen oxides, and sulfur dioxide by more than 25 percent as a co-benefit; Avoid up to 6,600 premature deaths, up to 150,000 asthma attacks in children, and up to 490,000 missed work or school days—providing up to $93 billion in climate and public health benefits; and Shrink electricity bills roughly 8 percent by increasing energy efficiency and reducing demand in the electricity system.# # #
05.30.2014	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04), a member of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement today on the importance of fixing the Veterans Administration and ensuring all veterans receive the care they deserve. Earlier today, President Obama accepted the resignation of VA Secretary Eric Shinseki. Preliminary audits have indicated veterans were unable to schedule appointments to access services at some facilities across the country.“I remain deeply troubled by the irresponsible and unacceptable scheduling practices uncovered by the VA Inspector General’s preliminary report. I respect Secretary Shinseki’s decision to resign and hope it will allow Congress to act on the IG’s complete report, without delay or distraction, to fix the problems and hold those responsible accountable.“I expect the VA’s review to be proactive, not reactive. The VA needs to look at all of its processes, from top to bottom, from the time veterans walk in the door until their treatment is complete, to ensure they are receiving timely, quality care. Obsolete systems and processes need to be identified and replaced, and personnel levels must be commensurate with the needs of our nation’s veteran population. I will work to ensure my subcommittee is a partner in overseeing and funding the effort to meet the needs of a 21st century VA. Anything less would be a disservice to veterans and to the many exemplary VA employees who care for those who have served our country.”# # #
05.22.2014	Washington, D.C. – The House Appropriations Committee adopted an amendment offered by Representative David Price (NC-04) yesterday restoring funding for the U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness (USICH) to the Fiscal Year 2014 level ($2.5 million). The amendment was offered during the committee’s consideration of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development appropriations bill. It will allow the Council to continue working toward its goal of ending family homelessness by 2020.“While we have made progress addressing homelessness among veterans and the chronically homeless, far too many of our fellow citizens still go to bed at night without a roof over their heads,” Rep. Price said. “The government-wide collaboration and coordination facilitated by the USICH is vitally important to ensuring all Americans have access to a safe, affordable place to call home.”While the USICH is set to meet its goals for veterans in 2015 and the chronically homeless in 2016—mostly male populations—the original committee bill’s low-funding level would have hampered our nation’s ability to meet its goals for homeless families and children in 2020. The average family experiencing homelessness is headed by a single mother in her late twenties with two children, at least one of whom is under the age of six. More than 80% of mothers with children experiencing home¬lessness have previously experienced domestic violence in their lifetime. The Price amendment will allow the USICH to continue this work and address the needs of all homeless Americans—male and female.The USICH was created to coordinate a national response to homelessness. It is composed of the 19 directors of federal departments and agencies whose policies and programs have some responsibility for homelessness, including Housing and Urban Development, Health and Human Services, the Department of Labor and the Veterans Administration.The Price Amendment was supported by the National Coalition for Homeless Veterans, the National Alliance on Mental Illness, Shelter Partnership, Inc., the North Carolina Coalition to End Homelessness, the Homelessness Technical Collaborative, Cloudbreak Communities, Funders Together to End Homelessness and Circle the City.# # #
05.12.2014	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) issued the following statement today after news outlets reported that former North Carolina Secretary of Commerce Keith Crisco passed away suddenly this afternoon.“Since we met during my first campaign in 1986, I have come to know Keith Crisco as a friend, a business leader and an outstanding public servant. As Secretary of Commerce, Keith worked tirelessly, during the worst economic downturn in decades, to put North Carolina on the path to recovery and to increase economic opportunity for all of her people. He cared deeply about our state, and he was seeking to continue serving his fellow Tar Heels by running for Congress. My wife Lisa and I are deeply saddened to learn of his passing, and our thoughts are with his family.”# # #
05.08.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) announced the winners of the Fourth District Congressional Arts Competition, which brings together talented high-school students from across the district. Rep. Price previously hosted the competition finalists and their families at a reception at the North Carolina Museum of Art in Raleigh.Samantha Wine of Cardinal Gibbons High School in Raleigh took first place in the competition with her piece entitled “Self Portrait.” Cardinal Gibbons teacher Rebecca Dason mentored Wine. Next month, Art Competition winners from around the country will come to Washington for the formal awards ceremony and the unveiling of the exhibit featuring their work. The winning entries will hang in the U.S. Capitol for one year.“I am always encouraged to see so many Fourth District students entering the Arts Competition and so many teachers and local arts councils supporting their efforts. The arts and the humanities are a critical part of a well-rounded education,” Rep. Price said. “The quality of this year’s submissions was very impressive. I congratulate all of this year’s Arts Competition participants and look forward to welcoming Samantha to Washington later this year.”Art from other students placing in the competition will be displayed in Rep. Price’s D.C. and district offices. Placing in the competition were:2nd Place – Andrea Velosa for work entitled “Calichana,” Cardinal Gibbons High School, Raleigh (Rebecca Dason, Teacher) 3rd Place – Isabelle Miranda for work entitled “Blue Sky Breeze,” Cardinal Gibbons High School, Raleigh (Rebecca Dason, Teacher) 4th Place – Adrian Cazares Ortiz for work entitled “Express Yourself,” Athens Drive High School, Raleigh (Margaret Roth, Teacher) Honorable Mention – Breanna Lewis for work entitled “Portrait of Linn,” Enloe High School, Raleigh (Susan Euler, Teacher)(Left to Right) Samantha Wine of Raleigh with her Fourth District Congressional Arts Competition entry, Rep. David Price (NC-04).# # #
05.05.2014	Washington, D.C. – Representatives David Price (NC-04) and Walter Jones (NC-03) announced today that the Fiscal Year 2015 Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies appropriations bill includes full funding for National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) ocean science labs, including the facility located in Beaufort, N.C. The text of the bill was released by the House Appropriations Committee today and will be considered by the full Appropriations Committee Thursday morning. The President’s FY2015 budget had proposed shuttering the lab.“The Beaufort NOAA Lab is the focal point for federal, state and university-based marine and fisheries research in North Carolina,” Rep. Price said. “I’m very pleased we were able to work together secure this funding because the lab has a significant economic impact, and it is critical to maintaining the competitiveness of our state’s research enterprise.”“The Beaufort lab is both an integral part of the local economy and an important provider of scientific research affecting the entire East Coast,” said Congressman Jones. “I am grateful to Chairman Frank Wolf (VA-10) for working with me and my North Carolina congressional colleagues to prevent the closure of this valuable facility.”Earlier this year, Reps. Price and Jones asked the CJS Appropriations Subcommittee to include report language in its bill continuing funding for all existing labs in FY2015. The language also requires that, “NOAA shall submit a comprehensive analysis no later than one year after enactment of this Act on all National Centers for Coastal Ocean Science (NCCOS) facilities and labs, to include current maintenance costs as well as a detailed analysis of how the research conducted by NCCOS laboratories would be affected by any proposed NCCOS lab consolidation.”According to a March report by McClatchy, the Beaufort NOAA Lab, opened in 1899, employs 108 people in the region. The lab is the only government facility between New Jersey and Miami studying Atlantic fish populations.In correspondence with the Subcommittee, both members highlighted that, in addition to its significant economic impact, the lab serves as a hub for collaborative endeavors among federal researchers and researchers located at neighboring labs overseen by the NC Division of Coastal Management, the University of North Carolina, North Carolina State University, Duke University and East Carolina University. The lab’s presence helps each partner facility compete for federal grants, research programs and economic development opportunities.Rep. Price is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Rep. Jones’s 3rd Congressional District includes Beaufort and surrounding communities.# # #
05.01.2014	Washington, D.C. – With unaccountable, “dark money” special interest groups on pace for record-setting campaign spending in 2014, Representative David Price (NC-04) today reintroduced the Stand By Every Ad Act, legislation to increase the integrity of elections by expanding the existing “Stand By Your Ad” transparency requirement to corporations, Super PACs, and other special interest groups. The Stand By Every Ad Act would require the leader of a Super PAC, corporation or special interest group to appear in an ad to take responsibility for its content and disclose their top five donors on-screen.“Disclosure and transparency will not solve the whole problem of the influence of special interest money in our elections, but they’re an important step.” Rep. Price said. “Americans deserve to know who is trying to influence their vote.”According to the Wesleyan Media Project, outside groups are responsible for 59 percent of ads run in Senate campaigns, a 64 percent jump over 2012 levels. The projects says: “in Senate races, 59 percent of interest group airings were sponsored by 501c3, 501c4 and 501c6 groups, which are not required to disclose their donors. In House races, the equivalent percentage is 57 percent.”“If we fail to require disclosure from groups empowered by recent Supreme Court decisions, we will be inviting a return to the worst disparaging and deliberately misleading campaign advertising,” Rep. Price said. “If candidates and political parties have to take responsibility for their ads, it is only reasonable to hold corporations or labor unions or Super PACs to the same standard of accountability.”Before “Stand By Your Ad” was signed into law, candidates and political parties could flood the airwaves with negative advertising without ever taking responsibility for the content of their messages. Rep. Price authored of the “Stand By Your Ad” requirement, which became law as a part of the 2002 Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act. The law requires that candidates appear in their ads and claim responsibility for their content. The requirement is a ubiquitous part of elections—to meet it candidates usually end or being their ads by saying, for example, “I’m David Price, and I approve this message.” The Stand By Every Ad Act would also require the disclosure of identifying information within robocalls and paid internet communications, such as candidate-sponsored web ads that air during tv shows streamed online.The “Stand By Your Ad” requirement was upheld as constitutional in the Supreme Court’s 2003 McConnell v. FEC decision. The law has been credited with improving voters’ understanding of the choices they face on Election Day.In Congress, Rep. Price has worked to advance a number of bills to increase the integrity of the electoral process and safeguard the right to vote. He is the author of the Empowering Citizens Act, which would which would empower voters by creating the first system to match small donations to congressional candidates, updating and modernizing the public financing system for Presidential campaigns, and reining in Super PACs by prohibiting them from operating as "shadow" arms of candidates' campaigns. Rep. Price is also a cosponsor of the DISCLOSE Act, another campaign advertising transparency measure, the SIMPLE Voting Act, which would safeguard early voting, and the Voter Empowerment Act, which would modernize the voter registration system.# # #
04.09.2014	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) today announced that he would cosponsor H.R. 4415, House companion legislation to the bipartisan Senate bill extending emergency unemployment benefits to nearly three million Americans. The bill is identical to legislation passed in the Senate with bipartisan support. It incorporates a provision, included in the Senate legislation by North Carolina Senator Kay Hagan, restoring benefits to North Carolinians who lost them when the General Assembly and Governor McCrory passed legislation cutting benefits below the level required to maintain federal support.Rep. Price released the following statement.“Last month, our state had more job losses than any other state, and our labor market continues to shrink. Republicans have ignored these numbers, citing the unemployment rate, which does not account for discouraged workers, as evidence of a Carolina Comeback. They are precisely wrong—it is a Carolina Catastrophe.“I am cosponsoring H.R. 4415 because, at a time when there are three job applicants for every job opening, our state’s people still need help. With great difficulty, the Senate has finally passed extended unemployment benefits, with Democratic and Republican support. It would be unconscionable for the House to ignore this issue. Despite blatant misrepresentations by the Speaker and Majority Leader, the Congressional Budget Office confirms that passing this bill would be one of the most effective things we could do to create jobs and strengthen the recovery. This is a moment of truth for elected officials. North Carolinians deserve to know where their representatives, at every level of government, stand on taking action to ensure that losing a job doesn’t mean economic ruin.”# # #
04.02.2014	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) warned today that the Supreme Court’s 5-4 decision in McCutcheon v. Federal Election Commission, ruling that aggregate 2-year contribution limits are unconstitutional, opens the door to a small number of millionaires and billionaires having an even more disproportional role in elections and democracy. Rep. Price and Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) wrote an amicus brief to the Court urging it to uphold aggregate contribution limits to prevent corruption or the appearance of corruption.“Since the Watergate era, the Supreme Court has held that unlimited contributions and soft money create the appearance of corruption, or a risk of corruption. The current conservative majority of the Court has made clear it does not agree, systematically destroying, in Citizens United and McCutcheon, laws that limit the influence of big money in politics. Increasingly, a few mega-donors are drowning out the voices of small contributors and ordinary citizens. This compromises trust in government and puts the integrity of our elections at risk.”The McCutcheon ruling will effectively empower wealthy donors to give the maximum donation to every candidate running for federal office and every political party—approximately $3 million. Because candidates are allowed to donate campaign funds to political parties, which can then funnel funds to targeted campaigns, the ruling in effect reintroduces “soft money.” The previous campaign finance rules allowed donors to give up to $123,200 in total every two years ($48,600 to candidates and $74,600 to parties and committees).“Today’s ruling will allow big donors to contribute a sum of up to $3 million to candidates and political parties. No donor is going to give that kind of money without expecting something in return. These decisions are tragically misguided at a time when Americans are demanding government of, by and for the people, not government bought and paid for by special interests.”Rep. Price is the author of the Empowering Citizens Act, which would modernize the public financing system for presidential campaigns and allow Congressional candidates to pursue matching funding, empowering small donors in federal elections. It would also prevent SuperPACs from operating as arms of candidate campaigns by strengthening anti-coordination restrictions.Rep. Price is also the author of the “Stand By Your Ad” requirement, which requires candidates appear in, and claim responsibility for, the content of their campaign ads. In the coming weeks, he plans to re-introduce his “Stand By Every Ad” Act, which would extend the SBYA requirement to SuperPACs.# # #
04.01.2014	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) issued the following statement this afternoon after the Obama Administration announced that 7.1 million Americans have enrolled in health insurance coverage thanks to the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The ACA open enrollment period ended March 31.“Access to affordable health care is central to the economic security of all Americans—from seniors to students, from the middle class to those trying to reach it. Today’s news that 7.1 million people have health coverage thanks to the Affordable Care Act shows the law is working and making good on its promise to increase access, protect consumers and make our health system fairer. Before today, we already knew the ACA was saving seniors money on prescription drugs, expanding access to free preventative care, allowing millions of young adults to stay on their parent’s plans and preventing anyone with a pre-existing condition from ever being denied insurance.“Republican predictions of the failure of the law have been proven wrong. Unfortunately, in states like North Carolina, Republican leaders continue to stand in the way of the full benefits of the law. I call on the General Assembly’s Republican leaders and Governor McCrory to revisit their decision to block our state’s poorest residents from gaining access to health insurance under the 100% federally-funded expansion of Medicaid.”# # #
03.23.2014	I recently joined a dozen unemployed North Carolinians at Wake Technical Community College to discuss the state of our economic recovery. One of the participants told me that after he was laid off and his unemployment benefits ran out, he lost his house and his car. He now has to count each slice of bread to make his loaf last until he can afford to buy another. Sadly, in the great state of North Carolina, in the most prosperous nation on earth, his story is not an isolated one.Republicans often claim that unemployment benefits encourage people to postpone the search for work. The reality is that the extended-benefits program keeps people plugged in to the job-search system. In recent months, North Carolina's unemployment rate has fallen, not because most unemployed individuals have found jobs, but because so many stopped seeking work once their benefits ran out. (Only individuals looking for work are counted as "unemployed.")There are 60,000 fewer participants in our labor force today than there were at the end of 2012, and last October our state's labor force participation rate dropped to a 37-year low. A full labor market recovery isn't coming quickly - a January report saw it expand by only 6,000 people. Ignoring these striking figures, Republicans in Raleigh claim that the drop in the unemployment rate represents a "Carolina Comeback." They are precisely wrong - this is a Carolina Catastrophe.The majority of the group I met at Wake Tech, where counselors do remarkable work helping unemployed people develop job-search skills, had a bachelor's degree. In fact, several had master's degrees and Ph.Ds. If they can just make it through this rough patch, they are fully capable of returning to the workforce and thriving in today's economy.But in North Carolina and across the country, policymakers focused on indiscriminately slashing spending are squandering opportunities to help them - and, with them, the U.S. economy - succeed. Republicans from Raleigh to Washington seem to be guided by the preposterous notion that the best way to help people is by ripping away their safety net.At a time when there are at least three job seekers for every job opening, more than 2 million people across the country have had their federal emergency unemployment benefits cut off since Jan. 1, due to Congress' failure to extend them. House Democrats have tried repeatedly to restore these benefits, only to be blocked by Republicans who are intent on extracting political concessions in exchange for scheduling the vote.A bipartisan agreement to retroactively restore benefits through the end of May is currently pending in the U.S. Senate. But even this short-term extension could fall to continued Republican opposition in the House.The situation in North Carolina is especially dire because more than 170,000 of our state's residents had earlier seen their federal emergency unemployment benefits terminated when the General Assembly Republicans and Gov. McCrory cut state-funded unemployment benefits below the level required to maintain federal assistance. Ours was the only state in the country to take such a shortsighted and mean-spirited step. Sen. Kay Hagan has amended the Senate bill to rectify this situation.One needs to look no further than the budget that House Republicans will unveil later this month to see more potential catastrophes on the horizon. Matching the zeal of their North Carolina counterparts, their budget will call for sweeping cuts to education, food aid to low-income women and infants, affordable housing, and other safety-net programs that help people climb out of poverty. It will not call for renewing unemployment benefits.These policies reveal a narrow view of what we can accomplish as a nation. From the G.I. Bill to the University of North Carolina system to the Research Triangle Park, our history shows us what we can do to help people and the economy succeed.We must again make government an instrument of our common purpose in pursuit of expanding opportunity for all Americans. We should restore emergency unemployment benefits without delay to ensure that losing a job doesn't mean economic ruin. We should increase the minimum wage, and we should require that women receive equal pay for equal work. We should expand access to education, including our state's fine community colleges. And we should take advantage of the generous support offered by the Affordable Care Act to expand Medicaid to 377,000 North Carolinians. Our strength and security depend as much on policies that grow the middle class and support those working to reach it as on our military might.As we enter a new budget season, these pressing needs are more urgent than ever. Watch closely. A budget is a clear statement of our priorities and values. Will our leaders ask the most of those who have the least? Or will they make the investments needed to put our people, our economy, and our democracy back on the path to a bright and prosperous future?Rep. David E. Price, a Democrat, represents North Carolina's 4th Congressional District, which includes portions of Fayetteville.
03.04.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04 announced longtime aide Asher Hildebrand as his new District Director. Hildebrand, who will be assuming the position on a full-time basis in May, has served as Rep. Price’s Legislative Director and Deputy Chief of Staff since 2009 and served previously on the congressman's staff from 2003 to 2007. He will be succeeding Beau Mills, who has served as District Director since 2009 and will be joining the Office of Federal Affairs at the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill.“Asher comes to this position with deep personal and family ties to the Fourth District and extensive knowledge of the federal policies and programs upon which our communities rely," Rep. Price said. “I am confident my constituents will continue to be well served by my dedicated district staff under his leadership.”Rep. Price also praised Mills’ tenure as District Director. “I was fortunate to have Beau’s help reaching out to constituents, navigating lively town hall meetings, and planning community events,” Rep. Price said. “His experiences at the federal, state and local levels and his enthusiasm for public service were extremely valuable assests, and I wish him well as he takes on a new challenge.” # # #
03.04.2014	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04), the Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement today after President Obama announced his 2015 Fiscal Year budget request.“The President’s budget request would expand opportunity for all Americans by investing in programs that help our people and our economy reach their full potential. President Obama is clearly aware that our strength and security are ensured as much by our commitments to world-class infrastructure, research and development, education and economic mobility, as they are by defense spending. I also applaud the President for urging Congress to close egregious tax loopholes in order to cut taxes for the middle class and those trying to reach it.“I look forward to scrutinizing the President’s Homeland Security funding request over the coming months. As the President’s budget indicates, comprehensive immigration reform would reduce the deficit and create jobs. As the members of our subcommittee know, an enforcement only approach to immigration does not work and wastes money. I am confident our deliberations will continue to lend a sense of urgency to this critical issue. Finally, I am hopeful the budget agreement reached earlier this year will allow this year’s appropriations process to proceed in a collegial and productive manner, without the threat of shutdown or default.”# # #
02.21.2014	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement today calling on his colleagues in Congress to strengthen and pass H.R. 3899, the Voting Rights Amendment Act. The bill would modernize the Voting Rights Act (VRA) in response to the Supreme Court’s sharply-divided decision striking down the law’s Section 4. Section 4 of the VRA determined which areas of the country – including 40 counties in North Carolina – had to comply with Section 5, which prohibits any changes in voting requirements or in district lines that would discriminate based on race or color.“The right to vote is the bedrock of our democracy. Congress must act in response to the Supreme Court’s misguided decision so the Voting Rights Act can again be used to ensure every American, regardless of race, can exercise this fundamental right. The Voting Rights Amendment Act is a good start in this critical effort, and in the coming months I will work with any colleague interested in improving this measure and moving it forward to passage.”Rep. Price has been a consistent advocate for efforts to protect the right of every eligible voter to cast his or her ballot freely and fairly while promoting greater transparency and accountability in the electoral process. He is the author of the “Stand By Your Ad” law, which requires candidates appear in their ads and claim responsibility for them, and the Empowering Citizens Act, a sweeping campaign finance reform bill. He is also a cosponsor of the SIMPLE Voting Act, which would require states to make early voting available for at least 15 days prior to federal election days, and the Voter Empowerment Act, which would modernize the voter registration system and require same-day registration be available.# # #
02.12.2014	Washington, D.C. — Days before talks on a permanent agreement between P5+1 countries and Iran are set to begin in Vienna, 104 Members of the US House of Representatives sent President Obama a bipartisan letter supporting continued diplomatic engagement with Iran.Representative David Price (D-NC) said, “I believe that we must take advantage of the opportunity before us to pursue a peaceful, diplomatic resolution to Iran’s nuclear program, and that we must resist calls by some in Congress to prematurely enact a bill or resolution that risks inadvertently derailing or impeding our ongoing negotiations.”“While difficult and uncertain, diplomacy represents our best hope to prevent nuclear weapons in Iran and ensure the safety of our families and others around the world. Congress should not undermine diplomacy by giving the Iranian hardliners an excuse to scuttle the negotiations. So many of our colleagues have expressed their determination for diplomacy, and so many more share the same view,” added Representative Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee.The text of the letter and the list of signers in alphabetical order are included below.***Dear Mr. President,As Members of Congress—and as Americans—we are united in our unequivocal commitment to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. The proliferation of nuclear weapons in the Middle East would threaten the security of the United States and our allies in the region, particularly Israel.The ongoing implementation of the Joint Plan of Action agreed to by Iran and the “P5+1” nations last November increases the possibility of a comprehensive and verifiable international agreement. We understand that there is no assurance of success and that, if talks break down or Iran reneges on pledges it made in the interim agreement, Congress may be compelled to act as it has in the past by enacting additional sanctions legislation. At present, however, we believe that Congress must give diplomacy a chance. A bill or resolution that risks fracturing our international coalition or, worse yet, undermining our credibility in future negotiations and jeopardizing hard-won progress toward a verifiable final agreement, must be avoided.We remain wary of the Iranian regime. But we believe that robust diplomacy remains our best possible strategic option, and we commend you and your designees for the developments in Geneva. Should negotiations fail or falter, nothing precludes a change in strategy. But we must not imperil the possibility of a diplomatic success before we even have a chance to pursue it.Sincerely,1 CA Bass2 OH Beatty3 GA Bishop, Sanford4 OR Blumenauer5 Guam Bordallo6 FL Brown7 NC Butterfield, GK8 CA Capps9 MA Capuano10 IN Carson11 PA Cartwright12 VI Christensen13 NY Clarke, Yvette14 MO Clay15 MO Cleaver16 SC Clyburn17 TN Cohen18 VA Connolly19 MI Conyers20 TN Cooper21 CT Courtney22 MD Cummings23 IL Davis, Danny24 OR DeFazio25 CO DeGette26 CT DeLauro27 MI Dingell28 TX Doggett29 TN Duncan Jr (R)30 MD Edwards31 MN Ellison32 IL Enyart33 CA Eshoo34 CA Farr35 IL Foster36 OH Fudge, Marcia37 CA Garamendi38 AZ Grijalva39 IL Gutierrez40 NY Hanna (R)41 NJ Holt42 CA Huffman43 TX Jackson-Lee44 TX Johnson, EB45 GA Johnson, Hank46 NC Jones, Walter (R)47 OH Kaptur48 MA Keating49 IL Kelly, Robin50 MI Kildee51 NH Kuster52 CT Larson53 CA Lee, Barbara54 GA Lewis55 IA Loebsack56 CA Lofgren57 MA Lynch, Stephen58 UT Matheson59 KY Massie (R)60 NY McCarthy61 MN McCollum62 WA McDermott63 MA McGovern64 CA McNerney, Jerry65 NY Meeks66 CA Miller, George67 WI Moore68 VA Moran, Jim69 CA Negrete McLeod70 MN Nolan71 DC Norton72 TX O'Rourke73 AZ Pastor74 NJ Payne75 PR Pierluisi76 ME Pingree77 WI Pocan78 CO Polis79 NC Price, David80 WV Rahall81 NY Rangel82 CA Roybal-Allard83 MD Ruppersberger84 IL Rush85 OH Ryan, Tim86 NMI Sablan87 IL Schakowsky88 VA Scott, Bobby89 NH Shea-Porter90 NY Slaughter91 CA Speier92 CA Takano93 MI Thompson, Bennie94 CA Thompson, Mike95 MA Tierney96 NY Tonko97 MA Tsongas98 MD Van Hollen99 NY Velazquez100 IN Visclosky101 MN Walz102 CA Waters103 VT Welch104 KY Yarmuth# # #
02.11.2014	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) voted in favor of the debt ceiling bill House Republican leaders brought up for a vote in the House today. The bill suspends the debt ceiling until March 15, 2015, averting another damaging, manufactured crisis risking the full faith and credit of the United States. Rep. Price released the following statement:“Democrats have always maintained that Congress should not put the full faith and credit of the United States, and our economy, in doubt by holding the debt ceiling hostage to political demands. Suspending the debt ceiling will allow us to pay the bills for spending Congress has authorized, and it will avert a showdown that risks damaging the economy. After several episodes of debt ceiling and shutdown brinksmanship, I am pleased Republican leaders have seen the light on this issue.”# # #
02.11.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price announced that his office will hold its first annual Congressional Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) Academic competition. Rep. Price invites all 4th District high school students to submit entries for the competition’s “House App Contest.”“I’m pleased to launch the first Fourth District STEM competition, and I am looking forward to seeing the apps students develop,” Rep. Price said. “You don’t have to have spent a lot of time playing Angry Birds to know the STEM fields are an absolutely essential part of a well-rounded education. I am hopeful the app contest will help expose students to these disciplines as they start to make choices about the degree programs they’ll pursue in college--and the careers they will pursue after they graduate."Established by Members of the U.S. House of Representatives in 2013, the competition is a nationwide event that allows high school students from across the country to compete by creating and exhibiting their mock-up of a software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. Students may present a fully functioning “app” with source code if they wish, but this is not required. Participants will be asked to display their work in the form of two videos; one two minute video that describes the application and a one minute video that describes how the application would be developed. The student should demonstrate a basic theoretical knowledge related to software development in their presentation as to link the concept to a potential future product.Students entering the competition must submit their YouTube or VIMEO video demo explaining their app and what they learned through the competition process by April 30th. For any technical questions or for additional information on how to submit an entry, contact William Munn at 910-323-0260 or William.Munn@mail.house.gov by April 23rd.Resources for teachers and students, including app development kits, and detailed contest rules are available on Rep. Price’s website: http://price.house.gov/congressional-stem-competition-house-app-contest/# # #
02.07.2014	Washington, D.C. – In a letter delivered last night, Representatives David Price (NC-04) and G.K. Butterfield (NC-01) responded to North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory’s justification for waiting until November 4th to hold the special election to fill North Carolina’s 12th Congressional District House seat. The representatives ask the Governor to hold the special general election on September, 16, 2014, saying there is no legal or administrative justification for delaying the special election until November. The representatives also point to potential hearings and House votes that could occur between September and November, and write that the 12th district’s constituents deserve a strong advocate on matters before federal agencies.Delaying the 12th Congressional District Special Election until November 4th would leave the district’s House seat vacant for 310 days, the longest a Congressional district has gone without a representative in the last 50 years according to the non-partisan Congressional Research Service.The text of the representatives’ letter is below.February 6, 2014The Honorable Pat McCroryGovernorOffice of the Governor20301 Mail Service CenterRaleigh, NC 27699-0301Dear Governor McCrory:We write as a follow up to our letter on January 9, 2014, regarding the vacancy in North Carolina’s 12th Congressional district. Seating an elected representative in Congress as soon as practicable would ensure that the people of the 12th Congressional District have constitutional representation, would give them a vote and a voice on important legislative matters before Congress, and would facilitate the provision of full constituent services. Therefore, we propose holding the Special General Election on September 16, 2014, which would ensure compliance with the law and significantly reduce the vacancy period.Since our initial letter, our staff has met with your staff to get additional clarity about the numerous factors you considered when deciding to hold the 12th Congressional District Special Election on November 4, 2014. We understand your reasons for holding the Special Primary (May 6) and Special Runoff (July 15) concurrently with existing election dates. However, we can find no legal or administrative justification for delaying the Special General Election until November 4th, a full 16 weeks after the Special Runoff. As we indicated in our previous letter, a vacancy of 310 days would be the longest a Congressional district has gone without representation in the last 50 years. We believe that is not a distinction North Carolina should hold.Our proposed schedule provides nine weeks between the Special Runoff Election and the proposed expedited Special General Election.Special Primary ElectionSpecial Runoff ElectionSpecial General ElectionMay 6, 2014*July 15, 2014*September 16, 2014* Same as the current general election scheduleThe proposed expedited Special General Election meets the following legal and administrative requirements: RestrictionTime NeededTime Provided Under ProposalStateThe county board of elections must transmit a ballot and balloting materials to military-overseas voters no later than 50 days before the election.50 Days*50 DaysThere must be at least 10 weeks between a primary and second primaryin U.S. House elections.Does not apply to the general electionn/aAdministrativeBoard of Elections officials need time to prepare the ballots.Approximately 7-10 Days7 DaysBoard of Elections officials need time to tally the election results.Approximately 7-10 Days6 Days* The federal requirement that states must transmit the official printed ballot to absent uniformed services and overseas voters no later than 45 days before a federal election is covered by the 50 days required by state law.It is critically important that the 12th Congressional District have elected representation, and for North Carolina to have a full congressional delegation to advance priorities that benefit our state. The House could potentially hold several important hearings and votes between September and November on key issues such as appropriations bills, immigration reform, international affairs, highway authorization, and a comprehensive tax reform.In addition to representation on legislative matters, 12th District residents deserve an advocate on casework matters. Under the supervision of the Clerk of the House, former Congressman Mel Watt’s staff is limited on the services it can provide. Therefore, residents of the 12th District now lack a strong advocate to federal agencies on issues such as Medicare, Social Security and veterans’ benefits. In contrast, a congressional office lead by an elected Member of Congress helps constituents cut through red tape at federal agencies and access federal programs and funding opportunities.We understand that a vacancy of some duration may be unavoidable in some cases. However, we urge you to authorize an alternative election schedule that limits the vacancy to the greatest extent practicable. Therefore, we believe that holding the Special General Election on September 16, 2014 is in the best interest of the constituents of the 12th Congressional District, the people of North Carolina, and our democracy.Sincerely,David PriceMember of CongressG. K. ButterfieldMember of Congress# # #
02.03.2014	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) today hailed news that the Research Triangle Foundation of North Carolina has purchased a 100-acre parcel of land in a $18 million investment that will play a central role in the redevelopment of the Park. The newly purchased site will be the home of Park Center, the first mixed-use development in the Park. Rep. Price attended this morning’s announcement and released the following statement.“The RTP is a world-renowned center of research and innovation because leaders in previous decades made forward-looking investments that harnessed the power of public-private partnerships,” Rep. Price said. “Today’s announcement will ensure that legacy is carried forward for the next generation in new and exciting ways. I applaud the Research Triangle Foundation’s visionary leadership and commitment to smart growth. I have no doubt today’s announcement will lead to a stronger, more vibrant RTP.”# # #
01.29.2014	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) voted in favor of the bipartisan 2014 Farm Bill conference report today. The sweeping five-year legislation, which passed the House on a 251-166 vote, affects almost every aspect of federal agriculture policy including the Supplemental Nutrition Assistant Program (SNAP), also known as food stamps. The 2014 bill contains major reforms, reducing the deficit by billions of dollars by basing payments to farmers on market conditions. The bill also streamlines and strengthens initiatives that boost small farmers and programs that protect land, water and other natural resources.“The Farm Bill includes market-based reforms to farm safety net programs, strengthens farmers markets around the country, gives food banks access to new resources, supports new agricultural research, and aids crucial conservation and environmental protection efforts,” Rep. Price said. “However, my support is also based on assurances that North Carolina will continue receiving its full share of funding for the food stamp program. The bill doesn’t include everything Democrats or Republicans wanted, but it is a fair deal for farmers, the state of North Carolina, and taxpayers. I am confident it will help grow our state’s largest industry.”The bill closes food stamp eligibility loopholes some states have misused in the past. Republicans had proposed slashing over $40 billion from the food stamp program in legislation pushed through the House last September. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), 3.8 million people would have lost SNAP benefits in 2014 if the Republican House bill had become law.The bill provides $100 million for SNAP incentive grants to increase the purchase of fruits and vegetables. The new Food Insecurity Nutrition Incentive Program expands projects that increase the value of food stamps when they’re used at farmers market. Rep. Price believes the program is win-win, providing small farmers and community markets with new customers and giving Americans using SNAP benefits increased access to fresh, healthy produce. The bill also increases funding for the Emergency Food Assistance Program, which supports food banks, by $20 million.The major deficit reduction measure included in the bill is a repeal of the direct payment system, which gave farmers a set amount of money per acre to offset unexpected crop failures. The bill replaces the direct payment system with new farm safety net insurance programs that will ensure farmers who do not need help to cope with price adjustments or crop failure will not receive government subsidies. Overall, CBO estimates the reforms included in the farm bill will save an estimated $23 billion over the next 10 years.The farm bill was endorsed by the North Carolina Farm Bureau, the North Carolina Soybean Producers, the North Carolina Strawberry Association, the North Carolina Blueberry Association, the North Carolina Watermelon Association, North Carolina Potato Growers, the North Carolina Grape and Wine Council, the National Sustainable Agriculture Coalition, the National Wildlife Federation, the Organic Trade Association, the Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies, the Humane Society of the United States, and Ducks Unlimited.# # #
01.28.2014	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) issued the following statement this evening after President Obama delivered his State of the Union Address to Congress and the American people.“Tonight, the President laid out concrete proposals to grow the economy, strengthen the middle class, and empower all who hope to join it. I am hopeful that Congress will work with the President on priorities important to North Carolinians: raising the minimum wage, keeping college affordable, spurring economic growth by investing in research, education and transportation, and restoring emergency unemployment benefits. The challenges we confront are difficult ones, but five years after the most severe recession since the Great Depression, the state of our union is stronger. We still have more work to do, and I look forward to working with the President to achieve these goals.”# # #
01.15.2014	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) hailed today’s announcement by the Obama Administration that it will locate a new public-private clean energy manufacturing innovation institute in North Carolina funded by a five-year $70 million grant. President Obama made the formal announcement during his remarks today at North Carolina State University in Raleigh. Last year, Rep. Price wrote a letter to Energy Secretary Moniz supporting the N.C. State-led consortium’s application. “Our region’s dynamic economy is proof that investments in research and development, paired with strong public-private partnerships, can be an economic engine creating new jobs and helping bring innovative products to market,” Rep. Price said. “N.C. State is an ideal location for the innovative manufacturing institute, and helping create the next generation of high-tech manufacturing will further position central North Carolina as a leader in the 21st Century economy.”The winning consortium, led by North Carolina State University and headquartered in Raleigh, includes the State of North Carolina, 18 companies, and seven universities and labs. The institute will focus on enabling the next generation of energy-efficient, high-power electronic chips and devices by making wide bandgap semiconductor technologies cost-competitive with current silicon-based power electronics. Two institutes led by the Department of Defense – focused on Digital Manufacturing and Design Innovation and Lightweight and Modern Metals Manufacturing – are still in the selection process and will be awarded in the coming weeks.In last year’s State of the Union address, the President proposed a series of three new manufacturing institutes. In May, President Obama launched a competition for these three new manufacturing innovation institutes with a Federal commitment of $200 million across five Federal agencies – Defense, Energy, Commerce, NASA, and the National Science Foundation, building off the success of a pilot institute headquartered in Youngstown, Ohio.Each institute is designed to serve as a regional hub aimed at bridging the gap between applied research and product development, bringing together companies, Federal agencies, universities and other academic and training institutions to co-invest in technology areas that encourage investment and production in the United States.After shedding jobs for a decade, manufacturers have added 568,000 over the past four years, including 80,000 over the past five months. Manufacturing production has grown since the end of the recession at its fastest pace in over a decade.# # #
01.15.2014	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04), the ranking member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, announced he would support the bipartisan omnibus appropriations bill in remarks on the House floor today. While Rep. Price believes the bill is far from ideal, it relieves some sequestration spending cuts and includes additional funding for transportation and research investments. The omnibus bill is a package of all twelve appropriations bills and will fully fund the government through the end of the 2014 fiscal year, avoiding another damaging government shutdown. Rep. Price’s remarks are below.“Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the bill and want to commend Chairman Rogers and Ranking Member Lowey for reminding the House how members can work together, on a bipartisan basis, to get the people’s business done. We didn’t set aside our differences to write this bill; we laid them on the table, and worked through them.“The result is far from ideal. It bears the marks of the majority’s misguided budget strategy, which has cut appropriations again and again while leaving the main drivers of the deficit – tax expenditures and mandatory spending – largely untouched. The dire results are most evident in the Labor-Health-Education title of this bill, with devastating cuts to community health centers, medical research, and other vital investments.“But it could have been worse. The December budget agreement allows us to avoid another mindless round of sequestration and to stitch together twelve bills that have gone through at least some of the appropriations process.“Along with Chairman John Carter, I have had particular responsibility for the Homeland Security title, and I want to thank him for the open and collaborative process he led for our subcommittee. With the help of our superb professional staff, we have worked cooperatively to make the most effective possible use of constrained resources.“The agreement provides substantial increases for new customs officers at ports of entry to improve security and expedite travel and commerce. It provides significant increases above the request for Coast Guard operations and for new aircraft and vessels to help the Coast Guard fulfill its critical homeland security and maritime safety missions. It provides increases for ICE to pursue domestic investigations, including investigations related to human trafficking, child exploitation, money laundering, violent gangs, and drug smuggling.“The bill provides healthy increases for first responder and anti-terrorism grants, for critical cyber and infrastructure security programs, and for research and development of new technologies to improve capabilities across the full range of the Homeland Security enterprise.“I urge my colleagues to support this bipartisan agreement.”# # #
01.15.2014	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) released the following statement after Virginia Representative Jim Moran (D-VA), a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, announced he would retire at the end of the 113th Congress.“For decades, Jim Moran has been a forceful, articulate leader of progressive causes in the House. I and other colleagues on the Appropriations Committee know him as a skilled and hard-working legislator. I have valued his judgment on countless issues confronting the Appropriations Committee, finding over the years that we often approach problems from a similar perspective. Jim’s leadership as chairman, and now ranking member, of the Interior and Environment Subcommittee has served our country well protecting air we breathe, the water we drink, and our natural treasures for future generations.“Jim’s service in the House has strengthened our country and our Congress as an institution. I am fortunate to call him a friend. I will be sad to see him depart Congress, but I will wish him well when the time comes.”# # #
01.14.2014	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT), Rep. Cynthia Lummis (R-WY), and Rep. David Price (D-NC) announced bipartisan legislation that would require disclosure of intelligence spending levels at each of the 16 federal agencies responsible for intelligence activities. They also released a bipartisan letter to President Obama urging him to begin disclosing these numbers when he submits his fiscal year 2015 budget to Congress next month.Spending levels on intelligence activities are currently treated as classified information. H.R. 3855, The Intelligence Budget Transparency Act, would require the President to include in his annual budget submission to Congress the total dollar amount requested for intelligence activities at each intelligence agency.The bill is sponsored by:Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT), Member of the House Oversight Subcommittee on National SecurityRep. Cynthia Lummis (R-WY), Vice Chair of the House Oversight Subcommittee on National SecurityRep. David Price (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland SecurityRep. James Sensenbrenner (R-WI), senior Member (and former Chairman) of the House Judiciary CommitteeRep. Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), senior Member of the House Intelligence CommitteeRep. Jim Jordan (R-OH), a senior Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and former Chair of the Republican Study CommitteeRep. Justin Amash (R-MI), Member of the House Oversight Subcommittee on National Security"The biggest threat to the successful implementation of a vital national program is the combination of unlimited money with non-existent oversight. That's the situation Congress has allowed to develop in the critical work of intelligence gathering,” said Rep. Welch. “The top-line intelligence budgets for America's 16 intelligence agencies are unknown to the American taxpayer and largely unknown to the Members of Congress who represent them. It's led to dubious policies, wasted money and questionable effectiveness. Requiring the public disclosure of top-line intelligence spending is an essential first step in assuring that our taxpayers and our national security interests are well served."“This legislation will provide Congress better insight into sometimes disparate intelligence operations,” Rep. Price said. “We know from Director of National Intelligence James Clapper’s testimony that, like all other federal agencies, intelligence agencies are being asked to do more with less. By breaking down top-line figures by agency, all members of Congress, especially appropriators, will be better equipped to conduct oversight and analysis and to provide the men and women in the Intelligence Community the tools they must have to keep us safe.”“Providing for our national security and safeguarding Americans’ freedoms are fundamental roles of the federal government and ensuring effective intelligence is critical to that work,” said Rep. Lummis. “However, writing checks without any idea of where the money is going is bad policy. Disclosing the top-line budgets of each of our intelligence agencies promotes basic accountability among the agencies charged with protecting Americans without compromising our national security interests.”The Intelligence Budget Transparency Act embodies a recommendation made by the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States (also known as the 9/11 Commission) and has been endorsed by Lee Hamilton, the 9/11 Commission’s Vice Chair and a former chairman of the House Intelligence Committee.“America needs competent and effective intelligence gathering agencies. And Congress must exercise prudent and diligent oversight to assure the American taxpayer is getting what it’s paying for,” said Hamilton. “The first step toward accountability and oversight is public disclosure of the top-line budget numbers of all our intelligence gathering agencies.”The bill would apply to at least the following 16 agencies known to receive taxpayer funding for intelligence activities.Air Force Intelligence, Army Intelligence, Central Intelligence Agency, Coast Guard Intelligence, Defense Intelligence Agency, Department of Energy, Department of Homeland Security, Department of State, Department of the Treasury, Drug Enforcement Administration, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Marine Corps Intelligence, National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, National Reconnaissance Office, National Security Agency, Navy IntelligenceThe Welch-Lummis-Price letter to the President is below:January 14, 2014The Honorable Barack ObamaPresident of the United StatesThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NWWashington, DC 20500Dear Mr. President:Ensuring America’s national security requires professional and competent intelligence agencies to perform this vital mission. But the urgency of the mission assigned to the sixteen agencies charged with this responsibility should not shield them from budget accountability and transparency. In fact, the urgency of their mission makes the need for transparency greater in order to assure Congress and the American people of the quality and effectiveness of their work.As the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States (9/11 Commission Report) states, “when even aggregate categorical numbers remain hidden, it is hard to judge priorities and foster accountability.”The current practice of providing no specificity whatsoever regarding the overall budget requests for each intelligence agency falls woefully short of basic accountability requirements.In August, the Washington Post reported for the first time on the spending levels of individual intelligence agencies. This report provided a small but important window into the previously secret intelligence budget. For example, it revealed that the Central Intelligence Agency received a 56 percent increase in its budget over the past 10 years while the National Security Agency received a 54 percent increase.As you develop your fiscal year 2015 budget, we strongly urge you to take a simple step toward much needed transparency by including the total amount requested for each of the sixteen intelligence agencies.We believe the top line number for each agency should be made public, with no risk to national security, for comparative purposes across all federal government agencies. Congress and the American people will be better served by knowing this basic information.Mr. President, we understand you will soon announce a series of reforms regarding intelligence gathering, reporting and judicial review. Providing basic information about the intelligence budget in your fiscal year 2015 budget request would be a further step in the right direction and is wholly consistent with the recommendations made by the 9/11 Commission Report.Sincerely,Rep. Peter WelchRep. Cynthia LummisRep. David PriceRep. Luis Gutierrez#####
01.14.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) highlighted a new report from the Department of Health and Human Services that says North Carolina trails only California, Florida, New York and Texas in the number of people signing up for health insurance under the Affordable Care Act. According to the report, 107,778 North Carolinians have signed up for coverage through the healthcare.gov marketplace. Across the country, 2.15 million Americans have selected plans through the marketplace.“The Affordable Care Act has now helped over 107,000 North Carolinians access affordable, quality health care. Thousands more have an opportunity to sign-up at healthcare.gov before enrollment ends on March 31.“While the Department’s report shows many North Carolinians are able to access insurance through the marketplace, the untold story is that at least 377,000 North Carolinians will go without the coverage promised by the Affordable Care Act because of a wrongheaded, political decision made by Governor McCrory and his allies in the General Assembly. I call on Governor McCrory and the Republican leaders of the North Carolina General Assembly to reconsider their decision to block the ACA’s 100 percent federally-funded Medicaid expansion. Access to health care is a matter of life and death, and our state’s poorest residents deserve political leaders who put their wellbeing ahead of politics and animosity towards the President.”Some of the country’s most conservative Republican governors, in Iowa, Arizona, Nevada, New Mexico, New Jersey and Ohio, have expanded Medicaid to provide care for their state’s poorest residents.According to the report, 70% of North Carolinians enrolling through the healthcare.gov marketplace selected silver plans. Sixteen percent selected bronze plans, 9% gold plans, 5% platinum plans and 1% catastrophic plans.The report further undermines the Republican claim that more people have lost coverage under the Affordable Care Act than gained coverage. Last year, the Obama Administration allowed individuals to remain on plans cancelled because they did not meet the ACA’s adequate coverage requirements. The administrative change required insurers to inform consumers of their option to purchase coverage through the marketplace, where many will qualify for premium assistance, and disclose the protections their policyholders will forgo if they choose to keep the plan they have. The Republican claim was also debunked by a House committee report.Congressional Republicans remain committed to full repeal of the law, which would result in the 2.15 million Americans accessing coverage through the ACA’s marketplaces losing their health insurance plans.# # #
01.10.2014	Washington, D.C. – Representatives David Price (NC-04) and G.K. Butterfield (NC-01) have written North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory urging him to reconsider his decision to delay for over 300 days the special election for the 12th Congressional District and adopt an alternative timeline to cut the period of vacancy by several months. The Representatives write that the Governor’s decision is unacceptable and unprecedented, and that it deprives the district’s residents of their constitutionally guaranteed right of representation. They also call the Governor’s rationale for delaying the special election (cost and logistical concerns) “unconvincing.”The text of the representatives’ letter is below.January 9, 2014The Honorable Pat McCroryGovernorOffice of the Governor20301 Mail Service CenterRaleigh, NC 27699-0301Dear Governor McCrory:We are writing to encourage you to reconsider your decision to delay until November the special election for our state’s 12th Congressional District. We are confident that an alternative timeline could cut the vacancy period by several months. The successive elections could readily be scheduled in ways that maximize their coincidence with already-scheduled elections and minimize the added cost.As you know, more than 700,000 North Carolinians live in the 12th Congressional District. Under your announced timetable, they will go without voting representation for more than 300 days. Such a delay is unacceptable; indeed, it is unprecedented in recent congressional history. Of the seven other vacancies in the 113th Congress, six were filled in an average of 126 days. The general election to fill the seventh is scheduled to take place 145 days after our colleague Bill Young’s unexpected passing.The rationale you have offered, that it is both too costly and logistically impossible to hold the special election before November, is not convincing. The 2013 filing period is fully 30 days away; not a single primary ballot has yet been printed for any precinct in the state. The assumption that North Carolina is better served by having one less advocate in the House for nearly a full year than by finding a cost-effective way to minimize the vacancy is seriously misguided. The fact that your decision requires so many of our state’s citizen’s to forgo their constitutionally guaranteed right of representation for twice as long as common practice is indefensible.We urge you to ensure that all North Carolinians have voting representation in Congress. All of our people deserve a voice in the future of our country, especially as the House of Representatives considers legislation affecting their lives and livelihoods.Sincerely,DAVID PRICEMember of CongressG.K. BUTTERFIELDMember of Congress# # #
01.08.2014	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) today urged House leaders and his North Carolina Republican colleagues to bring the Senate bill extending emergency unemployment benefits to a vote immediately after it passes the Senate. The bill cleared a procedural Senate hurdle yesterday with bipartisan support and is expected to pass later this week. Thanks to a provision added by North Carolina Senator Kay Hagan, the bill restores extended emergency unemployment benefits for North Carolinians.“Helping North Carolinians who have lost jobs through no fault of their own should not be a partisan issue. Sadly, North Carolina was the only state to stop emergency federal aid for her people—over 80,000 in total—because of the decision General Assembly Republican leaders and Governor McCrory made to cut unemployment benefits in 2013. State Republican leaders’ deep cuts to unemployment benefits have pulled hundreds of millions of dollars out of our state’s economy and inflicted hardship on thousands of families.“I applaud Senator Hagan for trying to help these families by superseding the legislature’s disastrous decision, and I hope my House colleagues in the North Carolina delegation will join me in supporting this effort. At a time when there are three job-seekers for every job opening, basic decency requires ensuring that losing a job doesn’t mean economic ruin.“I am especially hopeful my North Carolina Republican colleagues will not object to this measure, as some Republican Senators have, on the grounds that it is not offset with spending cuts to programs they oppose such as food stamps or student loans. Americans are tired of budget games, and when President Bush came to Congress seeking emergency unemployment benefits without offsetting budget cuts, Democrats stood with him because it was the right thing to do for our people. I hope my Republican colleagues will do the right thing, bring the Senate bill up for a vote, and pass it, after it is approved by the Senate.”According to the most recent report of county employment figures, 17 North Carolina counties spread across the 13 congressional districts have an unemployment rate of 9% or more.# # #
01.08.2014	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement this afternoon after North Carolina Rep. Mike McIntyre announced he would retire at the end of the 113th Congress.“Mike McIntyre has been a tremendously effective advocate for the Seventh District and for all North Carolinians during his time in Congress. His brand of practical problem-solving has especially benefited Eastern North Carolina farmers, veterans and small businesses, and he has particularly stressed outreach to young people. Today, Eastern North Carolina communities have more resources to meet the needs of their people and the region is more vibrant and more economically diversified because of his hard work. These many achievements, and the partnerships he was instrumental in forming, will be a lasting legacy.”“Mike’s service in Congress also reminds us that political discourse and debate are enriched by people who grapple with how our faith and religious traditions can help us live up to our ideals. He has prioritized issues over ideology, finding practical ways for democratic government to serve the common good. I wish Mike and Dee well as they seek to continue their service outside Congress and will value the rest of our time as colleagues on Capitol Hill.”# # #
12.30.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement today after President Obama appointed former North Carolina Representative Bob Etheridge as the next North Carolina State Executive Director of the Farm Service Agency.“Bob Etheridge worked tirelessly in Congress to help farmers in his district and across North Carolina. A farmer himself, Bob will bring a wealth of practical and policy experience to bear as the State Executive Director of the FSA, a position that provides critical support to our state’s largest industry. I applaud the Obama Administration for appointing not just a qualified individual, but a dedicated and diligent public servant.”The Administration announcement is included below.We are pleased to make the following personnel announcement:Bob Etheridge – State Executive Director (North Carolina), Farm Service AgencyBob Etheridge was born in Sampson County, North Carolina but spent all of his school-age years in Johnston County. He attended Cleveland School, a union school that housed grades K-12. He graduated with the class of 1959. The son of tenant farmers, Etheridge worked for two years after high school graduation saving enough money to enter Campbell College.In 1978, Etheridge was elected to the N.C. House of Representatives and served as chairman of the House Appropriations Committee from 1984-1988. He introduced the Basic Education Plan, which focused on providing millions of dollars to the public school budget for North Carolina and establishing a core curriculum for all students in K-12, in both rural and urban areas of the State. In 1988, Etheridge was elected as State Superintendent of Public Instruction, becoming the first non-educator since 1856 to hold that post. In eight years as superintendent, Etheridge quickly cut the state bureaucracy in the Department of Public Instruction by 25% and instituted an accountability system that has greatly improved student test scores. In 1996, Etheridge was elected to Congress from N.C.'s second district. He served fourteen years in Congress where he served for twelve years on the House Agriculture Committee and as Chairman of the General Farm Commodity and Risk Management Subcommittee for two years. Etheridge then moved to the House Ways and Means Committee for two years, the first North Carolinian to serve on that committee for 60 years.In the spring of 2011, Etheridge was appointed by Gov. Beverly Purdue to monitor federal stimulus recovery funding. Following a devastating tornado in central NC and a devastating hurricane in eastern North Carolina, he was asked to identify and secure funding for the victims of those natural disasters. Four institutions of higher learning have conferred honorary doctor degrees to Etheridge: Campbell University, Fayetteville State University, Pfeiffer College and Shaw University. He is also a member of the Campbell Sports Hall of Fame and the Johnston County Sports Hall of Fame.Etheridge and his wife, Faye, have been married for 48 years and have three children and eight grandchildren. Bob is an active member of Leaflet Presbyterian Church where he is an elder, president of the Presbyterian men and a long-time Sunday School teacher. Bob still spends as much time as he can on the family farm where he has beef cattle.# # #
12.11.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement today on the bipartisan budget deal announced by Congressional leaders. Rep. Price, a senior Appropriator, is the ranking member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee.“Time and again, Republican leaders have put our economy at risk with artificially-created budget crises. I am hopeful the budget agreement negotiated by House and Senate leaders will prevent another shutdown and reduce the prospect of Congress again damaging the economy. The agreement would also allow Congress to finally write and pass appropriations bills that set investment priorities and hold executive branch agencies accountable for spending taxpayer dollars.“The plan falls short of the comprehensive budget agreement required to get our economy back to full strength and our fiscal house in order. But it averts sequestration’s mindless, across-the-board cuts and makes room for investments in education and infrastructure that will help boost the economy and strengthen the middle class. For these reasons, I believe the budget agreement is a small step in the right direction.“It remains to be seen whether Republican leaders will be able to deliver enough Republican votes for this compromise to pass. Reaching agreement on a budget is central to our responsibility to govern. While I understand this will be a tough vote for members who have pledged to oppose any compromise, we are elected to do what’s best for the country, not the Tea Party.”# # #
12.10.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) hailed news this afternoon that North Carolina Representative Mel Watt had been confirmed by the Senate to head the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the FHA. Rep. Price released the following statement.“With decades of experience on the House Financial Services Committee, Mel Watt is eminently qualified to lead the FHFA. Few House Democrats have a deeper understanding of the interconnected financial and housing industries, and the steps that need to be taken to protect our economy and American consumers who work hard and play by the rules. His prudent and pragmatic leadership will be an asset to the FHFA.“Mel’s service in Congress has also strengthened our state and our country. I am particularly proud of our long-running collaboration on consumer protection legislation, and ‘kitchen table’ issues critical to strengthening the middle class—access to quality affordable education, affordable housing and health care reform. I have long benefited from his wise counsel, so I have no doubt President Obama will as Mel continues his public service in the executive branch.”# # #
12.06.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement today on the passing of former South African President Nelson Mandela. Rep. Price is the co-chair of the House Democracy Partnership, which works with parliaments in developing democracies."Nelson Mandela's struggle to end apartheid in South Africa is an incredible testament to the power of perseverance against both personal adversity and societal inequality. During nearly three decades of imprisonment, Mandela galvanized the world’s conscience against the wrongs of his government, but it was his subsequent leadership of that government that truly set him apart. As President, Mandela brought a spirit of grace, dialogue, and reconciliation to the country's politics that fostered healthy civic institutions and laid the foundation for a vibrant, inclusive society. In short, Mandela harnessed the aspirations of his people in the most positive way—to fix injustice and right systemic wrongs. His legacy will continue to endure and inspire for generations to come."# # #
12.05.2013	By Rep. David E. PriceOn Dec. 8, 1987, President Ronald Reagan stood next to Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev at the White House and delivered one of the most memorable phrases of his presidency. Quoting an old Russian proverb, he said that the aim of the arms reduction treaty being signed that day was to: “trust, but verify.”As the world reacts to the interim nuclear agreement negotiated last month between Iran and the “P5+1” powers, Reagan’s adage is instructive for its context. For decades, the United States and the Soviet Union had been locked in a bitter Cold War struggle and a nuclear arms race in which each had invested billions in the other’s destruction. Just six months earlier, Reagan had stood in West Berlin and demanded that Gorbachev “tear down this wall.” Yet here he was, signing a treaty with his Cold War nemesis and calling on the American people to trust a country they had distrusted so deeply for a generation.Iran is not the Soviet Union, and whether its new president, Hassan Rouhani, will become his country’s Mikhail Gorbachev is an open question. An interim deal alone won’t negate the Iranian government’s long track record of antagonizing the international community, destabilizing the region and repressing its own people.But the P5+1 agreement does represent an opportunity – for negotiations toward a broader deal that decisively prevents Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon, and, if that is achieved, for a new era of relations between Iran and the West. It is exactly the kind of opportunity envisioned in the bipartisan letter I coauthored recently, signed by nearly a third of the House of Representatives, urging President Obama to reinvigorate U.S. diplomatic efforts following President Rouhani’s surprise election.In fact, the interim agreement reverses Reagan’s adage; it could best be described as “verify now, trust later.” It requires Iran to stop all enrichment of nuclear material above a certain level, neutralize much of its existing enriched uranium stockpile, suspend the development of new enrichment capacity, halt substantive work on its “heavy water” plutonium reactor and provide unprecedented access to its nuclear program by international inspectors, including daily inspections of key facilities.In exchange, the deal provides temporary relief from a limited range of international sanctions that can easily be reversed if Iran fails to uphold its end of the bargain. The most painful sanctions – on Iran’s oil and financial services sectors – will remain largely intact, giving the United States and its allies a strong negotiating hand as we seek to reach a broader deal in the coming months.Critics of the interim agreement argue that Iran must be stripped of any capacity for nuclear enrichment altogether. In a perfect world, I would agree.But in the real world, the choice facing the international community is not between the current deal and a deal with zero enrichment. It is between the current deal and one of two disastrous alternatives: EitherIran is left to develop its nuclear program with far less international supervision, or the United States and its allies get drawn into yet another war in the Middle East. Either of these outcomes would make the world a far more dangerous place than would the interim agreement.Moving forward, Congress must give our negotiators the time and space they need to succeed. The unprecedented sanctions already in place have brought the Iranian economy to its knees and the Iranian government to the negotiating table.But a new round of sanctions at this point could have the opposite effect, fracturing the international coalition that has been so critical to the sanctions’ success and thus unraveling the existing sanctions regime. This would actually weaken our negotiating leverage, and would give Iran the pretext to blame America if negotiations fail. Why would we give up our hand before we’ve had a chance to play it?There is no guarantee that the interim deal will lead to a final one. Iran may cheat, delay or walk away from the negotiating table. If that happens, we will be in a far stronger position to pursue an alternative course of action, with the international community behind us. But if the negotiations succeed, it will be a diplomatic triumph on the scale of the Reagan-Gorbachev treaties, averting a deadly threat to global security without another costly war in the Middle East.U.S. Rep. David E. Price represents North Carolina’s 4th congressional district.
12.05.2013	By Rep. David E. PriceOn Dec. 8, 1987, President Ronald Reagan stood next to Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev at the White House and delivered one of the most memorable phrases of his presidency. Quoting an old Russian proverb, he said that the aim of the arms reduction treaty being signed that day was to: “trust, but verify.”As the world reacts to the interim nuclear agreement negotiated last month between Iran and the “P5+1” powers, Reagan’s adage is instructive for its context. For decades, the United States and the Soviet Union had been locked in a bitter Cold War struggle and a nuclear arms race in which each had invested billions in the other’s destruction. Just six months earlier, Reagan had stood in West Berlin and demanded that Gorbachev “tear down this wall.” Yet here he was, signing a treaty with his Cold War nemesis and calling on the American people to trust a country they had distrusted so deeply for a generation.Iran is not the Soviet Union, and whether its new president, Hassan Rouhani, will become his country’s Mikhail Gorbachev is an open question. An interim deal alone won’t negate the Iranian government’s long track record of antagonizing the international community, destabilizing the region and repressing its own people.But the P5+1 agreement does represent an opportunity – for negotiations toward a broader deal that decisively prevents Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon, and, if that is achieved, for a new era of relations between Iran and the West. It is exactly the kind of opportunity envisioned in the bipartisan letter I coauthored recently, signed by nearly a third of the House of Representatives, urging President Obama to reinvigorate U.S. diplomatic efforts following President Rouhani’s surprise election.In fact, the interim agreement reverses Reagan’s adage; it could best be described as “verify now, trust later.” It requires Iran to stop all enrichment of nuclear material above a certain level, neutralize much of its existing enriched uranium stockpile, suspend the development of new enrichment capacity, halt substantive work on its “heavy water” plutonium reactor and provide unprecedented access to its nuclear program by international inspectors, including daily inspections of key facilities.In exchange, the deal provides temporary relief from a limited range of international sanctions that can easily be reversed if Iran fails to uphold its end of the bargain. The most painful sanctions – on Iran’s oil and financial services sectors – will remain largely intact, giving the United States and its allies a strong negotiating hand as we seek to reach a broader deal in the coming months.Critics of the interim agreement argue that Iran must be stripped of any capacity for nuclear enrichment altogether. In a perfect world, I would agree.But in the real world, the choice facing the international community is not between the current deal and a deal with zero enrichment. It is between the current deal and one of two disastrous alternatives: EitherIran is left to develop its nuclear program with far less international supervision, or the United States and its allies get drawn into yet another war in the Middle East. Either of these outcomes would make the world a far more dangerous place than would the interim agreement.Moving forward, Congress must give our negotiators the time and space they need to succeed. The unprecedented sanctions already in place have brought the Iranian economy to its knees and the Iranian government to the negotiating table.But a new round of sanctions at this point could have the opposite effect, fracturing the international coalition that has been so critical to the sanctions’ success and thus unraveling the existing sanctions regime. This would actually weaken our negotiating leverage, and would give Iran the pretext to blame America if negotiations fail. Why would we give up our hand before we’ve had a chance to play it?There is no guarantee that the interim deal will lead to a final one. Iran may cheat, delay or walk away from the negotiating table. If that happens, we will be in a far stronger position to pursue an alternative course of action, with the international community behind us. But if the negotiations succeed, it will be a diplomatic triumph on the scale of the Reagan-Gorbachev treaties, averting a deadly threat to global security without another costly war in the Middle East.U.S. Rep. David E. Price represents North Carolina’s 4th congressional district.
12.05.2013	Washington, D.C. – With fast food workers striking in 100 cities across the country today, including many cities in North Carolina, Representative David Price (D-NC) urged Republican leaders in the House of Representatives to bring legislation raising the minimum wage up for a vote. Rep. Price is a co-sponsor of H.R. 1010, the Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2013, which would raise the minimum wage to $10.10/hour over two years, and index the wage thereafter to the Consumer Price Index, providing increases based on inflation.“A living wage for the workers who keep our communities and business running is vital to our economic success,” Rep. Price said. “The House should take up the Fair Minimum Wage Act to raise the wage for these workers. The bill would also give businesses certainty by allowing them to plan for wage increases based on inflation.”The federal minimum wage was last increased in 2009, when it rose to the current rate of $7.25/hour. Thirty percent of the purchasing power of the minimum wage has eroded since it reached its peak in 1968. More than 30 million workers, 88% of them adults, would receive a raise if the wage is increased.“Rather than mindless budget cuts, we should be having a robust conversation about income inequality and creating economic opportunity for all Americans,” Rep. Price said. “Raising the minimum wage is about providing dignity to Americans who work hard and play by the rules. To grow the middle class, we also need to focus on improving access to education and training and making the investments in infrastructure and research that give all American an opportunity to succeed.”Yesterday, in remarks on income inequality, President Obama reiterated his call to raise the federal minimum wage. According to the Economic Policy Institute, raising the wage to $10.10/hour over the next two years would increase GDP by $32.4 billion and create 140,000 net new jobs over the phase-in period.# # #
11.26.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement today on the agreement, reached over the weekend between Iran and the “P5+1” powers, including the United States. The deal requires Iran to halt progress on suspend or roll back key elements of its nuclear program, including halting enrichment above a certain level and reducing highly-enriched uranium stockpiles, and to provide for increased access to Iran’s nuclear facilities by international monitors. Earlier this year, Rep. Price coauthored a bipartisan letter signed by over 130 House members urging the President to reinvigorate diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon in the wake of the country’s presidential election.“The interim agreement reached over the weekend is an important first step toward a comprehensive and verifiable deal to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. The agreement suspends key elements of Iran’s nuclear program, diminishes Iran’s capability to produce weapons-grade material, and commits Iran to unprecedented transparency and monitoring requirements. Should Iran fail to hold up its end of the bargain, the limited sanctions relief included in the deal will be terminated.“Whether this interim agreement will lead to a final deal remains to be seen, but I commend the Obama Administration for heeding bipartisan calls in Congress to give diplomacy a chance and believe Congress must give our negotiators the time and space they need to pursue such a deal. Hastily enacting additional sanctions at this time could fracture the international coalition that produced this initial agreement and thus actually weaken the Administration’s leverage as it pursues a broader deal.”# # #
11.22.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (D-NC) linked a Republican House committee hearing in Gastonia, North Carolina to the party’s efforts to sabotage and repeal the Affordable Care Act. Rep. Price argues that the hearing, a product of the confidential “Obamacare Watch Playbook” distributed to Republican members and later obtained by a media organization, shows the party is more concerned with politicizing the health care law than working to improve it. A statement from Rep. Price is below.“This so-called ‘oversight hearing’ is being led by the same Republicans who shut down the government in their desperate attempt to defund the Affordable Care Act. It is disappointing that House Republicans prefer to spend time and taxpayer money coming up with glossy brochures outlining their strategy to repeal the ACA and flying members around the country for political messaging opportunities, instead of focusing on improving the law or addressing other priorities that affect North Carolinians.“The hearing deliberately excludes individuals who have benefited from the Affordable Care Act, such as the constituent in my district with a very sick wife who was able escape financial insecurity by saving more than $3,500 a year on his insurance premiums and co-payments as a direct result of the law. Many constituents have contacted me with similar stories. Because of the Affordable Care Act, North Carolinians have access to high-quality plans that won’t let them down when they need them the most. Millions of North Carolinians have benefited by keeping their children on their insurance plans until they turn 26, or by taking advantage of free preventive care and better Medicare prescription benefits, because of the law.“Republicans would prefer to paper over the ACA’s success stories to make repealing the law easier politically, but I am unwilling to turn my back on the millions of Americans who have been waiting for years to access quality insurance. I am happy to work to improve the law, but that is made much more difficult by the Republicans’ constant efforts to make it fail.”# # #
11.21.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, after voting against all three energy bills Republicans brought to the House floor this week, Representative David Price (D-NC) expressed his disappointment that Republican leaders are choosing to debate “message” bills instead of focusing on priorities that affect all North Carolinians. The Republican bills considered by the House this week would put oil and natural gas drilling and pipeline activities in the fast lane, and would bar any federal oversight of fracking on public lands.“After today, House Republicans have only eight legislative workdays scheduled for the rest of the year,” Rep. Price said. “I find it amazing that House Republican leaders, who have presided over one of the most lethargic sessions I can remember, think handing out energy company giveaways is a better use of our time than moving forward on a transportation bill or a farm bill or immigration reform, or even on writing our 2014 budget—all of which would benefit the economy and create jobs. They have no sense of urgency for the rest of the year, and their draft ‘blank page’ agenda for 2014 makes clear just how limited their positive vision for our nation is.”President Obama has promised to veto the Republican energy bills, which are also unlikely to be considered in the Senate. The House is expected to be in recess from November 21 until December 2. House Republicans have scheduled December 13 as the final day of session for the year.# # #
11.20.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement today after President Obama awarded former University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill men’s basketball coach Dean Smith the Presidential Medal of Freedom. Rep. Price joined Smith’s family at the award ceremony at the White House.“The Presidential Medal of Freedom recognizes individuals who have embodied American values and made our nation stronger through their extraordinary life’s work. Throughout his life, Coach Smith has worked humbly yet tirelessly to address many of our country’s most pressing issues, from ending segregation in college sports and in our college town to advancing the cause of equal rights and justice for all Americans.“Dean also found time to be a pretty good basketball coach. We all know of Coach Smith’s success leading the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill men’s basketball team to championships and Final Fours, and his record-setting 879 wins, but his dedication to mentoring his players and ensuring they graduated and went on to success after basketball was just as laudable. By any measure, Dean Smith’s contributions to our community and our country have met the standard for the Presidential Medal of Freedom. I congratulate my friend and his family on this award and hope his example is remembered for years to come.”Also receiving the Presidential Medal of Freedom were: former President Bill Clinton, journalist Ben Bradlee, former Hawaii Senator Daniel Inouye, talk show host and media figure Oprah Winfrey, Nobel Prize in Chemistry winner Jose Mario Molina, Nobel Economics Laureate Daniel Kahneman, former Indiana Senator Richard Lugar, singer Loretta Lynn, astronaut Sally Ride, former Chicago Cubs first baseman Ernie Banks, civil rights leader Bayard Rustin, jazz musician Arturo Sandoval, writer and activist Gloria Steinem, civil rights activist, C.T. Vivian and Judge Patricia Wald.# # #
11.14.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement today after President Obama announced an administrative change to the Affordable Care Act (ACA) that will allow consumers to remain on their 2013 health plans in 2014, even if the plans do not meet new additional coverage protections required by the law. Insurers will be required to inform consumers of their option to purchase coverage through the new Health Insurance Marketplace, where many may qualify for premium assistance, and to disclose the protections their policyholders will forgo if they choose to keep the plan they have.“President Obama has made clear his priority is to ensure that every American has access to quality, affordable health care. Today’s administrative change should help smooth the transition to better coverage for individuals buying insurance in the individual and small group markets, preserve the benefits of the ACA for millions of people who are now able to buy quality health coverage for the first time, and retain the ACA’s consumer protections for Americans who buy insurance through their employer.“While I remain concerned by difficulties implementing the Affordable Care Act, what we will not do is use these challenges as an excuse to repeal the law, which House Republican leaders called for yet again today. I am unwilling to turn my back on the millions of Americans who have been waiting for years to access quality insurance, including those who suffer from or have survived cancer and other diseases. I also stand by other common-sense ACA reforms that are reliant on the full implementation of the law, such as its ban on gender discrimination, its elimination of annual and lifetime coverage caps, and its provision for children to stay on their parents’ plans until they turn 26. The Republican ‘alternative’ is the same today as it has been for years: a return to the broken status quo.”# # #
11.07.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement today after Rep. Howard Coble (R-NC) announced he would retire at the end of the current Congress at a news conference in Greensboro.“Howard Coble is one of the best-liked members of the House of Representatives, and that affection extends across the political spectrum. Always ready with a kind word for everyone—from fellow representatives to capitol police to constituents—it’s difficult to walk anywhere with Howard in Washington, D.C. or North Carolina without being stopped several times because he has so many friends who want to chat with him. I have always especially enjoyed introducing my staff to Howard, his first question being what high school they attended, and his second question being, ‘what’s it like working for this scallywag?’“While we have sometimes disagreed on politics and policy, we have also had fruitful bipartisan collaborations on issues important to North Carolina ranging from textile research to disaster relief. Over the years, I have valued his friendship immensely, and greatly admired his attentiveness to constituents and his dedicated service in the House. Howard reminds us of a time when our politics were less hard-edged. When he retires at the close of the current Congress, I wish him all the best. Our state and the House of Representatives have greatly benefited from his service.”# # #
11.05.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) released the following statement today after the Senate voted to proceed to consideration of the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA). The bipartisan procedural vote clears the way for final passage of the legislation in the Senate. ENDA would bar workplace discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity.“Passage of ENDA would bring our workplace discrimination laws in line with our values. Americans understand that what matters is your ability to get the job done, and that discrimination on the basis of race, gender, age, religion or sexual orientation has no place in the workplace. Following Senate passage, House Republican leaders should allow a vote on this bipartisan legislation without delay. I believe we could successfully push the bill to passage, and that all Americans would benefit.”# # #
11.01.2013	Washington, DC – On Tuesday, November 12 from 9:30 AM – 11:15 AM, Rep. David Price (D-NC) will hold his annual Veterans’ Briefing at the North Carolina National Guard Joint Force Headquarters building in Raleigh. Rep. Price, a member of the Veterans Affairs and Military Construction Appropriations Subcommittee, will update veterans on his work in Congress and take questions from attendees. Winston Salem Veterans Administration Director Cheryl Rawls will provide an update on the VA’s work, and VA representatives will be on hand to provide information about benefits and services. This event is open to all Fourth District veterans. Members of the media are invited to attend.Note: The NCNG JFHQ is a military installation. Attendees will need to bring a photo ID in order to enter to the facility. Attendees should RSVP no later than Thursday, November 7, 2013 by calling Rep. Price’s Western District office at 919-967-7924 or his Raleigh office at 919-859-5999. Who: Rep. David Price (NC-04)What: Veterans’ Briefing When: Tuesday, November 12, 2013, 9:30 AM – 11:15 AMWhere: North Carolina National Guard Joint Force Headquarters, 1636 Gold Star Drive, Raleigh, NC # # #
10.24.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC), the ranking member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, and Charlotte-area Representative Mel Watt (D-NC), announced today that the City of Charlotte’s water system will be the subject of a key Department of Homeland Security (DHS) infrastructure protection pilot program. In 2014, the Regional Resiliency Assessment Program (RRAP) program will conduct ten infrastructure protection studies across the country focused on identifying vulnerabilities and risk mitigation opportunities.“Protecting our infrastructure is central to our homeland security,” Rep. Price said. “The RRAP study will help DHS create a blueprint communities across the country can use to make sure their residents have clean drinking water in the event of a manmade or natural disaster.”“I am extremely pleased that Charlotte has been selected by the Department of Homeland Security to participate in such an important study,” said Rep. Watt. “No doubt, this reflects on the value of the Charlotte region as a growing population center and the results of the study will be critically valuable to our area.”The Charlotte water delivery system serves more than 750,000 people in the region. The RRAP study is the first of its kind to focus on a water system in its entirety. The study will provide local, state and federal policymakers with key findings related to the cascading impacts of possible failure points, identifying interdependencies and security gaps. After the study is released, DHS will continue to offer resources and assistance to mitigate risks and address security issues.# # #
10.18.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement today after news of the passing of former Speaker of the House of Representatives Tom Foley (D-WA).“I am saddened to learn of Tom Foley’s death. I remember vividly his words of wisdom and the personal encouragement he offered me when I first came to the House, and how proud I was to bring him to North Carolina. As party leader and Speaker, Tom served with great dignity and integrity. He was dedicated to the House as an institution, understanding the importance of its bipartisan as well as partisan capacities for the good of the entire nation.”# # #
10.16.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement today after news that Senate negotiators had reached a deal to avert default and to end the government shutdown, which House Republicans precipitated in order to extract political concessions.“While I am pleased House Republicans are finally allowing Congress to act to end the shutdown and avert default on our debts, I cannot help but ask: ‘Why did Republicans put the American people through this?’“This manufactured crisis was unnecessary, reckless and irresponsible, and it has had real consequences for the people of our state. North Carolinians were furloughed and denied the services their tax dollars fund. Critical research was brought to a screeching halt, and every American will feel the effects of slower economic growth and higher interest rates because of Republicans’ willingness to shut down the government and risk the full faith and credit of the United States. I am hopeful that this fiasco will be a turning point for House Republicans and prompt a return to regular order.“At a minimum, this much is clear: we must stop governing by crisis, with one political party threatening to shut down our economy, our government and our legislative process in order to extract political concessions. Such tactics are unworthy of our country and of any party that would claim to govern.”# # #
10.15.2013	Washington, D.C. – In an open letter sent to North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory today, North Carolina Representatives David Price (D-NC), G.K. Butterfield (D-NC) and Melvin Watt (D-NC) pushed the Governor and his administration to explain why North Carolina is the only state in the country to discontinue the operation of its Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program. Last week, the McCrory Administration abruptly reversed its decision to suspend the Women, Infants and Children (WIC) supplemental nutrition program.The text of the letter is below.October 15, 2013The Honorable Pat McCroryGovernorOffice of the Governor20301 Mail Service CenterRaleigh, NC 27699-0301Dear Governor McCrory:It has come to our attention that North Carolina is the lone anomaly in deciding to discontinue the operation of the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program.While other states are maintaining their TANF programs, North Carolina has ceased processing new applications. It is the only state in the country to do so.The Administration for Children and Families has committed itself to working with every state to ensure that essential TANF benefits remain available and that all expenditures are reimbursed when the federal government reopens. This guarantee of reimbursement, which is apparently good enough for 49 other states, would enable the state to meet its responsibility to administer the program.Last week your state DHHS announced it would re-open the Women, Infants and Children supplemental nutrition program. North Carolina was, again, the only state in the country to discontinue WIC benefits even though federal contingency funds were available. We are concerned that the decision to suspend the TANF program may reflect a disturbing trend, and urge you again to reverse course.As we work to resolve the political impasse in Congress and reopen the federal government, we urge your administration to undertake all possible measures to ensure that the most vulnerable families in our state get the services they need.Sincerely,DAVID PRICEMember of CongressG. K. BUTTERFIELDMember of CongressMELVIN L. WATTMember of Congress# # #
10.11.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement this morning after the McCrory Administration announced it would resume issuing WIC benefits in North Carolina. North Carolina was the only state in the country to discontinue WIC benefits after USDA confirmed it would use $125 million in contingency funding to keep the program operating through the end of October."Yesterday afternoon my office confirmed that USDA promised contingency funds to every state, including North Carolina, to keep WIC programs running through the end of October. North Carolina was the only state in the country to discontinue benefits. It is not clear why the McCrory Administration disrupted benefits with these funds available, but I am pleased they have abruptly reversed course."# # #
10.10.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) gave remarks in the House of Representatives today, urging Republican leaders to pass a bill funding all of the Department of Homeland Security as a part of a resolution to open the entire government. The narrow bill put forward by Republicans only funds the Department’s border security functions, leaving the U.S. Secret Service, the Transportation Security Administration, the National Protection and Programs Directorate, the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, the Federal Protective Service, the Office of Health Affairs, the Domestic Nuclear Detection Office, Analysis and Operations (intelligence), the Office of the Inspector General, and research and development programs, unfunded.The federal government shut down last week after Republicans refused to pass a bill funding the government in order to extract political concessions derailing the Affordable Care Act. Rep. Price remarks are below.Watch Rep. Price’s Remarks on YouTube“Enough is enough!“The American people are fed up with partisan games and procedural gimmicks. They see through it, and they are demanding we come together and get the government back to work today.“If the Speaker of the House is so sure that the votes for a clean funding bill are not there, he should call the vote to prove it to the American people. Except he won’t do that, because everyone in this chamber knows that the Senate-passed continuing resolution would clear this House in a heartbeat and end this Tea-Party fueled dream of government collapse.“Today the majority has decided the government function they want to give political cover to is border security. Border security obviously wasn’t very high on their list; we’ve had to wait ten days before they got around to it. And of course the question remains: why didn’t they think more about border security -- or cancer research, or the national parks, or women’s and children’s nutrition -- when they were shutting the government down last Monday? Ten days late, and billions of dollars short, you might say.“As someone who has worked for years, in a bipartisan spirit, to secure our nation’s border, I certainly appreciate that border security is one of the most sensitive and dangerous areas of the budget with which to play partisan political games.“But I have to ask: what about the many other critical homeland security functions that this bill wouldn’t do anything to fix -- including protecting our nation from cyber-attacks, for example, or keeping our aviation and mass transit systems safe, or funding the Secret Service, or developing the next generation of explosive detection technology?“We cannot continue to pick winners and losers by providing temporary funding for government services, operations, and personnel. This piece-meal approach to governing is failing our constituents and failing our economy. The only solution is to reopen the entire federal government by calling up the clean funding bill passed by the Senate.“Last week, we were told by Republican leaders not to worry: furloughed employees should ‘stand by,’ they said, while the House votes to reopen the government one news cycle at a time. Well, the American people’s livelihoods can’t wait for another news cycle. We are tired of waiting and tired of this charade.“Let's dispense with this political theater and get back to our basic job description: keep the government open, pay the country's bills, and negotiate a comprehensive budget plan that lifts sequestration, revives our economy, and secures our fiscal future.“The first step is a clean continuing resolution. Let’s do it today.”# # #
10.09.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement today as North Carolina’s Department of Health and Human Services announced that it will stop issuing supplemental nutrition benefits to low-income women, infants and children (WIC) because of the federal government shutdown. The federal government shut down last week after Republicans refused to pass a bill funding the government in order to extract political concessions derailing the Affordable Care Act.“House Republican leaders could end this shutdown today if they would bring up a clean bill opening the entire government—it would pass easily with the support of almost all Democrats and many moderate Republicans. Because they won’t, low-income mothers in our community are at risk of not being able to feed their children. Shame on Republican leaders for putting our people through this crisis in order to extract the Tea Party’s ransom: derailing health care reform.“The piecemeal funding charade put forward by House Republicans has gone on long enough. Low-income women and children, veterans, cancer patients and small business owners are not pawns. They’d be able to access all of the services their taxes fund today if Republican leaders would do the jobs they were elected to do and pass a clean funding bill to reopen the government.”# # #
10.04.2013	Washington, D.C.–Representative David Price (D-NC), the Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, delivered the following remarks on the House floor today during consideration of H.J.Res. 85, a flawed bill that would temporarily reopen FEMA but provide no funding to reopen the other components of the Department of Homeland Security or the federal government. Rep. Price believes House Republicans should do their jobs and pass a clean bill to fully open the government and provide Americans with all of the services their taxes fund.“Mr. Speaker, how much longer must we continue this charade, and at what expense to the country, the Federal employees who serve our country, and the American people who depend on their service? How much longer must we continue the same, tired, old, dishonest debate?Today it’s about FEMA. We appreciate the Republicans’ concern. We are also anxiously watching the approach of Hurricane Karen. But we wish the Republicans had thought a bit more about such matters before shutting the government down on Monday midnight.The issue, of course, is not whether we want to provide funding for FEMA, or for any other particular activity or particular group of federal employees. I will take a back seat to no-one when it comes to supporting the men and women who serve on the frontlines of our national disaster preparedness and response effort and who will be on the scene, whatever Hurricane Karen amounts to.The issue here is whether we’re going to pick winners and losers by providing temporary funding for government services, operations and personnel, when everyone in this body knows perfectly well that we could reopen the entire federal government in one fell swoop by calling up the Senate-passed CR. That is what Democrats – and a growing number of Republicans – are advocating, and it is the only path that will get us out of this mess.Instead, the House majority continues to bring to the floor piecemeal measures like this one—measures that are red meat for Ted Cruz but have no chance of passing the Senate or being signed by the President because they don’t solve the basic problem. Therefore, they are a cynical and cruel deception. We all know that. So let’s quit playing these games and actually do our job for the American people.Mr. Speaker, if we are going to resume funding for parts of the Department of Homeland Security – where is the bill that funds the Secret Service, whose importance was on full display yesterday? Where is the bill to ensure our aviation system remains safe and secure through TSA? Where is the bill to keep us safe from cyber attacks?Of course we want to provide funding for FEMA, but what about all of the other employees of the Department of Homeland Security who work every day to ensure the security of our nation? What about the Border Patrol Agents, Customs and Border Protection Officers, ICE Agents and protecting our nation and its border without pay right now? Maybe the House majority will, eventually, get to them? Or maybe they won’t. It’s becoming more and more difficult to tell who the Republican majority cares about at any given moment.There have been charges of a lack of willingness to negotiate and compromise on the part of the President and congressional Democrats. Let us be clear: the only ones who have compromised on anything related to funding the government are Democrats. We have compromised to the tune of $60 billion – agreeing to a short-term CR well below the President’s budget request or the Senate-passed budget resolution.And by the way, that is the same budget resolution that Republicans have refused to work on with the Senate and that would have headed off this shutdown. It really must take some nerve for our colleagues now to be singing the praises of conference committees!But on the Senate’s clean, bipartisan funding bill we don’t need more talk; we need a vote. The clean continuing resolution would pass this House easily if the Republican leadership would simply put it to a vote.Let's dispense with this political theater and get back to our basic job description: keep the government open, pay the country's bills, and negotiate a comprehensive budget plan that lifts sequestration, revives our economy, and reduces our deficit.”# # #
10.01.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement tonight explaining his opposition to a Republican plan that would only fund certain portions of the government, leaving many North Carolinians furloughed and unable to access services. The federal government shut down at midnight after Republicans refused to pass a bill funding the government in order to extract political concessions derailing the Affordable Care Act. Rep. Price believes House Republicans should do their jobs and pass a clean bill to fully open the government and provide Americans with all of the services they deserve.“Mr. Speaker, the American people have had enough of this hypocrisy.“Of course we want the American people to have access to our national parks—which our Republican colleagues now claim to be the defenders of, despite their repeated attempts to slash funding for the Park Service and conservation.“Of course we want the DC government to continue to function—which our Republican colleagues now profess to care about, despite their attempts to impose their ideological agenda on the District’s residents.“Of course we want the VA to resume its operations for those who have worn our nation’s uniform—though our Republican colleagues seem more interested in using our veterans to score political points than in addressing their needs.“But what about the thousands of DoD civilians who were told not to come into work today, including those in my district who serve our nation at Fort Bragg?“What about the EPA scientists in the Research Triangle who spent today picking up litter on a community service project instead of conducting important research on air quality, or the firefighters across the nation who depend on FEMA grants to keep their communities safe?“What about the USDA-funded researchers at N.C. State whose paychecks will run out, or the NIH researchers at Duke whose grants are now under threat?“The American people deserve a government that works for all. The Senate has passed a responsible, bipartisan funding bill that would pass this House easily if it is allowed to receive a vote.“Let us dispense with this political theater and get back to the basics: keeping the government open, paying the country’s bills, and negotiating a comprehensive budget plan that replaces sequestration, revives our economy, and reduces the deficit. I yield back the balance of my time.”# # #
10.01.2013	Washington, D.C. – As the federal government shut down today, Representative David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement saying Republicans were “irresponsible and reckless” to risk the economy to advance their political agenda. Republicans have held funding for the government hostage to their demands for changes in the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare.“It is irresponsible and reckless for House Republicans to put the economy at risk in order to advance their political agenda. Holding government funding hostage with the goal of denying millions of Americans affordable health care is not worthy of a serious governing party.“The American people want House Republicans to get with it. Funding the government is not a ‘concession’ for Members of Congress; it’s the basic job description outlined in the Constitution. The government shutdown illustrates for every American that the hallmark of the Tea Party Republican House continues to be ironclad opposition to reasonable solutions."# # #
09.30.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) gave the following remarks on the House floor tonight in reaction to the decision by House Republicans to again reject the clean, bipartisan Continuing Resolution passed by the Senate and continue to attempt to derail the Affordable Care Act. By failing to send the Senate-passed bill to the President, House Republicans have made it almost certain that the government will shut down when its current funding expires at midnight tonight.Watch Rep. Price's Remarks on YouTube“Mr. Speaker, we are now just hours away from the Tea Party-inspired, Republican shutdown.“Our Republican colleagues are at it again, holding the economy hostage to their ideological demands and their take-it-or-leave-it politics. This is not the behavior of responsible legislators, or of a serious political party willing to do what it takes to govern.“The only party that has actually compromised on the bill before us is Democrats, who have agreed to a short-term funding level below the Senate budget resolution, despite our belief that we should be replacing sequestration instead of locking it in.“By contrast, Republicans have refused to go to conference to work out a budget with Senate Democrats. Republican leaders walked away from negotiations with the President on a comprehensive budget deal in December. And now it is Republicans who, as the President said, are demanding a ransom merely for doing their most basic job, keeping the government open. That ransom, incredibly, is health care for millions of our fellow citizens.“The Affordable Care Act has been upheld as the law of the land by a majority of Congress, a majority of the United States Supreme Court, and a majority of Americans at the ballot box. If the junior senator from Texas and his acolytes think they can overturn those decisions unilaterally, I suggest they consult their Constitution. I would be happy to lend them a copy.“Mr. Speaker, we must reject this latest Republican ploy, and in this country and in this body we have got to get back to the basics: keeping the government open, paying the country’s bills, and negotiating a comprehensive budget plan.” # # #
09.30.2013	Washington, D.C. - Representative David Price (D-NC) today applauded the Department of Justice’s announcement of a lawsuit against the discriminatory voting law passed by the North Carolina General Assembly and signed into law by Governor McCrory. In addition to requiring voters to present government-issued identification at the polls, the law curbs early voting opportunities, eliminates same day registration, and restricts provisional balloting. Earlier this year, Price sent a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder asking him to investigate the law.“I applaud the Attorney General for heeding our calls and taking a stand against this discriminatory measure. If left unchallenged, the so-called Voter ID bill threatens to disenfranchise seniors, students, minorities, and low income voters, all of whom are less likely to have a valid photo ID and more likely to take advantage of early voting and same day registration. In the absence of any evidence of widespread voter fraud in North Carolina, it is impossible to conclude that this law is anything other than a deliberate attempt to selectively disenfranchise our state's voters.“The right to vote is the bedrock of American democracy, and our nation’s history has been defined by the hard-fought expansion of suffrage to all eligible citizens – regardless of race, gender, physical ability, or socioeconomic status. Attempts to turn back this history of progress for partisan gain must not stand.”# # #
09.28.2013	Washington, D.C. –Representative David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement today in reaction to the decision by House Republicans to reject the clean, bipartisan Continuing Resolution passed by the Senate and instead to amend the measure in yet another attempt to delay the Affordable Care Act. By failing to send the Senate-passed bill to the President, House Republicans made it almost certain that the government will shut down when its current funding authority expires at midnight on Monday, September 30.“The choice facing House Republicans was crystal clear: keep the government open for a few more weeks so Congress can finish work on the budget, or shut down the government to appease their most extreme members.“After three years of lurching from crisis to crisis, undermining our economic recovery and undercutting the middle class, the decision they made is not surprising. But it is no less disappointing, and its implications for our future are no less damaging.“While the Senate-passed Continuing Resolution does not provide an ideal level of funding, it does ensure the federal government remains open, that millions of Americans receive the Medicare, Social Security, and veterans benefits they have earned, and that our economic recovery continues.“Instead of taking up this commonsense measure, Republicans chose once again to hold our economy hostage to their partisan demands. Instead of working with the President and Democrats to negotiate a comprehensive budget deal that replaces sequestration, accelerates our recovery, and charts a responsible fiscal course, they are once again tilting at windmills in their ideological fervor. And they are doing all of this to deny access to affordable health care to millions of Americans!“The Senate has sent the House a reasonable measure. Let us pass it and get on with the business we were elected to do.”# # #
09.26.2013	Washington, D.C. – This morning, Representative David Price (D-NC), the ranking member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, hailed today’s announcement that Durham-based Innovative Emergency Management (IEM) had been awarded three Department of Homeland Security (DHS) contracts worth over $6.9 million.“I am very pleased a company from the Fourth District is taking a leading role in supporting a program that helps keep Americans safe,” Rep. Price said. “IEM’s work will advance a crucial homeland security and preparedness objective.”The contracts were awarded under the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Chemical Stockpile Emergency Preparedness Program (CSEPP). The program is a partnership between FEMA and the U.S. Department of the Army that provides emergency preparedness assistance and resources to communities near Army chemical warfare agent stockpiles. CSEPP is tasked with protecting people who live and work near these chemical stockpile installations in the event of a chemical accident or incident.“IEM is proud to continue our 20 year history of support to FEMA in its mission to ensure the safety of citizens living and working around chemical weapons stockpiles in the United States,” IEM President and CEO Madhu Beriwal said. “Our nationally recognized team of experts is committed to integrating science and technology for continued innovations in public protection.”Additional information about each contracts is below.1. $2,284,593.48 to Innovative Emergency Management in Durham for integrated support of the Chemical Stockpile Emergency Preparedness Program. This contract will include providing software help desk services, documentation and report development, Integrated Process/Product Team and Work Group support, technical support, subject matter expertise, knowledge and records management, and related tasks. The award will be funded using FY2013 funds from FEMA’s Radiological Emergency Preparedness Program.2. $3,384,680.40 to Innovative Emergency Management in Durham for integrated support of the Chemical Stockpile Emergency Preparedness Program. This contract will include performing communications system analysis and planning, technical specification determination, procurement support and documentation, technology implementation and integration, and related project management services. The award will be funded using FY2013 funds from FEMA’s Radiological Emergency Preparedness Program.3. $1,328,981.25 to Innovative Emergency Management in Durham for exercise support for the Chemical Stockpile Emergency Preparedness Program. Tasks include design and management of tabletop, functional, and full-scale FY2014 Exercises Pueblo Community and Blue Grass. The award will be funded using FY2013 funds from FEMA’s Radiological Emergency Preparedness Program.# # #
09.25.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC), the ranking member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, announced today that the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) will receive a $228,799 grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) National Dam Safety Grant Program. The Department will use the grant funds to hire two dam safety engineers and an administrative aide."In recent years, we have seen the risks of neglecting the routine inspection and maintenance of our infrastructure," Rep. Price said. "This funding will give North Carolina additional resources to conduct inspections, reduce the threat posed by dam failures, and educate the public on what to do in the event of a dam breach."As the lead federal agency for the National Dam Safety Program, FEMA is responsible for coordinating efforts to secure the safety of dams throughout the United States. The program makes federal funds available to the states, which are primarily responsible for protecting the public from the failure of non-federal dams and enhancing dam safety and security.Rep. Price has been a leading advocate for FEMA disaster preparedness grants to protect against manmade and natural disasters. As the senior Democrat on the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, he has opposed Republican cuts to disaster preparedness and mitigation programs, whose funding has been cut in half since fiscal year 2010.# # #
09.23.2013	Washington, D.C. – This morning, POLITICO published a column by Representative David Price (NC-04) titled "The Twilight of Appropriations?" The article addresses the years-long breakdown of the appropriations process under the influence of partisan pressures in the House of Representatives. Rep. Price writes that the process is now on life-support, endangering the hallmark of Congress's constitutional authority and the wellspring of its power to conduct oversight and set national priorities.POLITICO: The Twilight of Appropriations?By Rep. David PriceAs Congress refocuses its attention on the looming fiscal battles, with both sides steeling for a fight over the debt limit and a potential government shutdown, a development with greater implications for our nation's future is unfolding with far less notice. The appropriations process — that hallmark of Congress's constitutional authority and wellspring of our power to conduct oversight and set national priorities — is on life support and in danger of total collapse.With just four legislative days left before the end of the fiscal year, not one of the 12 funding bills required to keep the government open has been enacted into law. House Republicans have struggled to pass even a continuing resolution to keep the government running for a few weeks while appeasing their red-meat conservatives. This is hardly the first time Congress has failed to conclude its annual budget process in a timely and orderly fashion, but this year's implosion offers the most vivid example yet of the reason behind the process's demise: the surrender of Congress's constitutional power of the purse to the politics of a polarized, hyperpartisan House.Historically, the Appropriations Committee has displayed restrained partisanship as Congress's instrument for holding the executive, of whatever party, accountable. To the extent that the process is overcome by the partisan or ideological conflicts of the moment, it loses credibility, legitimacy and effectiveness.While partisanship has been trickling into the appropriations process for years, the dam was burst by this year's House budget resolution, which locked into place sequestration — the drastic, indiscriminate cuts that were triggered by Congress's failure to act on the real drivers of the deficit, tax expenditures and entitlement spending. The budget then doubled down on sequestration by setting allocations for most domestic bills even lower in order to restore funds for defense and security. This left Republican appropriators with a number of bills they could neither defend nor pass.The impact was on full display the week Congress left for its August recess when two major appropriations bills imploded. The Transportation, Housing and Urban Development bill was pulled from the House floor when Republican leaders realized that many of their own members, as well as most Democrats, would very likely vote against its drastic cuts, while the Interior and Environment bill was suspended indefinitely amid a contentious and protracted committee markup.Even Homeland Security, traditionally the low-hanging fruit of the appropriations process, has become a victim of the political crossfire. The 27 hours it took to pass my first bill as subcommittee chairman in 2007 — thanks to desultory amendments and procedural obstruction by rank-and-file Republicans, with their leaders standing idly by — gave a foretaste of what was to come. For the past two years, I and successive Homeland Security subcommittee chairmen have consciously striven to maintain a cooperative process and have brought bipartisan bills to the floor. In both instances, however, the work of months was blown up by incendiary amendments on immigration that spelled the end of bipartisan support. This year, Republican leaders tried to dissuade the main perpetrator, Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa), from offering his poison-pill amendment targeting so-called dreamers for deportation. But when he persisted, all but six Republicans voted for it — a striking sign of what the Republican Party has become, and of the near-total defeat of appropriations bipartisanship by broader political forces.While such episodes have corroded appropriations over time, this year's budget crisis threatens a complete breakdown. By institutionalizing anti-tax ideology and an almost exclusive focus on domestic discretionary spending, the House Republican budget not only makes bipartisanship impossible; it also makes appropriations as we know it impossible.Whatever expedients may be adopted to avoid shutdown or default, they will be a far cry from the carefully and cooperatively crafted appropriations bills of years past. I have had numerous conversations with appropriators of both parties who stand ready to be a part of the solution to these larger fiscal challenges — if their leaders will give them room to maneuver. But the solution cannot come from appropriators alone. It will require a comprehensive budget agreement along the lines of the 1990 and 1993 measures that eventually produced four years of budget surpluses. Sequestration would then be lifted, with revenues and all categories of spending on the table.Such an agreement would not just solve our nation's fiscal challenges and help restore Americans' faith in their government — it would also salvage the process by which Congress exercises its constitutional power of the purse, holds the executive branch accountable and oversees the investment of taxpayer dollars.Rep. David Price of North Carolina is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and the ranking Democrat on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee.# # #
09.20.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC), the ranking member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, announced today that ABB, Inc. has been awarded a $2.765 million Department of Energy (DOE) Grant to develop technology to help the energy sector enhance its cybersecurity. The project is one of 11 DOE grants totaling over $30 million announced today."Protecting our electric grid and oil and gas infrastructure from cyber attack, is critical to our preparedness, to our economic security and to public safety," Rep. Price said. "Projects such as ABB's will make every American more secure by giving energy generators and our homeland security professionals the tools they need to meet the challenges of an evolving cyber landscape.""As a leader in power grid solutions, ABB is committed to building an infrastructure with the highest levels of cybersecurity, so that even in the face of challenges, the availability and functional interoperability of our systems is not in question," said Enrique Santacana, President and CEO of ABB in North America.ABB, which has its US Headquarters in Cary and a major research facility on NC State's Centennial Campus, will lead a project that will focus on developing a system to allow electrical substation devices to work together to validate the integrity of communications along a power distribution network, such as a command to change a relay's configuration, and assess the potential impact on grid operations.The grant awards are a part of the Obama Administration and Congress' commitment to protecting the nation's critical infrastructure from cybersecurity threats. Since 2010, DOE has invested more than $100 million in cybersecurity research and development through awards and funding provided to industry, universities and national laboratories. As the ranking member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, Rep. Price has been a leading advocate for funding to address our cybersecurity needs.# # #
09.20.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) gave the following statement for the record today as he prepared to vote against a Continuing Resolution authored by House Republicans. The Republican bill sets up a government shutdown crisis by defunding the Affordable Care Act. House Republicans are threatening to shut down the government unless the law is defunded."Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this poorly conceived, politically charged, and economically disastrous Continuing Resolution before us."With a few hours left for legislative work before the end of the fiscal year, not one of the twelve funding bills required to keep the government open has been enacted into law. In fact, a number of bills have never even been brought before the Appropriations Committee for debate. Even the initial short-term continuing resolution had to be pulled from the floor because of Republican infighting."My colleagues, the appropriations process–that hallmark of Congress's constitutional authority and wellspring of our power to conduct oversight and set national priorities–is on life support and in danger of total collapse."Unfortunately, this bill is yet another example of the complete abdication of our Committee's constitutional responsibility, as we have allowed fringe members of this body to craft a bill that stands no chance of becoming law."Let me repeat that in case there is any confusion–the bill before us now has absolutely no chance of being enacted–zero."Therefore, the only reasonable conclusion to draw is that the Republican majority is intent on once again taking us to the brink of shutdown–all because of the zealot-like opposition in their ranks to improving health care access for millions of Americans."A government shutdown, which this bill invites, will hamper our economic recovery, deny benefits to millions of Americans, and once again compromise this institution and its core functions."I urge my colleagues to reject this ideologically-driven CR."# # #
09.19.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) spoke on the House floor today in opposition to a Republican bill that would cut Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program funding by $40 billion and deny benefits to 4 million American struggling to put food on the table. The bill would immediately cut off benefits for 50,000 veterans currently receiving SNAP. As the bill's other provisions go into effect, as many as 170,000 veterans would lose SNAP assistance. The bill would also require states drug test every low-income veteran applying for or receiving food assistance. The text of Rep. Price's remarks is below.Video of Rep. Price's Remarks"Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to the rule before us today and to the underlying bill."You may have noticed, Fox News has tried to help Republicans pushing this mean-spirited legislation by focusing on a California Surfer who abuses the SNAP system. Well, it's time for a reality check. This isn't about 'surfer dudes.' But I'll tell you one group it is about: our nation's veterans – 50,000 of them to be exact."Let me clarify; these veterans with an average income of $2,500 dollars a year would lose benefits immediately."As the bill's other provisions kick in, as many as 170,000 veterans could lose their SNAP assistance."In Cumberland County, North Carolina, home of Fort Bragg and of thousands of veterans, our unemployment rate is nearly 11 percent. This bill requires states to terminate the already-minimal food aid available to able-bodied, but unemployed individuals living in such high-unemployment areas. And by the way, Republicans would also subject these veterans to the added indignity of a drug test!"I urge a no vote on this rule and on the underlying bill, which dishonors our poorest veterans and disparages those the gospel of Matthew calls 'the least of these.' I yield back the balance of my time."# # #
09.10.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement following reports that the Obama Administration is considering a proposal by Russia to place Syria's chemical weapons under international control."The atrocities committed by the Syrian regime demand a swift response that ensures these weapons are never used again, and I have always believed that military force should be used only as a last resort, once all plausible diplomatic avenues have been exhausted. Russia's proposal to place Syrian chemical weapons under international control is a potentially positive development, and I urge the Administration to act without delay to explore whether this proposal could lead to real verification and enforcement mechanisms that take Syria's chemical weapons off the battlefield, and allow the international community to hold the Assad regime accountable."# # #
09.06.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement today as Congress prepares to return next week following its August District Work Period. Last week, the Obama Administration announced it would seek approval from Congress for a narrow military intervention in Syria following the Syrian army's use of chemical weapons against civilian targets."The use of chemical weapons to attack civilians is a moral outrage that demands a response, both because of the suffering it inflicted on the Syrian people and because of the precedent inaction would set for the international community."Exactly what that response should be will be debated in Congress in coming days. The Obama Administration has made clear that its proposed action would be narrowly limited to retaliation for the use of chemical weapons, that it would not be a first step toward broader military intervention, and that strong multilateral support will be sought. I applaud the President for seeking approval from Congress even though he is not legally required to do so."While I believe firmly that the Assad regime cannot be granted impunity for its atrocities, I believe the Administration must do more to address several important questions my constituents want answered, including whether viable non-military options exist for holding the Assad regime accountable, what the implications of a strike would be for the Syrian civil war and for regional stability, and how military action would impact the ongoing humanitarian crisis in the region. In the days ahead, I will be seeking answers to these questions as I review the relevant classified intelligence, consult with the Administration, and participate in the Congressional debate. While it is not yet clear what resolution the House of Representatives will consider, under no circumstances will I support the deployment of U.S. ground forces to Syria for an open-ended war."# # #
08.08.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement today lauding legendary North Carolina basketball coach Dean Smith as President Obama announced he will receive the Presidential Medal of Freedom. The Medal of Freedom is the nation's highest civilian honor."Dean Smith is known to all North Carolinians for his tremendous success as the coach of the Carolina men's basketball team, but the Presidential Medal of Freedom recognizes that he has been far more than a coach to his players, his community, and his country. Throughout his life, Coach Smith has shown courage and determination on some of the most pressing issues of our time, from working to end segregation in college athletics early in his career, to advocating for inclusion in church and community, to supporting equal rights for gay Americans. His beliefs have always been informed by his strong religious faith and his ability to bring out the best in his players and fellow citizens. I have been honored to count him as a friend for many decades, and I look forward to celebrating this well-deserved award with him and his family."# # #
07.31.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) announced he will vote in favor of compromise legislation reducing student loan interest rates today, but called on his colleagues to revisit the issue to prevent students from being hurt by rising interest rates in the future. The bill restores low interest rates for current students after congressional inaction allowed them to double to 6.8% for many loans on July 1."Making college more accessible and affordable should be one of Congress's top priorities, and this bill will save students $25 billion over the next five years." Rep. Price said. "I am prepared to support it because it offers students a good deal in the near term, but I am concerned by the potential costs it would impose in the long run as interest rates rise with the improving economy. Congress should revisit this issue and explore other ways to keep college costs down during next year's debate on the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act."Under the compromise bill, loan rates are tied to the 10-year Treasury interest rate plus a percentage, with overall rates capped depending on the type of loan. Students will also be able to lock in their rate through the life of their loan. During the next academic year, most students will be able to secure lower rates than would have been available under current law. However, economists expect interest rates to rise over the intermediate and long term.Rep. Price opposed a previous bill introduced by House Republicans that did not cap overall interest rates. The Republican bill also did not allow students to lock in rates for the life of their loan, in effect creating adjustable-rate student loans similar to the adjustable-rate home mortgages that wreaked havoc for many homeowners during the financial crisis.Approximately 60% of students must borrow to attend college. Last year the total amount of student debt in the United States borrowing eclipsed the $1 trillion mark—more than the amount of credit card debt.Calculating Student Loan Rates under the Compromise BillUndergraduates: 10-year Treasury interest rate + 2.05%. Rates capped at 8.25%.Graduate students: 10-year Treasury interest rate + 3.6%. Rates capped at 9.5%.PLUS Loans for students' families: 10-year Treasury interest rate + 4.6%. Rates capped at 10.5%.# # #
07.31.2013	Washington, D.C. - North Carolina Democratic Representatives David Price (NC-04) and G.K. Butterfield (NC-01) today urged their colleagues to support complementary bills they will introduce this afternoon to address two critical aspects of our national teacher shortage: improving teacher retention and attracting teachers to schools with the greatest needs. The representatives, whose districts both include portions of North Carolina's Research Triangle, believe that recruiting and retaining high-quality teachers is a critical component of improving public education and maintaining our economic competitiveness. Both bills have been endorsed by the National Education Association."Nothing we do to improve public education in our communities will matter if we don't keep high-quality teachers in the classroom," Rep. Price said. "My bill aims to help states and localities develop programs tailored to their circumstances in order to meet this challenge—and then to disseminate these best practices throughout the country."Rep. Price's bill, the Keep Teachers Teaching Act, would make states or school districts eligible for federal grants to develop innovative teacher retention programs, such as the Kenan Fellows program administered by North Carolina State University. The bill would also direct the Department of Education to identify the most promising teacher retention approaches and disseminate information about them to states and school districts around the country. Rep. Price introduced the same bill during the last Congress. According to the Congressional Research Service, half of all of K-12 teachers leave the profession within five years of being hired because of poor working conditions, low pay, low morale, or lack of opportunities for advancement. Rep. Butterfield is an original co-sponsor of the bill."Half of all teachers leave the profession after only five years," said Rep. Butterfield. "One way to encourage teachers to stay in their communities and to help ensure our kids receive the quality education they deserve is by providing additional support to our most dedicated educators, particularly those serving in low-income schools."Rep. Butterfield's bill, the Support Educators and Reinvest in Valuable Education (SERVE) Act, rewards teachers who stay in low-income schools in the same school district for at least five years by increasing loan forgiveness benefits. Under current law, special education teachers and those who teach science or math subjects in low-income schools for at least five years are eligible for up to $17,500 in loan forgiveness, but those who teach all other subjects are eligible for only $5,000 in loan forgiveness. The legislation would make all teachers who teach in low-income schools and remain in the same school district eligible for the full $17,500 in loan forgiveness, helping schools with the greatest needs recruit quality teachers for every classroom. Rep. Price is an original co-sponsor of the bill.With the new school year starting later this month, the two proposals also seek to respond to the severe cuts to public education imposed in North Carolina and other states in recent years, which have resulted in the loss of thousands of teaching jobs and reduced teacher pay. In light of these damaging cuts, giving teachers an incentive to serve in high-need classrooms and supporting school systems' ability to keep them there have become more important than ever.Rep. Price, a former educator who taught public policy and political science at Duke University, has been a leader in Congress on legislation to improve the quality of public education throughout the nation by bringing teachers of the highest caliber into the profession and then keeping them in the classroom.The son of a school teacher, Rep. Butterfield is a product of the North Carolina public school system, graduating from Charles H. Darden high school in Wilson, North Carolina. He also attended North Carolina Central University, where he earned undergraduate and Juris Doctor degrees.# # #
07.31.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) announced he will vote in favor of compromise legislation reducing student loan interest rates today, but called on his colleagues to revisit the issue to prevent students from being hurt by rising interest rates in the future. The bill restores low interest rates for current students after congressional inaction allowed them to double to 6.8% for many loans on July 1."Making college more accessible and affordable should be one of Congress's top priorities, and this bill will save students $25 billion over the next five years." Rep. Price said. "I am prepared to support it because it offers students a good deal in the near term, but I am concerned by the potential costs it would impose in the long run as interest rates rise with the improving economy. Congress should revisit this issue and explore other ways to keep college costs down during next year's debate on the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act."Under the compromise bill, loan rates are tied to the 10-year Treasury interest rate plus a percentage, with overall rates capped depending on the type of loan. Students will also be able to lock in their rate through the life of their loan. During the next academic year, most students will be able to secure lower rates than would have been available under current law. However, economists expect interest rates to rise over the intermediate and long term.Rep. Price opposed a previous bill introduced by House Republicans that did not cap overall interest rates. The Republican bill also did not allow students to lock in rates for the life of their loan, in effect creating adjustable-rate student loans similar to the adjustable-rate home mortgages that wreaked havoc for many homeowners during the financial crisis.Approximately 60% of students must borrow to attend college. Last year the total amount of student debt in the United States borrowing eclipsed the $1 trillion mark—more than the amount of credit card debt.Calculating Student Loan Rates under the Compromise BillUndergraduates: 10-year Treasury interest rate + 2.05%. Rates capped at 8.25%.Graduate students: 10-year Treasury interest rate + 3.6%. Rates capped at 9.5%.PLUS Loans for students' families: 10-year Treasury interest rate + 4.6%. Rates capped at 10.5%.# # #
07.30.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (D-NC) gave the following remarks today during the House of Representatives' debate of the Fiscal Year 2014 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) appropriations bill. Rep. Price said the majority's bill should land with a thud in the House, because it shows the Republican position on transportation and housing investments is "we don't care if the wheels come off" and "we don't care if the roof caves in.""I rise today in strong opposition to the House FY14 THUD Appropriations bill. Today's bill makes the same sound as it spells.....THUD. The Majority's bill says of our transportation and infrastructure commitments, 'we don't care if the wheels fall off,' and of our housing and development commitments, 'we don't care if the roof caves in.'"While I appreciate the hard work of our dedicated staff on both sides of the aisle, the funding levels included in the bill are simply unacceptable. The 302(b) allocation received by this Subcommittee is 15% lower than it was last year, 19% below the Budget Control Act, and nearly $10 billion below the level that the Senate is considering for the same bill!"This funding level reflects the reckless discretionary spending caps adopted by the House majority in the Ryan budget resolution, which locked in sequestration and then doubled down on it in order to shelter defense and homeland security bills from the cuts. This made allocations for our domestic investments even worse, far beyond the usual zone of political disagreement. The Transportation and Housing bill we are considering today is a prime example of this impossible tradeoff."On the transportation side, the bill makes deep cuts to the capital programs of the Federal Aviation Administration, Amtrak and the Federal Transit Administration's New Starts program. It zeroes out funding for the TIGER program, which has been enormously successful at advancing critical surface transportation projects in communities across the country and yet has left thousands of meritorious proposals unfunded. And once again, the bill includes no funding for development of high speed rail."Funding for our housing needs is even worse. The bill reduces funding for the Community Development Block Grant program to $1.6 billion, the lowest level since the program was created in 1975. The HOME program is funded at $700 million, the lowest level since the program began in 1992. And the bill rescinds funding for Choice Neighborhoods, the successor program of Hope VI, which means the bill lacks funding for any comprehensive housing revitalization program whatsoever."During the Appropriations Committee markup of this bill, Democrats offered a series of amendments to restore these damaging cuts and produce a bill that more adequately meets our nation's critical housing and infrastructure needs. All of them were defeated on party-line votes."Perhaps the most tragic and disappointing fact about this bill is that the cuts it imposes could have been avoided, if the Republican leadership would only appoint Budget conferees and negotiate a long-term deficit reduction deal that lifts sequestration and preserves vital investments in our future."Alternatively, Republican leaders could reconsider their refusal to talk with the President and work with him to address the real drivers of the deficit – tax expenditures and entitlements – thus lifting sequestration along with the drag it represents on our economy and the mockery it makes of the appropriations process. The bill before us today is Exhibit A of this travesty, and I urge my colleagues to raise their voices and their votes against it."# # #
07.24.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04), the ranking member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, announced $3 million in additional funding for the North Carolina Bio-Preparedness Collaborative (NCB-Prepared). This project, spearheaded by local universities and private businesses, is developing an innovative bio-threat early warning system. NCB-Prepared's goal is to establish a statewide model for a national bio-preparedness system capable of detecting and alerting health officials and emergency responders within hours of symptom outbreaks that might indicate a bioterror attack, highly contagious disease, food-borne illness or other threat to public safety."I am very pleased to announce DHS's decision to fund this innovative public-private partnership because it addresses a hole in our disaster preparedness," Rep. Price said. "By pooling data from systems that currently 'don't talk to each other,' NCB-Prepared will help first responders and health professionals see the whole picture and act decisively to end the threat posed by a health incident or biological or chemical attack. NCB-Prepared will also give responders the information they need to calibrate the least disruptive, most-effective disaster response possible."NCB-Prepared is led by the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and North Carolina State University. The effort also includes the N.C. Division of Public Health and the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Durham, as well as others from the public and private sectors including SAS, a large business analytics and software development company headquartered in the Research Triangle Park. The initiative gathers multiple sources of data–from human, animal, and environmental sources–produced by a number of agencies and harnesses advanced computer analytics to give emergency responders and health professionals the data they need to respond to bio-threats and then take pre-emptive actions to mitigate the spread of the threat. The system, currently receiving and accessing live data, will be expanded and refined using the funds provided by the DHS grant."NCB-Prepared is an excellent example of the value of partnerships among NC State, UNC-Chapel Hill, best-in-class private companies like SAS, and federal agencies," said Dr. Terri Lomax, Vice Chancellor of the Office of Research, Innovation & Economic Development at North Carolina State University. "We actively embrace these partnerships because they accelerate innovation and move discoveries into practice."NCB-Prepared was launched in 2010 with an initial $5 million installment from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Office of Health Affairs under a Cooperative Agreement. The project builds on existing state public health data initiatives such as NC-DETECT, one of the most advanced public health awareness systems in the country, which collects and analyzes hospital emergency room and other data several times a day."NCB-Prepared is a tremendous asset to the state and its citizens," said Dr. Barbara Entwisle, Vice Chancellor for Research at UNC-Chapel Hill. "It gives public health officials and emergency responders a powerful tool to head off disease outbreaks and other health threats before they get out of control. This is one of those areas where, using data and new technologies, university researchers and our industry partners can make a real difference in people's lives."DHS views the NCB-Prepared model project as a critical national priority. The Department's grant announcement said "the ability to provide integrated biosurveillance at the state and national levels is essential to the protection of each state and the homeland.""With our research universities and high-tech businesses, our area is uniquely suited to the kind of public-private collaboration needed to complete a project of this complexity," Rep. Price said. "Our investments in education help ensure we can sustain similar partnerships and give us an advantage in our innovation-centric economy."# # #
07.19.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) voted against the Republican reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (H.R. 5), noting that the bill lets students down by locking in sequestration-level funding for education programs. The House passed the bill on a 221-207 vote."After passing this 'Letting Students Down Act,' the Republican majority is not going to be getting any apples on 'Congress Appreciation Day,'" Rep. Price said. "This bill is not an honest attempt to update and modernize our nation's elementary and secondary education law. It shortchanges our teachers and students and neglects one of the most important investments we make: ensuring that all of our young people can fulfill their potential and help our country maintain its competitive edge."H.R. 5 would lock in sequestration funding levels, which would cut support for education by over $1 billion next year alone and lower education investments levels through 2019. The bill would also eliminate a variety of vital programs and consolidate them into a block grant, making this funding more difficult to account for and easier to cut in the future.In addition, H.R. 5 eliminates funding that helps ensure students receive a well-rounded education, providing no support for literacy, art, music, physical education, history, civics, foreign languages, and a number of other subjects that ensure our students receive a full and balanced education. The bill also eliminates funding for afterschool programs and contains no funding for critical student supports that ensure our students are safe, healthy and ready to learn."We should be educating critical thinkers, not calculators," Rep. Price said. "Offering no support for the arts, physical education, history, civics—there's no way to call this an education policy. This bill fails our students, it fails our educators, and it makes becoming a teacher less attractive. That is incredibly wrongheaded because nothing we need to do to improve and reform public education will be possible without a quality teaching and educator workforce."The bill dramatically reduces federal supports for teachers and other educators. H.R. 5 removes protections from collective bargaining, eliminates requirements to ensure high-quality teachers, as well as opportunities for training and professional development, and shifts funding for teacher supports away from the poorest schools.# # #
07.19.2013	Washington, D.C. – In the wake of Iran's recent presidential election, a bipartisan group of 131 members of the House have joined Representatives Charlie Dent (R-PA) and David Price (D-NC) in signing a letter to President Obama urging his administration to reinvigorated U.S. diplomatic efforts to secure a negotiated nuclear agreement to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon.In the letter, Reps. Dent and Price write:"It remains to be seen whether [Dr. Hassan Rouhani's] election will indeed bring significant change with regard to Iran's relations with the outside world. His government's actions will certainly speak louder than his words."Even so, we believe it would be a mistake not to test whether Dr. Rouhani's election represents a real opportunity for progress toward a verifiable, enforceable agreement on Iran's nuclear program that ensures the country does not acquire a nuclear weapon. In order to test this proposition, it will be prudent for the United States to utilize all diplomatic tools to reinvigorate ongoing nuclear talks."The letter does not take a position on whether current sanctions should be strengthened or relaxed, nor does it take a position on the potential use of military force by the United States or its allies.The signatories of the letter include 5 members of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and 20 members of the House Appropriations Committee. A full list of cosigners follows the text of the letter below.July 19, 2013The Honorable Barack ObamaPresident of the United StatesThe White House1600 Pennsylvania AvenueWashington, D.C. 20500Dear President Obama,As Members of Congress who share your unequivocal commitment to preventing a nuclear-armed Iran, we urge you to pursue the potential opportunity presented by Iran's recent presidential election by reinvigorating U.S. efforts to secure a negotiated nuclear agreement.As you know, on June 14 the Iranian people elected Hassan Rouhani president with over 50 percent of the vote in the first round, overcoming repression and intimidation by the Iranian government to cast their ballots in favor of reform. Dr. Rouhani campaigned on the promise to "pursue a policy of reconciliation and peace" and has since promised "constructive interaction with the outside world." As Iran's former lead nuclear negotiator, he has also publicly expressed the view that obtaining a nuclear weapon would run counter to Iran's strategic interests and has been critical of the nuclear "extremism" of outgoing President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.We are mindful of the limitations of the Iranian presidency within the country's political system, of the fact that previous Iranian presidents elected on platforms of moderation have failed to deliver on promised reforms, and of the mixed signals that Dr. Rouhani himself has sent regarding Iran's nuclear ambitions. It remains to be seen whether his election will indeed bring significant change with regard to Iran's relations with the outside world. His government's actions will certainly speak louder than his words.Even so, we believe it would be a mistake not to test whether Dr. Rouhani's election represents a real opportunity for progress toward a verifiable, enforceable agreement on Iran's nuclear program that ensures the country does not acquire a nuclear weapon. In order to test this proposition, it will be prudent for the United States to utilize all diplomatic tools to reinvigorate ongoing nuclear talks. In addition, bilateral and multilateral sanctions must be calibrated in such a way that they induce significant and verifiable concessions from Iran at the negotiating table in exchange for their potential relaxation.We must also be careful not to preempt this potential opportunity by engaging in actions that delegitimize the newly elected president and weaken his standing relative to hardliners within the regime who oppose his professed "policy of reconciliation and peace." Likewise, it will be critical for the United States to continue its efforts to foster unprecedented international cooperation on this issue so that the international community remains united in its opposition to Iran obtaining a nuclear weapon.We look forward to working with your administration on this important issue in the months ahead.Sincerely,Signatories include: Dent, Charles (PA-15), Price, David (NC-04), Barber, Ron (AZ-02), Bass, Karen (CA-37), Becerra, Xavier (CA-34), Bera, Ami (CA-07), Bishop, Sanford (GA-02), Bishop, Tim (NY-01), Blumenauer, Earl (OR-03), Bonamici, Suzanne (OR-01), Bordallo, Madeleine (GU), Braley, Bruce (IA-01), Bustos, Cheri (IL-17), Campbell, John (CA-45), Capps, Lois (CA-24), Capuano, Michael (MA-07), Cárdenas, Tony (CA-29), Carson, André (IN-07), Cartwright, Matthew (PA-17), Christensen, Donna (VI), Clay, William Lacy (MO-01), Cleaver, Emmanuel (MO-05), Clyburn, James (SC-06), Coble, Howard (NC-06), Cohen, Steve (TN-09), Cole, Tom (OK-04), Connolly, Gerald (VA-11), Conyers, John (MI-13), Courtney, Joe (CT-02), Cuellar, Henry (TX-28), Cummings, Elijah (MD-07), Davis, Danny (IL-07), DeFazio, Peter (OR-04), DeGette, Diana (CO-01), DeLauro, Rosa (CT-03), DelBene, Suzan (WA-01), Dingell, John (MI-12), Doggett, Lloyd (TX-35), Doyle, Michael (PA-14), Duckworth, Tammy (IL-08), Duffy, Sean (WI-07), Duncan Jr., John (TN-02), Edwards, Donna (MD-04), Ellison, Keith (MN-05), Enyart, William (IL-12), Eshoo, Anna (CA-18), Esty, Elizabeth (CT-05), Farr, Sam (CA-20), Fattah, Chaka (PA-02), Fitzpatrick, Michael (PA-08), Fortenberry, Jeff (NE-01), Foster, Bill (IL-11), Garamendi, John (CA-03), Grijalva, Raúl (AZ-03), Grimm, Michael (NY-11), Gutierrez, Luis (IL-04), Hanna, Richard (NY-22), Hastings, Alcee (FL-20), Heck, Denny (WA-10), Higgins, Brian (NY-26), Himes, James (CT-04), Holt, Rush (NJ-12), Honda, Michael (CA-17), Jackson-Lee, Sheila (TX-18), Johnson, Eddie B. (TX-30), Johnson, Hank (GA-04), Jones, Walter (NC-03), Kaptur, Marcy (OH-09), Kelly, Robin (IL-02), Kind, Ron (WI-03), Kuster, Ann (NH-02), Larsen, Rick (WA-02), Larson, John (CT-01), Lee, Barbara (CA-13), Lewis, John (GA-05), Loebsack, David (IA-02), Lofgren, Zoe (CA-19), Lújan, Ben Ray (NM-03), Lujan Grisham, Michelle (NM-01), Matheson, Jim (UT-04), McCollum, Betty (MN-04), McDermott, Jim (WA-07), McGovern, James P. (MA-02), Meeks, Gregory W. (NY-05), Miller, George (CA-11), Moore, Gwen (WI-04), Moran, James P. (VA-08), Napolitano, Grace F. (CA-32), Neal, Richard E. (MA-01), Nolan, Richard (MN-08), Norton, Eleanor Holmes (DC), Nugent, Richard B. (FL-11), O'Rourke, Beto (TX-16), Pascrell, Bill, Jr. (NJ-09), Pastor, Ed (AZ-07), Payne, Donald M., Jr. (NJ-10), Perlmutter, Ed (CO-07), Peters, Scott H. (CA-52), Peterson, Collin C. (MN-07), Petri, Thomas E, (WI-06), Pingree, Chellie (ME-01), Pocan, Mark (WI-02), Polis, Jared (CO-02), Rahall, Nick J., II (WV-03), Rangel, Charles B. (NY-13), Roybal-Allard, Lucille (CA-40), Ruiz, Raúl (CA-36), Runyan, Jon (NJ-03), Rush, Bobby L. (IL-01), Ryan, Tim (OH-13), Sablan, Gregario Kilili Camacho (MP), Schakowsky, Janice D. (IL-09), Scott, Robert C. "Bobby" (VA-03), Serrano, José E. (NY-15), Shea-Porter, Carol (NH-01), Sinema, Kyrsten (AZ-09), Slaughter, Louise McIntosh (NY-25), Speier, Jackie (CA-14), Takano, Mark (CA-41), Thompson, Glenn (PA-05), Thompson, Mike (CA-05), Tiberi, Patrick (OH-12), Tierney, John (MA-06), Tonko, Paul (NY-20), Tsongas, Niki (MA-03), Visclosky, Peter (IN-01), Walz, Timothy (MN-01), Waters, Maxine (CA-43), Welch, Peter (VT-At Large), Whitfield, Ed (KY-01), Yarmuth, John (KY-03)# # #
07.18.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04), the Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, announced that North Carolina State University's Textile Protection and Comfort Center (T-PACC) will receive a $999,988 grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) Fire Prevention and Safety Program to support research into cutting-edge firefighting uniforms. T-PACC is the only academic center in the U.S. that incorporates the capabilities to research, test, and evaluate the comfort and protective performance of textile materials in one location."Our firefighters and first responders perform dangerous work that keeps our communities safe, and they deserve the best possible protection technology will allow," Rep. Price said. "This grant also supports scientists at N.C. State focused on the research, development and testing of next-generation textiles, which have a wide range of applications across may industries. Federal investments in advanced textile technologies will help ensure these next-generation fabrics are Made in America."Current fire protection standards were created decades ago, and the research supported by the grant aims to provide greater protection for first responders by utilizing new, lighter, and innovative textiles and fabrics. The program is an initiative of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program.The textile industry contributes $60 billion to our national economy every year, and it employs over 500,000 workers across the country, including many in the Tar Heel state. Rep. Price is also the sponsor of the ATTIRE Act, bipartisan legislation that would support innovation and research in the U.S. textile and fiber products industry by creating a new competitive grant program at the Department of Commerce. Currently, no single federal program exists to support innovation and high-tech manufacturing in the U.S. textile and fiber products industry, which remains a major source of exports and job creation despite the contraction it has suffered in recent years.As the former Chair, and now Ranking Member, of the subcommittee responsible for funding the Department of Homeland Security, Rep. Price has been the leading supporter of first responder grant programs. Since 2001, the AFG has provided approximately $5.25 billion in grants for programs supporting firefighters and other first responders.# # #
07.17.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, and Congressman David Price (D-North Carolina), the Ranking Member on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, today offered an amendment to the Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations bill to close a glaring hole in the nation's gun safety laws by giving authority to the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) to block suspected terrorists from purchasing firearms and explosives.While convicted felons, domestic abusers, and the seriously mentally ill are prohibited from buying or owning firearms, there is currently no law preventing suspected terrorists from legally purchasing firearms.A recent Government Accountability Office report found that between February 2004 and February 2010, suspected terrorists tried to purchase guns and explosives 1,453 times. Ninety-one percent of those attempts were successful."Americans expect our government to keep guns out of the hands of felons, domestic abusers, the mentally ill, and terrorists," said Congresswoman Lowey. "A suspected terrorist cannot board a plane but can pass a background check to buy a gun. It is absurd that my Republican colleagues opposed our amendment to close this dangerous gap in our gun safety laws.""Following the tragedies in Boston, Fort Hood, and Little Rock, it is incomprehensible that we would continue denying law enforcement officials the ability to block the sale of a firearm to suspected terrorists," Rep. Price said. "This isn't just an idle concern—individuals are seeking to exploit this gaping loophole with the intent to harm our country."The amendment offered by Congresswoman Lowey and Congressman Price would provide authority to the Attorney General to stop sales of firearms and explosives when there is reason to believe the buyer is engaged in, preparing for, or related to acts of terrorism. Once the DOJ has made that determination, the terror suspect would be unable to pass a criminal background check and thus unable to purchase guns or explosives from federally licensed dealers.The amendment was voted down 29-19, with the Republicans on the committee opposing it.# # #
07.15.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04), a member of the House Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee, announced that Raleigh-based Passage Home Inc. will receive a $289,075 grant to fight homelessness among low-income veterans. The faith-based nonprofit has been working to fight poverty and homelessness in the Raleigh region since 1991. The VA grant, the second Passage Home has received for this program in two years, is one of 319 being announced this week across the country."As a new generation of veterans returns home, we have an obligation to make sure none of them slip through the cracks," Rep. Price said. "Efforts to end homelessness among veterans should be just as central to our commitment to those who have served as job training and placement programs. I applaud Passage Home for providing this critical support to homeless veterans.""At Passage Home, we understand that many times, poverty is the result of a perfect storm of unpreventable circumstances," said Jeanne Tedrow, Passage Home executive director. "No one deserves to be homeless, especially those who've fought for our freedom, and sometimes a hand up is all that's needed to break the overwhelming cycle and get back on track."Passage Home provides a one-year housing stipend and case management services to homeless veterans with dependents, transitioning them from homelessness to permanent housing and helping them achieve financial independence and security.In Congress, Rep. Price has been a consistent advocate for funding to address veterans homelessness as a member of the Appropriations subcommittee that funds the Department of Veterans Affairs. Earlier this year, he requested the subcommittee continue robust funding for these programs, a request that was honored in the fiscal year 2014 funding bill passed by the House of Representatives.# # #
07.10.2013	washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) hailed a Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announcement that $4,123,639 in grant awards will be made to North Carolina health centers to enroll uninsured individuals in new healthcare options made available by the Affordable Care Act, the landmark healthcare reform legislation. Five local health centers will receive grants totaling $931,680 to hire additional workers who will assist enrollees."Community health centers have a history of providing excellent care to patients in our communities, and these grants will help many of their patients enroll in health insurance plans for the first time," Rep. Price said. "These grants will help make affordable, quality healthcare accessible for tens of thousands of uninsured North Carolinians by helping new health insurance enrollees understand available assistance programs and coverage options so they can choose the plan that's right for their family."According to HHS, the 32 North Carolina health centers receiving grants operated 184 sites and served 430,885 patients last year, 52 percent of whom were uninsured. With these funds, the awardees expect to hire 87 health insurance navigators, who will assist 48,465 North Carolinians with enrollment into affordable health insurance coverage in the new Health Insurance Marketplace when open enrollment beings on October 1, 2013. The navigators will also help determine an individual's eligibility for Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program; any financial help they can get; and enroll them in new affordable health coverage options.Local community health centers receiving funds include:• First Choice Community Health Centers (Lillington) - $110,062• Lincoln Community Health Center (Durham) - $300,076• Piedmont Health Services (Chapel Hill) - $341,348• Wake Health Services (Raleigh) - $108,489• Stedman-Wade Health Services (Wade) - $71,705Today's announcement is part of the administration's larger effort to make applying for health coverage as easy as possible. The new, consumer-focused HealthCare.gov website and the 24-hour-a-day consumer call center are available to help North Carolinians prepare for open enrollment and ultimately sign up for health coverage. These new tools will help North Carolinians understand their coverage options and select the plan that best suits their needs when open enrollment in the new Health Insurance Marketplace begins.A full list of North Carolina community health centers receiving funding is below. To learn more about the Affordable Care Act, visit www.HealthCare.gov.ALBEMARLE HOSPITAL AUTHORITY (Elizabeth City) - $67,195ANSON REGIONAL MEDICAL SERVICES, INC. (Wadesboro) - $66,788BAKERSVILLE COMMUNITY MEDICAL CLINIC INC (Bakersville) - $63,147BERTIE COUNTY RURAL HEALTH ASSOCIATION (Windsor) - $67,151BLUE RIDGE COMMUNITY HEALTH SERVICES, INC. (Hendersonville) - $193,970C.W. WILLIAMS COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTER, THE INC. (Charlotte) - $109,028CABARRUS COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS, INC. (Concord) - $92,528CAROLINA FAMILY HEALTH CENTERS INC (Wilson) - $203,034CASWELL FAMILY MEDICAL CENTER INC. (Yanceyville) - $66,986FIRST CHOICE COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS (Lillington) - $110,062GASTON FAMILY HEALTH SERVICES INC (Gastonia) - $248,365GOSHEN MEDICAL CENTER, INC. (Faison) - $201,967GREENE COUNTY HEALTH CARE, INCORPORATED (Snow Hill) - $356,187HIGH COUNTRY COMMUNITY HEALTH (Boone) - $63,147KINSTON COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTER, INCORPORATED (Kinston) - $109,457LINCOLN COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTER, INCORPORATED (Durham) - $300,076MEDICAL RESOURCE CENTER FOR RANDOLPH COUNTY, INC. (Asheboro) - $79,812METROPOLITAN COMMUNITY HEALTH (Washington) - $77,975NEW HANOVER COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTER INC (Wilmington) - $88,700OPPORTUNITIES INDUSTRIALIZATION CENTER INC (Rocky Mount) - $ 80,505PERSON FAMILY MEDICAL CENTER (Roxboro) - $79,999PIEDMONT HEALTH SERVICES, INC. (Chapel Hill) - $341,348ROANOKE CHOWAN COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTER, INC. (Ahoskie) - $ 84,498ROBESON HEALTH CARE CORP (Pembroke) - $146,109RURAL HEALTH GROUP, INC. (Roanoke Rapids) - $ 142,842SOUTHSIDE UNITED HEALTH CENTER (Winston Salem) - $72,585STEDMAN - WADE HEALTH SERVICES, INC. (Wade) - $ 71,705TRI COUNTY COMMUNITY HEALTH COUNCIL, INC (Newton Grove) - $ 216,570WAKE HEALTH SERVICES, INC. (Raleigh) - $108,489WEST CALDWELL HEALTH COUNCIL INC (Collettsville) - $71,639Western Nc Community Health Services Inc (Asheville) - $141,775# # #
06.28.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) issued the following statement today after House passage of H.R. 2231, the Offshore Energy and Jobs Act. The bill would open North Carolina's coast to the same offshore drilling that takes place in the Gulf of Mexico."Today, I voted against H.R. 2231, the so-called 'Offshore Energy and Jobs Act,' which would dramatically and hastily expand oil and gas drilling in our nation's most sensitive coastal areas, including in North Carolina and neighboring states, and even in some areas where local communities have resoundingly rejected it."In my home state of North Carolina, offshore drilling is highly controversial because of its potential adverse impacts on the environment and coastal communities, as well as the tourist economies on which they depend. In California, voters put in place a permanent ban on drilling in state coastal waters in 1994 because of the same concerns. In light of disasters such as the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf, North Carolinians are justifiably leery of allowing the same drilling off our coast."I am also concerned about opening the Arctic to new oil and gas development. There is no viable method to clean up an oil spill in the Arctic's extreme conditions and we lack basic information about the region's fragile marine environment. America has already learned the pitfalls of allowing risky oil and gas drilling to proceed without the proper safeguards in place to protect the environment and ensure quick spill containment. We should listen to the scientists, and not repeat our mistakes.""This bill blindly ignores legitimate concerns, instead, bulldozing forward with a demagogic 'drill, baby, drill' mentality – even when drilling in the U.S. is at an all-time high. My colleagues claim that they support an 'all-of-the-above' energy strategy, but this bill demonstrates that their true policy is 'oil-above-all.' We can't drill our way to cheap gas prices and energy independence. If we truly want to optimize the use of our resources–including the ocean–create jobs, and promote energy independence, we should reject this measure and focus instead on developing alternative energy sources that do not pose the same risks as drilling."# # #
06.28.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04), the top Democrat on the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, announced today that Durham County's Parkwood Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $192,328 Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Assistance for Firefighters Grant (AFG) to purchase state-of-the-art, interoperable communications equipment for first responders."I'm very pleased this FEMA grant will allow the Parkwood Volunteer Fire Department to investment in communications equipment that will improve their ability to coordinate with other local departments that protect our community," Rep. Price said. "With the department serving as the primary first responder for the Research Triangle Park, this grant is also especially important for disaster and fire preparedness in our region.""The purchased communication devices will equip our membership with the most up-to-date radio equipment available on the market," Parkwood Volunteer Fire Department Chief William L. Colley, Jr. said. "The purpose of this purchase is to enable users the ability to effectively communicate with all local and state responders to assist in the protection of the citizens of southern Durham, northeast Chatham counties and our local businesses, located in the Research Triangle Park. Our sincerest appreciation and gratitude to Congressman David Price for his support of the Parkwood Volunteer Fire Department, Inc., and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, F.E.M.A. Assistance to Firefighters Grant program."As the Chair, and now ranking member, of the subcommittee responsible for funding the Department of Homeland Security, Rep. Price has been the leading supporter of first responder grant programs. Since 2001, the AFG has provided approximately $5.25 billion in grants to first responder organizations to obtain much-needed emergency response equipment, protective gear, firefighting and emergency response vehicles, and training. During FY2012, the AFG awarded $337.5 million to first responder organizations in need of support.# # #
06.27.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04), the ranking member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, called on House leaders to hold an up-or-down vote on the comprehensive immigration reform bill passed by the Senate this afternoon. The measure cleared the Senate with wide bipartisan support on a 68-32 vote."Comprehensive immigration reform is urgently needed to boost our economy, strengthen our national security, lower the deficit, and lift the shadow of deportation from millions of families," Rep. Price said. "While the Senate proposal is not the bill I would have written, in light of the forces active on the far right of the House Republican caucus, it represents the best hope for Congress to pass a bipartisan compromise that meets the basic test for comprehensive reform: tougher border security and workplace enforcement, reforms to visa programs for guest workers, and a path to citizenship for immigrants who work hard and have long-standing ties to their community. I call on Speaker Boehner to bring the Senate bill to the House floor for an up-or-down vote without delay."The Senate bill (S. 744) creates a 13-year path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants currently in the United States, requiring them to register with the government, clear a background check, pay penalties if back taxes are due, and stay out of legal trouble. It gives special treatment to younger immigrants covered by the DREAM Act, allowing them to obtain legal status more quickly if they attend college or join the military, and it also improves and expands visa programs for agricultural and high-skilled guest workers. Last week, the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released a report finding that the Senate Comprehensive Immigration Reform bill would reduce the deficit by $175 billion in the coming decade and $700 billion in the following decade. CBO also estimated the reform would grow the economy by $700 billion in 2023 and $1.4 trillion in 2033 and reduce the Social Security imbalance by 7% as immigrants enter the legal workforce."I know from my experience writing the bill that funds the Department of Homeland Security that an enforcement-only approach to immigration won't work and wastes money," Rep. Price said. "It is very encouraging the Senate has moved past that approach and passed a bill with such broad bipartisan support. Republican leaders should take the same approach, resist the temptation to mangle the bill based on the whims of their most conservative members, and instead let the whole House work its will."# # #
06.27.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) issued the following statement today after the Senate voted 100-0 to confirm Charlotte Mayor Anthony Foxx as the next U.S. Transportation Secretary."Mayor Foxx understands the transportation and infrastructure challenges confronting our communities in North Carolina and across the country, and I congratulate him on his unanimous bipartisan confirmation to be the next Secretary of Transportation. As mayor of Charlotte, Anthony dramatically improved transit accessibility through the innovative use of light rail, and he will work tirelessly for national multimodal transportation investments that will further our nation's economic prosperity and quality of life."# # #
06.26.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) issued the following statement today after the Supreme Court issued rulings striking down the so-called Defense of Marriage Act and vacating a lower court decision addressing California's ban on marriage for gay and lesbian couples. The Court's decision in the latter case effectively allows marriages for gay and lesbian couples in California to resume but does not impact other state laws regarding marriage, including North Carolina's constitutional ban on same-sex marriage."Today's historic Supreme Court rulings affirm that we have nothing to lose, and everything to gain, from extending liberty and equality to all our citizens. The so-called Defense of Marriage Act denied millions of Americans equality under the law and access to federal benefits. I continue to believe that no one should be denied a chance at the happiness—or the rights and responsibilities—that marriage brings. Although many states continue to treat same-sex couples as second class citizens, it is clear that equal protection under the law for all Americans is only a matter of time and that history will judge these efforts at discrimination harshly. Today's rulings are a victory for all who believe in an America that does not discriminate on the basis of race, gender, age religion or sexual orientation."# # #
06.25.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) released the following statement today after the Supreme Court issued a ruling striking down Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act. The section outlines the formula governing which states and jurisdictions must seek federal pre-clearance before making changes to voting laws, requirements and election processes. With Rep. Price's strong support, the Voting Rights Act was most recently reauthorized in 2006 by broad bipartisan margins of 390-33 in the House and 98-0 in the Senate and signed into law by President George W. Bush."I am baffled and dismayed that the Supreme Court has decided, by the narrowest possible margin, to put the Voting Rights Act in a deep freeze because of so-called 'outdated standards'—standards that have, by the Court's own admission, been historically effective in protecting the right to vote. As Justice Ginsburg wrote in her dissent, this is 'like throwing away your umbrella in a rainstorm because you are not getting wet.'"This deeply disappointing decision is a major step backwards for American democracy, putting at risk the voting rights of people who live in areas with a long history of racial discrimination in elections, and it flies in the face of the of our nation's long, bloody struggle for voting rights for historically disenfranchised citizens. The decision comes at a particularly inopportune time, when efforts are actively underway in North Carolina and other southern states to erect numerous barriers to the right to vote."The ruling also flies in the face of the clear intent of Congress, which voted to reauthorize the Voting Rights Act in 2006 by a broad bipartisan margin after months of careful consideration. I call on Speaker Boehner and House Republicans to work with Congressional Democrats on legislation to reauthorize Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act immediately."# # #
06.22.2013	Washington, D.C. – Earlier today, Representative David Price (NC-04) spoke at the Mayors Against Illegal Guns (MAIG) 'No More Names' Rally in downtown Raleigh calling on his colleagues in Congress to pass legislation that would keep guns out of the hands of criminals by requiring that anyone purchasing a gun pass a criminal background check first. The rally is a part of a MAIG bus tour that launched the day after a Newtown, CT ceremony honoring the victims of the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting and marking six months since the terrible tragedy. To date, no legislation has been passed by Congress to reduce gun violence despite broad support by the American public for reasonable reforms, such as universal criminal background checks for gun purchases. The text of Rep. Price's remarks is below."Good morning to all of you who have joined us here today to support the important work of Mayors Against Illegal Guns and to send a message to elected officials: North Carolinians agree that something can be done to prevent the gun violence that plagues our society like a cancer."I'm joined here today by my wife, Lisa. Lisa's many tireless years of advocacy on this important issue have guided both my personal views and my work in Congress."We are honored to be joined as well by Neil Heslin, whose son Jesse was a student at Sandy Hook Elementary School when he was murdered six months ago."Mr. Heslin has unwillingly joined the growing ranks of parents like Joslin Simms, a resident of Durham who lost her son, Raymond, to gun violence eight years ago. I am grateful that Ms. Simms has joined us here today as well."Six months ago we learned of the horrible tragedy unfolding at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut. Since then we have grieved in unison as parents, siblings—and as a nation for those who lost their lives that day."As fresh as it is in our memory, the massacre at Sandy Hook is but the latest in a long and growing list of similar, senseless acts of violence. We haven't forgotten the Columbines ... the Tucsons ... the Auroras ... the Virginia Tech's and, of course the Newtowns."We are here today to say "never again!" We are here today in Raleigh, and people are gathered at similar events around the country, to say we refuse to stand idly by as these senseless tragedies unfold time and time again."As incomprehensible as mass shootings are, the scourge of gun violence is not confined to these horrific headline-generating massacres—it is an everyday reality in our cities and towns and neighborhoods."It is the innocent child gunned down in the crossfire; it is the store owner murdered during a robbery; it is the young life cut tragically short during the heat of a petty dispute."While dozens of legislative proposals have been introduced since Newtown, and some individual states—like Colorado and Connecticut—have introduced sweeping new laws to address gun violence, others—like North Carolina—have, inconceivably, responded by moving in the wrong direction—by attempting to weaken existing restrictions!"As many of you know, the United States Senate recently considered the bipartisan Manchin-Toomey amendment. The legislation was designed to keep guns out of the hands of criminals by requiring that anyone purchasing a gun pass a criminal background check. It closed the so-called "gun show loophole," which allows felons, the mentally ill, and others prohibited from owning a firearm to buy them with minimal effort."The Manchin-Toomey amendment was blocked in the Senate when a minority of Senators voted against what was broadly viewed as a legitimate, effective, bipartisan compromise."Statewide polls have shown that as many as 90 percent of North Carolinians agree we should keep guns out of the hands of criminals by requiring people purchasing a gun pass a criminal background check first, but some in Congress haven't gotten your message, or are ignoring you. I will help you get that message through—Congress must pass this common-sense reform to make our communities safer."We have been here before. We know that in the past powerful interest groups have used arguments that were deceptive at best to needlessly instill fear in their members about the supposedly "dire" consequences of any government action. We know they will do it again."But this is deliberately poisoning the debate. We cannot let it happen if we are going to achieve compromise on at least some legislative action to prevent further bloodshed."The setback suffered in the Senate has led many to wonder whether the best opportunity for comprehensive gun law reform in years has passed us by. I say no."Parents, like Neil Heslin and Joslin Simms, will continue to honor the memories of their loved ones by speaking out about our nation's broken gun laws;"Mayors Against Illegal Guns leaders, like Mayor Jackie Holcombe who is with us here today, and her counterparts in neighboring Triangle communities and across the state of North Carolina will continue to speak out about the damage they see first-hand that illegal guns inflict in their communities;"And the people, here in Raleigh today and at similar events across the country, will refuse to let the names of those killed by guns be confined to distant memory or forgotten history."We say "never again!" and we will continue to push until our city, state and national governments adopt common-sense measures to prevent gun violence."Thank you for taking the time and making effort to remain engaged on this issue, and thank you for having me here to today."# # #
06.20.2013	Washington, DC – On Saturday at 10:00 AM, Rep. David Price (D-NC) will call on his colleagues to pass common-sense measures to reduce gun violence at the Mayors Against Illegal Guns (MAIG) "No More Names" Bus Tour stop at Moore Square in downtown Raleigh. The "No More Names" tour launched the day after a Newtown, CT ceremony honoring the victims of the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting and marking six months since the terrible tragedy. To date, no legislation has been passed by Congress to reduce gun violence despite broad support by the American public for reasonable reforms such as universal criminal background checks for gun purchases. At the rally, the names people killed by gun violence since Newtown will be read. This event is open to members of the media. Rep. Price will be available on-site at 9:45 AM for interviews.MAIG counts 14 North Carolina mayors as members, including the mayors of Chapel Hill, Carrboro, Durham, Hillsborough, Morrisville and Raleigh. The coalition is trying to build support for bipartisan legislation that would keep guns out of the hands of dangerous criminals by requiring that anyone purchasing a gun pass a criminal background check first. In April, a minority of senators, including North Carolina Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), blocked consideration of the legislation using a filibuster. Statewide polls taken this year have shown that as many as 93% of North Carolinians support universal criminal background checks, a number that coincides with a recent Quinnipiac University poll showing 90% of all Americans support universal criminal background checks."North Carolinians agree that we should keep guns out of the hands of criminals by requiring that people purchasing a gun pass a criminal background check, but some in Congress either haven't gotten the message, or are ignoring it," Rep. Price said. "That message must get through, and Congress must pass this common-sense reform to make our communities safer."Rep. Price is a Vice Chair of House Democrats' Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. In the wake of Sandy Hook, the Task Force announced a comprehensive set of policy principles designed to reduce gun violence while respecting the Second Amendment rights of all Americans. The Task Force's policy recommendations prioritize keeping guns out of the hand of dangerous people, enhancing mental health services, cracking down on illegal gun trafficking and removing military-style assault weapons from our streets.A detailed summary of the Task Force's recommendations is available on Rep. Price's website.Who: Rep. David Price (NC-04)What: Mayors Against Illegal Guns "No More Names" RallyWhen: Saturday, June 22, 2013, 10:00 AM – 10:30 AMWhere: Moore Square, 200 South Blount Street, Raleigh, NC# # #
06.17.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) issued the following statement this afternoon after media reports that former North Carolina Governor James Holshouser had passed away."I was saddened to hear of Governor Holshouser's passing. I got to know him after his time as Governor and greatly admired his commitment to education and conservation and his tireless efforts to extend access to health care to rural parts of North Carolina. He often worked across the aisle to get results, and where he disagreed he was never disagreeable—in short, he was a statesman and a pragmatic leader who cared deeply about North Carolina and her people, and we will miss him."# # #
06.14.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) congratulated the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill women's lacrosse team on winning the NCAA Division I Championship in a statement for the record. Rep. Price included the full roster of this year's team in his remarks to acknowledge each student-athlete and coach in the permanent Congressional Record.Congressman David PriceRecognizing the NCAA Champion University of North Carolina Women's Lacrosse TeamJune 14, 2013Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the players, coaches, and staff of the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill women's lacrosse team for their victory in the 2013 National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I Women's Lacrosse Tournament.UNC-Chapel Hill first started competing in Division I women's lacrosse in 1996, and at the time the coaches had to recruit athletes from the women's soccer team. In just 17 seasons since, the Tar Heels have made the NCAA tournament 14 times, reaching the semifinals seven times—including three of the last four years. In light of this meteoric rise, it was only a matter of time before the team claimed its first national title.This year, the Tar Heels entered the NCAA tournament after a remarkable 15-3 season. They upset the reigning national champion, Northwestern, in the semifinals, marking the first time in seven years that the Wildcats did not win the NCAA tournament. In the finals, the Tar Heels defeated Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC) rival Maryland in triple overtime, relying on veteran leadership from NCAA Tournament Most Outstanding Player Kara Cannizzaro and junior veteran Abbey Friend as well two stand-out freshmen: Goalkeeper Megan Ward, who blocked a last-minute shot by Maryland, and midfielder Sammy Jo Tracy, who scored the winning goal in sudden-death overtime. In order to recognize the contributions of all of the members of this remarkable team, I have included the full roster and coaching staff below for inclusion in the Congressional Record, together with their hometowns and secondary schools.I also commend Coach Jenny Levy on this triumph. Coach Levy was hired in 1994 to build a varsity program and has since developed an outstanding 224-92 record in 17 seasons as Head Coach, including a 63-18 mark over the last four seasons. A former member of the U.S. Women's Lacrosse National Team, Coach Levy is now a three-time ACC Coach of the Year, winning five league regular-season titles and the 2002 ACC Tournament title. She ranks sixth in Division I women's lacrosse history with 242 career victories—a number that I suspect will only continue to climb in future years.On behalf of my colleagues, I extend the House's congratulations to the UNC-Chapel Hill Tar Heels for their championship season, and I look forward to welcoming them to Washington, D.C. and to the White House later this year.UNC-CH Tar Heels Roster 2012-13 SeasonHead Coach: Jenny LevyAssistant Coaches: Phil Barnes, Katrina Dowd#1 Frysinger, Mallory Corning, N.Y. (Corning East)#2 Hanson, Paige Baltimore, Md. (Bryn Mawr School)#3 Zeigler, Maddie Alexandria, Va. (Bishop Ireton)#4 Patterson, Paige Alexandria, Va. (St. Stephens and St. Agnes School)#5 Scott, Lindsay Yorktown Heights, N.Y. (Yorktown)#6 Skinner, Zoe Baltimore, Md. (Towson)#7 McGee, Sam Baltimore, Md. (Bryn Mawr School)#8 Andress, Alyssa Doylestown, PA (Archbishop Wood)#9 Corzel, Margaret Berwyn, Pa. (Merion Mercy Academy)#10 Griffin, Jessica Sudbury, Mass. (Lincon-Sudbury Regional)#12 Davis, Carly Skaneateles, NY (Skaneateles)#13 Tracy, Sammy Jo Bedford, N.Y. (Fox Lane)#14 Ballard, Cassie Millersville, Md. (Severna Park)#15 Cannizzaro, Kara Cazenovia, N.Y. (Cazenovia Central)#16 Serpe, Sloane North Caldwell, N.J. (West Essex Regional)#17 Ward, Megan Annapolis, Md. (St. Mary's)#18 Friend, Abbey Canandaigua, N.Y. (Canandaigua Academy)#19 Scott, Sarah Yorktown Heights, N.Y. (Yorktown)#20 Farrell, Breada Essex Fells, N.J. (West Essex Regional)#21 Giles, Eileen Concord, Mass. (Middlesex School)#22 Garrity, Emily Rutledge, Pa. (Strath Haven)#23 George, Taylor Arnold, Md. (Broadneck)#24 Rubin, Morgan Baltimore, Md. (Bryn Mawr School)#25 Markison, Devin Princeton, N.J. (Loomis Chaffee)#26 Devlin, Kelly Downingtown, Pa. (Downington East)#27 Messinger, Aly Mendham, N.J. (West Mendham)#28 Waite, Courtney Bernardsville, N.J. (Bernards)#29 Schmidt, Paula Wantagh, N.Y. (Wantagh)#30 Martino, Kate Summit, N.J. (Summit)#31 Sindall, Caileigh Silver Spring, Md. (Our Lady of Good Counsel)#34 Lobb, Stephanie West Chester, Pa. (West Chester East)#35 Coppa, Brittney Hampstead, Md. (North Carroll)#50 Maksym, Lauren North Massapequa, N.Y. (Farmingdale)# # #
06.14.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) congratulated the Duke University men's lacrosse team on winning the NCAA Division I Championship in a statement for the record. Rep. Price included the full roster of this year's team in his remarks to acknowledge each student-athlete and coach in the permanent Congressional Record.Congressman David PriceRecognizing the NCAA Champion Duke University Men's Lacrosse TeamJune 14, 2013Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the players, coaches, and staff of the Duke University men's lacrosse team for their victory in the 2013 National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I Men's Lacrosse Tournament.Duke University has a long tradition of excellence in collegiate sports, including collegiate lacrosse. In April of 1938, the Duke Men's lacrosse team played its first game, defeating its arch-rivals at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill by a score of two to one. Since then, the team has reached 13 national championship games, winning an NCAA Championship in 2010 and now in 2013.This year's Blue Devils team won nine out of ten games to close out the season, including a series of hard-fought, close victories in the NCAA tournament. This historic run included victories over Loyola 12-11 in double overtime, Notre Dame 12-11, and Cornell 16-14. To win the championship, the Blue Devils defeated a tough Syracuse team by a 16-10 margin, coming all the way back from a 5-0 deficit in the second quarter. Duke's Brendan Fowler won 20 out of 28 face-offs, while Jordan Wolf led the team with four goals, followed by Josh Offit and Josh Dionne with three each. I know other players made equally important contributions on the field, in practice, and in the classroom throughout the year, and it is in that spirit that I include below the full roster of this year's team, together with their hometowns and secondary schools, so that all will be recognized in the Congressional Record.Special congratulations are also in order for Duke University's Coach, John Danowski, who has now led the team to two NCAA Championships. In his seven years as head coach, Coach Danowski has compiled an impressive 95-24 record, capturing five ACC regular season titles and four ACC tournament titles in addition to his two national championships. Coach Danowski has also mentored 37 All-Americans, 19 All-ACC selections, two Tewaaraton Trophy winners, two USILA Attackman of the Year award recipients, and 10 USILA Scholar All-America picks.On behalf of my colleagues, I extend the House's congratulations to the Duke Blue Devils for their incredible season, and I look forward to welcoming them to Washington, D.C. and to the White House later this year.Duke Blue Devils Roster 2012-13 SeasonHead Coach: John DanowskiAssistant Coaches: Ron Caputo, Matt DanowskiVolunteer Assistant Coach: Joe Cinosky#1 Kyle Turri West Islip, N.Y. (West Islip)#2 David Lawson Westford, Mass. (Middlesex)#3 Brendan Fowler Wantagh, N.Y. (Chaminade)#4 Dan Wigrizer Villanova, Pa. (Haverford)#5 Tanner Scott Conestoga, Pa. (Conestoga)#6 Will Haus Palmyra, Pa. (Palmyra Area)#7 Jake Tripucka Boonton Township, N.J. (Mountain Lakes)#8 Josh Dionne Merrimack, N.H. (Avon Old Farms)#9 Case Matheis Darien, Conn. (Darien)#10 Deemer Class Baltimore, Md. (Loyola Blakefield)#11 Eddie Loftus Syosset, N.Y. (Syosset)#12 Seamus Connelly Duxbury, Mass. (Duxbury)#13 Chris Hipps Dallas, Texas (Highland Park)#14 John Shaffer Summit, N.J. (Delbarton)#15 Myles Jones Huntington, N.Y. (Walt Whitman)#16 Kyle Keenan Smithtown, N.Y. (Smithtown West)#17 Dan DiMaria Dix Hills, N.Y. (Harvard)#18 Tommy Patterson Chatham, N.J. (Delbarton)#19 Christian Walsh Baltimore, Md. (Deerfield Academy)#20 Charlie Payton Greenwich, Conn. (Lawrenceville School)#21 Brian Dailey Conestoga, Pa. (Conestoga)#23 Dax Cohan San Francisco, Calif. (St. Ignatius Prep)#24 Henry Meyer Newton, Mass. (Belmont Hill)#25 Josh Offit Bethesda, Md. (Landon School)#26 Joe Kruy Sudbury, Mass. (Phillips Academy Andover)#27 Justin George Baltimore, Md. (Gilman)#28 Jimmy O'Neill Huntington, N.Y. (Chaminade)#29 Morgan Kirby Morristown, N.J. (Lawrenceville)#30 Chad Cohan San Francisco, Calif. (Saint Ignatius College Prep)#31 Jordan Wolf Wynnewood, Pa. (Lower Merion)#32 Greg DeLuca Boonton Township, N.J. (Mountain Lakes)#33 Jamie Ikeda Berwyn, Pa. (Conestoga)#34 Ben Krebs Pleasanton, Calif. (Foothill)#35 Jack Rowe Vienna, Va. (James Madison)#36 Ben Scharf New York, N.Y. (Phillips Academy Andover)#37 Casey Carroll Baldwin, N.Y. (Baldwin)#38 Chris Coady Winchester, Mass. (Buckingham Browne & Nichols)#39 Luke Aaron Great Falls, Va. (Deerfield Academy)#41 Greg Rhodes East Northporth, N.Y. (Chaminade)#42 Matt Kunkel South Setauket, N.Y. (Ward Melville)#43 Will Hendrickson New York, N.Y. (Riverdale)#44 Spencer Peterson Encinitas, Calif. (La Costa Canyon)#50 Reid Maxmin Katonah, N.Y. (John Jay)#55 Bill Conners West Chester, Pa. (Malvern Prep)#77 Henry Lobb Narberth, Pa. (Malvern Prep)#91 Luke Duprey Concord, N.H. (Phillips Andover)#97 Rowland Pettit Fort Worth, Texas (Trinity Valley School)# # #
06.12.2013	Washington, D.C. – During Appropriations Committee consideration of the FY2014 Department of Defense (DoD) Appropriations bill this morning, Representative David Price (NC-04) offered an amendment that would have averted sequestration for the Department and all other affected federal agencies for Fiscal Year (FY) 2014. The amendment, which failed on a party-line vote, was offered in response to the decision of House Republicans to lock in the sequestration cuts in their FY 2014 budget and appropriations allocations instead of working to replace the cuts with a balanced deficit reduction plan.In remarks supporting passage of the amendment, Rep. Price outlined the harmful effects of sequestration in the Fourth District, including Fayetteville and the surrounding Fort Bragg community. According to DoD, over 19,000 DoD employees across North Carolina will lose $64,055,858 in pay because of furloughs.The text of Rep. Price's remarks is below."I rise to offer an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2014 Defense appropriations bill before us here today. If my amendment sounds familiar, it is because it was previously offered by my Democratic colleagues during consideration of the Military Construction/VA and Homeland Security Appropriations bills by this Committee over the past several weeks."While the amendment was defeated along party lines in both cases, its purpose is no less relevant and no less urgent today: It would replace the harmful, irresponsible charade we call "sequestration" with a balanced, commonsense combination of tax savings and spending cuts."Sequestration is a self-inflicted wound, unworthy of those who profess to govern a great nation, and it is an unmitigated disaster for our communities. It needs to be replaced by a comprehensive deficit reduction plan that addresses the real drivers of the deficit—tax expenditures and entitlement spending."Our democracy depends upon the ability of elected representatives to reach agreement through compromise—and historically, this Committee has set the standard for such leadership. Yet by adopting the House Republican budget as the basis for our 302(b) allocations, the majority has both made it less likely that the House and Senate will be able to come to agreement on final FY14 appropriations bills, and made it more likely that further sequestration cuts come on the backs of our seniors, our middle class families, and our military."The long-term damage that this policy is inflicting on our nation is unmistakable—and the impact it is having on our men and women in uniform and their families is simply unacceptable."At Fort Bragg, adjacent to my district in North Carolina and the largest military base in the country by population, sequestration has already forced a laundry list of closures that impact family life and morale: darkened athletic facilities designed to keep our soldiers healthy and prepared; deferred maintenance and renovations; and the cancellation of the annual Independence Day celebration less than one month from today."Yet the true impact at Fort Bragg is not measured in locked doors and longer grass. It is measured in the thousands of DoD civilians subject to furlough, including teachers at base schools who educate military children. It is measured in the possible loss of up to 50 garrison jobs at Bragg alone this year. And there is no question of the ripple effect these cuts will have on the surrounding community of Fayetteville and the regional economy."Further, with consideration of this bill, House Republicans will have broken the law, this year as they did last year. Adoption of this bill will shatter the $498 billion cap on security spending set forth in the Budget Control Act, and it surely means that the majority of remaining Fiscal Year 2014 bills will never see the light of day."So make no mistake—the majority may claim it is sparing the military from the knife of sequestration, but in so doing it is dooming the whole appropriations process to yet another year of continuing resolutions and budget crises."Mr. Chairman, my amendment would end tax incentives that subsidize the largest oil and gas companies on the backs of the taxpayers; it would implement the so-called "Buffet rule" to ensure that taxpayers in the highest income bracket pay their fair share; it would refocus farm subsidies by reforming a broken system of direct payments to farmers."Most importantly, it would replace the nonsensical sequestration cuts for the coming fiscal year, providing the Department of Defense and other agencies with sufficient time to determine the best way to meet future spending levels in a prudent, deliberate, and rational manner."Mr. Chairman, the Defense bill before us is not the only one which deals with the strength and security of our nation, and the allocations provided these subcommittees by the Ryan budget put that security at grave risk."I urge my colleagues to consider the impact that sequestration has on all the men and women, in uniform and out, currently working to strengthen our nation – be that on the battlefield or in schools and hospitals across this country. No sector has been immune from the devastating impacts of sequestration and the American people deserve enactment of reasonable, commonsense measures to mitigate its most harmful effects. This amendment solves the problem and the underlying bill only magnifies it."I urge adoption of my amendment."# # #
06.06.2013	House Majority Would Subject DREAMers to Deportation -- 800,000 Law-abiding Undocumented Immigrants Brought to United States as ChildrenDivisive Amendment Spoils Otherwise Strong, Bipartisan Appropriations BillWASHINGTON – Rep. Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the full House Committee on Appropriations and Rep. David Price (D-NC), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee, today slammed an amendment to the Homeland Security Appropriations Act preventing continued implementation of policy that has allowed thousands of law-abiding undocumented immigrants to live without fear of deportation."The House majority simply cannot help themselves," said Rep. Nita Lowey (D-NY). "Despite an emerging consensus in support of allowing law-abiding undocumented immigrants to live, work, and study without fear of deportation, the House majority would force these individuals back into the shadows. Enforcement policy that targets law-abiding individuals as aggressively as serious criminals does nothing to enhance public safety and national security. It is simply cruel and foolish. It is especially disturbing that the majority would inject this divisive issue into an otherwise strong and bipartisan bill funding public safety and preparedness, a goal shared by Democrats and Republicans."Video of Rep. Price's Remarks"I am deeply disappointed that the poison pill King Amendment passed, needlessly scuttling months of bipartisan work by the DHS Appropriations Subcommittee," said Rep. David Price (D-NC). "While it may sound good on conservative talk shows, this is the kind of legislative arson Republican leaders used to nip in the bud. They now appear powerless, or unwilling, to do so. The same amendment to the FY2013 bill forced me to withdraw my support for that measure, and this year's amendment twists the knife further by opening the door to the deportation of DREAM Act children. Unbelievably, the King Amendment requires that DHS ignore its own rule stating that 'aliens who pose a danger to national security or public safety are priority one for removal.' This is what every law enforcement agency in the country does, using their limited resources: place a priority on going after the people who would do us the most harm. It is an absurd amendment, unworthy of this body."The amendment by Rep. Steve King (R-IA) would prohibit the use of funds to finalize, implement, administer, or enforce ICE policy guidance related to the use of prosecutorial discretion, including a June 15, 2012, memo from Sec. Napolitano setting priorities on dangerous criminals ahead of "certain young people who were brought to this country as children and know only this county as home."By prohibiting prosecutorial discretion, the House majority would prevent Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) from focusing its enforcement resources on those who pose a threat to public safety and national security. Instead, the House majority would require ICE to focus just as much time and energy on law-abiding individuals, such as the estimated 800,000 young undocumented immigrants who were brought to the U.S. as children and have since led law-abiding lives ("the DREAMers); victims of domestic violence and other crimes who come forward to seek protection and identify their abusers; and spouses of U.S. citizens serving in the military.The amendment passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 234-201.###
06.04.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement condemning the conviction of 43 employees of non-governmental organizations, including 16 Americans in absentia, by an Egyptian court. Rep. Price is the co-founder and former chairman of the House Democracy Partnership (HDP), a bipartisan congressional commission that works to strengthen democratic institutions in 16 partner countries around the world.Since the uprisings that unseated Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak in January 2011, Rep. Price and other commission members have visited Egypt multiple times to take stock of democratic reforms and explore greater cooperation between the U.S. Congress and Egyptian parliament. During a 2012 visit, commission members met with several NGO workers facing charges in the case and expressed concerns about their fate to senior Egyptian officials."Today's ruling is a major setback for Egyptian democracy at a time when the country's ability to make good on the promise of the Arab Spring is already being severely tested."The NGO workers convicted in this case—Egyptians as well as Americans—were guilty of nothing more than working in good faith to build a brighter, more democratic future for the Egyptian people. By allowing the judicial process to be perverted for political ends, the Egyptian government has sent a chilling message about its commitment to the rule of law and inflicted unnecessary harm on its relationship with the United States."# # #
06.04.2013	Washington, D.C. – This afternoon, Representative David Price (NC-04) urged his colleagues to support the Fiscal Year 2014 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs (VA) Appropriations Act, as reported by the Appropriations Committee. The legislation will help the VA make key strides toward reducing the veterans disability claims backlog. It will also allow the Department of Defense to complete needed construction projects at North Carolina military installations. However, Rep. Price cautioned that the House Republican budget's low allocations puts this year's overall appropriations process in "deep trouble." Rep. Price is a member of the subcommittee responsible for drafting the legislation. The text of his remarks is below."I rise today in qualified support for the Fiscal Year 2014 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. I thank Chairman Culberson and Ranking Member Bishop for their leadership, and commend my colleagues on the Appropriations committee for a cordial and timely deliberation process."However, I must caution my colleagues that this generous allocation must be viewed in the context of the overall Fiscal Year 2014 Appropriations process. I am grateful that we will provide the funding required to meet our responsibility to our nation's veterans and provide for our nation's military construction needs, but the generous allocations for the two Appropriations bills we will consider this week will require the majority to drastically underfund critical appropriations bills, from education to health care to repairing and maintaining our nation's crumbling infrastructure. So what do we have to look forward to? A majority of our Appropriations bills may never see the light of day."Earlier today, I joined many of my colleagues to vote against the rule providing for consideration of this bill before us, because the resolution circumvents the regular process of a traditional budget debate and requires this body to carry out the Fiscal Year 2014 appropriations process within the framework of the so-called 'Ryan budget,' which doubles down on sequestration and will have devastating consequences as our nation continues its economic recovery."So our overall appropriations process is in deep trouble. But the bill before us gives the Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs adequate resources to address several critical challenges faced by our military community. I am particularly pleased that the bill would fully fund the President's request for military construction projects at Fort Bragg, which is adjacent to my district."The bill also provides critical funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs to ensure that those who have served our country receive the benefits and services that they need and deserve. Our subcommittee paid particular heed to the ongoing disability backlog issue at VA, and am pleased that the bill provides nearly $300 million for the continued implementation of electronic management systems and improved processing of both new and existing claims."I am also pleased that the bill provides robust funding for medical and prosthetic research, suicide prevention and mental health treatment, attacking unacceptable levels of unemployment among veterans, and pressing to end veteran homelessness."These are important priorities, and I urge my colleagues to support this bill."# # #
05.24.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04), a former member of the Marching Tar Heels (French horn), welcomed the four local high school bands marching in the National Memorial Day Parade on Monday. Bands from Orange High School, Sanderson High School, Broughton High School and Athens Drive High School are among 22 high school bands from across the country selected to participate in the parade down Washington, D.C.'s Constitution Avenue."As a former member of the Marching Tar Heels, I want to wish the band members good luck and congratulate them on being selected," Rep. Price said. "Participating in the National Memorial Day Parade honoring those who have sacrificed so much for our country is a high honor."Five of the 22 bands selected to march in the parade hail from North Carolina. The National Memorial Day Parade is hosted by the American Veterans Center. Established in 2005, the parade has quickly grown into a major event drawing over 250,000 spectators in 2012. The parade will also include active duty military, youth groups and hundreds of veterans from World War II, Korea, Vietnam, Desert Storm, and Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom.Rep. Price will mark Memorial Day on Monday at a ceremony at Fayetteville's Freedom Memorial Park.# # #
05.23.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) voted against a Republican bill (H.R. 1911) Democrats dubbed the "Making College More Expensive Act" because it would subject student loans to an adjustable rate that the bill allows to rise dangerously high. Under the bill, federal Stafford loan rates for undergraduates would be permitted to rise as high as 8.5% and PLUS loan rates as high as 10.5% for graduate students and parents of undergraduates. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the bill would force students to incur $4 billion more in debt over ten years than under the current loan policy."Why would anyone want to change student loans in this way?" Rep. Price said. "It's as if my Republican colleagues are saying that, since adjustable rate mortgages worked out so well for homeowners during the near-economic collapse of 2008, they want families and students who take out loans to pay for college to be in the same boat. That is unacceptable."While current interest rates are low, economists expect these rates to rise over the intermediate and long term. The Making College More Expensive Act would adjust the student loan interest rate up as rates rise, prohibiting students from locking in low rates. Variable rates on undergraduate loans are projected to rise nearly three percentage points (to 7.36%) by the time this fall's freshmen graduate from college and make their first loan payment, well above the rate of 6.8% students would pay if Congress does not act to keep rates from doubling.Rep. Price urged his colleagues to act on legislation to keep student loans interest rates at 3.4%. He is a cosponsor of H.R. 1595, which would extend the 3.4% rate for two years. If Congress fails to act by July 1, 2013, the interest rate on all federal Subsidized Stafford Loans will double from 3.4% to 6.8%."If Congress allows student loan rates to double, it will be more difficult for some students to pursue higher education," Rep. Price said. "Congress needs to make sure loans are available at reasonable rates for students who need them because keeping higher education accessible is one of the best investments we can make in our future."Approximately 60% of students must borrow to attend college. Last year the total amount of student debt outstanding borrowing eclipsed the $1 trillion mark—more than the amount of credit card debt outstanding. Of the 37 million students with outstanding debt, 35% are behind on their loans—a number which will only grow if borrowing costs are increased.# # #
05.22.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price's (NC-04) amendment to help communities retain firefighters was approved during today's House Appropriations Committee markup of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) FY2014 spending bill. Rep. Price is the ranking member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, which is responsible for writing the DHS funding bill.The DHS bill provides $675 million for Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grants to be split evenly between equipment purchase grants and personnel hiring grants. Rep. Price's amendment allows communities to use personnel grants to keep firefighters on the job."I was pleased to offer this amendment because first responders are critically important to disaster preparedness," Rep. Price said. "During the economic downturn and through the current fragile recovery, this change to the SAFER grant program has helped communities in North Carolina, and across the country, keep firefighters on the job and better protect their residents."In previous years, Republicans have not designated retention as an eligible use of SAFER funds in the DHS funding bill. Rep. Price's has offered his firefighter retention amendment each year to preserve this funding for communities.In FY2012, North Carolina localities received 10 SAFER grants totaling $1,933,372 (source).Etowah Horse Shoe Fire and Rescue Department, Hendersonville - $220,368.00Carthage Fire Department, Carthage - $432,000.00Midway Fire & Rescue Department, Lexington - $421,176.00West End Fire & Rescue, West End - $180,000.00Madison Fire Department, Madison - $80,000.00Warne Volunteer Fire Depatment Inc., Warne - $84,000.00Lawndale Fire Dept., Lawndale - $48,000.00Rocky Point Volunteer Fire Department, Rocky Point - $32,350.00Spring Lake Fire Department, Spring Lake - $308,960.00Ulah Volunteer Fire Protective Association Inc., Asheboro - $126,518.00Total: $1,933,372.00# # #
05.21.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04), the ranking member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement this morning following reports of the destruction inflicted by a terrible tornado that tore through Moore, Oklahoma yesterday."This storm was absolutely devastating. The images of homes, schools and businesses destroyed are traumatic, but the lives lost are what make this disaster a tragedy of epic proportions. For me and others, as parents and grandparents, the loss of so many children at a school is heartbreaking."The terrible disaster in Moore, Oklahoma deserves the federal government's urgent attention. I applaud President Obama for directing Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator Fugate to Oklahoma to personally manage the response to this disaster. I have the utmost confidence in Administrator Fugate and FEMA."As we move forward with recovery and response operations, I call on all members of the House of Representatives to advance any emergency disaster relief legislation as quickly as possible. From hurricanes on the east coast to tornados on the plains, a natural disaster is no time for another round of budget politics. Families in need and their communities depend on swift relief and assistance, and in their time of need, Congress must respond immediately and effectively."# # #
05.21.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04), the Ranking Member on the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, announced today that North Carolina will receive $16,381,929 in grant funding from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), an increase of $630,349 over the previous year. This funding, awarded after adoption of the Fiscal Year 2013 spending bill in March, will ensure North Carolina and its first responders have the resources to build and sustain capabilities to respond to natural or man-made threats facing the state."This grant funding is critically important to North Carolina, because it will help our communities and first responders prepare for and respond to manmade and natural disasters," Rep. Price said. "Well placed investments in preparedness can save huge sums of relief and recovery money when disasters strike."Rep. Price, the former chair of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security, has been a champion of first responder funding. The Fiscal Year 2013 DHS Appropriations bill provided a total of $1.466 billion under FEMA's State and Local Grants, an increase of $208.2 million over the unacceptably low levels insisted upon by House Republicans in Fiscal Year 2012.The breakdown in funding, to be finalized this summer, includes:•$4,773,429 under the State Homeland Security Grant Program, a 20% increase in funding from FY12•$8,608,500 under the Emergency Management Performance Grant Program.•Additionally, Charlotte will receive $3,000,000 under the Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI), designed to help high-density urban areas prepare for, and prevent against, large-scale threats and disasters. This funding represents a $1,494,751 increase in funding from the previous year.# # #
05.10.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) delivered the commencement address at Fayetteville Technical Community College's graduation ceremony this evening. In his remarks, Rep. Price congratulated the new graduates, urged them to be active in the civic lives of their communities, and asked them to remember, as we confront familiar challenges, how investments in education, research, innovation, and infrastructure have transformed North Carolina in recent decades. The text of Rep. Price's remarks is below.President Keen; trustees, faculty, and staff; other distinguished guests; families and friends; and members of the Class of 2013: thank you for inviting me to be with you today. It is truly an honor to address the 51st graduating class of Fayetteville Technical Community College.My main order of business is to offer congratulations and encouragement to the nearly 1,500 outstanding individuals who will receive their degrees and certificates today, as well as the more than 250 of you earning your adult high school diplomas or GEDs—and to the families, mentors, and friends who helped you reach this point. Nobody, after all, reaches graduation day on his or her own.As is customary on such occasions, I may also offer a bit of free advice as you look ahead to your lives as graduates. But I will try to do so sparingly, taking to heart the advice of the famous quipster and Army veteran Cullen Hightower, who once remarked that "talk is cheap—except when Congress does it."Before looking ahead, however, I want to begin by reflecting briefly on the past—on the profound changes we have experienced in recent decades as a state and as a nation, and on the unique role that community colleges have played in anticipating, navigating, and responding to those changes. This is a fitting moment for such reflection, for it was 50 years ago next week that the North Carolina General Assembly established our state's community college system, incorporating this and other pioneering institutions into a unified statewide network.I have had the privilege of representing North Carolina's Fourth Congressional District, with one brief interruption, since 1987. The district has changed dramatically during this time—from a district with many small towns and rural areas, stretching from Randolph County in the west to Franklin County in the east; to a largely urban and suburban district centered in the Research Triangle; and now to a district that defies all geographical logic by snaking from Burlington in the west to Raleigh in the east to Fayetteville in the south.Throughout these changes, though, the Fourth District has always been defined by a common thread: the presence of some of the greatest institutions of higher education not just in North Carolina, but in the entire country. This includes, of course, our state's excellent four-year colleges and universities, to which many of you will make the transition after you graduate. But it also includes a community college system that has been the true engine of our state's economic progress—and the true envy of our neighbors.Over the years I have had the opportunity to address the graduating classes of several of Fayetteville Tech's sister institutions. It is always kind of a homecoming for me: I began my own higher education at a two-year school—what was then Mars Hill Junior College, across the mountains from my hometown in Erwin, Tennessee.So in thinking about what I would say to you here today, I looked back on some of the previous commencement addresses I have given. As it turns out, they offered a striking glimpse of the broader changes our nation has undergone in recent decades—but also a stirring reminder that when we come together as a society to confront our even the gravest challenges, our ability to persevere through times of hardship and change is virtually limitless.In August of 1992, I stood before a graduating class like this one and painted a gloomy picture of a nation in decline. Unemployment was over 7 percent, wages were falling, workers didn't have the skills they needed to compete, and the federal government was running budget deficits as far as the eye could see. "We are not the world economic leader we were for so long," I lamented, citing the rise of Japan and Western Europe as global powerhouses.Nine years later, in July of 2001, I addressed another class of technical college graduates, and doom and gloom had been replaced by sunny optimism. "Today, we are in a different world," I said. "Unemployment is low, family incomes are on the rise, technology workers have transformed our economy, and the federal budget is in surplus...the United States has led the globe in a technological revolution and once again sets the pace for the world economy."Needless to say, today feels a lot more like 1992 than 2001. Just two months after I spoke those latter words, the attacks of September 11 shook our nation profoundly. Over the decade that followed, we entered two wars, sending many members of this community—including some of you here today—on extended deployments and leaving your families at home to bear the sacrifice. Budget surpluses became record deficits once again, as those wars plus $2 trillion worth of tax cuts were put on the national credit card. Even before the global financial crisis hit in 2008, wiping out years of hard-earned savings overnight, the American dream was slipping further out of reach for millions of families.Five years later, we are still recovering from the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression. We have now seen 38 consecutive months of private-sector job growth, and unemployment is at four-year lows. But as many of you can attest, we have much more work to do to ensure the recovery is felt in every corner of this state. And unfortunately, our bitter and divided politics are now threatening to undermine the fragile progress we have already made.I recount this history to make two basic points. First, even when it feels like our current challenges are insurmountable, the American people have a remarkable ability to innovate, adapt, and come together around common-sense solutions that keep our nation moving forward.In 1992 it felt like there would be no end to our woes. But the next decade became the most prosperous in our nation's history—thanks to the wave of innovation unleashed by the Internet, but also to the ability of our nation's leaders to balance the budget, make strategic investments in research and education, and create economic certainty for businesses and workers. And while the challenges we face today are daunting, I remain confident that there are better days ahead for America.The second point I want to make is that you are the source of this confidence. The education and training you have received at Fayetteville Tech have given you skills you need to compete in today's economy, and you are likely to be rewarded many times over. Family income is typically more than 30 percent higher when the primary breadwinner has a two-year technical degree, and jobs that require at least an associate's degree are going to grow twice as fast as jobs that don't require college in the coming years.Your education is not only relevant to your personal success; it is also critical to our economic future. By continuously adapting its curriculum to meet the needs of employers, Fayetteville Tech has managed both to stay ahead of the curve with new industries and help workers displaced from older industries acquire new skills. The results are impressive: in Cumberland County alone, the increased productivity of workers trained at this institution creates more than $530 million in added income for local employers every year.For years, North Carolina's leaders have recognized the critical role that technical and community colleges play as drivers of economic growth and renewal. Visionaries such as Fayetteville's own Terry Sanford understood that community colleges were not just a rising tide that would help lift generations of North Carolinians out of poverty; they were also a powerful magnet that would draw new businesses and industries to our state.Our national leaders have also shown a renewed commitment to technical and community colleges in recent years. President Obama has made them a key focus of his innovation agenda, with enthusiastic support from the Vice President's wife, Dr. Jill Biden, who has taught in community colleges for the last 17 years. The President convened the first-ever White House Summit on Community Colleges, and it seems like every couple of months he or one of his senior advisers is visiting another community college campus in North Carolina.Institutions such as this one do more than just support the broader economy; they also serve a vital purpose by meeting the unique needs of populations that might otherwise fall through the cracks of our education system—especially our military service members, our veterans, and their families. From special programs aimed at military spouses to the North Carolina Military Business Center, Fayetteville Tech is leading the nation in opening doors of opportunity to the latest generation of American service members. So for those of you here today who have worn our nation's uniform—or supported loved ones who have—we owe you a special debt of gratitude and congratulations.So all of you should find reason for optimism and confidence as you leave here today and take your place in the high-tech workplace tomorrow. But there is something else which I hope you are also beginning to realize: you are also graduating with enhanced potential as an informed and active citizen. I urge you to take that responsibility seriously. The opportunities you've had and will have in the future owe a great deal to the efforts of the active and engaged citizens who have gone before.As our President put it last weekend to a group of your fellow graduates, "this country cannot accomplish great things if we pursue nothing greater than our individual ambition." "We, the people, chose to do these things together."I don't know what image first comes to mind when you hear the word politics, but I hope it goes beyond mutually insulting 30-second ads, the ranting of talk show hosts, or selfish power- seeking by politicians. I hope it goes beyond what our President called the "voices that incessantly warn of government as nothing more than some separate, sinister entity that's at the root of all our problems." As the President said, you should reject these voices.The fact is that politics in a democracy is an indispensable means of achieving our common purposes as a community. I learned that as a young man coming of age politically as the civil rights movement swept across the South—a movement that pricked the nation's conscience and convinced millions that the barriers of segregation and discrimination must be broken down. I have always been grateful that this was my formative political experience, because it was such a positive one, demonstrating that committed people acting together, using the legitimate instruments of power and persuasion, could right ancient wrongs.We have all had experiences, of course, that cast politics in a less favorable light. But it is important not to lose that vision of politics in a democracy as an instrument of common purpose. For that is the kind of politics it will take, with each of us participating, whether as leaders, advocates, or informed citizens, if our community is to flourish and more people are to have the opportunity to prosper and to realize their dreams that we celebrate here today.This is especially the case at a time when the achievements of previous generations of North Carolinians—our public schools and universities, our roads and bridges and communications networks, our services to veterans and their families—are under severe threat from the partisan gridlock and excess that dominate our institutions of governance today. The voices of those who believe in common-sense solutions to our problems, who believe education is a vital investment in our future, are needed today more than ever before.Let me end as I began: with heartfelt congratulations for what you, with the help and support of many, many people, have achieved. You have made it through Fayetteville Tech's demanding program, often under trying circumstances, on tight budgets, balancing competing family and job demands. You have earned the admiration of this community and we look forward to the contributions you will continue to make.I wish you good fortune and Godspeed as you take your skills, industry, and determination into the workplace. I wish you the satisfaction of productive work that utilizes your full potential. And may you also make a positive contribution to those around you, giving as well as receiving, blessing even as you have been blessed, gladly assuming the joys and responsibility of citizenship.Thank you.# # #
05.09.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) announced the winners of the Fourth District Congressional Arts Competition, which brings together talented high-school students from across the district. Last Wednesday, Rep. Price hosted the competition finalists and their families at a reception at the North Carolina Museum of Art in Raleigh. A record 62 students participated in this year's competition.Sean Stickel of Chapel Hill won first place for his piece, entitled "The Freedom Rider." Next month, Art Competition winners from around the country will come to Washington for the formal awards ceremony and the unveiling of the exhibit featuring their work. The winning entries will hang in the U.S. Capitol for one year."The Fourth District is brimming with talent of all kinds, and artistic talent is no exception," Rep. Price said. "I congratulate all of the young people who participated, and especially Sean, whose artwork will be seen by millions of visitors to the U.S. Capitol over the next year."Art from other students placing in the competition will be displayed in Rep. Price's district offices, and in his Washington, D.C. office. Placing in the competition were:2nd Place – Christina Parker, GRACE Christian School, Raleigh3rd Place – Deia Green, Orange High School, Hillsborough4th Place – Alexis Schimelfenig, Cardinal Gibbons High School, Raleigh5th Place – Abigail Morris, Garner Magnet High School, Garner(Left to Right) Rep. David Price (NC-04) and Sean Stickel of Chapel Hill with of Stickel's "The Freedom Rider", the winning Fourth District Congressional Arts Competition entry.(Left to Right) Christina Parker of Raleigh and Rep. David Price (NC-04) with Parker's Fourth District Congressional Arts Competition entry.(Left to Right) Rep. David Price (NC-04) and Deia Green of Hillsborough with Green's Fourth District Congressional Arts Competition entry.# # #
05.08.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) was named a Congressional Champion of Science today by the Science Coalition. The Science Coalition recognized 28 members of Congress this morning at a "Breakfast of Champions" for their support of funding for basic university-based scientific, medical, engineering, and agricultural research. Champions recognize the importance of research to our economic growth and demonstrate a commitment to keeping the country at the forefront of medical and technological innovation. Each Champion of Science was given a commemorative Wheaties "Breakfast of Champions" box (picture attached)."Throughout our history, investments in basic research and education have sparked innovations that helped create whole new industries and increase the quality of life for all Americans," Rep. Price said. "As Congress wrangles over the federal budget, we must remember that these investments are just as critical to our future economic success."Rep. Price has been named a Champion of Science every year since 2002. The Fourth District is home to the Research Triangle Park and several major research universities, including the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and North Carolina State University.The Science Coalition is a non-profit, non-partisan association of more than 50 U.S. research universities (including North Carolina State University). Other Science Coalition Champions of Science were:Sen. Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Sen. Max Baucus (D-MT), Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA), Rep. Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Rep. John Duncan (R-TN), Rep. Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ), Rep. Ralph Hall (R-TX), Sen. Tom Harkin (D-IA), Rep. Rush Holt (D-NJ), Rep. Mike Honda (D-CA), Rep. Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Rep. Randy Hultgren (R-IL), Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), Sen. Carl Levin (D-MI), Rep. Ed Markey (D-MA), Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) , Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Sen. Pat Roberts (R-KS), Sen. John Rockefeller (D-WV), Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Rep. James Sensenbrenner (R-WI), Rep. Louise Slaughter (D-NY), Sen. Mark Udall (D-CO), Rep. Pete Visclosky (D-IN), Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA), and Sen. Ron Wyden (D-OR).# # #
04.26.2013	Washington, D.C. – In a speech earlier today, Representative David Price (NC-04) called out many of his colleagues for double-talk on sequestration spending cuts. As intended and anticipated cuts bite into programs, many of the same members who supported sequestration have rushed to apply Band-Aids shifting cuts to important programs that aren't in the news at the moment. Rep. Price's remarks are below.Watch or Download Rep. Price's Remarks on YouTubeMr. Speaker,Hypocrisy is reaching new heights today in this body. Many of the same members who said "bring it on" as sequestration loomed—many of the members who relished forcing the President to make across-the-board cuts—are now in a rush to apply another Band-Aid to this artificially created crisis.Speaker Boehner said the sequestration bill included "98 percent" of what Republicans wanted, and Republicans showed that they valued their anti-tax ideology more than defense or any other cuts. Now that sequestration fell as a result, they claim "oh, it doesn't need to hurt very much." And when cuts bite, they say "the President must be doing this just to make a political point." So, apparently this wasn't supposed to be about air traffic control? The read the bill caucus [didn't] read the bill.Today we're going to apply a much-needed Band-Aid to air traffic control. Maybe tomorrow we can have a bill applying to cancer research. Then the next day let's have a bill about cancer treatment. Then the next day let's have a bill about Head Start. Then let's have one about tuition assistance to our military personnel. Then let's have one about the Border Patrol. And by the way, if and when we apply these Band-Aids, we need to realize we're shifting cuts to equally important areas that aren't in the news at the moment, or that don't have powerful lobbies working on their behalf.My colleagues, I want to address these crises as much as any member. I want to contain the damage, but damage control is not a budget policy. Sequestration is a self-inflicted wound unworthy of those who profess to govern. It's hypocritical. It's misleading, having imposed indiscriminate cuts on the Administration, to pretend that the president could fix these problems with a flick of the wrist.Sequestration is a disaster. It needs to be reversed. It needs to be replaced by a comprehensive budget plan that includes tax expenditures and entitlements, which are the real drivers of the deficit.# # #
04.25.2013	Washington, DC – On Monday, April 29th, from 7:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m., Rep. David Price (D-NC) will host a town hall meeting at the Mayco Bigelow Community Center in Burlington. The town hall is open to the public, and members of the media are also invited to attend.Members of Rep. Price's staff will also be on hand at the town hall meeting to help constituents dealing with federal agencies. Although he cannot override agency decisions, Rep. Price's office can be a liaison between constituents and the federal agency responsible for processing a claim. Examples of how Rep. Price has helped include: assisting retirees with questions about Social Security or Medicare eligibility or benefit levels; connecting veterans with medical treatment programs at the VA; and helping those in need of passports for international travel. Rep. Price can also help constituents interested in finding federal grant or financial aid information. The below links from Rep. Price's website (price.house.gov) provide additional information on these and other services.Email Rep. PriceFederal Government LinksFlag RequestsHelp with A Federal AgencyHelp with Federal GrantsHelp with Financial AidInformation on VotingInternshipsObtaining a Federal DocumentPassportsPresidential GreetingsPrivacy Authorization FormService Academy NominationsSign-up for my E-NewsletterVisit Washington, DCWho: Rep. David Price (NC-04)What: Alamance County Town Hall MeetingWhen: Monday, April 29, 2013, 7:00 PM – 8:00 PMWhere: Mayco Bigelow Community Center, 849 Sharpe Road, Burlington, NC# # #
04.24.2013	Washington, D.C. – This morning, the Charlotte Observer published a column by Representative David Price (NC-04) addressing lawmakers' sequestration double talk. As the across-the-board sequestration spending cuts begin to kick in, many of the same members who welcomed it as a way to cut spending are protesting loudly as pet programs feel the pain, or accusing the President of imposing cuts for political purposes. The column is below.Charlotte Observer: Lawmakers' sequestration double-talkBy U.S. Rep. David E. PricePublished in: ViewpointDouble-talk is never in short supply in Washington. But as the axe of "sequestration" – the across-the-board spending cuts triggered by Congress' failure to pass a long-term budget plan – begins to fall, self-contradiction and hypocrisy have reached heights unusual even for the Capitol.Indeed, many of the same Congress members who welcomed sequestration as a way to force the president to cut spending are now protesting loudly when their pet programs feel the pain. Members who voted for the package that Speaker John Boehner said included "90 percent" of what Republicans wanted now claim that sequestration does not need to hurt very much and accuse the president of imposing cuts for political effect.The reality is that sequestration was designed to cut both deeply and indiscriminately. Although it barely touches the two main deficit drivers – tax expenditures and entitlement spending – it was supposed to be sufficiently draconian and unacceptable to force action on those fronts, to compel agreement on a comprehensive budget plan along the lines of the 2010 Bowles-Simpson Commission proposal or the budget agreements that produced four years of surpluses under President Bill Clinton.Congress failed to produce such a plan, however, because Republicans refused to consider increasing revenues or closing special-interest loopholes. Today's Republicans value their anti-tax ideology far more than the defense cuts that were supposed to drive them to the bargaining table. As sequestration approached, more and more of them said, "Bring it on."Now that the cuts are coming, members are scrambling, sometimes to apply Band-Aids, sometimes to insist that the president spare programs they favor. One day there is an outcry about reduced meat inspections, on another an insistence that tuition benefits for military personnel be restored, on another that air-traffic controllers be kept on duty in little-used airports. The latest uproar started two days ago. Federal Aviation Administration furloughs of air traffic controllers at large airports kicked in, delaying flights across the country – at Charlotte Douglas International Airport 31.2 percent of flights were delayed. My North Carolina colleague, Rep. Renee Ellmers, recently introduced a bill to reverse Medicare cuts for cancer treatment, calling the cuts an "unintended consequence" of sequestration. In fact, the 2 percent cuts were an intended and easily anticipated consequence of sequestration.Congress has now passed appropriations bills for the remainder of 2013, locking in place the sequestration spending levels. Scattered provisions mitigate specific sequestration impacts, but the result often is to shift the cuts to equally important areas that aren't in the news at the moment. Fort Bragg, adjacent to my district, now faces a furlough of civilian employees and a 34 percent cut in its operating budget. And sequestration comes on top of $1 trillion in cuts to domestic programs already adopted. Together, these cuts have driven major disease research off a cliff – fewer than 10 percent of proposals to fund heart disease, cancer and diabetes research are being funded – and slowed road and bridge construction to a snail's pace.I want to mitigate the harm as much as any member of Congress. But damage control is not a viable budget policy. Sequestration is a self-inflicted wound, unworthy of those who profess to govern. It is hypocritical and misleading, having imposed indiscriminate cuts on the administration, to pretend that the president can fix the problems with a flick of the wrist.The remedy lies in a comprehensive budget agreement that puts revenues and all categories of spending on the table. The president's budget reflects such an approach, going beyond the comfort zone of many of his political allies. A similar offer was spurned by Speaker Boehner and House Republicans in December, and sequestration ensued. It is a failure of historic proportions and it must be reversed.David Price represents North Carolina's 4th Congressional District.# # #
04.17.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04), the top Democrat on the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, announced today that Orange County will receive an $83,000 Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Assistance for Firefighters Grant (AFG) to support emergency medical services."I'm proud to announce this funding because it will help Orange County enhance their response capabilities and more effectively protect the community," Rep. Price said. "Ensuring our first responders have the tools they need to keep our communities safe is a central part of overall preparedness for every type of emergency."The grant will allow the County to purchase advanced equipment that will keep first responders safe while transporting patients. The County plans to buy 8 "power lift" stretchers, which have battery-powered hydraulic lifts that raise and lower patients with the touch of a button. The new equipment is expected to reduce repetitive lift injuries and worker's compensation claims."This funding will greatly benefit the safety and well-being of our first responders who have physically strenuous job duties," said Captain Kim Woodward, EMS Operations Manager for Orange County Emergency Services. "As call volume increases and the obesity epidemic continues to grow, this new equipment will dramatically reduce strenuous lifting and the associated risk of back injury in addition to saving the county hundreds of thousands of dollars in worker's compensation claims. Frequently, back injuries can abruptly end an EMS Professional's career. This funding will allow us to purchase safer equipment for our entire front-line fleet, which is an investment in our staff's future."As the Chair, and now ranking member, of the subcommittee responsible for funding the Department of Homeland Security, Rep. Price has been the leading supporter of first responder grant programs. Since 2001, the AFG has provided approximately $5.25 billion in grants to first responder organizations to obtain much-needed emergency response equipment, protective gear, firefighting and emergency response vehicles, and training. During FY2012, the AFG awarded $337.5 million to first responder organizations in need of support.Rep. Price has also supported a coordinated effort, overseen by FEMA, to increase the nation's ability to prevent, protect, respond to and recover from terrorist attacks, major disasters and other emergencies. In the wake of Superstorm Sandy earlier this year, Rep. Price spoke to CBS News about how recent budget cuts have drastically, and unwisely, scaled back disaster preparedness efforts."As Appropriators, we need to focus on preparing for disasters, because relatively modest investments can save a lot of money and a lot of lives when a disaster hits," Rep. Price said. "In my experience, the old saying 'an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure' applies here."# # #
04.15.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04), the top Democrat on the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement this afternoon."Today's events at the finish line of the Boston Marathon are tragic and horrifying. Our first thoughts are with those directly affected, their loved ones and the people of the great city of Boston."My office has been in contact with the Department of Homeland Security this afternoon, and I have confidence the agency will coordinate with state, local and federal authorities investigating and responding to this disaster. Our fusion centers are already facilitating such coordination. I also commend the police, National Guardsmen and women, and medical professionals who were on-site, for acting so swiftly in difficult circumstances to save lives. Every resource of the federal government should be brought to bear to find and bring to justice those who are responsible."# # #
04.10.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) released the following statement today after President Obama released his FY2014 Budget Proposal."I applaud President Obama's emphasis on investments in education, infrastructure and research. These investments are our seed corn—they help the American people by growing jobs at home, and they position our country to succeed in the global economy. I also support the President's push to replace across-the-board sequestration cuts with deficit reduction that makes sense. Republicans have gotten so focused on the bottom line that they've forgotten all spending cuts aren't created equal–until they hit programs such as Military Tuition Assistance for our active-duty troops, or on-site meat inspections, or Medicare oncology treatments. That is no way to make budget policy."At its most basic, a budget is a statement of our priorities and values. The President's call for renewed investment in our people and carefully targeted deficit reduction stands in sharp contrast to the Republican budget."The President's budget is not only fair; it's a good faith effort to find agreement with Congress on our broader budget questions. Despite Democratic concerns, the President has included specific elements that are based on key Republicans requests. I oppose the 'Chained CPI' in particular, but I give the President credit for signaling a good-faith intention to negotiate seriously. Any deficit reduction plan must take a balanced approach, including revenue increases, overall spending cuts, and targeted investments."The President's budget is an important starting point. It is time for Republicans to come to the table."# # #
04.04.2013	Washington, DC – On Monday, April 8th, from 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m., Rep. David Price (D-NC) will host a town hall meeting at William Peace University's Kenan Hall. The town hall is open to the public, and members of the media are also invited to attend.Members of Rep. Price's staff will also be on hand at the town hall meeting to help constituents dealing with federal agencies. Although he cannot override agency decisions, Rep. Price's office can be a liaison between constituents and the federal agency responsible for processing a claim. Examples of how Rep. Price has helped include: assisting retirees with questions about Social Security or Medicare eligibility or benefit levels; connecting veterans with medical treatment programs at the VA; and helping those in need of passports for international travel. Rep. Price can also help constituents interested in finding federal grant or financial aid information. The below links from Rep. Price's website (price.house.gov) provide additional information on these and other services.Email Rep. PriceFederal Government LinksFlag RequestsHelp with A Federal AgencyHelp with Federal GrantsHelp with Financial AidInformation on VotingInternshipsObtaining a Federal DocumentPassportsPresidential GreetingsPrivacy Authorization FormService Academy NominationsSign-up for my E-NewsletterVisit Washington, DCWho: Rep. David Price (NC-04)What: Raleigh Town Hall MeetingWhen: Monday, April 8, 2013, 6:00 PM – 7:00 PMWhere: William Peace University's Kenan Hall, 15 East Peace Street, Raleigh, NC# # #
03.21.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) issued the following statement today on the budget put forward by House Republicans. Rep. Price planned to vote against the legislation."Last year, I called the Republican budget a 'lemon' because it simply doesn't work as advertised. This year's budget is same thing, with an extra helping of what Newt Gingrich called, 'right-wing social engineering' layered on top. It's not about deficit reduction as advertised, it's about ideology, and that ideology calls for forcing middle class families, seniors, our kids and veterans to bear the burden of deficit reduction alone."Republicans tell us there's a debt emergency—there's not. And that we have to make tough decisions—this budget asks nothing of the wealthiest Americans. And that that path to a prosperous future for all Americans rests on cutting investments in our future, such as education, infrastructure and job training, so we can fund tax breaks for the wealthy few. Well, that's wrong too. Do they not realize these programs are our seed corn? You can save money by providing fewer of our children with educational opportunities, but that's the very definition of penny-wise and pound-foolish."The Republican budget would fundamentally change the relationship between the American people and their government, tearing down programs that have helped build the strongest middle class in the world and given generations of Americans dignity in old age. Under the Republican budget Medicare as we know it would end, breaking our promise to seniors. Medicaid as we know it would end, making a mockery of what I think is a basic American ideal—we're stronger together than on our own."Why are these decisions necessary under the Republican budget? The answer is simple: the budget provides more money in special interest tax breaks than it does in spending cuts. Cuts to Medicare, Medicaid, education, infrastructure, veterans care and job training are plowed not into deficit reduction, but tax cuts that will mostly benefit the wealthiest Americans. In fact, middle class Americans will pay an average of $2,000 more per family because the Republican budget fails to reduce the deficit by one dime by closing special interest tax breaks, like those for big oil, corporate jets, and overseas tax havens."These aren't my priorities, and they aren't my values. I plan to support a number of constructive democratic alternatives including the substitute budget offered by Rep. Van Hollen, the Congressional Black Caucus budget and the Congressional Progressive Caucus budget. Each budget makes targeted spending cuts and asks some of the wealthiest Americans to go without certain tax breaks to balance the budget in the long-term. The democratic alternatives don't balance the budget on the backs of middle class families, seniors, or veterans, and all represent the approach Americans want us to take to getting our fiscal house in order. If only Republicans were listening.# # #
03.21.2013	Washington, D.C. – This morning, Representative David Price (NC-04), a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, voted in favor of a Continuing Resolution (CR) funding the government through the end of the fiscal year. President Obama is expected to sign the legislation into law.Rep. Price has been a leading advocate for a balanced deficit-reduction package that averts sequestration and protects vital investments in our communities, and he was disappointed that the compromise legislation locks in sequestration's across-the-board spending cuts. However, the Senate-passed legislation improves upon the House-passed version in several important ways, including by restoring funding for military tuition assistance programs that help active-duty service members pursue college credits. During Senate consideration of the legislation, Sens. James Inhofe (R-OK) and Kay Hagan (D-NC) led a successful effort to restore the funding, which Rep. Price had promised to advocate for in the House."I am very pleased appropriators in the majority listened to voices of reason such as Senator Hagan and agreed to include funding to restore military tuition assistance in the Continuing Resolution. I also applaud local institutions, such as Methodist University in the Fourth District, that announced they would offer service members free tuition as long as funding was unavailable," Rep. Price said. "The military's difficult decision to suspend tuition assistance explains in a nutshell the mindless approach Congress took in sequestration: It's possible to save money by denying our service members educational opportunities, but that's the very definition of penny-wise and pound-foolish. While Congress acted to restore tuition assistance, it's important to remember that it is just one example of the impossible trade-offs forced on federal agencies as these cuts bite into programs that invest in our people."In Fiscal Year 2012, 201,000 soldiers used Army Tuition Assistance alone, receiving $373 million in benefits and enrolling in 620,000 courses. Soldiers using Tuition Assistance funds earned 2,831 associates' degrees, 4,495 baccalaureates, and 1,946 graduate degrees, according to the Army. Across all of the Armed Services, $568 million in tuition assistance was provided. Earlier this week, Rep. Price sponsored a stand-alone House bill to restore funding for the program.# # #
03.20.2013	Washington, DC - Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) joined a bipartisan effort to restore funding for military tuition assistance, which was suspended in the wake of across-the-board spending cuts imposed by sequestration. H.R. 1265, which Rep. Price co-sponsored, would restore financial assistance to soldiers participating in voluntary off-duty education programs. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Price is also working to ensure that a Senate amendment restoring tuition assistance, successfully retained in the Fiscal Year 2013 Continuing Resolution by Sens. James Inhofe (R-OK) and Kay Hagan (D-NC), is included in the final House version of the legislation."We absolutely have to find a way to work around sequestration's devastating cuts to military tuition assistance," Rep. Price said. "I'm going to work as hard as I can, and bring all the influence I have on the Appropriations Committee to bear, in the pursuit of restoring this funding."That our Armed Services had to even consider making the difficult decision to suspend tuition assistance—let alone actually go through with it—underlines yet again the need to replace sequestration's mindless across-the-board cuts with a balanced plan. From our military to the Department of Education to meat inspections, federal agencies are being forced to make impossible trade-offs as these cuts bite, and real programs that benefit real people are being undermined."In Fiscal Year 2012, 201,000 soldiers used Army Tuition Assistance alone, receiving $373 million in benefits and enrolling in 620,000 courses. Soldiers using Tuition Assistance funds earned 2,831 associates' degrees, 4,495 baccalaureates, and 1,946 graduate degrees, according to the Army. Across all of the Armed Services, $568 million in tuition assistance was provided.# # #
03.20.2013	On Saturday, March 23 from 10:30 AM – Noon, Rep. David Price (NC-04) will hold neighborhood office hours at the Flyleaf Books at 752 Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. in Chapel Hill. On Tuesday, March 26 from 11:00AM – 12:30 PM, Rep. David Price (NC-04) will hold neighborhood office hours at the Harnett County Public Library at 601 South Main Street in Lillington. Rep. Price and his staff will be on hand to meet individually with constituents to answer questions or open constituent casework at both events.Rep. Price is pleased to offer Fourth District residents a wide range of constituent services. If constituents are having trouble dealing with a federal agency, Rep. Price's office may be able to help. Although he cannot override agency decisions, the office can be a liaison between constituents and the federal agency responsible for processing a claim. Examples of how Rep. Price has helped include: assisting retirees with questions about Social Security or Medicare eligibility or benefit levels; connecting veterans with medical treatment programs at the VA; and helping those in need of passports for international travel. Rep. Price can also help constituents interested in finding federal grant or financial aid information. The below links from Rep. Price's website (price.house.gov) provide additional information on these and other services.Constituents who cannot attend the neighborhood office hours event should call Rep. Price's Raleigh District Office at 919-859-5999 with questions or concerns.• Email Rep. Price• Federal Government Links• Flag Requests• Help with A Federal Agency• Help with Federal Grants• Help with Financial Aid• Information on Voting• Internships• Obtaining a Federal Document• Passports• Presidential Greetings• Privacy Authorization Form• Service Academy Nominations• Sign-up for my E-Newsletter• Visit Washington, DCCHAPEL HILL NEIGHBORHOOD OFFICE HOURSWho: Rep. David Price (NC-04)What: Neighborhood Office HoursWhen: Saturday, March 23, 2013, 10:30 AM – NoonWhere: Flyleaf Books, 752 Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., Chapel Hill, NC LILLINGTON NEIGHBORHOOD OFFICE HOURS Who: Rep. David Price (NC-04) What: Neighborhood Office Hours When: Tuesday, March 26, 2013, 11:00 AM – 12:30 PM Where: Harnett County Public Library, 601 S. Main St., Lillington, NC# # #
03.20.2013	Washington, DC – On Tuesday, March 26th, from 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m., Rep. David Price (D-NC) will host a town hall meeting in the auditorium of Fayetteville's E.E. Smith High School. The town hall is open to the public, and members of the media are also invited to attend. Space is limited and seating will be available on a first-come, first-served basis.Members of Rep. Price's staff will also be on hand at the town hall meeting to help constituents dealing with federal agencies. Although he cannot override agency decisions, Rep. Price's office can be a liaison between constituents and the federal agency responsible for processing a claim. Examples of how Rep. Price has helped include: assisting retirees with questions about Social Security or Medicare eligibility or benefit levels; connecting veterans with medical treatment programs at the VA; and helping those in need of passports for international travel. Rep. Price can also help constituents interested in finding federal grant or financial aid information. The below links from Rep. Price's website (price.house.gov) provide additional information on these and other services.Email Rep. PriceFederal Government LinksFlag RequestsHelp with A Federal AgencyHelp with Federal GrantsHelp with Financial AidInformation on VotingInternshipsObtaining a Federal DocumentPassportsPresidential GreetingsPrivacy Authorization FormService Academy NominationsSign-up for my E-NewsletterVisit Washington, DCWho: Rep. David Price (NC-04)What: Fayetteville Town Hall MeetingWhen: Tuesday, March 26, 2013, 6:00 PM – 7:00 PMWhere: E.E. Smith High School Auditorium, 1800 Seabrook Drive, Fayetteville, NC# # #
03.19.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. David Price announced the opening of the 2013 Congressional Art Competition. The annual competition brings together the best student artwork from across the Fourth Congressional District. The winner of the competition will receive a scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design and accompany their entry to Washington to attend the opening of an exhibit featuring the work of all congressional art competition winners from across the country. Winning entries will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol Building for one year."I enjoy running this competition every year because it gives us an opportunity to appreciate talented young artists, and affirm that the Arts are a crucial part of a well-rounded education," Rep. Price said. "With the Fourth District adding new communities this year through redistricting, I look forward to a larger, even more diverse competition than in previous years."For information on how to submit an entry, contact Nadia Alston at 919-859-5999 or Nadia.Alston@mail.house.gov by March 28. Deadlines for students to submit entries in NC-04 counties are:Durham County – April 8th – April 12th by 5:00 pmWake County – April 15th – April 19th by 5:00 pmCumberland County - April 19th by 5:00 pmAlamance County – April 23rd by 5:00 pmOrange and Chatham Counties - April 24th by 5:00 pmThere are two ways to qualify for the competition:1. Art Center Contests - High school students who place (first, second, third, or honorable mention) in appropriate categories at art center contests are eligible to submit their winning entries.2. High School Contests or School Selection - Public and private high schools in the Fourth Congressional District are invited to select up to three pieces of artwork to represent their school in the competition. The selection process for that artwork is completely at the discretion of school officials. Local schools will be mailed a packet with the complete rules, deadlines, and an entry form.The second place winner's art will be displayed in Congressman Price's Washington office. The third, fourth and fifth place pieces will be displayed in Rep. Price's district offices. Special recognition will also be given to the teacher whose student is awarded first place.# # #
03.12.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) issued the following statement today following news that the U.S. Army is suspending its Tuition Assistance program, which provides financial assistance to soldiers for voluntary off-duty education programs, in the wake of across-the-board spending cuts imposed by sequestration."The Republican members of Congress who were content to let sequestration go into effect rather than agreeing on a balanced plan to avert it should have to look these military families in the eye and repeat their assertion that our men and women in uniform would be spared from the cuts."Last week, House Republicans approved a budget that locked in sequestration funding levels, and they rejected a Democratic motion to replace the cuts with a balanced approach. Instead government agencies are being forced to make impossible trade-offs, and, as the Army's difficult decision demonstrates, the consequences of sequestration are already being felt by North Carolina families."In Fiscal Year 2012, 201,000 soldiers used Army Tuition Assistance, receiving $373 million in benefits and enrolling in 620,000 courses. Soldiers using Tuition Assistance funds earned 2,831 associates' degrees, 4,495 baccalaureates, and 1,946 graduate degrees, according to the Army.# # #
03.07.2013	washington, D.C. – Fabrics that act as solar cells; fabrics that mimic muscle fibers for use in prosthetics; mosquito bite-proof clothing for use in malaria zones—it may sound like science fiction, but all are high-tech textiles being researched in North Carolina. With the aim of boosting high-tech textile manufacturing and helping researchers bring new materials to market, North Carolina Representatives David Price (D-NC) and Howard Coble (R-NC) introduced their American Textile Technology Innovation and Research for Exportation (ATTIRE) Act in the House of Representatives this week. The textile industry contributes $60 billion to our national economy every year, and it employs over 500,000 workers across the country, including many in the Tar Heel state"The level of innovation we're seeing in the textile industry is very promising," Rep. Price said. "Innovation is key to the future health and competitiveness of the American textile industry. Critical federal investments in research and development help our domestic textile manufacturers stay a step ahead of global competition. The ATTIRE Act will help ensure the next generation of high-tech fabrics is made in the United States.""My mother worked in the textile factories and I have always had a special place in my heart for the workers in this industry," Rep. Coble said. "Through this competitive grant program we hope to further advance this key industry in North Carolina."The ATTIRE Act supports innovation and research in the U.S. textile and fiber products industry through the creation of a new $5 million competitive grant program at the Department of Commerce. University-based and non-profit research institutions seeking to bolster high-tech textile research and development projects would be eligible to compete for grant funds. Currently, no single federal program exists to support innovation and high-tech manufacturing in the U.S. textile and fiber products industry, which remains a major source of exports and job creation despite the contraction it has suffered in recent years.Researchers at North Carolina State University have been particularly active developing and testing new materials that protect against the biological threats and the elements. Researchers at The North Carolina State Thermal Protection Laboratory have also conducted extensive analysis of the thermal protection properties of materials used in occupations such as military service, firefighting, welding and metal work, ensuring garments provide adequate burn protection.The representatives introduced a similar version of the legislation in the 112th Congress.# # #
03.06.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) addressed his colleagues in the House of Representatives today, urging them to reject a Continuing Resolution that locks in austere sequestration cuts, which will impair vital government functions, reduce the paychecks of thousands of American workers and undermine the economic recovery. The text of Rep. Price's remarks is provided below.Watch Rep. Price's Remarks on YouTubeMr. Speaker,There is a blizzard of evidence against the Continuing Resolution, yet the Republican majority keeps skidding ahead like an out-of-control snowplow.Instead of avoiding sequestration with a balanced deficit reduction package, this CR will lock in these devastating cuts—impairing vital government functions, reducing the paychecks of thousands of American workers, and undermining our economic recovery, costing three-quarters of a million jobs according to the CBO.Earlier this week I heard a panel of economists speculate about what future generations will say about what we're going through 20 or 30 years from now. They are likely to be baffled they said: how could a great nation do such damage to itself? How could political brinkmanship and rigid ideology go so far? In fact, that's exactly what my constituents are already asking, as they begin to pay the price for this House's failure to do we were elected to do.Just yesterday, members of the Military Construction and Veterans Subcommittee heard testimony from senior officers from each service about the impact of sequestration on their operations. Their message was "Don't be fooled". We may be giving them marginally greater flexibility by including the full-year FY 2013 bills for Defense and Veterans in this Continuing Resolution, but we are not sparing them from the sledgehammer of sequestration.This approach also begs the question: Why not pass full-year bills for all departments? The Homeland Security Subcommittee produced a compromise full-year bill that could easily have been included in this measure. Stop-gap funding measures only perpetuate our economic uncertainty and only prevent us from getting to the heart of our fiscal challenges.We owe this body a better appropriations process, and we owe our people a budget that accelerates the recovery and protects our economic future instead of simply serving a rigid political ideology.# # #
02.26.2013	Raleigh, N.C. – Representative David Price's district office at 5400 Trinity Road, Suite 205, Raleigh, NC will close on Feb. 27th and re-open in its new location at 436 N. Harrington Street, Suite 100, Raleigh, NC 27603 on March 4th. Constituents inquiring about services or pending casework are encouraged to call Rep. Price's Western District Office at 919-688-3004. Constituents with concerns or questions about legislation before Congress should call Rep. Price's Washington, DC office at 202-225-1784. The phone and fax contact numbers for Rep. Price's Raleigh district office will not change with the move.# # #
02.26.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) issued the following statement today calling on Congressional Republicans to work with Democrats to avert sequestration, an $85 billion across-the-board spending cut that would undermine the economic recovery and slash many of the programs that invest in children, veterans, seniors and our middle class. Price also expressed his concern as the top Democrat on the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that sequestration would hobble critical homeland security functions."There is no question we need to cut the deficit over the long-term, and we must do it in a balanced way, protecting our economic recovery and safeguarding the investments that help our people succeed. Sequestration fails all of these tests."President Obama and Congressional Democrats have a plan that would avert sequestration with a balanced approach that includes carefully targeted spending cuts and an end to special tax loopholes, building on the $2.5 trillion in deficit reduction we have already achieved. By refusing to come to the table, or even to bring their own plan for a vote, Republicans are playing games with our economic recovery, and our homeland security, and are forcing children, seniors, veterans and middle-class families to bear the burden of deficit reduction alone."In North Carolina, sequestration would take more than a billion dollars out of our economy, at a time when we have just seen General Assembly Republicans pull nearly $800 million out of the economy by rejecting federal unemployment benefits for North Carolinians who have lost jobs through no fault of their own. We have a 9.2% unemployment rate in North Carolina, but Republicans at every level of government continue to show neither regard for those in need nor economic sense when it comes to investing in our state's future."Sunday, the Obama Administration detailed the impact sequestration would have in North Carolina during this year alone, including:• Department of Defense Civilian payroll in NC is $1.4 billion for 22,000 workers. A 22-day furlough will cost those workers and the state economy $117.5M in lost wages. Approximately 45% of DoD Civilian contractors are veterans.• Teachers and Schools: North Carolina will lose approximately $25.4 million in funding for primary and secondary education, putting around 350 teacher and aide jobs at risk. In addition about 38,000 fewer students would be served and approximately 80 fewer schools would receive funding.• Education for Children with Disabilities: In addition, North Carolina will lose approximately $16.8 million in funds for about 200 teachers, aides, and staff who help children with disabilities.• Head Start: Head Start and Early Head Start services would be eliminated for approximately 1,500 children• Work-Study Jobs: Around 1,150 fewer low income students in North Carolina would receive did to help them finance the costs of college and around 890 fewer students will get work-study jobs that help them pay for college.• Job Search Assistance to Help those in North Carolina find Employment and Training: North Carolina will lose about $83,000 in funding for job search assistance, referral, and placement, meaning around 15,110 fewer people will get the help and skills they need to find employment.• Child Care: Up to 1,300 disadvantaged and vulnerable children could lose access to child care, which is also essential for working parents to hold down a job.• Vaccines for Children: In North Carolina around 3,550 fewer children will receive vaccines for diseases such as measles, mumps, rubella, tetanus, whooping cough, influenza, and Hepatitis B due to reduced funding for vaccinations of about $243,000.• Public Health: North Carolina will lose approximately $911,000 in funds to help upgrade its ability to respond to public health threats including infectious diseases, natural disasters, and biological, chemical, nuclear, and radiological events. In addition, North Carolina will lose about $1,980,000 in grants to help prevent and treat substance abuse, resulting in around 3700 fewer admissions to substance abuse programs. And the North Carolina Department of Health & Human Services will lose about $341,000 resulting in around 8,500 fewer HIV tests.• STOP Violence Against Women Program: North Carolina could lose up to $205,000 in funds that provide services to victims of domestic violence, resulting in up to 800 fewer victims being served.• Nutrition Assistance for Seniors: North Carolina would lose approximately $1,543,000 in funds that provide meals for seniors.Sequestration and Homeland Security Programs• FEMA will be forced to reduce funding for State and local grants that support firefighter positions and state and local emergency management personnel.• US Coast Guard: USCG will be forced to curtail air and surface operations by up to 25%, significantly impairing safety, law enforcement and drug interdiction.• Customs and Border Patrol: CBP may be forced to lay off 5,000 Border Patrol Agents and 2,700 CBP Officers, weakening our border security and significantly increasing wait times for people and goods entering the country legally.• Aviation security: The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) would reduce its frontline workforce, which would substantially increase passenger wait times at airport security checkpoints. TSA would need to initiate a hiring freeze for all transportation security officer positions in March, eliminate overtime, and furlough its 50,000 officers for up to seven days. This means longer screening wait times for passengers.• Federal Aviation Administration: FAA could be forced to furlough up to 10% of workforce on any given day. Fewer air traffic controllers mean longer flight delays.Nationwide Impact of SequestrationEmergency unemployment compensation: People receiving Emergency Unemployment Compensation benefits would see their benefits cut by nearly 11 percent. Affected long-term unemployed individuals would lose an average of more than $450 in benefits that they and their families count on while they search for another job. Smaller unemployment checks will also have a negative impact on the economy as a whole. Economists have estimated that every dollar in unemployment benefits generates $2 in economic activity.Social Security applicant and beneficiary services: The Social Security Administration (SSA) would be forced to curtail service to the public and reduce program oversight efforts designed to make sure benefits are paid accurately and to the right people. Potential effects on SSA operations could include a reduction in service hours to the public, and a substantial growth in the backlog of Social Security disability claims. Up to 20,000 retirement claims and 10,000 disability claims could go unprocessed.NIH research: Sequestration cuts $1.6 billion from NIH. The National Institutes of Health (NIH) would be forced to delay or halt vital scientific projects and make hundreds of fewer research awards. Since each research award supports up to seven research positions, several thousand personnel could lose their jobs. These cuts would delay progress on the prevention of debilitating chronic conditions that are costly to society and delay development of more effective treatments for common and rare diseases affecting millions of Americans.NSF research: The National Science Foundation (NSF) would issue nearly 1,000 fewer research grants and awards, impacting an estimated 12,000 scientists and students and curtailing critical scientific research.New drug approvals: The FDA's Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER) would face delays in translating new science and technology into regulatory policy and decision-making, resulting in delays in new drug approvals. The FDA would likely also need to reduce operational support for meeting review performance goals, such as the recently negotiated user fee goals on new innovative prescription drugs and medical devices. Small business assistance: Small Business Administration (SBA) loan guarantees would be cut by up to approximately $900 million, constraining financing needed by small businesses to maintain and expand their operations and create jobs.Food safety: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) could conduct 2,100 fewer inspections at domestic and foreign facilities that manufacture food products while USDA's Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) may have to furlough all employees for approximately two weeks. These reductions could increase the number and severity of safety incidents, and the public could suffer more foodborne illness, such as the recent salmonella in peanut butter outbreak and the E. coli illnesses linked to organic spinach, as well as cost the food and agriculture sector millions of dollars in lost production volume.Veterans services: Although the Department of Veterans Affairs is exempt from sequestration, the Department of Labor's Veterans Transition Assistance Program, which serves over 150,000 veterans a year, would have to reduce operations – leaving thousands of transitioning veterans unserved as they move from active duty to civilian life. The Jobs for Veterans State Grants Program would also experience cuts, translating into a reduction in the capacity to serve tens of thousands of veterans in their efforts to find civilian employment.National parks: Many of the 398 national parks across the country would be partially or fully closed, with shortened operating hours, closed facilities, reduced maintenance, and cuts to visitor services. These closures will hurt the many small businesses and regional economies that depend on nearby national parks to attract visitors to their region.Title I education funds: Title I education funds would be eliminated for more than 2,700 schools, cutting support for nearly 1.2 million disadvantaged students. This funding reduction would put the jobs of approximately 10,000 teachers and aides at risk. Students would lose access to individual instruction, afterschool programs, and other interventions that help close achievement gaps.Special education (IDEA): Cuts to special education funding would eliminate Federal support for more than 7,200 teachers, aides, and other staff who provide essential instruction and support to preschool and school-aged students with disabilities.Head Start: Head Start and Early Head Start services would be eliminated for approximately 70,000 children, reducing access to critical early education. Community and faith based organizations, small businesses, local governments, and school systems would have to lay off over 14,000 teachers, teacher assistants, and other staff.Nutrition assistance for women, infants and children: Approximately 600,000 women and children would be dropped from the Department of Agriculture's Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) from March through September. At least 1,600 State and local jobs could be lost as a result.Rental assistance: The Department of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD) Housing Choice Voucher program, which provides rental assistance to very low-income families, would face a significant reduction in funding, which would place about 125,000 families at immediate risk of losing their permanent housing.Homelessness programs: More than 100,000 formerly homeless people, including veterans, would be removed from their current housing and emergency shelter programs, putting them at risk of returning to the streets.# # #
02.20.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) formally announced his nominees for appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, and the Merchant Marine Academy."I admire the decision these young people have made to serve their country, and I know each one has the potential for an exceptional career in public service" Rep. Price said. "It is an honor to nominate them for appointment to our nation's service academies."Young people who are interested in attending one of the service academies may apply directly and also may seek a nomination from their US Representative and US Senators. After receiving nominations from members of Congress, admissions authorities at each institution determine which nominees will receive appointments. Rep. Price invited all the Fourth District nominees and their families to a reception in their honor at his Raleigh district office last week.Students interested in a nomination should contact Robyn Winneberger in Rep. Price's Raleigh office (919-859-5999) in the spring of their junior year in high school. More information on the nomination process and eligibility requirements is available on Rep. Price's "Service Academy Nominations" webpage.A complete list of local service academy nominees is below.U.S. Air Force AcademyPeter Barrow - The Barrow School (Home School)Ryan Beaver - Middle Creek HighAnna Cherry - Jordan HighWilliam Colborn - Holly Springs HighDavid Foye - Cardinal Gibbons HighTimothy Germann - Holly Springs HighWilliam Haley - Leesville HighMario Lund - Cardinal Gibbons HighWilliam McEntee - East Chapel HillPatrick Menzies - Apex HighJoseph Murray - Holly Springs HighRobert Rush - Cary HighChase Sax - Apex HighQuinn Stanley - Green Hope HighStefan Wagner - North Raleigh Christen HighJungin Yoon - Holly Springs HighHaynes Zaytoun - Woodberry Forest SchoolU.S. Military Academy at West PointLisa Armstrong - Green Hope HighRussell Barringer - Riverside HighIan Brooks - Cary AcademyMichael MacDonald - Cardinal Gibbons HighMichael Marchetta - Cardinal Gibbons HighPatrick Menzies - Apex HighJared Miller - Garner Magnet HighTyler Shade - Holly Springs HighAlexander Werden - Chapel Hill HighHaynes Zaytoun - Woodberry Forest SchoolMerchant Marine AcademyPeter Barrow - The Barrow School (Home School)Michael MacDonald - Cardinal Gibbons High# # #
02.15.2013	Washington, D.C. – North Carolina Representatives David Price (NC-04), G.K. Butterfield (NC-01), and Mel Watt (NC-12) urged Republican Governor Pat McCrory not to hurt the North Carolina economy and working families by signing into law an anti-Medicaid expansion bill that has been rushed through the General Assembly in a matter of days. The Representatives urged the Governor to veto the deeply damaging Senate Bill 4, which denies as many as 500,000 North Carolinians the access to affordable, quality health care that they would otherwise receive through the federally-funded expansion of Medicaid. Last week, the members sent a similar letter to the General Assembly.According to state-sponsored and outside studies, blocking Medicaid expansion would increase costs for the State, increase premiums for those with insurance, block the creation of thousands of new jobs, and squeeze small hospitals. Many restaurant owners and other employers of low-wage and part-time workers will also be required to provide insurance for their employees if they are not covered by Medicaid expansion. The members write:"Under the terms of the law, the federal government will cover 100 percent of the costs of Medicaid expansion for the first three years and then phase down to 90 percent of the costs by 2020. . .The North Carolina Institute of Medicine estimates that expansion will save the State more than $65 million over the next eight years, leveraging at least $15 billion in federal funds over the next decade. At a time of pressing fiscal challenges, there is no reason for our state's leaders to leave this money just sitting on the table, especially since states can decide to opt out later if the terms of the agreement should shift."A recent study commissioned by the N.C. Department of Health and Human Services found that the expansion of Medicaid could inject about $1.4 billion into the North Carolina economy, creating as many as 23,000 jobs. Republican governors in Arizona, Ohio, Michigan, New Mexico, and North Dakota have already decided to implement Medicaid expansion because uncompensated care imposes a "hidden tax" on those with insurance. The letter continues:"The societal costs of S.B. 4 are also clear: Rejecting Medicaid expansion would exclude nearly 500,000 North Carolinians from gaining access to health care insurance, leaving them reliant on emergency rooms and other uncompensated care that is driving many of our small hospitals to the brink of insolvency. The lack of access to preventative screenings and chronic disease care will deny educational and economic opportunities to these North Carolinians. To make matters worse, if our state does not expand Medicaid, we will continue to bear the burden of uncompensated high-cost ambulatory care through our taxes and, for the insured, through the "hidden tax" paid in the form of higher private health insurance premiums. The American Academy of Actuaries estimates that premiums for private insurance will be at least two percent higher in states that do not expand Medicaid, since many of those who would be eligible for the expansion will continue to rely disproportionately on emergency care instead."Click here for the full text of the letter.# # #
02.13.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) issued the following statement after President Obama's State of the Union Address."We have come a long way in the last four years under President Obama's leadership, but Congress clearly needs to refocus. Infrastructure, education, innovative manufacturing, clean energy: investments in the American people should dominate our debates. Instead, repeated, artificially-created fiscal crises have sucked all the oxygen out of the room and created economic uncertainty for every business and every family. With the sequester looming, yet another meat-axe approach to deficit reduction threatens our economic recovery."I applaud the President for calling on Congress to move past these self-inflicted crises to address the most pressing tasks before us: creating jobs, growing the middle class, and reducing the deficit in a way that's consistent with our priorities and values. Deficit reduction alone is not a plan for economic growth, and we cannot ask seniors, veterans and the middle class to bear the whole burden. Urgent action is also needed on immigration reform and commonsense measures to prevent gun violence. Almost all of the policies President Obama urged us to enact are supported by the majority of Americans, and they expect Congress to get the job done. I intend to help."# # #
02.11.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04), the Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, will host new Raleigh Police Chief Cassandra Deck-Brown as his guest in the House Chamber when President Obama delivers his State of the Union Address on Tuesday evening. Deck-Brown, the first African-American woman to hold the post, was named permanent head of the Police Department earlier this month after several months as interim chief. Deck-Brown has announced that decreasing juvenile crime will be among her top priorities as head of the Police Department."I look forward to hosting Chief Deck-Brown at the State of the Union on Tuesday night and discussing how Congress can help address juvenile crime and support local police and first responders," Rep. Price said. "As a father and a grandfather, I am very interested in exploring new and innovative partnerships between Congress and local law enforcement to keep our schools, neighborhoods, and communities safe and supportive places for our young people.""I am looking forward to attending the State of the Union Address and appreciate the invitation extended by Representative Price," said Deck-Brown. "The time in Washington will also provide us with an opportunity to begin to explore ways in which we can work collaboratively on behalf of the Raleigh Police Department."As the Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, Rep. Price has been a leading advocate for federal programs that support law enforcement and first responders such as Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS), which promotes best practices to proactively address public safety issues in communities across the country. Price has also regularly secured funding for local law enforcement agencies in the Fourth District to secure new crime-fighting technologies as well as for statewide projects such as the new National Guard Headquarters and State Emergency Operations Center in Raleigh.As a Vice Chair of the House Democrats' Gun Violence Prevention Task-Force, Rep. Price helped shape the task force's policy recommendations, which were released last week and included restoring funding for public safety and law enforcement initiatives aimed at reducing violence, supporting evidence-based prevention programs and mental health services for troubled young people, and increasing funding for local law enforcement "gun buy-back" programs.# # #
02.08.2013	Washington, DC – On Monday at 1:00 p.m., Rep. David Price (D-NC) and AARP North Carolina will host a roundtable on the transition from paper checks to direct deposit electronic payment for federal benefits. Representatives from the Social Security Administration, the Veterans Administration, Wake County Social Services, the North Carolina Bankers Association, the State Division of Aging, Homeless Advocates and local churches will update Rep. Price on their efforts to encourage local residents to sign-up for direct deposit before the March 1, 2013 deadline. Rep. Price will be available for Q&A after the roundtable. Members of the media are invited to attend and encouraged to use the attached handout (also included below) in Public Service Announcements informing their audiences of this important change.As of March 1, 2013, all federal benefit payments will be electronic. The US Treasury will no longer issue paper checks for Social Security, Veterans Administration, Supplemental Security Income, Railroad Retirement Board, Department of Labor (Black Lung) or Office of Personnel Management benefits. Beneficiaries may choose to have your payments made via direct deposit to a bank account, a credit union account, or a Direct Express® Debit MasterCard. People who do not choose an electronic payment option by March 1, 2013, or at the time they apply for benefits, will be out of compliance with the law. At this time, Treasury has no plans to stop federal benefit payments or change the payment method without the beneficiary's permission.President Obama has set up the "Go Direct" website (www.godirect.gov) and hotline (1-800-333-1795) to provide information about how beneficiaries can sign up for a direct benefit payment option before the deadline.The move to all-electronic federal benefit payments will save taxpayers $120 million annually in production and postage costs. In addition, it will help beneficiaries. Electronic payments are safer, easier and more convenient. Beneficiaries will no longer have to make a trip to their bank or check cashing service or worry about stolen checks, and they will have immediate access to their benefits.Who: Rep. David Price (NC-04), Community LeadersWhat: Go Direct Roundtable: What North Carolinians Need to Know About the Transition to Electronic Payments for Federal BenefitsWhen: Monday, February 11, 2013, 1:00 PM – 1:30 PMWhere: AARP North Carolina, 1511 Sunday Drive, Suite 312, Raleigh, NCClick here for a handout with the below informationGo Direct: What You Need to Know About the U.S. Treasury's Transition from Paper Checks to Direct Deposit Electronic Payments for Federal BenefitsAs of March 1, 2013, all federal benefit payments will be electronic. The US Treasury will no longer issue paper checks for Social Security, Veterans Administration, Supplemental Security Income, Railroad Retirement Board, Department of Labor (Black Lung) or Office of Personnel Management benefits.The move to all-electronic federal benefit payments will save taxpayers $120 million annually in production and postage costs. In addition, it will help beneficiaries. Electronic payments are safer, easier and more convenient. Beneficiaries will no longer have to make a trip to their bank or check cashing service or worry about stolen checks, and they will have immediate access to their benefits.President Obama has set up the "Go Direct" website (www.godirect.gov) and hotline (1-800-333-1795) to provide information about how beneficiaries can sign up for direct deposit benefit payments before the deadline.Who must enroll?If you are currently receiving a paper check for your benefits, you must switch to an electronic payment option by March 1, 2013. You may choose to have your payments made via direct deposit to a bank account, a credit union account, or a Direct Express® Debit MasterCard. People who do not choose an electronic payment option by March 1, 2013, or at the time they apply for benefits, will be out of compliance with the law. At this time, Treasury has no plans to stop federal benefit payments or change the payment method without the beneficiary's permission.How do I enroll?If you already have a bank or credit union account, you can register for direct deposit online at www.godirect.gov/gpw/RegisterOnline-Step1.gd, or by calling the hotline at (800) 333-1795. You can also visit your local bank or credit union branch or call the federal agency's benefit office directly; the numbers are listed below. You will need your account type, account number and financial institution's routing number to enroll.If you do not have a bank or credit union account, or if you prefer to have your benefits provided via Direct Express® Debit MasterCard, call the Go Direct hotline at (800) 333-1795, or call the federal agency's benefit office directly.• Social Security AdministrationRaleigh: (877) 803-6311Durham: (888) 759-3908Fayetteville: (866) 964-6485Greensboro: (877) 319-3075• Railroad Retirement Board: (877) 772-5772• Department of Labor: (800) 638-7072• Defense Finance & Accounting Service: (800) 321-1080• Department of Veterans Affairs: (800) 827-1000• Office of Personnel Management: (888)767-6738Are there any exceptions?The Treasury Department will grant exceptions to the electronic benefits requirement only in rare circumstances. Automatic waivers are granted to people born on or before May 1, 1921. Check recipients living in remote areas without sufficient banking infrastructure may apply for a waiver, as well as check recipients for whom electronic payments would impose a hardship due to a mental impairment. To request a waiver, call the Go Direct hotline at 800-333-1795.# # #
02.07.2013	Washington, D.C. - Representative David Price (NC-04) joined Democratic leaders and Gun Violence Prevention Task Force Chair Mike Thompson (CA-5) today in announcing the task force's comprehensive set of policy principles designed to reduce gun violence while respecting the 2nd Amendment Rights of law-abiding Americans. For nearly two months, the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force has met with stakeholders on both sides of the aisle and all sides of the issue to develop a comprehensive set of policy principles that respect the 2nd Amendment and will make our schools, neighborhoods, and communities safer. Rep. Price is a Vice Chair of the task force and ranking member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee."Our people have a right to expect that they will be free from harm in their communities and their children will be safe in their schools," Rep. Price said. "The Task Force's recommendations—which reflect input from a wide range of stakeholders—prioritize keeping guns out of the hands of dangerous people, enhancing mental health services, cracking down on illegal gun trafficking and removing military-style assault weapons from our streets. I urge the leadership of this House to act immediately on these reasonable and common-sense principles which respect the rights of responsible gun owners and make our communities safer.""As a hunter and gun owner I believe we should protect law-abiding individuals' 2nd Amendment right to own firearms," Rep. Thompson said. "As a father and grandfather I also believe that we have a responsibility to make our schools, neighborhoods and communities safe. This comprehensive set of policy principles accomplishes both those goals and Congress should act on them without delay. Moving forward I will use these recommendations to develop and influence legislation in both the House and Senate and work to get legislation based on these principles signed into law."The task force met with and solicited input from victims of gun violence and gun safety advocates; gun owners, hunters, and outdoor sportsmen; federal, state, and local law enforcement; educators and community workers; mental health experts and physicians; representatives of the motion picture, television, music, and video game industries; leaders in our faith communities; and representatives of gun manufacturers and retailers, as well as cabinet secretaries and the Vice President of the United States.The Gun Violence Prevention Task Force urges Congress to:Support the 2nd Amendment rights of law-abiding Americans. The United States Supreme Court affirmed individuals' 2nd rights to firearms in District of Columbia v. Heller (2008). However, the Supreme Court also held that "the right secured by the Second Amendment is not unlimited," Within the limits described by Heller, the federal government has the responsibility to take appropriate steps to protect our citizens from gun violence.Support citizens' rights to possess firearms for hunting, shooting sports, defense, and other lawful and legitimate purposes: In the United States, there is a long tradition of hunting and recreational shooting, and firearms are often passed down within families from generation to generation. Policies passed by Congress should respect this.Reinstate and strengthen a prospective federal ban on assault weapons: These weapons are designed to fire a large number of rounds in a short period of time. They constitute a lethal threat to law enforcement and other first responders.Reinstate a prospective federal ban on assault magazines: These magazines hold more than ten rounds and allow a shooter to inflict mass damage in a short period of time without reloading. Banning them will save lives.Require a background check for every gun sale, while respecting reasonable exceptions for cases such as gifts between family members and temporary loans for sporting purposes: It is estimated that four out of ten gun buyers do not go through a background check when purchasing a firearm because federal law only requires these checks when someone buys a gun from a federally licensed dealer. That would be like allowing four out of ten people to choose if they'd go through airport security. This loophole allows felons, domestic abusers, and those prohibited because of mental illness to easily bypass the criminal background check system and buy firearms at gun shows, through private sellers, over the internet or out of the trunks of cars.Strengthen the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) database: Immediate action is needed to ensure the information in the NICS database is up to date. Many federal and state agencies remain deficient in transferring important records to the database. Without the information, the background checks aren't complete. This needs to change.Prosecute those prohibited buyers who attempt to purchase firearms and others who violate federal firearm laws: Federal law bars nine categories of people—including felons and those prohibited because of mental illness —from buying guns. But when prohibited persons attempt to buy guns, they are hardly ever prosecuted. More can and must be done to make these investigations and prosecutions a priority.Pass legislation aimed specifically at cracking down on illegal gun trafficking and straw-purchasing: Straw-purchasing is when a prohibited buyer has someone with no criminal history walk into a gun store, pass a background check and purchase a gun with the purpose of giving it to the prohibited buyer. This puts guns in the hands of people who are prohibited from having them. Congress should pass a law that will put an end to this practice.Restore funding for public safety and law enforcement initiatives aimed at reducing gun violence: Congress should fund law enforcement's efforts to reduce gun violence, while supporting federal research into causes of gun violence. Put simply, there is no reason the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) or the National Institute of Health (NIH) should be inhibited from researching the causes of gun violence. And there is no reason for the restrictions federal law places on our law enforcement officers' ability to track and combat the spread of illegal guns.Support initiatives that prevent problems before they start: Local communities should have assistance in applying evidence-based prevention and early intervention strategies that are designed to prevent the problems that lead to gun violence before those problems start.Close the holes in our mental-health system and make sure that care is available for those who need it: Congress must improve prevention, early intervention, and treatment of mental illness while working to eliminate the stigma associated with mental illness. Access to mental health services should be improved, the shortage of mental health professionals should be addressed, and funding should be made available for those programs that have proven to be effective.Help our communities get unwanted and illegal guns out of the hands of those who don't want them or shouldn't have them: Congress should help support and develop local programs that get unwanted guns off our streets. And Congress should work with states to develop programs that get guns out of the hands of those convicted of certain crimes or those prohibited because of mental illness.Support responsible gun ownership: Congress should support safety training, research aimed at developing new gun safety technologies and the safe storage of firearms.Take steps to enhance school safety. Congress must help all schools implement evidence-based strategies that support safe learning environments tailored to the unique needs of students and local communities. And Congress must work with all schools to develop emergency response plans.Address our culture's glorification of violence seen and heard though our movie screens, television shows, music and video games: Congress should fund scientific research on the relationship between popular culture and gun violence, while ensuring that parents have access to the information they need to make informed decisions about what their families watch, listen to, and play.# # #
02.07.2013	Washington, D.C. – North Carolina Representatives David Price (NC-04), G.K. Butterfield (NC-01), and Mel Watt (NC-12) urged the North Carolina House of Representatives to reject Senate Bill 4, which would keep as many as 500,000 North Carolinians from gaining access to affordable, quality health care through the federally-funded expansion of Medicaid included in the Affordable Care Act. Blocking Medicaid expansion would increase costs for the State, increase premiums for those with insurance, and block the creation of thousands of new jobs.Citing the economic, fiscal, and social benefits of Medicaid expansion, the members write:"As members of North Carolina's Congressional delegation, we do not routinely express our views on legislation before the General Assembly. But the grave threat to our state's economy and quality of life posed by Senate Bill 4, as well as the direct conflict it creates with federal policy, compel us to do so. We urge you in the strongest possible terms to reject this costly and short-sighted measure. . ."Rejecting Medicaid expansion would strike a devastating blow to working families in our state and to the North Carolina economy as a whole. Nearly 500,000 North Carolinians who are currently uninsured could gain access to affordable, quality health care through expansion, unless their state government stands in the way."A recent study commissioned by the N.C. Department of Health and Human Services found that the expansion of Medicaid could inject about $1.4 billion into the North Carolina economy, creating as many as 23,000 jobs. The North Carolina Institute of Medicine estimates that Medicaid expansion will save North Carolina more than $65 million over the next eight years. Republican governors in Arizona, Ohio, Michigan, New Mexico, and North Dakota have already decided to implement Medicaid expansion. The letter continues:"One need not support the other major reforms included in the Affordable Care Act to agree that expanding Medicaid to able-bodied, low-income adults is a "win-win" for both the State of North Carolina and its residents. As you are well aware, under the terms of the law the federal government will cover 100 percent of the costs of expansion for the first three years and 90 percent of the costs thereafter...At a time of pressing fiscal challenges, there is no reason for our state's leaders to leave this money just sitting on the table."Only about 30 percent of low-income adults are currently covered by Medicaid in North Carolina, leaving many families to rely solely on emergency care. This lack of basic preventive health care drives up health insurance costs for those covered in the private market through a "hidden tax" on premiums. The American Academy of Actuaries estimates that premiums for private insurance will be at least two percent higher in states that do not expand Medicaid, since many of those who would be eligible for the expansion will continue to rely disproportionately on emergency care instead.Click here for a copy of the full letter.# # #
02.06.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) responded to today's announcement that the United States Postal Service (USPS) is ending 6th-day delivery services by saying the decision should be a "reform of last resort," not an initial step in ensuring the Postal Service's long-term viability. Rep. Price called on Republican House leaders to join a bipartisan Senate effort to reform the USPS."It's not clear the Postal Service has the authority to implement this change without Congressional approval. I believe cutting service days should be a reform of last resort, and that we can reform the Postal Service and ensure its viability without drastic jobs cuts or service cuts," Rep. Price said. "The previous Congress saw the Senate pass legislation reforming the Postal Service's backbreaking $5.5 billion a year pension mandate. Congress imposed this mandate, and House Republican leaders should join the bipartisan Senate effort to reform it so service cuts are not necessary."In the previous Congress, Rep. Price cosponsored legislation, similar to the Senate bill, that would have provided immediate relief to pension obligations imposed on USPS by a 2006 law. That bill stalled in the House. Under current law, the Postal Service is required to pre-pay $5.5 billion a year (until 2016) into a fund for future retiree health care costs. The legislation would also have reimbursed the Postal Service for overpayments it made into the Federal Employee Retirement System for employees who earned federal government retirement benefits while the service was still a government agency. Under the bill, the reimbursement amount would be determined by an Office of Personnel Management study. The Senate-passed bill stipulated that USPS was only authorized to eliminate 6th-day service after exhausting all other reform measures included in the bill.# # #
02.04.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. David Price (NC-04) urged the Republican leadership of the North Carolina General Assembly to reconsider a fast-moving legislative proposal to deny Medicaid coverage to thousands of North Carolinians. In a letter delivered to legislative leaders over the weekend, Rep. Price (NC-04) also asked the leaders to not to make a proposed change to the state's unemployment insurance program that would effectively deny 80,000 North Carolina residents federally-funded unemployment benefits and therefore pull hundreds of million dollars out of the state's economy."Abdicating our commitments to the unemployed, undermining the expansion of health care for working families, this is no way to run a state," Rep. Price said. "Republicans in the General Assembly should reconsider these misguided efforts. Even if Raleigh Republicans are willing to walk away from our commitments to people who have lost jobs through no fault of their own, or people who need access to medical care, preventing nearly $650 million from being spent in North Carolina stores and small businesses is going to hurt everyone."Earlier today, Republican Governor John Kasich of Ohio announced that his state would expand Medicaid, extending coverage to 366,000 residents. Kasich, an opponent of the health care reform law, has said of the Medicaid expansion, ". . . this is a different issue. This is about people who are at the lower economic end."In the letter to General Assembly leaders on their plan to undermine the federal unemployment insurance extension, Rep. Price wrote:"Now is not the time to abandon tens of thousands of North Carolinians who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own and who stand to benefit from federal policy if their state government does not stand in the way. Nor can our state, with an unemployment rate of 9.2 percent, afford to remove the projected $650 million in economic activity that would result from these benefits this year. I urge you to consider these grave consequences as you plot the course of House Bill 4."The bipartisan American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which passed with the support of 85 U.S. House Republicans and 89 Senators, extends the authorization for the federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation program through January 1, 2014. To remain eligible for federal assistance, states are not permitted to decrease the weekly benefit amount available through their own unemployment compensation programs, and the reductions contained in the Republican bill being fast-tracked in the General Assembly bill would violate this provision. Rep. Price said the proposed policy change puts state and federal policy on a "collision course."# # #
01.30.2013	Washington, DC – On Thursday evening, Rep. David Price (D-NC) will join a campaign finance symposium hosted by Duke University's Sanford School of Public Policy. Members of the media are invited to a Thursday panel discussion where Rep. Price, Maryland Rep. John Sarbanes (D-MD) and others will discuss campaign and election reforms. Rep. Price will be available for individual interviews at the conclusion of the panel discussion.Rep. Price has proposed the Empowering Citizens Act, a campaign reform bill aimed at putting the financing of elections back into the hands of middle and working class Americans, and blunting the corrosive influence of Super PACs unleashed by the Supreme Court's Citizens United decision. The move is a part of House Democrats' Election Reform Task Force, which is working to develop a positive legislative agenda for reforms to safeguard the democratic process for all Americans.The ECA combines the ideas behind Reps. Price and Chris Van Hollen's (D-MD) Presidential Funding Act (introduced in the last Congress), with a new title creating a similar small donor matching system for congressional elections. The small donor matching systems operates on a 5:1 match for donations of up to $250 for presidential and congressional campaigns. The third title of the bill blunts the impact of Super PACs by strengthening anti-coordination rules for candidate-specific Super PACs. The change would prevent Super PACs, operated by close friends or family with the goal of circumventing the letter of the law barring coordination, from operating as virtual arms of candidates' election efforts.Other members of the task force have worked to develop legislation safeguarding early voting, creating a universal voter registration system, and giving states additional tools to reduce the long lines and long waits many voters experienced as they headed to the polls during the 2012 election.Who: Rep. David Price (NC-04), Rep. John Sarbanes (MD-03)What: Panel Discussion on Campaign and Election ReformsWhen: Thursday, January 31, 2013, 5:00 PM – 6:30 PMWhere: Fleishman Commons at the Sanford School, 201 Science Drive, Durham, NC# # #
01.23.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) voted against a measure suspending the debt ceiling until May 19, saying the effort represents House Republicans "doubling down" on a strategy of government by crisis. Rep. Price also announced his co-sponsorship of H. Res. 12, a resolution to require that any increase of the debt ceiling receive an up-or-down vote in the House, which would restore certainty to a process the House Republican majority has exploited to impose drastic cuts to many critical domestic investments.Rep. Price released the following statement:"This three-month suspension of the debt ceiling is not an end to government by crisis—it is a continuation of it. By doubling down on their strategy of holding the budget hostage to short-term extensions of the debt ceiling, House Republicans are creating months of continued uncertainty for businesses and families and setting up another artificially created crisis that puts the full faith and credit of the United States at risk once again."Raising the debt ceiling does not authorize additional spending. It simply allows us to make good on our existing obligations. Refusing to pay our bills not only does nothing to accomplish balanced long-term deficit reduction, it also can make it more difficult to balance our budget."The United States is a nation that pays its bills. Congress must not continue to hold vital programs such as Social Security, Medicare, veterans care and the nation's economy hostage to a political agenda. Instead of resorting to short-term gimmicks, I call on the Republican majority to bring to the floor a clean, long-term debt ceiling increase so that we can move on to the pressing challenges facing our country: continuing the economic recovery, investing in our future and getting our fiscal house in order."# # #
01.22.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) will remain the Ranking Democrat on the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. Democratic members of the Appropriations Committee recently finalized their subcommittee positions for the 113th Congress. The Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee is responsible for funding the Department of Homeland Security and related agencies. Republican John Carter of Texas will serve as Chair of the subcommittee, just as Price served as chair during the period of Democratic leadership of the House."I look forward to working with Chairman Carter on the subcommittee's efforts to ensure our homeland security professionals have the tools they need to keep all Americans safe. I know the subcommittee will continue to offer careful scrutiny to the administration's funding requests to shape a homeland security budget that responds to emerging threats and roots out inefficiencies."I am hopeful that, in the new Congress, we can work together to move past political point-scoring and provide disaster relief to affected communities in a more timely manner. I also believe that our subcommittee's experience shaping immigration enforcement policy can contribute to the push for comprehensive immigration reform."In addition, Rep. Price will serve on the Transportation-Housing and Urban Development (T-HUD) Subcommittee, where he will be the second-ranking Democrat. Rep. Price will also rejoin the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Subcommittee. The reconfigured Fourth District, which Rep. Price is representing in Congress for the first time after the decennial redistricting process, includes parts of Cumberland County and the city of Fayetteville, home to many Fort Bragg military families. The North Carolina National Guard Headquarters is also located in the Wake County portion of the Fourth District, and several VA facilities are located throughout the Fourth District."As a new generation of veterans returns from Iraq and Afghanistan, joining those who have served proudly in previous conflicts, we must ensure that our government makes good on its obligation to provide them with adequate health care, educational and career opportunities, and other support services," Rep. Price said. "I look forward to continuing this task as a member of the MilCon/VA subcommittee, and I hope to make full use of my T-HUD assignment as the Triangle improves its highway system and begins to build mass transit and regional rail."# # #
01.16.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04), a Vice Chair of House Democrats' Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, issued the following statement today after attending President Obama's announcement of efforts his Administration will pursue to reduce gun violence. Rep. Price is also the ranking Democrat on the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee."Each of the carefully crafted legislative recommendations President Obama announced today would help us keep guns out of the wrong hands and protect the rights of responsible gun owners. I especially applaud the President for taking executive action to improve enforcement of gun laws already on the books and for pushing to make background checks universal, so that criminals and others prone to violence cannot access deadly weapons."I will look for every opportunity, through my role as the ranking Democrat on the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, to partner with the White House on efforts to reduce gun trafficking. I am hopeful that Congress will have a broader conversation about ending the freeze on gun violence research, providing mental health services to troubled young people, and that we will heed the President's call to deal with the actual instruments of destruction by acting to remove from our streets military-style assault weapons and high-capacity magazine clips, which have no purpose but to mow people down."# # #
01.15.2013	Washington, D.C. – Tomorrow at noon, Representative David Price (NC-04) will join other congressional leaders at a White House press conference where President Barack Obama will announce a package of executive and legislative measures his administration will pursue to strengthen gun laws and reduce gun violence. Rep. Price, a Vice Chair of the House Democrats' Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, released the following statement:"I am pleased the President will be offering concrete proposals to reduce gun violence and strengthen laws that keep deadly weapons out of the wrong hands. I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force in parallel with the Administration's efforts to improve our nation's gun laws and prevent future tragedies."While I am open to various proposals, I believe we must deal with the instruments of destruction that too often turn hostile encounters into deadly ones. We must enforce and strengthen our current laws to keep guns out of the hands of criminals and others prone to violence. We must shore up mental health services and outreach, especially to troubled young people. We must remove from our streets military-style assault weapons and high-capacity magazines whose only function is to mow people down. North Carolinians have a right to expect that they will be free from harm in their communities and their children will be safe in their schools. We have a moral responsibility to make their expectation a reality."# # #
01.02.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) voted in favor of legislation that extends lower tax rates for middle class Americans, tuition tax credits for students and unemployment benefits. The legislation also lets the tax rate rise on income earned past $400,000 a year and raises the tax on the largest estates in order to help reduce the deficit. The measure also postpones steep across-the-board spending cuts that would have devastated routine government programs. Rep. Price released the following statement."Legislation cutting taxes for middle class Americans and asking the wealthiest to contribute more to deficit reduction has been stalled for far too long by Congressional Republicans intent on protecting tax breaks for millionaires. Today's last-minute vote marks a victory for the majority of Americans, who voted for a balanced approach to deficit reduction in November."Reducing our deficit solely by cutting the programs that invest in our people or provide dignity in old age for our seniors has always been out of step with our priorities and values. I am hopeful that today's vote means Republicans are newly committed to shared sacrifice in any broader, balanced deficit reduction agreement. The new Congress should get to work on such an agreement right away."I am still disappointed Congressional Republicans would not support a broader deficit reduction agreement. President Obama negotiated with Republicans in good faith in an effort to reach a grand bargain. I would have preferred to vote on a broader deal that reduced our deficit in a balanced way so that the next Congress could focus on investing in our future.""While this package is smaller than I would like, I am pleased this legislation protects 98 percent of Americans families from a tax increase, and that it postpones the automatic sequestration spending cuts that would have indiscriminately chopped both domestic and defense budgets. I opposed the legislation creating sequestration because I believe cutting with a meat ax is the worst possible way to do fiscal policy, and cutting that much at once would have serious economic consequences. The package's provisions extending several tax credits—the child tax credit, and a refundable tuition credit—are very positive, providing an average of $1,000 of tax relief to 25 million working families and students."Taken as a whole, delaying sequestration, cutting taxes for middle class families, and extending tax credits and unemployment benefits will give Americans and businesses economic certainty in the near-term. While the job of achieving balanced deficit reduction is not done, this is a critical step forward, because the best cure for a budget deficit is a growing economy.# # #
12.31.2012	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) issued the following statement today after learning that North Carolina Governor Bev Perdue had granted a Pardon of Innocence to the Wilmington 10. Earlier this year, Rep. Price wrote a letter to Gov. Perdue urging her to pardon each individual included in the group. Rep. Price's letter follows the statement below."I commend Governor Perdue for a principled and courageous act. The Wilmington 10 were wrongly imprisoned for nearly ten years for crimes they did not commit. Today's pardon reaffirms that prejudice has no place in our criminal justice system and that we have a moral obligation to correct past wrongs. On behalf of all North Carolinians, the Governor has delivered justice long denied."May 21, 2012The Honorable Beverly Eaves PerdueGovernor of North Carolina116 West Jones St.Raleigh, North CarolinaPardon Petition for Wilmington TenDear Governor Perdue,I am writing to urge you to grant Pardons of Innocence to the individuals known as the "Wilmington Ten."As you know, the Wilmington Ten were charged in the 1971 firebombing of a downtown Wilmington grocery store against a backdrop of enormous civil unrest over school integration. After being convicted of arson and conspiracy, they were sentenced to lengthy jail terms. It took nearly ten years, but the appeals process finally succeeded in clearing them of wrongdoing in 1980.Although the convictions were overturned, I don't believe justice has yet been served in this case. The Wilmington Ten were wrongly accused and spent many years of their lives imprisoned for crimes they did not commit. They were innocent, and they deserve to be pardoned.As Dr. King said, "The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice." For the Wilmington Ten, justice is long overdue, but you have the opportunity to finally deliver it. I hope that you will grant their petition for Pardons of Innocence.Sincerely,DAVID E. PRICEMember of Congress# # #
12.21.2012	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) released the following statement this afternoon after a National Rifle Association (NRA) press conference during which NRA President Wayne LaPierre sought to deflect attention from the role that access to assault weapons has in mass shootings. LaPierre instead said members of the media, politicians, video games, gun-free school zones, movies and music videos all contribute to enabling mass shootings, such as the tragedy in Newton, Connecticut, last Friday."I was hopeful that the NRA, like so many Americans, was going through serious soul-searching and would emerge determined to do its part to help our country prevent mass shootings. Unfortunately, today's strange, angry press conference shows that the organization's leadership believes everything under the sun enables mass shootings except for the actual instruments of destruction, and that the answer is an America armed to the teeth. I doubt these views represent the views of most NRA members, or most gun owners. I know for a fact they don't represent the views of most Americans."Easy access to weapons of mass killing plays a critical role in these tragedies. Every society has violent and deranged individuals, but without ready access to the instruments of destruction they are not able to translate their plans to harm others into mass murder. The vast majority of Americans favor a common-sense approach to prevention that includes reinstating the assault weapons ban to keep military-style weapons off our streets, closing the 'gun show loophole' so we can do a better job of keeping guns out of the hands of convicted criminals, banning high-capacity ammunition magazines, and shoring up mental health outreach and treatment, especially for troubled young people."# # #
12.19.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) gave remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives reflecting on the mass shooting in Newtown, Connecticut, and calling on his colleagues to focus on actions to prevent similar tragedies. The text of Rep. Price's remarks is below.Watch Rep. Price's Remarks on YouTube "Mr. Speaker We have experiences in our personal and collective lives that challenge us profoundly, forcing us to search our souls and to change our behavior. Our nation experienced such a moment on Friday, as twenty children were gunned down at Sandy Hook Elementary School, along with six teachers and administrators who were attempting to protect them."As we mourn and reach out to the families of Newtown, we owe the victims—and each other—serious consideration of how to prevent more Newtowns, and Auroras, and Oak Creeks, and Tuscons. We must shore up mental health outreach and support, especially for troubled young people. And as politically difficult as it may be, we must deal with the instruments of destruction—keeping deadly weapons out of the hands of violent and deranged people, and removing weapons of mass killing from our streets. The horror of Sandy Hook must overcome any temptation to accept the unacceptable or to avoid responsibility for addressing the crying need for change."# # #
12.17.2012	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) released the following statement today on the tragic shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut."Like all Americans, my wife Lisa and I were shocked and heart-broken by the heinous shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary School. Twenty children with their whole lives ahead of them were taken from us in a senseless act of violence. As parents and grandparents, we have thought constantly about how we used to drop our children off at school, confident that they were in a safe and supportive environment. The toll is unimaginable for these families, and it extends far beyond—to the promise of these young lives and the lives they would have touched in turn."We were also moved by the brave actions taken by the six teachers and administrators who were killed attempting to stop this violent act. These public servants took whatever steps were necessary to safeguard the schoolchildren entrusted to their care. They ultimately laid down their lives to protect the children of their friends and neighbors, and to secure for those children the gift of a future. Sandy Hook's other teachers, and Newtown's first responders, also deserve our gratitude for taking swift action under duress, and then facilitating the evacuation of the school."This is a time of national mourning—a time to reach out to the families and community of Newtown and a time for serious soul-searching and reflection. We have seen far too many tragedies of this kind, and we owe the victims—and each other—serious consideration of how to prevent more Newtowns, and Auroras, and Oak Creeks, and Tucsons in the future. As politically difficult as it may be, we must figure out how to keep deadly weapons out of the hands of those with a history of violence, criminal behavior, and severe mental illness, and how to keep weapons of mass killing out of our neighborhoods and off of our streets. Surely the horror of Sandy Hook is sufficient to challenge any temptation to accept the unacceptable or to do anything less than we possibly can to address the crying need for change."# # #
12.12.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) joined House Democrats in a coordinated social media push aimed at pressuring House Republicans to #DoTheRightThing and pass legislation, already approved by the Senate, extending middle class tax cuts for families and small businesses. Republicans have refused to pass legislation that does not extend tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans.@RepDavidEPrice tweeted:Joining @HouseDemocrats calling on GOP to #DoTheRightThing. Extend the middle class tax cuts now #fiscalcliff #ncpolHouse GOP should join @HouseDemocrats to pass an extension of middle class tax cuts, not hold them hostage. #DoTheRightThing #ncpolRep. Price believes that tax cuts for middle class Americans should be extended, and tax breaks on income earned over $250,000 a year should be allowed to expire as a part of a deficit reduction agreement addressing the fiscal cliff. Last week, Rep. Price joined 179 members in signing a discharge petition to force a vote on a bill extending middle class tax cuts. The petition, which would require 218 signers to force action on the bill, was initiated by Rep. Tim Walz (D-MN)."Simpson-Bowles sets a target of $4 trillion in deficit reduction in order to stabilize the debt and get deficits under control," Rep. Price said. "Approximately $1.5 trillion in domestic and defense spending cuts are already 'in the bank.' I believe a balanced approach allows tax breaks on earned income over $250,000 a year to expire to generate revenue and reduce the deficit. Cutting $4 trillion only from programs that invest in our people and help middle class Americans isn't consistent with our priorities and values."# # #
11.16.2012	Washington, D.C. – Representatives David Price (NC-04) and Joe Pitts (PA-16), co-chairs of the House Moldova Caucus, issued the following statement today after a vote in the House of Representatives to repeal a Soviet-era restriction on trade between the United States and Moldova. Legislation establishing permanent normal trade relations (PNTR) with Russia removes Moldova and Russia from the list of nations subject to the Jackson-Vanik amendment. The amendment, passed in 1974, originally restricted trade between the United States and communist bloc countries."We applaud this huge step forward in the U.S.-Moldova relationship. Since declaring its independence from the Soviet Union in 1991, Moldova has emerged as a promising democracy. We believe that efforts like this one will benefit both countries by fostering deeper economic, cultural and institutional ties between the United States and Moldova.""Today's vote is the culmination of a years-long effort by many in the House who are convinced that both countries will benefit from a more robust friendship. In recent Congresses, we have joined a number of our colleagues pushing to exempt Moldova from Soviet-era Jackson-Vanik trade restrictions. The restrictions required a Presidential exemption be issued each year normalizing trade with Moldova. This created uncertainty and made establishing solid, lasting trade partnerships difficult for exporters and importers on both sides. We are very pleased to see these restrictions lifted as part of broader trade normalization legislation."Rep. Price also commented on Moldova's unique ties to North Carolina. Rep. Price visited Moldova on a House Democracy Partnership trip to the region. HDP works with parliaments in developing democracies to strengthen their institutional capacities."I am particularly pleased that this legislation will further North Carolina's existing Partnership for Peace program with Moldova," Rep. Price said. "Since 1999, our state has worked closely with Moldova to strengthen our ties, from cultural and economic exchanges to our North Carolina National Guard's engagement with their Moldovan counterparts through the Guard's State Partnership Program. This marks an important milestone, and I look forward to our evolving friendship for years to come."# # #
10.12.2012	Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Ut lorem felis, elementum eget condimentum a, rutrum sit amet ligula. Mauris porta faucibus risus, at laoreet velit aliquam vel. Donec lacinia nisi ac tortor consectetur non condimentum purus lobortis. In condimentum gravida leo, at aliquet ligula tincidunt pulvinar. Vestibulum non facilisis tellus. Cras eget ligula a eros accumsan aliquet et a orci. Phasellus ullamcorper posuere suscipit. Praesent dictum diam lobortis nulla feugiat in condimentum eros consectetur. Aliquam pellentesque ipsum sit amet sapien mattis auctor. Proin et tortor massa, quis suscipit nisl. Duis turpis velit, elementum consequat scelerisque nec, vestibulum vitae lectus. Fusce eget tellus metus. Integer tempus, velit at euismod tristique, orci metus facilisis lectus, in interdum urna est quis nisl. Donec vitae nisi est, eget adipiscing eros. Nunc et nisl eget arcu ultrices convallis et ac ligula. Phasellus ante nibh, tristique pharetra ultrices vitae, laoreet nec nisi. Proin pretium lacinia tempor. Proin vel justo a sapien congue sodales. Ut vehicula tortor eget dui fringilla ultrices in non nisl. Vivamus cursus, turpis at fringilla vulputate, massa tortor iaculis turpis, nec consequat turpis dui sed erat. Nunc nisi augue, sollicitudin quis scelerisque suscipit, convallis a lorem. Fusce ac tellus urna. Mauris sollicitudin libero non elit placerat non molestie arcu ullamcorper. Sed suscipit sapien nec ipsum dapibus tincidunt. Vivamus laoreet neque facilisis odio mattis porta. Morbi porta risus a neque accumsan rhoncus. Nam id enim fermentum mauris fermentum tincidunt in ut enim. Pellentesque tempus enim in massa accumsan quis porttitor ante bibendum. Quisque vel sodales sapien. Sed porta, risus ac iaculis euismod, purus massa vehicula purus, quis dapibus mauris diam rutrum enim. In hac habitasse platea dictumst.
10.11.2012	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) issued the following statement upon learning of the death of former University of North Carolina System President William Friday."Lisa and I share the community's profound sense of loss and sadness with the passing of our friend Bill Friday. We extend our condolences and good wishes to Ida, Bill's wife, and to all of their loved ones."Bill Friday was a North Carolina treasure. He led by inspiration and example—with dignity, compassion and humility—through over five decades of public service. His legacy is a stronger state with a superb university system, a richer public life, a more vibrant culture and a diverse and resilient economy. Bill was instrumental in giving the gift of education to hundreds of thousands of North Carolinians—citizens who went out and served our state and nation in countless ways. As a product of the University of North Carolina, I too owe him my gratitude for an educational experience that broadened my horizons and set me on my life's course. Bill continued his work for decades in what no one could really call 'retirement' with his public television show, North Carolina People. Like many North Carolinians, Lisa and I looked forward to inviting him into our home every week to see where he and his guests would lead us. In this and many other ways, we will treasure his memory and miss him greatly."# # #
09.21.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) voted against H.R. 3409, calling the Republican legislation, which would roll back 40 years of progress toward cleaner air and water, "Déjà vu all over again, again." The bill combines four anti-environment bills already passed by House Republicans with another measure that blocks new standards for surface coal mining—including mountaintop removal in Appalachia. Rep. Price released the following statement."Today is the House's last day in session until the middle of November. Instead of voting on a jobs bill or extending tax cuts for middle class Americans, the Republican majority is bringing a bill to the floor to roll back 40 years of protections put in place to safeguard the air we breathe and the water we drink."But this is not just any anti-environment bill. The so-called 'Stop the War on Coal Act' combines five bills, 4 of which House Republicans have already passed. And it comes on the heels of more than 300 votes the House has already taken since January 2011 on bills that would block environmental regulations, weaken environmental laws, and stop environmental research. It's Déjà vu all over again, again. Is this really the most important bill House Republican could bring up before the eight-week recess they've called?"Like the President, I 'strongly reject the notion that economic growth and protecting the health of our communities and families are mutually exclusive.' The argument that clean air and water somehow poses a hazard to the economy is as ridiculous now as it was in the 1970s, when the major polluters used this argument to try and stop enactment of our landmark environmental laws. Rolling back EPA's authority to limit pollution – whether from carbon, mercury or lead – won't create a single job."In fact, our clean air and water laws have a strong record of delivering cleaner air and improved health, while promoting economic growth. A recent rigorous and peer-reviewed study found that between 1990 and 2020, air quality improvements made through the Clean Air Act will save the U.S. $2 trillion and prevent at least 230,000 deaths per year. Economists also estimate that the total benefits of the Clean Air Act amount to 30 times its costs. And the Clean Water Act has already led to immense progress nationwide on cleaning up our waters, restoring fish habitat, protecting drinking water sources, reducing wetland loss, and developing water-based recreational economies."Every day, our nation's landmark environmental laws prevent big polluters from causing more toxic air pollution and drinking water contamination that can harm our environment and lead to a variety of illnesses. This bill would protect corporate polluters rather than our families and communities. In short, this effort doesn't reflect our priorities, and it doesn't reflect our values. By that standard, and only that one, it is a fitting way for Republican to end this Congress' work until November."Summary of H.R. 3409• Reject climate science by repealing EPA's scientific finding that greenhouse gases endanger public health and the environment, marking the first time in history that Congress would approve legislation to overrule and objective scientific finding, and overrule the Supreme Court decision that said greenhouse gases are air pollutants and should be regulated by the EPA.• Limit EPA's ability to regulate carbon pollution from major industrial sources or mobile sources and repeal the widely popular new fuel efficiency standards that both reduce pollution and save consumers money at the gas pump.• Undermine the successful 40-year-old Clean Air Act by requiring that public health standards be based on industry costs. The bill would also block implementation of clean air rules that reduce mercury pollution, ozone smog, and undermine provisions of the Clean Air Act that require states to be "good neighbors."• Block any new standards for surface coal mining, including mountaintop removal in Appalachia, and block efforts to set a minimum federal standard to ensure safe disposal of coal ash, despite the 2008 Tennessee Valley Authority coal ash spill in Kingston, TN.• Weaken the core tenets of the 38-year-old Clean Water Act by undermining the existing model of state and federal cooperation and limiting EPA's authority to apply minimum national standards that protect the nation's waters from pollution.# # #
09.21.2012	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday evening, Representative David Price (D-NC) introduced H.R. 6448, the Empowering Citizens Act (ECA), calling for passage of comprehensive campaign reform to empower citizens in all federal elections and reduce the influence of outside groups such as Super PACs. The ECA combines the ideas behind Reps. Price and Chris Van Hollen's (D-MD) Presidential Funding Act (H.R. 414), with a new title creating a similar small donor matching system for congressional elections. It also strengthens rules against coordination between candidates and Super PACs."We need government of, by and for the people, not government bought and paid for by special interests," Rep. Price said. "By matching small donors' contributions in presidential and congressional campaigns, the ECA encourages candidates to reach out to all Americans, not just those with the thickest wallets. The people who finance our elections should be the people we represent.""The Empowering Citizens Act is an important piece of our work to ensure that individual voters have a voice in the electoral process at a time when big-money special interests have dominated the political landscape, and I applaud Congressman Price for all of his hard work on this issue," said Congressman Van Hollen. "We will keep fighting for passage of both this and the DISCLOSE Act – together, this legislation will shine a light on outside money and ensure our democracy is beholden to the American people and not well-heeled special interests."Rep. Price believes dramatically increasing the role and importance of small donors in funding federal elections is a crucial step toward responding to the Supreme Court's Citizens United decision. To do this, the first two titles of the ECA would create similar 5:1 matching systems for donations of up to $250 for presidential and congressional campaigns. The third title, blunts the impact of Super PACs unleashed by Citizens United by strengthening anti-coordination rules for candidate-specific Super PACs."Right now we've got fig-leaf anti-coordination rules that allow Super PACs and campaigns to comply with the letter of the law but not the spirit of it. We all know Super PACs are operating as arms of candidate campaigns; the left hand knows what the right hand is doing," Rep. Price said. "The ECA strengthens prohibitions against coordination so a candidate's friends can't use the Super PAC loophole to raise unlimited campaign dollars and drown out one candidate or another."A summary of the ECA is available below.Summary of The Empowering Citizens ActThe Empowering Citizens Act (ECA) is comprehensive campaign finance reform legislation that would empower citizens in all federal elections.The ECA combines the ideas behind the Presidential Funding Act (H.R.414), Representatives David Price and Chris Van Hollen's bill to modernize and repair the presidential campaign financing system, with a new title creating a similar, voluntary small donor empowerment program for congressional races. This title, based on the August 2012 Brennan Center/Democracy 21 report, would provide a 5 to 1 match for small contributions.The ECA would also establish strengthened rules against coordination between candidates or parties and outside spending groups by forbidding candidate-specific Super PACs from acting as operating arms of campaigns of candidates they are supporting.A New Focus on Small DonorsThe symbol of federal elections should be ordinary citizens, not a few donors with thick wallets.Under the Citizens United decision, unlimited expenditures by groups receiving unlimited contributions cannot be limited. Steps can be taken, however, to dramatically increase the role and importance of small donors in financing federal electionsUnder the Empowering Citizens Act the following rules would apply to candidates participating in the system:• The first $250 of contributions by individuals to presidential candidates and the first $250 of contributions by individuals to House and Senate candidates would be matched with public funds at a 5 to 1 ratio. In the Congressional system, there would be no public grants; private individuals would completely control distribution of public matching funds to candidates.Thus, a candidate participating in the system would receive $1,250 in public funds for a $250 contribution, and would end up with a total of $1,500. This would provide important new incentives for citizens to give and for candidates to seek small donations from their constituents. In the case of a larger contribution only the first $250 would be matched.• The current individual contribution limit of $2,500 per donor, per election would be cut in half to $1,250 per donor, per election for candidates who participate in the system. The present contribution limit would remain unchanged for candidates who do not participate in the system.• In order to allow candidates to respond to a deluge of Super PAC dollars, national parties could make unlimited expenditures in coordination with candidates participating in the system, provided the unlimited expenditures were made from a pool of contributions raised by the party that was limited to $1,250 per donor, per year.• There would be no spending limit for candidates who participate in the system. The reality is that candidate spending limits are no longer viable in the wake of Citizens United since outside groups can now make unlimited expenditures funded by unlimited contributions to oppose candidates.• To protect the national treasury, there would be a limit on the total amount of public funds available to a presidential, Senate or House candidate. Additionally, candidates would have to qualify to participate in the system. To qualify, a presidential candidate would have to raise a threshold amount of individual contributions (totaling $25,000 in each of 20 states) and Senate and House candidates would have to raise a threshold total amount of in-state individual contributions, counting only the first $250 of any individual contribution to reach the threshold total amount ($40,000 for House races and the product of $40,000 and the number of congressional districts in the state for Senate races).• To fund the system, the bill would increase the current check off the amount of the check-off on the income tax form to fund the public financing system from $3 to $20 per individual and from $6 to $40 for a married couple, and indexes these amounts for inflation. Additionally, the bill would allow Americans, through their taxes, to donate to the public financing system fund.Ending Candidate-Specific Super PACs, Strengthening Rules Prohibiting CoordinationCurrently, some candidate-specific Super PACs operate as virtual arms of the candidates they support. To close this loophole, the ECA defines such PACs as coordinated with the candidates they support and thereby unable, under existing law, to spend more than $2,500 for the candidates per election.The ECA also would define a candidate and Super PAC to be coordinated where the Super PAC is directly or indirectly established by or with the encouragement of, or tacit approval by, the candidate it supports; or where the candidate or his agents solicits funds for or shares fundraising lists with the Super PAC; or where the Super PAC is established, directed or managed by former aides or consultants to the candidate, or where the candidate or his agents has more than incidental discussions with the Super PAC about the candidate's campaign strategies or needs.The ECA also would strengthen the rules prohibiting coordination between candidate or parties and outside spending groups by treating payments made by any person for covered communications pursuant to any general or particular understanding, or more than incidental discussions, with the candidate, the candidate's authorized committee or the political party about the payments or covered communications.Additionally, the Act also would prohibit candidates from soliciting any funds for a Super PAC or for any other Section 527 political committee that can receive unlimited contributions. Currently, as interpreted by the FEC, candidates and officeholders and their agents can solicit funds for a Super PAC or 527 group as long as they indicate they are only asking for contributions in amounts that comply with federal contribution limits. This weak rule permits candidates and their agents to directly participate in Super PAC fundraising events where unlimited funds are being raised. By their appearance and comments at such fundraisers, candidates, in essence, are permitted under current FEC rules to raise unlimited contributions. The ECA would prohibit federal candidates and officeholders from doing so and would restore the integrity of the existing statutory prohibition on officeholders and candidates raising unlimited contributions for Super PACs or other 527 groups that can accept unlimited contributions.# # #
09.19.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04), the ranking member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, announced that two Durham companies have received a total of $8.4 million in contracts from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS).Under its contracts, IEM will oversee three projects for DHS worth $7.99 million providing engineering, logistics and data processing support for DHS' Chemical Stockpile Emergency Preparedness Program. PiTech Solutions will oversee one project for DHS worth $483,782 providing technical drawing and programming services in support of airplane parts manufacturing conducted by the U.S. Coast Guard Aviation Logistics Center's Industrial Operations Division, located in Elizabeth City, NC."I'm very pleased to announce these contracts because they will help meet critical homeland security needs," Rep. Price said. "Our area's emphasis on education, our smart workforce, and our willingness to forge strong public-private partnerships remain central to attracting these investments. I congratulate IEM and PiTech for joining a number of firms across the Fourth District contributing to our homeland security effort.""CSEPP is one of the most successful protection programs in existence, committed to applying science and technology to ensure protection for those living and working near U.S. chemical weapons stockpile sites," Madhu Beriwal, IEM President and CEO, said. "We are honored that CSEPP is leveraging IEM's proven expertise in science-based approaches to emergency management and homeland security to accomplish their goals. We are especially proud to be involved in designing and conducting their comprehensive exercise program, which is critical to CSEPP's ability to maintain strong levels of public protection."Senthil Kumar, President of PiTech Solutions said, "PiTech Solutions is honored to support the US Coast Guard Logistics Mission through this new contract. As a North Carolina based Small Business, we feel proud and privileged to contribute to the State's economy and deploy innovative solutions to support our Armed Forces and Department of Homeland Security."The Chemical Stockpile Emergency Preparedness Program (CSEPP) is a partnership between the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the U.S. Army. It provides emergency preparedness assistance and resources to protect communities near the Army's chemical warfare stockpiles in the event of a chemical accident or incident. The Army is in the process of eliminating aging chemical munitions and materials stockpiles in accordance with international treaties.The U.S. Coast Guard Aviation Logistics Center (ALC) is the hub for Coast Guard aviation support. The ALC is the central point for all aircraft repairs. In addition, its responsibilities include management of shipment, component repair and warehousing for all aviation spare parts.# # #
09.13.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) plans to vote in favor of a six month Continuing Resolution (CR) funding the government through next year. In remarks on the House floor this afternoon, he said the measure proved the failed Ryan budget was "a lemon." Rep. Price released the following extended statement.Video of Rep. Price's RemarksMr. Chairman, a Continuing Resolution is a sign that a budget has failed—and this appropriations process was destined to fail from the start as Republicans unilaterally abandoned the Budget Control Act's (BCA) statutory spending caps in favor of the unworkable caps in the Ryan budget. This six-month stop-gap spending bill proves the Ryan budget is a lemon—a lemon is a car that won't start, and the Ryan budget is still a non-starter because it is out of step with the BCA, with our priorities and with our values.While the CR avoids the worst of the Ryan budget's cuts to education, infrastructure, and research, this isn't the way Congress should be budgeting. We should be considering final appropriations bills for Homeland Security and other agencies, or an omnibus bill, that would provide certainty about funding levels for fiscal year 2013. The whole notion of a six month CR begs the question—if we can pass a six month bill, why not return to regular order and pass a twelve month bill?In many cases, a CR's level funding does not allow adequate flexibility for government programs that would see their funding change under a new appropriations bill. For example, funding for transit, highway grants and transportation safety programs cannot be increased.I am pleased that the CR incorporates a number of 'anomalies,' which accommodate the Department Homeland Security's need for flexibility in both cyber security and Customs and Border Protection personnel. By providing funds for both the EINSTEIN 3 system and for Federal Network Security, we are ensuring the federal government is prepared to tackle the next generation of cyber attacks before they disrupt the federal network. I am also pleased that this CR drops the many ill-conceived and unworkable immigration riders that were adopted on a partisan basis during floor consideration of our FY13 bill.On the other hand, I remain concerned that, by not enacting the Committee product, we are providing inadequate funding for both FEMA first responder grants and for the Science and Technology Directorate. These accounts were badly underfunded in 2012, and passing a CR rather than our 2013 bill continues the shortfall.The CR, some say, at least lets us keep the government open. We're really in bad shape if all we can say for ourselves is that we're keeping the government open. Any claim of success simply underscores how low the bar was set earlier in the current Congress as House Republicans forced the country to lurch from one manufactured crisis to the next.The next Congress must get serious about charting a course to fiscal balance. All spending must be on the table and revenue must be a part of the solution, as it was in the 1990s. It is unfortunate that the current Congress is punting not only on this important issue, but also on its basic responsibility to budget for the coming fiscal year.We must do better.# # #
09.13.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. David Price (D-NC) hailed unanimous House passage of legislation to address a serious shortfall in hazardous waste management in the aftermath of the 2006 fire at the EQ waste facility in Apex. The fire, which forced the evacuation of approximately 15,000 residents, was allowed to burn in part because first responders did not have access to needed information on the kinds of waste being stored at the facility; those paper records were stored onsite and were not accessible because of the fire. The new legislation will improve public safety and cut costs for businesses by establishing an electronic manifest (e-manifest) system for tracking hazardous substances."Having hazardous waste tracking and storage information readily available in electronic form will help ensure that, in the event of an accident like the Apex fire, emergency personnel have the information they need to make quick, effective response decisions to keep the public safe," Rep. Price said. "I also expect the new e-manifest system to reduce costs for businesses by relieving what is currently a significant paperwork burden."Under the current, cradle-to-grave, paper-based tracking system, all parties in the chain of shipping -- including the generator, transporter, storage and disposal facility -- must sign and keep one of the 7 manually-updated manifest copies. According to the Environmental Protection Agency, nearly 140,000 regulated entities across 45 industries currently track between 2.5 million to 5 million hazardous waste manifests annually at a cost between $200 million and $500 million per year. The e-manifest system will relieve this paperwork burden, and provide improved quality of data, as well as more timely and accessible information on hazardous waste shipments. By bringing real-time tracking closer to reality, the e-manifest system will make feasible one-stop reporting of manifest data and increase the agency's inspection and enforcement capabilities.The bill is S. 710, legislation based on a measure Rep. Price introduced in the 111th Congress as H.R. 3106, the Hazardous Waste Electronic Manifest Establishment Act. Following Senate passage of the bill, Rep. Price helped persuade the Energy and Commerce Committee to approve the measure on a bipartisan basis and bring it to the House floor for a vote. With President Obama's signature, the legislation will become law.The e-manifest system will be funded by fees collected from covered entities. Use of the system will be voluntary, but the cost-savings and administrative burden the e-manifest system will relieve should provide businesses with a strong incentive to adopt it.# # #
09.12.2012	Washington, D.C. – House Democracy Partnership Co-Chairs, Representatives David Price (D-NC) and David Dreier (R-CA) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives this morning condemning the attacks in Libya on U.S. Embassy personnel, which resulted in the deaths of four Americans, including U.S. Ambassador to Libya J. Christopher Stevens. Reps. Price and Dreier extended the condolences of all members of the House to the families and loved ones of those killed, and spoke about their appreciation of the hard work undertaken by diplomats in countries around the world, and in Libya as it transitions to representative democracy.Video of Remarks by Reps. Price and DreierHDP is a bipartisan commission of the U.S. House of Representatives that works directly with 16 partner countries around the world to support the development of effective, independent, and responsive legislative institutions. Established by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2005, HDP uses peer-to-peer exchange programs, training seminars for members and staff, and targeted material assistance to build capacity in key areas such as legislative oversight, budget analysis, committee operations, constituent relations, and library and research services. For more information see the House Democracy Partnership website.# # #
09.11.2012	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04), the ranking member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, joined members of Congress from both parties today at a remembrance ceremony on the steps of the U.S. Capitol building observing the 11th anniversary of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. Rep. Price released the following statement."Almost every American can remember where we were when we first learned of the 9/11 attacks and how our awareness grew of the enormity of what was occurring. It is entirely appropriate that members of Congress join the nation in marking this day, remembering the fallen, honoring those who responded and the heroes who brought down the plane in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, and renewing our commitment to a strong and inclusive America."Since 2001, I have spent September 11th honoring that spirit. I have celebrated the heroism of our nation's first responders at gatherings of local police and fire departments in the Fourth District. I have joined in recognizing September 11th as a National Day of Service, participating in service projects along with millions of Americans who want to support and give back to their communities. And I have spent September 11th at work in Congress, carrying the torch of democracy forward as a symbol to the world. Earlier this year, I visited the National September 11th Memorial at Ground Zero to pay tribute to our brave first responders and the innocent men and women taken from us that tragic day. I also witnessed firsthand the tremendous progress being made to both honor the fallen and rebuild Lower Manhattan – a testament to the spirit and determination of the American people. Like all Americans, I draw comfort from seeing that, on each anniversary of these terrible attacks, our communities continue to remember those who are gone, reflect on the gratitude due those who now defend our country at home and abroad, and resolve to move forward in common purpose."# # #
09.07.2012	Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Ut lorem felis, elementum eget condimentum a, rutrum sit amet ligula. Mauris porta faucibus risus, at laoreet velit aliquam vel. Donec lacinia nisi ac tortor consectetur non condimentum purus lobortis. In condimentum gravida leo, at aliquet ligula tincidunt pulvinar. Vestibulum non facilisis tellus. Cras eget ligula a eros accumsan aliquet et a orci. Phasellus ullamcorper posuere suscipit. Praesent dictum diam lobortis nulla feugiat in condimentum eros consectetur. Aliquam pellentesque ipsum sit amet sapien mattis auctor. Proin et tortor massa, quis suscipit nisl. Duis turpis velit, elementum consequat scelerisque nec, vestibulum vitae lectus. Fusce eget tellus metus. Integer tempus, velit at euismod tristique, orci metus facilisis lectus, in interdum urna est quis nisl. Donec vitae nisi est, eget adipiscing eros. Nunc et nisl eget arcu ultrices convallis et ac ligula. Phasellus ante nibh, tristique pharetra ultrices vitae, laoreet nec nisi. Proin pretium lacinia tempor. Proin vel justo a sapien congue sodales. Ut vehicula tortor eget dui fringilla ultrices in non nisl. Vivamus cursus, turpis at fringilla vulputate, massa tortor iaculis turpis, nec consequat turpis dui sed erat. Nunc nisi augue, sollicitudin quis scelerisque suscipit, convallis a lorem. Fusce ac tellus urna. Mauris sollicitudin libero non elit placerat non molestie arcu ullamcorper. Sed suscipit sapien nec ipsum dapibus tincidunt. Vivamus laoreet neque facilisis odio mattis porta. Morbi porta risus a neque accumsan rhoncus. Nam id enim fermentum mauris fermentum tincidunt in ut enim. Pellentesque tempus enim in massa accumsan quis porttitor ante bibendum. Quisque vel sodales sapien. Sed porta, risus ac iaculis euismod, purus massa vehicula purus, quis dapibus mauris diam rutrum enim. In hac habitasse platea dictumst.
08.20.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04), the Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, announced that North Carolina localities will receive a total of $4,256,449 in grants from the Department of Homeland Security's Emergency Food and Shelter Program (EFSP) to combat hunger and homelessness. In the Fourth District, Durham County will receive $117,570 through the grant program. Orange County will receive $47,032. A full list of EFSP allocations to North Carolina counties is available here."I'm very pleased to announce this funding because the Emergency Food and Shelter Program is a great help to cities and counties across North Carolina," Rep. Price said. "In the Fourth District, we are very fortunate to have several community-based organizations combating hunger and homelessness. EFSP funding empowers these organizations providing them with additional resources to help those with nowhere else to turn."EFSP funding supports social services agencies in cities and counties across the country, helping the agencies feed and shelter the nation's hungry and homeless. EFSP funds are used to supplement food, shelter, rent, mortgage, and utility assistance programs for people with non-disaster related emergencies. Local boards convened in qualifying jurisdictions will decide which non-profit and government agencies receive allocated funds.EFSP is administered by a National Board of voluntary agencies chaired by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The National Board qualifies local jurisdictions for annual EFSP allocations based on criteria involving current population, unemployment, and poverty levels. Other board members include the American Red Cross, Catholic Charities USA, the Jewish Federations of North America, the National Council of Churches of Christ in the USA, the Salvation Army and United Way Worldwide. This is the 29th year the program has awarded grants.# # #
08.09.2012	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) placed 8th out of 223 competitors in the Twitter portion of House Democrats' Member Online All-Star Competition as his feed @RepDavidEPrice added 772 new followers over the three week contest aimed at reaching out to constituents on social media. The Democratic House members, and Democratic social media feeds administered by House standing committees and caucuses, gained over 139,000 new social media followers during the contest.Rep. Price's most popular tweet, "Quick show of hands—retweet if you agree Americans have a right to know who is trying to influence their vote. #DISCLOSEAct" has been retweeted over 260 times since it was posted in July as the Senate considered the DISCLOSE Act. Rep. Price also placed second in the YouTube competition aimed at adding new channel subscribers. Rep. Price's YouTube channel is online here.Rep. Price's has used his Twitter feed to highlight a range of topics relevant to Fourth District constituents, including:• A floor speech and follow-up media interview on sequestration and the "fiscal cliff":o @RepDavidEPrice - Video of my remarks on sequestration and the fiscal cliff #ncpol http://youtu.be/7tWE2D7nDyUo @RepDavidEPrice - ICYMI - My interview with WCHL 1360AM on sequestration/the fiscal cliff & the common-sense fiscal path forward http://goo.gl/4b7WM #ncpol• The opening of a water reclamation project for which he secured $3 million in federal funding:o @RepDavidEPrice - Proud of work w/Town of Cary & local partners to develop forward looking water reclamation project. #ncpol pic.twitter.com/NE9XxyG7o @RepDavidEPrice - This water project is a perfect example of sustainable development in action. Good for communities, businesses and the environment #ncpol• Announcing a grant addressing veterans homelessness:o @RepDavidEPrice - No vet who has worn the uniform of this country should have spend nights out in the heat or the cold w/o a roof over their heads. #ncpolo @RepDavidEPrice - Very pleased to announce a local organization has received a $153K VA grant to address veterans homelessness. #ncpol Release• Breaking analysis on the impact of the Affordable Care Act in NC:o @RepDavidEPrice - New @CMSgov report on #ACA shows #NC residents have saved $115.5M on prescription drugs since the passage of health care reform #ncpol• Resources on his website at http://www.price.house.gov/:o @RepDavidEPrice - FYI - My "Today in the House" page includes a live feed of debate, info on proceedings & hearing schedules here #ncpolo @RepDavidEPrice - Visiting Washington, D.C. this summer? See my website's Tour Request page to schedule tours for your family# # #
08.07.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) announced that three Fourth District lenders are the recipients of a total of $3.86 million in funding through the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund. Durham based Latino Community Credit Union and Self-Help Federal Credit Union will both receive an award of $1,453,806 through the fund. The Support Center, also based in Durham, will receive a $953,806 award."There is no more pressing need in our local communities than economic development and job creation," Rep. Price said. "These awards will help local CDFIs better provide a broad range of financial services to their clients and help ensure that sound business ideas and practices find traction in all of our communities."The Financial Assistance and Technical Assistance awards build the capacity of Treasury-certified for-profit and non-profit community based lending organizations known as CDFIs. CDFIs serve rural and urban low-income people and communities across the nation that lack adequate access to affordable financial products and services. Awards are granted through an annual competitive application process.CDFI Fund Director Donna J. Gambrell announced the Durham awards in Milwaukee yesterday as a part ceremony marking the distribution of $175,379,809 in awards to 177 lending institutions across the country."I am pleased to announce the 2012 awards for the CDFI Program, which will increase the capacity of CDFIs serving low-income communities across the country," said Director Gambrell. "This year's awardees will continue to provide vital financial services in low-income areas that are typically overlooked by traditional lenders, bettering the lives of Americans nationwide."Since its creation in 1994, the CDFI Fund has awarded over $1.7 billion to CDFIs, community development organizations, and financial institutions through the CDFI Program, the Bank Enterprise Awards Program, the Capital Magnet Fund, the Financial Education and Counseling Pilot Program, and the Native American CDFI Assistance Program. In addition, the CDFI Fund has allocated $33 billion in tax credit authority to Community Development Entities through the New Markets Tax Credit Program.# # #
08.02.2012	Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Ut lorem felis, elementum eget condimentum a, rutrum sit amet ligula. Mauris porta faucibus risus, at laoreet velit aliquam vel. Donec lacinia nisi ac tortor consectetur non condimentum purus lobortis. In condimentum gravida leo, at aliquet ligula tincidunt pulvinar. Vestibulum non facilisis tellus. Cras eget ligula a eros accumsan aliquet et a orci. Phasellus ullamcorper posuere suscipit. Praesent dictum diam lobortis nulla feugiat in condimentum eros consectetur. Aliquam pellentesque ipsum sit amet sapien mattis auctor. Proin et tortor massa, quis suscipit nisl. Duis turpis velit, elementum consequat scelerisque nec, vestibulum vitae lectus. Fusce eget tellus metus. Integer tempus, velit at euismod tristique, orci metus facilisis lectus, in interdum urna est quis nisl. Donec vitae nisi est, eget adipiscing eros. Nunc et nisl eget arcu ultrices convallis et ac ligula. Phasellus ante nibh, tristique pharetra ultrices vitae, laoreet nec nisi. Proin pretium lacinia tempor. Proin vel justo a sapien congue sodales. Ut vehicula tortor eget dui fringilla ultrices in non nisl. Vivamus cursus, turpis at fringilla vulputate, massa tortor iaculis turpis, nec consequat turpis dui sed erat. Nunc nisi augue, sollicitudin quis scelerisque suscipit, convallis a lorem. Fusce ac tellus urna. Mauris sollicitudin libero non elit placerat non molestie arcu ullamcorper. Sed suscipit sapien nec ipsum dapibus tincidunt. Vivamus laoreet neque facilisis odio mattis porta. Morbi porta risus a neque accumsan rhoncus. Nam id enim fermentum mauris fermentum tincidunt in ut enim. Pellentesque tempus enim in massa accumsan quis porttitor ante bibendum. Quisque vel sodales sapien. Sed porta, risus ac iaculis euismod, purus massa vehicula purus, quis dapibus mauris diam rutrum enim. In hac habitasse platea dictumst.
08.02.2012	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday evening, in response to concerns raised by a broad range of constituents about looming sequestration spending cuts, Representative David Price (NC-04) delivered a major speech explaining the roots of the current crisis, and outlining how Congress can move past the "fiscal cliff" in a way that accelerates our economic recovery and restores our fiscal health. The text of Rep. Price's remarks is below.Watch Rep. Price's Remarks on YouTubeIn recent weeks, every member of Congress has heard from a broad range of interests – education leaders, state and local officials, defense contractors, and small businesses – people concerned about the devastating impact of the looming "sequestration" spending cuts.Each of these groups, indeed all of our constituents, deserve an honest accounting: How did we get in this predicament? And how can we get out of it in a way that accelerates our economic recovery and restores our fiscal health?Our situation results from the failure of the so-called Supercommittee, established in the wake of the debt ceiling crisis manufactured by Republicans last summer, to come up with a deficit reduction plan. Instead, we are faced with across-the-board cuts that would indiscriminately slash more than 8% from every national security and domestic account.Cutting with a meat ax instead of scalpel is the most dangerous way imaginable to set fiscal policy. These cuts would come on top of the more targeted, but nonetheless significant, $917 billion in cuts and spending caps that the Administration and Congress have already locked-in. In the case of defense spending, these earlier cuts were a result of a careful strategic review by the Administration and will save nearly half a trillion dollars over the next ten years. As for domestic investments in education, infrastructure, research and innovation, these cuts have already gone too far, slowing the recovery and putting at risk our ability to compete in the global marketplace.House Republicans' first-order of businesses in the 112th Congress was to precipitate an unnecessary, confidence-shaking government shutdown crisis to extract domestic spending cuts. From there they moved to the needless, months-long debt ceiling crisis—months during which consumer confidence plummeted and the economy posted 2011's four slowest months of job growth.By undermining confidence in the economy and withholding counter-cyclical investments that would boost the recovery and prompt future growth, Republicans have provided a case study in how not to make macroeconomic policy. And yet they want to do more of the same. According to the Economic Policy Institute, House Republicans approved a 2013 budget that would put 4.1 million people out of work by cutting investments in our future.At root, Republicans are proposing a brand of European-style austerity, the same policy that has tipped many economies back into recession. Interestingly, with sequestration now looming and pressure from defense contractors mounting, a substantial portion of the Republican caucus on both sides of the Capitol has belatedly become aware of the concept of macroeconomics. You might call it Defense Keynesianism—the belief that only defense spending creates jobs and that cutting it would result in job losses. In fact, the same argument applies equally to domestic investments in education and research and infrastructure—a truth Republicans have found it convenient to ignore.Republicans, by the way, can only thank themselves for the deep defense cuts in sequestration. One can easily imagine an alternative sequestration approach, triggering a tax surcharge in addition to less severe cuts to defense and domestic spending. But as was the case during these repeated, unnecessary crises, Republican dogmatism kept revenue off the table.It is clear sequestration would devastate our defense, education, infrastructure and research sectors, undermining our economy over the near and long-term. It would also hobble critical functions, from air traffic control to meat inspection and Social Security claims processing. It can't be resolved in isolation, or through half-measures. And yet Republicans are now proposing staving off the impact of sequestration on defense alone, and they'd pay for it by again targeting health care for low-income women and children, food and nutrition assistance, and other safety net programs for the poorest Americans, in addition to locking in a 2% Medicare cut. Their plan would victimize the most vulnerable, hinder job creation, and jeopardize our ability to compete.There is a better way, and the impending "fiscal cliff"–which includes both sequestration and the expiration of the Bush tax cuts–offers an opportunity for all members of Congress to set the talking points aside and act in our country's best interest.I know we can chart a course to fiscal balance, because we've done it before. In the budget agreements of 1990 and 1993, which set the stage for four years of budget surpluses, the formula was fiscal discipline on all fronts. No area of spending can be sacrosanct. We should focus our limited dollars on boosting the recovery and making critical investments in our future, because the most effective means of deficit reduction is a growing economy. And, as in the 1990s, revenue must be part of the solution. The President has already proposed a sensible plan allowing the Bush era tax breaks to expire on income over $250,000 a year. Extravagant tax breaks for various special interests must be ended. The revenue raised could be used to pay down the deficit and help fund the investments in education, research, infrastructure and innovation that are critical to economic growth.Most Americans agree with this comprehensive approach. But most Republicans still hide behind their anti-tax pledges. Their insistence that no additional revenue can ever be raised, for example, by ending tax loopholes for oil companies or asking millionaires to return to their Clinton-era tax rates, is still the largest obstacle to a sensible budget compromise in Washington. As we approach the fiscal cliff, that fever has got to break. We must find our way to the comprehensive, balanced approach that will enable our country—and all of our people—to prosper.# # #
08.01.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) released the following statement as Republicans took the House floor to block a plan put forward by Democrats to cut taxes for all Americans on their first $250,000 of income—an issue both parties agree on. Republicans voted down the Democratic plan, which has already passed the Senate, because the package does not include an extra tax break on income over $250,000, which would increase the deficit by nearly $1 trillion over the next ten year."In today's marathon House debate, Republicans conducted a gymnastic floor exercise, complete with contortions, twists and flips aimed at obscuring an essential fact: they are content to hold hostage a tax cut for all Americans—a tax cut we all agree on—unless the additional Bush tax breaks, benefiting only the richest 2% of Americans, are extended."It's is no wonder the American people are frustrated with Congress. Let's get our work done and pass what we all agree on. Congress should be giving middle class families and job creators certainty; instead Republicans are holding them hostage to extract a bigger tax cut for people making more than $250,000 a year. Our Republican colleagues should reconsider and act now so that the Democratic plan cutting taxes for 100% of Americans can be signed into law by President Obama tomorrow."# # #
07.26.2012	Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Ut lorem felis, elementum eget condimentum a, rutrum sit amet ligula. Mauris porta faucibus risus, at laoreet velit aliquam vel. Donec lacinia nisi ac tortor consectetur non condimentum purus lobortis. In condimentum gravida leo, at aliquet ligula tincidunt pulvinar. Vestibulum non facilisis tellus. Cras eget ligula a eros accumsan aliquet et a orci. Phasellus ullamcorper posuere suscipit. Praesent dictum diam lobortis nulla feugiat in condimentum eros consectetur. Aliquam pellentesque ipsum sit amet sapien mattis auctor. Proin et tortor massa, quis suscipit nisl. Duis turpis velit, elementum consequat scelerisque nec, vestibulum vitae lectus. Fusce eget tellus metus. Integer tempus, velit at euismod tristique, orci metus facilisis lectus, in interdum urna est quis nisl. Donec vitae nisi est, eget adipiscing eros. Nunc et nisl eget arcu ultrices convallis et ac ligula. Phasellus ante nibh, tristique pharetra ultrices vitae, laoreet nec nisi. Proin pretium lacinia tempor. Proin vel justo a sapien congue sodales. Ut vehicula tortor eget dui fringilla ultrices in non nisl. Vivamus cursus, turpis at fringilla vulputate, massa tortor iaculis turpis, nec consequat turpis dui sed erat. Nunc nisi augue, sollicitudin quis scelerisque suscipit, convallis a lorem. Fusce ac tellus urna. Mauris sollicitudin libero non elit placerat non molestie arcu ullamcorper. Sed suscipit sapien nec ipsum dapibus tincidunt. Vivamus laoreet neque facilisis odio mattis porta. Morbi porta risus a neque accumsan rhoncus. Nam id enim fermentum mauris fermentum tincidunt in ut enim. Pellentesque tempus enim in massa accumsan quis porttitor ante bibendum. Quisque vel sodales sapien. Sed porta, risus ac iaculis euismod, purus massa vehicula purus, quis dapibus mauris diam rutrum enim. In hac habitasse platea dictumst. Mauris hendrerit lacinia congue. Phasellus suscipit tristique tortor ac dignissim. Etiam velit urna, accumsan vel facilisis sed, blandit at nulla. Suspendisse blandit hendrerit condimentum. Fusce rutrum mattis tempus. Pellentesque ipsum tellus, m
07.26.2012	Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Ut lorem felis, elementum eget condimentum a, rutrum sit amet ligula. Mauris porta faucibus risus, at laoreet velit aliquam vel. Donec lacinia nisi ac tortor consectetur non condimentum purus lobortis. In condimentum gravida leo, at aliquet ligula tincidunt pulvinar. Vestibulum non facilisis tellus. Cras eget ligula a eros accumsan aliquet et a orci. Phasellus ullamcorper posuere suscipit. Praesent dictum diam lobortis nulla feugiat in condimentum eros consectetur. Aliquam pellentesque ipsum sit amet sapien mattis auctor. Proin et tortor massa, quis suscipit nisl. Duis turpis velit, elementum consequat scelerisque nec, vestibulum vitae lectus. Fusce eget tellus metus. Integer tempus, velit at euismod tristique, orci metus facilisis lectus, in interdum urna est quis nisl. Donec vitae nisi est, eget adipiscing eros. Nunc et nisl eget arcu ultrices convallis et ac ligula. Phasellus ante nibh, tristique pharetra ultrices vitae, laoreet nec nisi. Proin pretium lacinia tempor. Proin vel justo a sapien congue sodales. Ut vehicula tortor eget dui fringilla ultrices in non nisl. Vivamus cursus, turpis at fringilla vulputate, massa tortor iaculis turpis, nec consequat turpis dui sed erat. Nunc nisi augue, sollicitudin quis scelerisque suscipit, convallis a lorem. Fusce ac tellus urna. Mauris sollicitudin libero non elit placerat non molestie arcu ullamcorper. Sed suscipit sapien nec ipsum dapibus tincidunt. Vivamus laoreet neque facilisis odio mattis porta. Morbi porta risus a neque accumsan rhoncus. Nam id enim fermentum mauris fermentum tincidunt in ut enim. Pellentesque tempus enim in massa accumsan quis porttitor ante bibendum. Quisque vel sodales sapien. Sed porta, risus ac iaculis euismod, purus massa vehicula purus, quis dapibus mauris diam rutrum enim. In hac habitasse platea dictumst. Mauris hendrerit lacinia congue. Phasellus suscipit tristique tortor ac dignissim. Etiam velit urna, accumsan vel facilisis sed, blandit at nulla. Suspendisse blandit hendrerit condimentum. Fusce rutrum mattis tempus. Pellentesque ipsum tellus, m
07.19.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) announced that Raleigh-based Passage Home Inc., has received a Department of Veterans Affairs grant worth $153,437 to fight homelessness among low-income veterans. The faith-based nonprofit has been working to fight poverty and homelessness in the Raleigh region since 1991. The grant is one of 151 VA grants being announced this week in 49 states across the country."No one who wears the uniform of their country should have to spend nights out in the heat or the cold without a roof over their heads," Rep. Price said. "Ending homelessness among veterans is a critical part of keeping America's commitment to those who have served. This mission is fully consistent with Passage Home's long history of providing basic support with life-changing results to individuals and families in need.""Passage Home is grateful and proud to provide housing and support services to our veterans," Passage Home CEO Jeanne Tedrow said. "We have been successful serving homeless families for 20 years, helping them become more financially stable, sometimes able to provide services for homeless veterans and their families This grant enables us to fully focus on veterans, their needs and offer services tailored to help them, as they have helped our country through their service. This is the right thing to do."Passage Home provides a one-year housing stipend and case management services to homeless veterans with dependents, transitioning them from homelessness to permanent housing and helping them achieve financial independence and security. The new grant will allow the organization to double its client base.# # #
07.11.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) released the following statement as the House of Representatives voted, for a second time during the current Congress, on legislation repealing the Affordable Care Act."The American people should know that job creation is again on the back burner in the House of Representatives as an out-of-touch Republican majority has spent two full days on a second vote repealing the landmark Affordable Care Act."The consequences of repealing consumer protections and patient rights are the same as the last time the House Republicans voted to do so in January of 2011: insurance companies would again be able to discriminate against consumers with pre-existing conditions; parents of children with birth defects or asthma or cancer would not be able to insure their children, for example. Seniors would see the cost of their prescription drugs increase, young people would be kicked off their parent's insurance plans, and middle class Americans and small businesses would see their insurance costs rise."Fortunately, the bill advanced as a result of this legislative temper tantrum will not become law, but that should be no excuse for this sad example of Republicans putting politics ahead of people. The people have spoken: it's time for Republicans to get to work on jobs instead of taking patient protections away from American families.# # #
06.29.2012	Washington, D.C. – This afternoon, Representative David Price (NC-04) voted in favor of compromise legislation reauthorizing transportation investments through 2014 and extending the low interest rate on need-based student loans for one year."This bill will create more than 2 million jobs in the transportation sector and allow over 7 million young people to attend college," Rep Price said. "We aren't just making investments in education and infrastructure; we are investing in America's future."The bill authorizes highway and transit programs at current levels ($105 billion) through 2014. Passage of the conference agreement comes more than 100 days after the Senate passed legislation similar to the conference report with 74 Senators voting in favor."This was a heavier lift in the House than it should have been, thanks to House Republican leaders, but it will create good jobs and much needed infrastructure in our communities," Rep. Price said.Without the loan fix, 7.4 million students would have seen their loan rates double, costing each one an additional $1,000 on average over the life of their loan. While pleased that a compromise was reached, Rep. Price cautioned that some of the provisions, included in the student loan portion of the legislation at Republican insistence, should be not be part of a permanent loan interest rate fix. The Republican provisions accelerate loan interest accrual for students."Education is the best investment we can make in our people, so I am pleased that Republicans came to the table—even if at the last minute—to help Democrats prevent student loan rates from doubling," Rep. Price said. "A one-year reprieve is better than none at all, but moving forward, we need a permanent fix that keeps college within reach. I'm very concerned that this bill ends the post-graduation interest grace period; it doesn't make a lot of sense to start charging young people interest the day they get out of school, especially in the current economic climate. The changes to graduate loans also are problematic and could deter some students from pursuing advanced degrees at a time when we should be incentivizing them, especially in critical science and math fields."Making college more affordable has been a top priority for Congressman Price. In 1997, he successfully enacted legislation he had sponsored for 10 years to restore the tax deduction for interest on student loans. In 2007, he helped the Democratic-led Congress enact legislation that cut the interest rate on need-based student loans in half – to 3.4 percent – over five years.# # #
06.28.2012	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) issued the following statement today after the Supreme Court issued its ruling on challenges to the landmark Affordable Care Act."The Court's affirmation of the Affordable Care Act is very encouraging. Working and middle class Americans deserve access to affordable, dependable health care. While Republicans have opposed the law's consumer protections, tax breaks for small business, and expanded prescription drug coverage for seniors, I continue to believe it is landmark legislation that will improve health care for millions of Americans."Millions of Americans have already benefited from the ACA. Seniors have saved $3.7 billion on prescription drugs because of the ACA. As of April, 12.1 million people with traditional Medicare had received at least one free preventive health care service because of the ACA. Over 6.6 million young people have insurance coverage today because the ACA allows them to stay on their parents' insurance plans until they turn 26. In 2011, 360,000 small businesses took advantage of the tax credits created by the ACA to help 2 million workers afford health insurance."Today's decision reaffirms that no American will be denied health insurance coverage because they're sick, and insurance companies can't drop coverage when they need it the most. The ACA empowers consumers. It is an important step forward, and I am proud to have voted for it."# # #
06.21.2012	Washington, D.C. – Tuesday, during committee mark-up of the Fiscal Year 2013 House Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill, Representative David Price was successful in adding an amendment to transfer $83.6 million in funding from a stalled transportation program to an existing, urgently needed safety program. The safety program helps eliminate hazards at highway-railway crossings on high-speed rail corridors like the one in North Carolina.When Congress enacted the current transportation bill in 2005 (SAFETEA-LU), $90 million was set-aside to promote the deployment of magnetic levitation (maglev) technology. However, to-date no maglev projects have made it beyond environmental review and none are moving forward, leaving 90 percent of these maglev funds unutilized."This is funding that was in 'indefinite detention' at the Department of Transportation," Rep. Price said. "It's just common sense that it can be better used making cost-effective safety improvements, such as adding warning signals and warning signs at crossings, along high-speed rail corridors -- especially those in North Carolina and Virginia.""This reallocation of scarce federal funds will make states like North Carolina safer for all travelers, by replacing unsafe grade crossings with bridges and installing smarter signals that can detect intrusions and operate more efficiently for freight and passenger train operations," said NC Transportation Secretary Gene Conti. "We look forward to putting dollars and people to work wherever trains and vehicles connect."There are over 225,000 grade crossings across the country and a collision occurs at one of these crossings 4,000 times per year. Last year alone, there were 236 fatal grade crossing collisions resulting in 265 fatalities, a number Rep. Price worried could only grow as trains operate at higher speeds along high-speed rail corridors. Over the last couple of years, the existing crossing safety program received 70 applications totaling about $100 million, but only had $30 million in funding to allocate."The bottom-line is this funding will help prevent tragic rail accidents," Rep. Price said, "greatly increasing safety, while simultaneously enhancing mobility for passenger and freight trains and creating jobs. It pairs the means with the need, and it's a 'nuts and bolts' example of how the Appropriations Committee can work across party lines to make good policy."# # #
06.20.2012	Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Ut lorem felis, elementum eget condimentum a, rutrum sit amet ligula. Mauris porta faucibus risus, at laoreet velit aliquam vel. Donec lacinia nisi ac tortor consectetur non condimentum purus lobortis. In condimentum gravida leo, at aliquet ligula tincidunt pulvinar. Vestibulum non facilisis tellus. Cras eget ligula a eros accumsan aliquet et a orci. Phasellus ullamcorper posuere suscipit. Praesent dictum diam lobortis nulla feugiat in condimentum eros consectetur. Aliquam pellentesque ipsum sit amet sapien mattis auctor. Proin et tortor massa, quis suscipit nisl. Duis turpis velit, elementum consequat scelerisque nec, vestibulum vitae lectus. Fusce eget tellus metus. Integer tempus, velit at euismod tristique, orci metus facilisis lectus, in interdum urna est quis nisl. Donec vitae nisi est, eget adipiscing eros. Nunc et nisl eget arcu ultrices convallis et ac ligula. Phasellus ante nibh, tristique pharetra ultrices vitae, laoreet nec nisi. Proin pretium lacinia tempor. Proin vel justo a sapien congue sodales. Ut vehicula tortor eget dui fringilla ultrices in non nisl. Vivamus cursus, turpis at fringilla vulputate, massa tortor iaculis turpis, nec consequat turpis dui sed erat. Nunc nisi augue, sollicitudin quis scelerisque suscipit, convallis a lorem. Fusce ac tellus urna. Mauris sollicitudin libero non elit placerat non molestie arcu ullamcorper. Sed suscipit sapien nec ipsum dapibus tincidunt. Vivamus laoreet neque facilisis odio mattis porta. Morbi porta risus a neque accumsan rhoncus. Nam id enim fermentum mauris fermentum tincidunt in ut enim. Pellentesque tempus enim in massa accumsan quis porttitor ante bibendum. Quisque vel sodales sapien. Sed porta, risus ac iaculis euismod, purus massa vehicula purus, quis dapibus mauris diam rutrum enim. In hac habitasse platea dictumst.
06.19.2012	Washington, D.C. – At a press conference this afternoon marking Senate introduction of companion legislation to the House Presidential Funding Act, Representative David Price (D-NC) and Representative Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) joined Senator Mark Udall (D-CO) to highlight the urgent need to mend the public financing system for presidential campaigns. The move to save one of the country's most significant, post-Watergate campaign finance reforms comes as Americans are rapidly growing aware of the corrosive impact of recent Supreme Court decisions that opened the floodgates to special interest money in politics."Two days ago marked the 40th anniversary of the Watergate break-in," Rep. Price said. "Today, this flagship post-Watergate reform is clearly in need up an update, and Congress should provide it. Public financing has worked remarkably well and has strengthened our democracy in the process. The system has been used in general elections by every major party nominee from 1976 to 2004, and in primaries it has allowed a diverse range of candidates to challenge the party establishment.""Presidential elections should be open, democratic processes where the candidates are focused on courting voters - not special interests and big donors," Sen. Udall said. "Unfortunately, the Citizens United decision changed everything. We cannot roll back the Supreme Court's decision, but we can try and adapt the system Congress created in 1974 after Watergate to make it useful in this new era of big money and politics.""The Presidential Financing Act is an important piece of our work to ensure big-money special interests don't drown out the voice of individual voters, and I applaud Congressman Price and Senator Udall for their work on this issue," said Congressman Van Hollen. "We will keep fighting for passage of both this and the DISCLOSE Act – together, this legislation will shine a light on outside money and ensure our democracy remains beholden to the American people and not well-heeled special interests."The presidential public financing system was enacted as part of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1974, at a time when public confidence in government was at an all-time low. The system is funded through a voluntary income tax "check-off." It offers public matching funds to candidates who demonstrate their viability by raising small contributions. In exchange, they must abide by voluntary limits on private fundraising. The system has been credited with leveling the playing field by helping lesser-known candidates, such as then-Governor Ronald Reagan, run viable campaigns against better-funded opponents. Because the program has not been updated since 1974, it has become increasingly inadequate for today's presidential campaigns.The Presidential Funding Act would modernize the system by increasing the public matching funds available to candidates, adjusting the program to today's front-loaded primary calendar, and further enhancing the role of donors who contribute $200 or less through a 4:1 match on their donations (the current match is 1:1).Rep. Price is the lead sponsor of the House version of the Presidential Funding Act. Rep. Van Hollen is an original co-sponsor of the legislation. A summary of the Presidential Funding Act is below.Summary of the House Presidential Funding ActPrimary Election• Eliminates the state by state and overall primary election spending limits.• Increases the amount of matching funds for the presidential primaries from the current 1:1 match for up to $250 of an individual's total contributions, to a 4:1 match for contributions from individuals of $200 or less. In order to be matchable, a contribution must be from an individual who has not given, and will not give, more than a total of $200 to the candidate. Participating candidates can receive up to $100 million in matching funds.• Requires a candidate who participates in the public financing system to agree to accept contributions of no more than $1,000 from any person, instead of the current contribution limit of $2,400. Participating candidates must also pledge not to accept any contributions from, or bundled by, lobbyists or PACs.• Provides that to qualify for public financing in the primary election, a candidate must raise $25,000 (increased from $5,000 under current law) in each of 20 states, of which no more than $200 can come from any one individual. A candidate also must commit to accept public financing in both the primary and general election.• Moves the starting date for the payment of matching funds to primary candidates from January 1 of the election year to six months before the first presidential primary or caucus. Also establishes a single date – the Friday before Labor Day -- for payments of general election funding grants to the major party nominees.General Election• Eliminates the general election spending limit on participating candidates.• Provides a grant to participating general election candidates of $50 million, payable on the Friday before Labor Day. Also provides up to an additional $150 million in matching funds based on a 4:1 match of contributions raised after June 1 of the election year of up to $200 per donor.• General election candidates can also raise up to $500 per donor after June 1 of the election year. (Only contributions of $200 or less will be matched.)• Increases the limit on coordinated spending by a national party and its presidential candidate from approximately $15 million to a total of $50 million. The entire cost of an ad coordinated with a presidential candidate must be covered by that candidate with general election funds and the party committee with coordinated expenditure funds.• Prohibits a participating general election candidate from soliciting funds for a joint fundraising committee that includes a party committee after June 1 of the election year, and prohibits soliciting for any party committee after September 1 of the election year.General Provisions• Requires presidential campaigns to disclose all individuals or groups (not just lobbyists as under current law) that bundle contributions totaling more than $50,000 in the four year election cycle. Prohibits the bundling of matchable contributions by anyone other than an individual or a party committee.• Increases the amount of the check-off on the income tax form to fund the public financing system from $3 to $10 per individual and from $6 to $20 for a married couple, and indexes these amounts for inflation. Directs the IRS to require that approved tax preparation software does not automatically accept or decline a check-off of taxpayer funds for the public financing system.Party Conventions• Eliminates public funding for the national party conventions.• Allows individuals to contribute up to $25,000 in each four-year presidential election cycle to pay for national party convention costs. These contributions would not count against an individual's aggregate contribution limit.• Prohibits the use of soft money funds, including in-kind contributions from corporate and union sponsors, to pay for national party convention costs.# # #
06.15.2012	PARIS: From New York to Baghdad to Sydney, New Year's revelers welcomed 2008 with parties, fireworks and hopes for peace and prosperity.But reminders of violence were apparent as security was tightened in many nations.Fireworks were canceled in downtown Brussels, Belgium, where police detained 14 people Dec. 21 suspected of plotting to help an accused al-Qaida militant break out of jail.Festivities in Paris centered on the famous Champs-Elysees avenue and the Eiffel Tower, where about 4,500 police and 140 rescue officials patrolled the streets.In Thailand, an army spokesman said he believed that five bombs set off by suspected Muslim insurgents in a Thai-Malaysian border tourist town likely targeted New Year's revelers. The bombs, which wounded 27 people, exploded in the hotel and nightlife quarter of Sungai Kolok, spokesman Col. Akara Thiprote said.Baghdad witnessed something Iraq had not seen since before the invasion of 2003 — people publicly partying to welcome in a new year.The ballrooms of two landmark hotels — the Palestine and the Sheraton — were full of people for New Year's Eve celebrations. After years of car bombings, mortar fire and suicide attacks, Iraq's capital was sufficiently calm to warrant the two high-end parties in the once-posh hotels.Several European countries rang in the new year with new habits.The smoke-filled cafe became a thing of memory in France. Following up on a ban last year on smoking in many indoor locations, cigarettes were prohibited in dance clubs, restaurants, hotels, casinos and cafes.Fabienne Simon, a 27-year-old smoker, said the ban was "not that bad.""There is nothing better than to go to a nightclub, a coffee place where there are no cigarettes," she said. "You come out, it's great, you aren't smelling of cigarettes."Two European Union newcomers, Cyprus and Malta, started using the euro at the stroke of midnight. The Mediterranean islands, both former British colonies, were scrapping the Cyprus pound and Maltese lira to bring the number of countries using the shared currency to 15.In France, President Nicolas Sarkozy gave the first traditional New Year's greeting of his presidency, with a "message of hope, faith in life and in the future." In Russia, Vladimir Putin delivered the last New Year's Eve address of his eight-year presidency, boasting of economic improvements and claiming to have restored a sense of unity among Russians, who are likely to see him stay in power as prime minister after he steps down in a few months.In Moscow, thousands gathered in Red Square, watching a concert beneath the colorful onion domes of St. Basil's Cathedral, and fireworks above.An ailing Fidel Castro saluted the Cuban people for their "50 years of resistance" against the United States in a message that was read on state television. Though Cuba will mark the 50th anniversary of the Jan. 1, 1959, revolution that brought Castro to power a year from now, it is characterizing all of 2008 leading up to that date as the "50th year of the revolution."Along with the innovations, old traditions were maintained.More than a million revelers in New York's Times Square cheered at the 100th drop of a giant ball. A century ago the tradition began with a 700-pound ball of wood and iron, lit with 100 25-watt incandescent bulbs. This year's event featured an energy-efficient sphere clad in Waterford crystals, with 9,576 light-emitting diodes that generated a kaleidoscope of colors.In London, people gathered in Trafalgar Square and along the banks of the River Thames to watch a fireworks display and hear Big Ben — Parliament's iconic bell — welcome the New Year with 12 resounding bongs.Berlin held a massive fete: In a stretch leading from the city's famous Brandenburg Gate along Tiergarten park to the western part of town, officials set up three stages, 13 bands, a 40-yard tall Ferris wheel and over 100 beer stands and snack joints.In Vatican City, Pope Benedict XVI took a somber note, lamenting what he called the "trivialization" of sexuality and lack of faith among young people during a vespers' service in St. Peter's Basilica.China started its Olympic year with a New Year party including fireworks, singing and dancing put on by the organizers of the Summer Olympics.In Brazil, about 2 million people gathered at Copacabana Beach in Rio de Janeiro, witnessing a fireworks display that lasted nearly 20 minutes. In Sao Paulo, South America's biggest city, local media said 2.3 million people celebrated at the Avenida Paulista, Brazil's financial center.
06.05.2012	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04), co-chair of the House Democracy Partnership (HDP), returned this morning from two days of meetings with Afghan parliamentary leaders that coincided with enactment of the US-Afghanistan Strategic Partnership Agreement."The Afghan Parliament has made remarkable progress, amid formidable challenges, over the past ten years," Rep. Price said. "Our House Democracy Partnership has engaged with the Parliament intensively for the last six years, member to member and staff to staff. This week's visit convinced us that our partnership is more important than ever, for Afghanistan's ability to defend and govern itself will depend heavily on the legitimacy and effectiveness of its representative institutions."In Afghanistan, Rep. Price and HDP chair David Dreier met with the speakers of the Wolesi Jirga and the Meshrano Jirga, the lower and upper houses of the Afghan parliament, and with cross sections of the membership of the International Affairs, Budget Affairs, Internal Security and Defense Affairs, and Women's Affairs Committees. Concurrently, HDP staff conducted workshops for parliamentary staff. Later, the HDP delegation met with President Karzai and with leading opposition figure and likely Presidential candidate, Dr. Abdullah Abdullah."The parliament has been a relative bright spot in the governance of Afghanistan," Rep. Price said. "Domestically it has acted as a check on the President, asserting its power to modify the President's proposed budgets and confirm or reject nominees to head government agencies. Its members are attuned to the policy challenges that need to be addressed as we withdraw our troops and place the responsibility for securing the country fully in the hands of the Afghan National Security Forces."The delegation also stopped at Camp Leatherneck, in Southwest Afghanistan's Helmand province, to meet with troops implementing the Obama Administrations plan to advise and train Afghan National Security forces. The Camp's commanding officer is Major General C.M. Gurganus, Commander Regional Command Southwest. Gen. Gurganus is a graduate of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and makes his home in Wilmington, NC.Established by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2005, HDP uses peer-to-peer exchange programs, training seminars for members and staff, and targeted material assistance to build parliamentary capacity in key areas such as legislative oversight, budget analysis, committee operations, constituent relations, and library and research services. Its singular focus on the legislative branch of government and its unique ability to bring together American legislators and their peers from around the world have made the commission a valuable forum for strengthening democratic institutions and deepening bilateral relations. Rep. Price chaired the Commission during the period of Democratic leadership (2007-2010); this is his third visit to Afghanistan. Photo caption: Rep. David Price (D-NC), Rep. David Dreier (R-CA), Sen. Rob Portman (R-OH) and Major General C.M. Gurganus, Commander Regional Command Southwest, at Camp Leatherneck in Afghanistan's Helmand province.# # #
05.22.2012	Washington, D.C. – In advance of the resumption of discussions with Iran by the five permanent members of the UN Security Council and Germany (P5+1) in Baghdad this week, Representatives David Price (D-NC) and David Dreier (R-CA) are leading a bipartisan effort to convey congressional support for the use of vigorous diplomacy to prevent Iran from attaining nuclear weapons capability. In a letter sent to the President Monday, the lawmakers and 69 of their colleagues, ask the Administration to apply maximum pressure through multilateral negotiations with Iran.In the letter Reps. Price and Dreier write:"We believe that a nuclear weapons-capable Iran poses a grave threat to the United States, to Israel, and to the global community. It is critical that we employ every available tool at our disposal to dissuade if possible—and prevent if necessary—the Iranian regime from developing nuclear weapons or the capability to produce them from stockpiled materials and components."The latest round of economic sanctions by the United States, members of the European community, and others has demonstrated that such measures can and do elicit a response from the Iranian regime and have contributed to a clear framework for the current multilateral talks. . . Given such facts, the United States and its P5+1 partners must not relent in leveraging pressure on Iran in these upcoming talks."Reps. Price and Dreier cited several recent developments in support of redoubling diplomatic efforts. The representatives believe that China's and Russia's more serious involvement and the tightening of international sanctions demonstrate a strengthened collective acknowledgement of the threat posed by a nuclear-weapons capable Iran. Under pressure from a wider coalition, Iran has also shown a renewed willingness to engage in a diplomatic process, a willingness that needs to be tested. With the looming threat of harsher trade sanctions due to take effect in July, the P5+1 nations may be in a stronger position to obtain positive results in the Baghdad round.The complete text of the Price-Dreier letter is below.May 21, 2012The Honorable Barack ObamaPresident of the United StatesThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.Washington, D.C. 20500Dear President Obama,We write to convey our strong support for the prevention of a nuclear weapons-capable Iran through diplomacy. We share your commitment to the ongoing multilateral discussions on Iran's nuclear program and urge you to continue working with our P5+1 partners in pursuit of this goal.We believe that a nuclear weapons-capable Iran poses a grave threat to the United States, to Israel, and to the global community. It is critical that we employ every available tool at our disposal to dissuade if possible—and prevent if necessary—the Iranian regime from developing nuclear weapons or the capability to produce them from stockpiled materials and components.The latest round of economic sanctions by the United States, members of the European community, and others has demonstrated that such measures can and do elicit a response from the Iranian regime and have contributed to a clear framework for the current multilateral talks. Clearly, continued diplomatic engagement is essential and, as you prepare for the upcoming round of discussions this week in Baghdad, we believe there are two critical factors that support a redoubling of these efforts.The first is the lengthened roster of partners: China, Russia, Germany, France, Britain, and the United States. The P5+1 partners are working together in an unprecedented display of cooperation that demonstrates a collective acknowledgement of the threat of a nuclear weapons-capable Iran. The second is the degree to which Iran, under intensified pressures, has appeared willing to engage in a serious and substantive discussion on its nuclear program.We are aware of the possibility that the Iranian regime is simply "buying time" to further its nuclear ambitions, but we believe that Iran's declared openness to multilateral discussions—coupled with verifiable intermediate steps to bring its program toward compliance with international obligations—is sufficient to warrant renewed determination. Given such facts, the United States and its P5+1 partners must not relent in leveraging pressure on Iran in these upcoming talks. With the looming threat of harsher sanctions due to take effect in July, the P5+1 nations may be in a stronger position to obtain positive results in Baghdad.Mr. President, as you recently stated, "...both Israel and the United States have an interest in seeing this challenge resolved diplomatically. After all, the only way to truly solve this problem is for the Iranian government to make a decision to forsake nuclear weapons." We agree, and we strongly believe that the United States must take full advantage of opportunities for diplomatic engagement, in concert with sanctions and other appropriate measures, to prevent a nuclear weapons-capable Iran.Sincerely,Current Signatories: Price, Dreier, Amash, Bass (CA), Becerra, Blumenauer, Braley, Butterfield, Capps, Clarke (MI), Clyburn, Cohen, Conyers, Cooper, Courtney, Cuellar, Davis (IL), Davis (KY), DeGette, DeLauro, Dent, Dicks, Dingell, Doggett, Edwards, Ellison, Eshoo, Farr, Filner, Fortenberry, Garamendi, Gonzalez, Granger, Grijalva, Gutierrez, Hanna, Hastings (FL), Heinrich, Himes, Hinchey, Honda, Jackson, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Jones, Kaptur, Larson, LaTourette, Lee, Lewis (GA), Loebsack, Lofgren, McCollum, McDermott, McGovern, Miller (CA), Moore, Moran, Murphy (CT), Olver, Pingree, Rahall, Rangel, Scott (VA), Speier, Thompson (CA), Tierney, Visclosky, Watt, Welch, Woolsey, Yarmuth# # #
05.16.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) voted against a Republican bill undermining core principles of the Violence against Women Act (VAWA), and admonished his Republican colleagues for picking a fight on critical non-partisan legislation protecting women against domestic abuse and sexual assault. The Republican bill eliminates longstanding protections for immigrant women and fails to incorporate protections for LGBT and Native Americans—provisions included in an alternate VAWA reauthorization that recently passed the Senate by a broadly bipartisan vote of 68-31."The Republican war on women appears to know no bounds. The House majority is actually picking a partisan fight over common-sense protections for women who are victims of domestic violence and sexual assault." Rep. Price said.Congress passed VAWA in 1994. Since that time it has twice been reauthorized with bipartisan support in Congress. Each reauthorization has included improvements that strengthen VAWA's protection of women. The Obama Administration has released a Statement of Administration Policy threatening to veto the Republican bill.How the House Republican VAWA Reauthorization Rolls Back Protections for Women• The House Republican bill would remove existing protections for immigrant victims of domestic violence and sexual assault by allowing abusers to be notified when a victim files a VAWA self-petition for relief.• The House Republican bill terminates the path to citizenship for "U" visa holders–victims of serious crimes such as torture, rape, and domestic violence–who are cooperating with law enforcement during the investigation or prosecution of crimes.• The House Republican bill fails to include the bipartisan Senate bill's prohibition of discrimination against LGBT victims in VAWA grant programs.• The House Republican bill fails to include the bipartisan Senate bill's clarification that tribal courts have full civil jurisdiction over non-Native Americans for assaults within tribal court jurisdictions covered by VAWA.# # #
05.11.2012	Washington, D.C. – Last week, Representative David Price (NC-04) hosted a reception at the Durham Arts Council for finalists in this year's Fourth District Congressional Art Competition. At the reception Branden James, a student at Durham's Southern High School was announced as the competition winner for his drawing entitled "Mechanics."The annual competition brings together student artwork from across the Fourth District with the winner of the competition receiving a $1,500 scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design and a $100 U.S. Savings Bond (courtesy of AT&T). Jerry's Artarama presented gifts to all the students who entered the contest and the top four students and their art teachers received gift bags from Downtown Durham, Inc. The 1st Place winner will also travel to Washington later this year courtesy of SouthWest Airlines to attend the opening of an exhibit featuring winning entries from across the country. Winning entries will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol Building for one year."I have always been impressed by the pieces students bring to the Congressional Arts Competition," Rep. Price said. "I look forward to welcoming Branden in Washington and sharing each of the winners' pieces with constituents."Also placing in the competition were:2nd Place – Kristen Hutchinson, Northwood High School – art to be displayed in Rep. Price's Washington, D.C. office.3rd Place – Sonya Zhang, Green Hope High School – art to be displayed in Rep. Price's Raleigh officeHonorable Mention – Blair Torres, Cardinal Gibbons High School – to be displayed in Rep. Price's Durham OfficePhoto Caption: (from left to right): Rep. David Price, Branden James (1st Place, Southern High School), Crystal Brown (Teacher, Southern High School).
05.10.2012	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) released the following statement today as the House of Representatives considered the Republican budget reconciliation plan. The Republican reconciliation package would avert the sequestration of defense funds Republicans agreed to in the Budget Control Act by cutting deeply into health care for low-income children and women, food and nutrition assistance, and other vital safety net programs for the poorest Americans."Twice this Congress House Republicans have pushed budget proposals that would end Medicare as we know it and slash programs that grow the middle class to pay for tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans. Today, they are back for another bite at the apple with a budget reconciliation plan that again goes against American values."While I am in complete agreement that we must recreate the fiscal discipline that allowed us to achieve budget surpluses in the 1990s, I cannot accept extremist measures that target the most vulnerable Americans while asking nothing of those who are most able to sacrifice. As a nation, we should be investing in our future, guaranteeing dignity in old age and ensuring opportunity for everyone who is willing to work hard and pay by the rules. Adding insult to injury, the bill before us today averts only the sequestration of defense funds and does nothing to address the impending drastic cuts to domestic spending and the across-the-board Medicare cut."The Democratic plan offers a balanced way forward that builds on the domestic cuts and mandatory savings already achieved and more closely mirrors bipartisan plans like the ones proposed by Simpson-Bowles and Rivlin-Domenic. Instead of allowing us to vote on that plan today, we are only offered an up or down vote on the Republican budget reconciliation plan-a plan that funnels money 'saved' from cuts to important domestic programs into additional defense spending that was not even requested by the Department of Defense."The Republican plan asks us to eliminate the breakthrough preventive health care fund created by the Affordable Care Act to provide free childhood immunizations and breast cancer screenings. It also would eliminate health coverage for at least 300,000 kids on the Children's Health Insurance Program, reduce food and nutrition assistance that goes to 20 million households and kick another 300,000 children off school meal programs. Should we ask these children to go hungry so that the wealthiest can keep their Bush tax cuts?"These shameful cuts are only 'necessary' because Republicans continue to insist that no revenue can ever be raised to reduce the deficit and pay for programs that benefit our people. Valuing tax breaks for the wealthy over the health of children and women is wrong. I will vote no, and I urge House Republicans to embrace a balanced approach to averting the sequester that is consistent with American values.# # #
05.07.2012	Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Ut lorem felis, elementum eget condimentum a, rutrum sit amet ligula. Mauris porta faucibus risus, at laoreet velit aliquam vel. Donec lacinia nisi ac tortor consectetur non condimentum purus lobortis. In condimentum gravida leo, at aliquet ligula tincidunt pulvinar. Vestibulum non facilisis tellus. Cras eget ligula a eros accumsan aliquet et a orci. Phasellus ullamcorper posuere suscipit. Praesent dictum diam lobortis nulla feugiat in condimentum eros consectetur. Aliquam pellentesque ipsum sit amet sapien mattis auctor. Proin et tortor massa, quis suscipit nisl. Duis turpis velit, elementum consequat scelerisque nec, vestibulum vitae lectus. Fusce eget tellus metus. Integer tempus, velit at euismod tristique, orci metus facilisis lectus, in interdum urna est quis nisl. Donec vitae nisi est, eget adipiscing eros. Nunc et nisl eget arcu ultrices convallis et ac ligula. Phasellus ante nibh, tristique pharetra ultrices vitae, laoreet nec nisi. Proin pretium lacinia tempor. Proin vel justo a sapien congue sodales. Ut vehicula tortor eget dui fringilla ultrices in non nisl. Vivamus cursus, turpis at fringilla vulputate, massa tortor iaculis turpis, nec consequat turpis dui sed erat. Nunc nisi augue, sollicitudin quis scelerisque suscipit, convallis a lorem. Fusce ac tellus urna. Mauris sollicitudin libero non elit placerat non molestie arcu ullamcorper. Sed suscipit sapien nec ipsum dapibus tincidunt. Vivamus laoreet neque facilisis odio mattis porta. Morbi porta risus a neque accumsan rhoncus. Nam id enim fermentum mauris fermentum tincidunt in ut enim. Pellentesque tempus enim in massa accumsan quis porttitor ante bibendum. Quisque vel sodales sapien. Sed porta, risus ac iaculis euismod, purus massa vehicula purus, quis dapibus mauris diam rutrum enim. In hac habitasse platea dictumst. Mauris hendrerit lacinia congue. Phasellus suscipit tristique tortor ac dignissim. Etiam velit urna, accumsan vel facilisis sed, blandit at nulla. Suspendisse blandit hendrerit condimentum. Fusce rutrum mattis tempus. Pellentesque ipsum tellus, m
04.27.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) rejected as "cynical" a hastily-drafted Republican bill that would tie lower interest rates on federal Stafford loans to cuts in funding for preventive health care. Rep. Price joined colleagues voting against the bill in expressing outrage at the poison pill funding mechanism embraced by Congressional Republicans. Republicans had earlier signaled they would oppose efforts to extend low-interest student loans. The interest rate is scheduled to double on July 1, affecting more than 7 million students and costing each borrower an average of $1,000 in additional repayment costs."This bill asks us to eliminate funding for childhood immunizations and breast cancer screenings as the price of extending lower student loan interest rates," Rep. Price said. "That is a false choice if ever there was one. If Congressional Republicans were really serious about extending the lower student loan rate, this bill would not include a cynical, poison pill funding mechanism."The Obama Administration has threatened to veto the bill, dismissing the Republican proposal as an unserious, politically-motivated response to the student loan problem. The Administration announced that hundreds of thousands of women will be denied screenings for breast and cervical cancer if the prevention fund is repealed. Democrats have proposed alternative legislation that would offset the cost of lower student loan rates by ending tax loopholes for large oil companies. The preventive care fund targeted by Republicans was created by the Affordable Care Act, the landmark law that reformed health insurance so that people who can't afford to see a doctor would have access to affordable coverage and comprehensive care."Republicans are hiding behind the mantle of fiscal responsibility, but this is a question of values, and it's clear they value tax breaks for the wealthy over either access to college or the well-being of America's women and children. Robbing Paula to pay Peter may be the Republican strategy to get political cover, but it is not effective governance."Enacted by Democrats in 2007, the College Cost Reduction and Access Act has saved millions of students billions on college. Over several years, the law halved interest on need-based federal student loans, reducing the rate to 3.4 percent in 2011-2012. The law has helped make college more affordable for low-and middle-income students.# # #
04.20.2012	Washington, D.C. –Representative David Price (NC-04) issued the following statement following the announcement that President Barack Obama will visit the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill on Tuesday to address the importance of averting a pending increase in interest rates for need-based student loans.Rep. Price is a co-sponsor of H.R. 3826, a House bill to extend the reduction in interest rates on need-based loans that was enacted as part of the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007. Over several years, the law halved interest on need-based federal student loans, reducing the rate to 3.4 percent in 2011-2012 and has helped make college more affordable for low- and middle-income students. If Congress doesn't act before July, when the lower interest provision expires, the rate will jump back up to 6.8 percent. Students are already graduating with record-high average debt and the number of student loan borrowers in default is on the rise. This rate increase would amount to the average Stafford loan borrower's paying $2,800 more over a standard 10-year repayment term."I applaud President Obama for pushing this issue. Now is not the time to double student loan interest rates. It's not fair to young people trying to achieve the dream of college education, and it's bad for the economy. In 2007, lowering interest rates on need-based federal student loans was a bipartisan, common-sense decision. It's still a matter of common-sense, but, with Republicans standing in the way, it's no longer bipartisan. Republicans should stop stonewalling and help Democrats pass a bill to prevent student loan rates from doubling for the 8 million American college students who rely on Stafford loans."# # #
04.18.2012	Price Welcomes 'Honor Flight' of Triangle WWII Veterans in DCWashington, D.C. – This morning, Representative David Price (NC-04) welcomed an "Honor Flight" of World War II veterans from the Triangle region as their flight landed in Washington. The trip was free to veterans courtesy of the Honor Flight Network, a national nonprofit organization dedicated to honoring our nation's WWII veterans by bringing them to Washington to view the World War II Memorial built in their honor on the National Mall. To date, the organization has flown over 700 Triangle World War II veterans to Washington."Welcoming these veterans was a truly moving experience. I was honored to be a part of giving them the heroes' welcome they deserve," Rep. Price said. "Through their service during wartime, and their leadership in peacetime, our World War II veterans have shaped our country in profound ways."Veterans were also welcomed by a 50-member barbershop-style chorus singing patriotic songs, United Service Organization members, family and friends, and other DC-based partners of the Honor Flight Network. # # #
03.29.2012	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) gave the following statement today as the House of Representatives considered the Republican FY2013 budget proposal."Cutting through the desperate spin and looking at the math on the Republican budget shows it for what it is: a blueprint for transferring wealth to the already wealthy by ending Medicare as we know it and using the savings to fund tax cuts for the richest Americans."According to AARP, the Republican plan to privatize Medicare and turn it into a voucher system is, 'Likely to simply increase costs for beneficiaries while removing Medicare's promise of secure health coverage.'"The Congressional Budget Office confirms that view, estimating that by 2030 new Medicare beneficiaries could pay $1,200 more per year, and by 2050 new beneficiaries could pay $5,900 more per year than under the current system. I will continue to oppose efforts to shift the burden of rising healthcare costs to our seniors, and I also will oppose efforts to undermine Medicaid, the system of health insurance for the working poor and disabled. Breaking our promise of guaranteed benefits and turning our backs on the most vulnerable Americans is unworthy of the most powerful nation in the world. We must do better."I also must note that rumors of this budget's fiscal prudence are greatly exaggerated. The Republican budget isn't serious about deficit reduction: the Congressional Budget Office's most optimistic assessment says the Republican plan does not achieve balance until at least 2039. And that assumes that the new tax breaks would be offset by unspecified and unlikely cuts to such deductions as charitable contributions and home mortgage interest. Why does the Republican budget take so long to achieve balance? The answer is simple: it lavishes further tax cuts on the wealthiest Americans."The Office of Management and Budget estimates that the Republican budget gives those making over $1 million dollars a year an average tax cut of at least $150,000. These are tax cuts paid for by cuts to Medicare, education and programs that help those with limited means. Let's follow the money. Here is how the Republican budget math works:• 25 seniors will pay $5,900 more for Medicare to pay for one millionaire's $150,000 tax cut.• 150 college students will have their Pell Grants cut by $1,000 to pay for one millionaire's $150,000 tax cut• 216 pregnant women or postpartum women, infants and children would lose access to the WIC program to pay for one millionaire's tax cut."Budgets are about making choices. We do not have to ask about the Republican budget's priorities and values—they're wrong. We need a budget that works for the middle class and those trying to reach it, not just the wealthy few."As the ranking member on the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, I am also deeply troubled by the Republican budget's spending cap. This budget caps spending at a level lower than that agreed upon in the Budget Control Act. Why are you going back on your word? We have an agreement on spending, but you're thumbing your nose at it. I suspect this is an effort to set-up another manufactured crisis in the fall, with a threatened government shutdown. The American people are tired of the Republican Congress putting games before sound governance."# # #
03.22.2012	Washington, D.C. – Earlier today, House Democracy Partnership (HDP) Co-Chairs Representatives David Price (D-NC) and David Dreier (R-CA) met with a delegation from the National Constituent Assembly of Tunisia. The delegation included members of the Assembly, in-country media, and experts on judicial and parliamentary procedure.The delegation's visit comes as the assembly is immersed in a planned year-long process of drafting a new constitution. Legislators spoke with Reps. Price and Dreier about HDP and related their debates over whether the country should adopt a parliamentary, executive-legislative branch, or mixed political system. The country is regarded as the wellspring of the "Arab Spring" movement, which swept regional dictators from power. Last year, Reps. Price and Dreier led a delegation of HDP members to Tunisia, Egypt and Iraq to meet with local parliamentarians."Building a democracy from the ground-up—as these assembly members are tasked with doing—is a huge undertaking," Rep. Price said. "We have been watching their work with great interest as they pursue the goal of crafting a constitution that will ensure every Tunisian has a say in their country's future."Reps. David Dreier (R-CA) (fourth from left) and David Price (D-NC) (second from right), Co-Chairs of the House Democracy Partnership, with members of the visiting Tunisian delegation in the U.S. Capitol building's House Rules Committee hearing room.The House Democracy Partnership is a bipartisan commission of the U.S. House of Representatives that works directly with 17 partner countries around the world to support the development of effective, independent, and responsive legislative institutions.Established by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2005, HDP uses peer-to-peer exchange programs, training seminars for members and staff, and targeted material assistance to build capacity in key areas such as legislative oversight, budget analysis, committee operations, constituent relations, and library and research services. Its singular focus on the legislative branch of government and its unique ability to bring together American legislators and their peers from around the world have made the commission a valuable forum for strengthening democratic institutions and deepening bilateral relations.# # #
03.20.2012	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) released the following statement today after House Republicans released their budget proposal for fiscal year 2013."Last year, House Republicans introduced a budget ending Medicare as we know it, and the American people rejected it. This year's budget is so similar that we can call it Version 2.0 of the Republican plan to end the Medicare guarantee. It again calls for shifting the rising cost of health care onto seniors, while using savings from cutting Medicare and other basic investments in our people to fund lavish tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans."In policy area after policy area, this budget is more of the same. In their budget, Republicans abandon any attempt to strengthen the economic recovery, and would in fact undermine it by cutting discretionary spending below the level they agreed to in the Budget Control Act last fall. By going back on their word on the BCA, Republicans have made it clear they intend to set up another manufactured crisis centered on budget brinksmanship this fall."The Republican budget matches neither our priorities nor our values. It does not help create jobs. Instead, it calls for cutting investments in education, research, infrastructure and innovation. It does not keep our promises to seniors. Instead, it says 'you're on your own.' It does not take a balanced approach to reducing the deficit and returning to fiscal balance. Instead, it calls for tax breaks for the wealthiest and sacrifice from the middle class, and those trying to reach it, by slashing the investments in our people that ensure our economic competitiveness and success. It is not a wise allocation of our limited resources, and it will do the country long-term harm."It is disappointing to see House Republicans continue to completely ignore the need for additional revenue to bring the budget into balance. We will not build a nation where everyone gets a fair shot, everyone does their fair share, and everyone plays by the same rules without investing in our people and returning to tax fairness for the middle class. Republicans' refusal to deal with this reality, and their refusal to make the tough choices needed to preserve the American dream for all our citizens, marks this budget proposal as completely unserious."# # #
03.06.2012	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) made the following remarks in the House of Representatives this evening as colleagues remembered New Jersey Democratic Representative Donald Payne, who passed away early this morning."It was with great sadness that I learned of the passing of my good friend and colleague, Donald Payne."Few members who have served in this institution have left a greater impression on their constituents, their colleagues, and their country's domestic and foreign policies than Don Payne."From the moment Don set foot in Congress, he was a powerful advocate for the needs and interests of his central New Jersey community – and of working Americans across the country. Bringing to bear his impressive and diverse record as a public school teacher, president of the National Council of YMCAs, and an elected official in Newark, Don quickly became one of the most forceful and effective advocates for public education in the Congress, playing a key role as a member of the Education and Labor Committee on virtually every major education reform enacted over the last two decades."As the first African American elected to Congress from New Jersey, Don was an equally forceful advocate for the continued struggle for civil rights, eventually becoming chair of the Congressional Black Caucus."His accomplishments in education and civil rights would qualify as a successful career for any member, but Don wasn't content to stop there. Driven by his early fascination with Africa and his adventuresome travels there, Don recognized that the struggle for civil rights and human dignity knew no borders. He rose to become one of the most effective chairmen of the Foreign Affairs Africa and Global Health Subcommittee that we have ever had in this institution. Our nation's expanded focus on AIDS, malaria, and other pandemic diseases over the past decade would simply not have occurred without Don's visionary leadership and moral courage. It was fitting that USAID announced the launch of a Donald Payne Fellowship program last week designed to help young people enter careers in international service."I was fortunate to benefit from Don's knowledge and advocacy personally, as he became a founding member of the bipartisan House Democracy Partnership, which I co-chair with my California colleague, Rep. David Dreier. Don's counsel, guidance and encouragement were invaluable as HDP initiated partnerships with legislatures in Africa and conducted outreach in countries affected by the 'Arab Spring.' Our travels together in the region forged a deep and lasting friendship. He probably knew more about the ins and outs of African politics than all the other members of this institution combined. He also had strong and well-informed views about what this country's policies should be, and he was ready to articulate those views persuasively, no matter who was president or what party was in charge. He also insisted on investigating situations on the ground, which led to quite a few one-man CODELs and some anxious moments for those who wanted to pre-package congressional visits or maintain airtight security. It was fascinating to talk to him about his diplomatic forays—which offered a combination of high adventure and a remarkable, inspiring dedication to the freedom and dignity of the people of Africa."Congress has lost a true statesman, a dedicated humanitarian, and a loyal public servant. We mourn his passing, and we will miss Don Payne's counsel and friendship."Photo caption: (From left to right) Reps. Donald Payne (D-NJ), David Dreier (R-CA), and David Price (D-NC) are pictured during a House Democracy Partnership visit to the Kenyan parliament.# # #
02.29.2012	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) released the following statement today in response to the announcement by California Republican David Dreier, the Chairman of the House Rules Committee, that he would retire at the end of this term. Rep. Dreier was also the founding chairman of the House Democracy Partnership (HDP), a peer-to-peer legislative strengthening program that works with members and staff in parliaments in developing democracies to increase their capacity. Rep. Price served as Chairman of HDP from 2007-2011 and currently serves as the commission's Co-Chair."Chairman Dreier is a consummate public servant whose deep respect for Congress as an institution will be sorely missed. I also count him as a close friend. It has been an honor and a pleasure to work alongside David throughout his distinguished career, dating back to our work in post-Soviet Europe during the early 1990s and culminating in our collaborative effort to found the House Democracy Partnership in 2005."Since then, we have worked closely together as HDP has established member-to-member and staff-to-staff partnerships with the legislatures of 17 developing democracies, traveling to the ends of the earth for interactions that enhance institutional independence and competence, accountability, transparency, and service to constituents in key countries such as Afghanistan, Indonesia, and Haiti. The success of this effort simply would not have been possible without David's passion for democratic ideals, his expert statesmanship and diplomatic flair, and his commitment to sharing the 223-year history of American democracy with those who have more recently embarked on a similar path. We have often disagreed vigorously on issues of party and policy, but with HDP, partisanship has always stopped at the water's edge."While the void left by David's departure will not be filled any time soon, I am confident he has many bright years ahead of him. I wish him well in his endeavors after Congress, and I hope and expect that he will continue to contribute to our country's diplomacy and to the development of democracy around the world."# # #
02.23.2012	Raleigh, N.C. – Yesterday evening, Representative David Price (NC-04) hosted a reception for friends and family of the 35 constituents he has nominated for appointment to the nation's service academies. Nominations are required for all but the U.S. Coast Guard Academy."Making nominations for appointments to our national service academies is one of my greatest honors and responsibilities as a member of Congress," Rep. Price said. "When our young people decide to dedicate their lives to the service of their country, they deserve our recognition and utmost commendation."Rep. Price with several nominees from the Fourth District.Eligible young people may apply to their US Representative and US Senators for nomination. After receiving nominations from members of Congress, admissions authorities at each institution determine which nominees will receive appointments. Each Senator and Representative may have up to five enrolled nominees per academy.Students interested in a nomination should contact Robyn Winneberger in Rep. Price's Raleigh office in the spring of their junior year in high school. More information on the nomination process and eligibility requirements is available on Rep. Price's "Service Academy Nominations" webpage.A complete list of local service academy nominees is below.2012 Service Academy NomineesAir Force AcademyPeter Barrow (Barrow School), Sean Blye (Cary HS), Jaylin Grant (Green Hope HS), Nathaniel Johnson (Apex HS), Stephen Klingman (Enloe HS), Mathew Meizner (Panther Creek HS), Chase Sax (Apex HS), Aaron Teran (Enloe HS), Stefan Wagner (North Raleigh Christian Academy), Martin York (Leesville Road HS)Military AcademyWilliam Fenton (Cardinal Gibbons HS), Brandon Greives (Culver Academy), Blake Harwood (Cary Christian), Courtney Johnson (Leesville Road HS), Metta Longo (Holly Springs HS), Brian Luong (Enloe HS), Roberts Nelson (Chapel Hill HS), Mark Pietryka (Cardinal Gibbons HS), Joel Self (Cary Christian), Clifford Smith (North Carolina State University)Naval AcademyMathew Ahlers (Enloe HS), Ryan Beale (Cardinal Gibbons HS), Cody Cordero (Naval Prep/Holly Springs HS), Eleanor Derouin (Cardinal Gibbons HS), Samuel Doyle (St. David's), Trevor Gasdaska (Chapel Hill HS), Abigail Isaacs (East Chapel Hill HS), Jordan Jensen (Panther Creek HS), Maximilian Salcedo (Valley Forge Military Academy), David VanVleet (Jordan HS)Merchant MarineMorgan Pennington (Fuquay HS), Taylor Huneycutt (Apex HS), Spencer Clark (Durham School of the Arts), Keegan Brian (Durham Academy), Tyler Spierdowis (Cedar Ridge HS)# # #
02.17.2012	Washington, D.C. –Representative David Price (NC-04) issued the following statement today after voting in favor of legislation to extend the Obama Administration's payroll tax holiday and unemployment benefits for millions of Americans who have lost their jobs as a result of the recession. The measure, which will add an average of $1,000 to the paychecks of 160 million working Americans and inject $100 billion into the economy, also avoids an impending cut in Medicare payments to doctors, ensuring that millions of seniors will not lose access to affordable health care.Although Congressman Price expressed strong support for the payroll tax cut, unemployment insurance, and Medicare doctors provisions, he also criticized congressional Republicans' insistence on offsetting the cost of these measures by increasing federal employees' contributions to their pension funds, reducing Medicare payments to hospitals and laboratory service providers, and rescinding funding from a key provision of the Affordable Care Act."I am proud to stand with the President and working Americans today by supporting this measure, which will add an average of $1,000 to the paychecks of working North Carolinians this year, extend unemployment benefits for Americans who have lost jobs through no fault of their own, and ensure seniors on Medicare will be able to see their doctors. After a year in which Republicans in Congress took the country from one manufactured crisis to the next, this bipartisan agreement is a step in the right direction – and at a time when so many families are still struggling to make ends meet, it may be our last chance to help revive the economy as we head into an election year."Once again, however, House Republicans are asking us to rob Peter to pay Paul, and the positive economic impact of this measure will be undermined in part by their senseless and misguided insistence that federal employees, hospitals, clinical laboratories, and preventive health programs must bear the cost. Unemployment benefits are paid out during true economic emergencies and should not require offsets. And to the extent we should offset the cost of the other programs extended in this measure, we should do so by asking corporations and the wealthiest Americans to pay their fair share – not by asking middle-class Americans and providers of health care who have already sacrificed in the name of deficit reduction to do even more."I'm particularly troubled by the demonization of federal workers by Republicans in Congress, which has reached a crescendo of late. To be effective and respond to the needs of the American people, government needs to attract the best and brightest to public service. Federal employees have already been subjected to a pay freeze, and now we are asking them to open their wallets again to pay for unemployment benefits for workers who have lost their jobs."I cannot in good conscience oppose a measure that puts money in the pockets of American workers, protects our fragile economic recovery, and maintains the safety net for unemployed workers and health care for seniors. But we simply must do better if we are to maintain the promise of expanding opportunity for working and middle class Americans."# # #
02.10.2012	Raleigh, NC - Good afternoon! I am honored to share this stage with so many leaders who have served our state and our nation with such distinction. . . and to share this room with the many Citizen Soldiers, first responders, elected officials, and public servants who work day-in and day-out to keep us strong and resilient. Secretary Richardson, we are particularly happy to welcome you to North Carolina today. I also want to recognize my friend Bob Etheridge, who played a key role in this effort as a member of Congress and more recently served as the Governor's point person for the Recovery Act in North Carolina.The famous quipster (and Army veteran) Cullen Hightower once remarked that "talk is cheap – except when Congress does it." So I choose my words carefully when I say that this is truly a momentous occasion. Looking around the room, I cannot recall a single time when I was prouder to call North Carolina home. It would take a full hour to acknowledge everybody who deserves recognition for being here today. So rather than subject you to the formalities, I'd like to briefly recount the timeline of events that produced this impressive facility, acknowledging some of those whose efforts made it possible along the way.Rarely do the needs of our nation, our state, and our community coincide as perfectly as they did in the case of this building. For the greater part of a decade, the men and women of the North Carolina National Guard had gone above and beyond the call of duty, facing repeated combat deployments and an expanding set of domestic response and recovery requirements. As they always have, our Citizen Soldiers performed their duty without question or complaint. But their leaders were operating in a cramped, crumbling building that was simply inadequate to the task – as were their counterparts at the Division of Emergency Management.The solution was obvious: a new Joint Forces Headquarters building that would not only give the National Guard a facility befitting its expanding role, but would also bring together our state's law enforcement and emergency management community under one roof, promoting coordination and a sense of common purpose.Unfortunately, obvious solutions don't always gain traction in the arcane world of Pentagon budgeting. For years, General Bill Ingram – whom we're delighted to have back with us today in his new capacity as Director of the U.S. Army National Guard – had made the case internally that a new facility was needed. And for years, I had chipped away at it on the congressional side, working to include language in the annual Military Construction spending bill urging the Pentagon to prioritize the project. But despite our best efforts, the project was left off or far down the list that governs the Pentagon's construction priorities.Then the global financial crisis sent the U.S. economy into a tailspin, and we entered 2009 bleeding hundreds of thousands of jobs a month. In states such as North Carolina that had experienced rapid growth before the bubble burst, the recession hit the construction industry especially hard, and thousands of workers suddenly found themselves with nothing to build. President Obama came to office determined to stop the bleeding, and the first major act of the 111th Congress was to enact the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act in February of 2009. As of last fall, up to 2.4 million Americans owed their jobs to the Recovery Act, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office.But the Recovery Act wasn't just about creating jobs, and it certainly wasn't about the federal government showering its largesse indiscriminately on states and localities. It was about investing in the right kind of projects – projects that would both create jobs in the short term and meet critical national needs in the long term. State and local partners needed to be ready, willing, and able to act – and to act quickly.That is where the North Carolina National Guard came in. There was nobody in the country better prepared to act when the moment of opportunity arose than General Ingram and his team. Before the Recovery Act was even a glimmer in the President's eye, Colonel Tom Harris – who I hope is resting easy in his retirement – was in touch with my staff to suggest that the Joint Forces Headquarters be considered for inclusion in any supplemental appropriations bills that Congress might pass.I needed no persuading, and – with the help of my former staff member, Tommy Ross, who could not be here today because he is now the Senate Majority Leader's senior defense advisor – I made the case to the Chairman of the Military Construction Appropriations Subcommittee, my good friend and former colleague Chet Edwards.Chet was an exemplary chairman – one of the best we've had – and America's men and women in uniform and veterans continue to benefit from his efforts. I'm deeply gratified that he has flown in from Texas to join us today. Chet, I hope you like what you see, because none of this would have been possible without your strategizing and support.Meanwhile, General Ingram ran the traps at the Pentagon, and Governor Beverly Perdue – newly inaugurated and already focusing like a laser on bringing North Carolina's economy back – did her part by making sure the State's contribution was secure. She also made the case directly to President Obama that this was a top priority for North Carolina. It became clear that if we could just be sure that the Recovery Act included some funding for Army National Guard construction, we had a pretty good idea of where it would go.It wasn't easy, but at the end of the day we ended up with $50 million in the bill – about 80 percent of which went to this project. I was also pleased to secure $2 million in additional funding through Homeland Security appropriations bills to help pay for the state-of-the-art Emergency Operations Center downstairs.Now, less than three years since we broke ground on this spot, we can see what a worthy investment it has been. General Lusk, we congratulate you on seeing the project through to the end. Not only will our state's National Guardsmen and first responders finally have the headquarters they deserve, but the project created or sustained an estimated 3,400 jobs along the way and generated over $40 million for the local economy, from the building design down to the light bulbs.In short, this Joint Forces Headquarters is exactly what we had in mind when we passed the Recovery Act: a collaborative venture among local, state, and federal stakeholders that both meets a critical need and generates well-paying jobs and economic growth along the way. Congratulations to all of you on a job well done. This facility is a tribute to your efforts, and the real, enduring reward for all of us who have been involved is that it will strengthen your ability to serve the citizens of North Carolina and of our country.
02.08.2012	Washington, D.C. – Reps. David Price (NC-04), Rush Holt (NJ-12), and Lois Capps (CA-23) led a group of 64 Members of Congress today in sending a letter to Interior Secretary Salazar thanking the administration for excluding new oil and gas development in the Atlantic or Pacific and urging caution against too quickly moving forward with additional leasing in the Arctic. The Members have joined a groundswell of voices building over recent months to protect the Arctic.During the public comment period that ends today on the Obama administration's proposed Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) oil and gas leasing program for 2012-2017, more than 250,000 people have urged President Obama to remove the two Arctic lease sales proposed in the draft plan. In addition, more than 500 distinguished U.S. and international scientists signed an open letter asking the Obama administration to follow through on its stated commitment to science in managing resource extraction in the Arctic.The administration's proposal would open the Arctic to new oil and gas development even though there is no viable method to clean up an oil spill in the Arctic's extreme conditions and we lack basic information about the Arctic's fragile marine environment."Last summer, a report from the nation's leading scientists identified major gaps in scientific knowledge about the Arctic ecosystem and the impacts of drilling in the region," Rep. Price said. "There are also serious questions about our ability to respond effectively to a spill in Arctic conditions. America has already learned the pitfalls of allowing risky oil and gas drilling to proceed without the proper safeguards in place to protect the environment and ensure quick spill containment. We should listen to the scientists, and not repeat our mistakes.""The Arctic is among the most challenging places on Earth to drill for oil – frigid, remote, dark, and underdeveloped," said Rep. Holt. "It is bizarre for oil companies to suggest that, despite their failure to contain the Deepwater Horizon spill under much kinder conditions, they are fully prepared to manage an Arctic disaster. Secretary Salazar should ensure that Arctic waters are managed as public trust, enforcing strong protections for public health and the environment.""While I'm pleased Secretary Salazar is committed to preventing new oil and gas drilling off the Pacific and Atlantic coasts, I remain concerned with any proposal that would allow new drilling in the Arctic Ocean," added Rep. Capps. "Despite assurances from the oil industry that it's safe, and some recent steps taken by the Interior Department to improve safety and environmental requirements, offshore drilling is a dirty and dangerous business. My constituents know firsthand that oil spills can and do happen, and how hard they are to clean up. They can tell you that if it was that hard to clean-up the spill in the relatively calm conditions off Santa Barbara, it's going to be near-impossible to respond to and contain any spill in the Arctic Ocean."The Members' letter notes that there are significant hurdles to resource extraction in the unique Arctic environment and outlines a series of strategies that should be in place prior to including any new leasing in the region.The text of the letter follows: The Honorable Ken SalazarSecretaryU.S. Department of the Interior1849 C Street, NWWashington DC 20240Dear Secretary Salazar:On behalf of the undersigned members of Congress, we write to comment on your administration's proposed 2012-2017 Outer Continental Shelf Oil (OCS) and Gas Leasing Program. Our comments focus specifically on three geographic regions: the Atlantic, the Pacific and the Arctic Oceans. While we are pleased to see that no oil and gas development will occur in the Atlantic or Pacific, we urge caution against too quickly moving forward with additional leasing in the Arctic, which this plan in its current form will do.Less than two years ago, the Deepwater Horizon oil rig suffered a catastrophic blowout, killing 11 crew members and setting off the biggest environmental disaster this country has witnessed. This tragedy reminded the U.S. public that offshore drilling is a risky, dangerous business. In the months since the disaster in the Gulf, the Department of the Interior (DOI) has taken steps to decrease the chances of another catastrophic blowout, and we appreciate these efforts. As the Department accepts comments on its new five-year plan for offshore drilling, the memory of this horrific accident must not be forgotten, and the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) and the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE) must move forward with the utmost caution.First, we are encouraged that BOEM did not include areas off the Pacific Coast for leasing in the draft 2012-2017 program. The agency stated it did not include the Pacific "to accommodate the recommendations of governors of coastal states and of state and local agencies." We support the agency's decision for the Pacific Coast.We are also encouraged by BOEM's deferral of leasing in the Atlantic in the draft 2012-2017 program. In its justification, the agency cited a "lack of infrastructure to support oil and gas exploration and development, as well as spill preparedness and response." As demonstrated in 2010 with the Deepwater Horizon disaster, sufficient spill preparedness is crucial to a successful offshore drilling operation, so we support the decision to keep the Atlantic lease-free through 2017.However, we are perplexed that the decision to withhold lease sales from the Atlantic due to a lack of infrastructure and spill preparedness was paired with the decision to hold two lease sales in the Arctic, a significantly more remote, undeveloped region. During the announcement of the proposed program, you noted the need to "proceed cautiously, safely and based on the best science available." The current draft fails to do this. The Arctic Ocean is at best a challenging climate for offshore drilling. At worst, the Arctic is a place with harsh weather conditions, sub-zero temperatures and long periods of darkness. The nearest Coast Guard station is more than 1,000 miles away from areas under consideration for leasing. Spill response capacity is simply nonexistent in these remote, icy waters. Just this summer the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS), in its report on the Arctic, stated that because of major gaps in scientific understanding of the region "it is difficult, if not impossible" to make informed decisions about oil and gas development in America's Arctic Ocean. In addition, the President's own oil spill commission stated that, "the remoteness and weather of the Arctic frontier create special challenges in the event of an oil spill. Successful oil-spill response methods from the Gulf of Mexico, or anywhere else, cannot simply be transferred to the Arctic."The Arctic is a unique environment with significant hurdles that the DOI and related agencies must genuinely address before considering any new leasing in the region in the upcoming five-year plan. Outlined below are a series of strategies that should be in place prior to including Arctic areas in a five-year plan.• DOI must prioritize protections for important ecological and subsistence use areas based on adequate science that ensures the Arctic Ocean and its wildlife and people are protected.• DOI must adopt new regulations on spill response and planning standards. There have been no changes in spill response regulations since the Deepwater Horizon disaster and existing regulations are far too weak. Within those regulations there should be specific standards for operating in the Arctic. Such regulations should address issues like location of adequate capping and containment systems, immediate relief well rig capability, seasonal drilling restrictions, and full sensitive area and shoreline response strategies and equipment.• Consistent with updated regulations, companies and federal agencies like the Coast Guard should be required to develop and have in place adequate spill response plans, methods and equipment to ensure an effective response to a potential spill.• The USGS report on the Arctic gave over 60 recommendations to make informed leasing decisions. DOI must have a sound scientific plan for managing any future leasing in the Arctic Ocean by implementing these recommendations.• Equipment to be used for drilling and spill containment and response needs to be tested and proven effective in Arctic conditions.Including lease sales in the proposed 2012-2017 five year plan before these strategies are in place will put the fragile Arctic ecosystem at significant risk.To conclude, before any new leasing activity is scheduled for the Arctic, all agencies involved in the planning process must develop adequate science to understand the implications of drilling in the Arctic Ocean, put in place a plan that guarantees protection of the Arctic Ocean and ecosystem, and guarantee that companies bidding on leases in the Arctic Ocean and applying for permits to drill wells in this unique, intact ecosystem, are fully prepared to handle a disaster like Deepwater Horizon.Sincerely,Members of CongressSigners (in alphabetical order): Gary Ackerman, Howard Berman, Earl Blumenauer, Bruce Braley, Lois Capps, David Cicilline, Emanuel Cleaver, Steven Cohen, Gerry Connolly, John Conyers, Diana DeGette, Donna Edwards, Keith Ellison, Anna Eshoo, Sam Farr, Bob Filner, Barney Frank, John Garamendi, Raul Grijalva, Luis Gutierrez, Alcee Hastings, Maurice Hinchey, Mazie Hirono, Rush Holt, Mike Honda, Jesse Jackson, Jr., Bill Keating, Dale Kildee, Dennis Kucinich, Jim Langevin, Barbara Lee, John Lewis, Zoe Lofgren, Ed Markey, Doris Matsui, Betty McCollum, Jim McDermott, James McGovern, Mike Michaud, Brad Miller, George Miller, Jim Moran, Jerrold Nadler, John Olver, Frank Pallone, Bill Pascrell, Chellie Pingree, David Price, Steven Rothman, Bobby Rush, Loretta Sanchez, Jan Schakowsky, Adam Schiff, Bobby Scott, Jose Serrano, Louise Slaughter, Jackie Speier, Pete Stark, Mike Thompson, Paul Tonko, Niki Tsongas, Maxine Waters, Henry Waxman, Lynn Woolsey
01.25.2012	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) released the following statement this evening after President Barack Obama delivered his 2012 State of the Union Address."Tonight, President Obama reiterated that he will fight for what's right: the promise of America should be for all, not just the wealthy few. For the past three years, he has worked with Democrats in Congress, he has fought to reform health care, rein in Wall Street, expand access to higher education, and most important of all, start a recovery that has added 3.2 million private sector jobs over the last 22 months. I have been proud to stand with him."But we must do more. We are in a make or break moment for our middle class, and those trying to reach it. President Obama's blueprint to restore and revitalize our middle class—focused on promoting education, research, and clean energy and developing innovative businesses and manufacturing here at home—is the right one. I also applaud the President's call for a return to tax fairness for working Americans. Warren Buffett's Secretary, Debbie Bosanek, was in attendance tonight. She should not pay a greater percentage of her income in taxes than her billionaire boss. Nor should seniors, or students, or families working hard to get by pay a greater percentage than those who earn more than a million dollars a year."Our middle class is the engine of our nation's economic growth, but the top one percent now control more wealth than the bottom 90 percent. This inequality is neither accidental nor inevitable–it is the result of a deliberate policy agenda pursued by Republican administrations and Republicans in Congress that views tax cuts for the wealthy as more important than investments in public education, research, infrastructure and innovation. This is not the way America is supposed to work. I will fight alongside the President to revitalize our middle class. We must again employ government as an instrument of our common purpose if we are to restore an economy that rewards hard work and responsibility."Going forward, I am hopeful that Democrats and Republicans in Congress will come together in good faith to work with the President, beginning with a year-long extension of the payroll tax cut and unemployment benefits. If House Republicans continue to stand in his way and insist on returning to the same policies that brought about the economic crisis, they will have to explain their obstructionism to the American people."# # #
01.25.2012	Washington, D.C. – In advance of President Obama's State of the Union address this evening, Representative David Price (NC-04) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives urging his colleagues to pass a full-year extension of the payroll tax cut right away. Rep. Price stressed that Congress should move past the manufactured budget crises that characterized the previous legislative session, which created economic uncertainty and drove public opinion of Congress to new lows, and begin consideration of the President's broader jobs agenda. President Obama has said this is a "make or break" moment for the economic recovery and our middle class. The text of Rep. Price's remarks is below.See video of Rep. Price's remarksLast year, as we lurched from one congressionally-manufactured crisis to another, uncertainty plagued families and businesses, and the American people's confidence in our ability to do their work plummeted.In the first few months of the new year, we can right these wrongs and proceed in a deliberative, mature manner to address our nation's problems.As the President will reiterate tonight in his State of the Union Address—this is a "Make or Break" moment for our economic recovery, our middle class and those trying to reach the middle class.Extending this payroll tax cut will put an average $1,000 in the pockets of workers this year. Let us not play games by threatening to raise taxes on 160 million workers if you don't get your way on one bargaining chip or another.We should pass a full year extension of the payroll tax cut right away, and then move on to the President's broader jobs bill that would create jobs and put us on a faster road to recovery.# # #
01.18.2012	Washington, D.C.–Representative David Price (NC-04) released the following statement today reiterating his opposition to H.R. 3261, the proposed Stop Online Piracy Act. Several large websites, including Wikipedia and Google, have launched advocacy campaigns against the bill today on the grounds that it gives the government too much power to shut down websites accused of violating copyright laws. Rep. Price announced his opposition to the bill on Twitter several weeks ago."I am opposed to the proposed SOPA bill. I believe that intellectual property must be protected, but not at the expense of the open internet."At its best government is an engaged and responsive instrument of our common purpose, so I have been greatly encouraged by the success advocates have had making their voices heard. Today's 'black-out' campaigns by Google, Wikipedia and other major websites echo the voices of the many constituents I've heard from in phone calls, emails and on social media expressing their opposition to this proposal."To follow Rep. Price on Twitter, click here.# # #
01.13.2012	Children's Hospital Lobby, UNC-Chapel Hill - I very much appreciate the invitation to share this Martin Luther King observance with you. It is entirely fitting that UNC Heath Care set this time aside, for the work you do in this community and across the State is directly related to Dr. King's message and mission: to make people's lives better in the ways that matter most and that overcome past deprivation and injustice. As Dr. King himself said in 1966, addressing the Medical Committee for Human Rights, "Of all the forms of inequality, injustice in health care is the most shocking and inhumane." By the same token, it is a cause for satisfaction and celebration when we can alleviate suffering, can enhance the quality of life, and can extend the benefits and blessings of medical science to those who have previously been denied them. The challenge of the King holiday is to reconnect our work, our daily activities, to our moral vision, to our sense of the kind of community we want to live in and contribute to. In few areas is that connection as strong as in the practice of medicine and the provision of health care.For me and others of my student generation, there is another, more personal, connection between this campus and the King legacy. I had the good fortune to come to UNC as a transfer student in 1959, as the civil rights movement swept across the south. I say "good fortune" advisedly: I remain grateful that those were my formative years, years that forever altered my religious, political, and social outlook. Many in our generation came to realize that our faith did not touch us merely as individuals, nor could our moral code be simply personal. We were called to envision and to help realize a just society. Dr. King helped us rediscover the Hebrew prophets with their stirring admonition to "let justice roll down like waters, and righteousness like an ever flowing stream" (Amos 5:24).We also learned something about social change; about the importance of reaching across racial and religious and economic barriers to find common ground; and, yes, about politics as an instrument for positive change in a democratic society. We learned that enough dedicated people, working together, could right ancient wrongs. Whatever else happened in my life – and I certainly didn't think that would include running for Congress – the civil rights experience guaranteed that I would understand the potential of politics and government as instruments of our common purpose and would strive to be attentive and engaged.Some victories came remarkable quickly, especially when we compare them to the sluggishness and frustrations of political change before and since. These victories owed a great deal to Martin Luther King's ability both to prick the nation's conscience and to strategize effectively. It was a mere four years between our picketing on Franklin Street – to integrate the restaurants and the theaters of Chapel Hill – and the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. I was working as an aide in the U.S. Senate that summer, and I will never forget the moment, crowded into the Senate gallery, when I witnessed the decisive vote. It could not have been more dramatic: one senator, who was dying of cancer, was brought into the chamber on a stretcher and, too weak to speak, raised his finger in assent.Those are indeed memories, and the culmination of a movement, to be grateful for and to take inspiration from. Dr. King often spoke the language of liberation, invoking Isaiah's account of the prophet's calling: "[The Lord] has sent me to proclaim release to the captives and recovery of sight to the blind, to let the oppressed go free" (Isaiah 61:1). And who were the captives? Certainly the African Americans still living in the shadow of slavery, their liberties violated, their opportunities blocked, their dignity denied. But the entire society was captive to the divisive and destructive practice of segregation and discrimination, to the poison of racism and prejudice. The entire community was in need of liberation, and we can look back in gratitude for the work of Martin Luther King and many others – including those who pressed for change in this university and this community – that lifted a burden from us all.And yet...as Dr. King would be the first to tell us, as powerful as our remembrance and our gratitude may be, they are not enough. Dr. King's message and the movement he led changed our country forever, but the vision of justice "rolling down like waters," and of what he called the "beloved community," remains a clear and present challenge. This day of remembrance must also be a day of re-visioning and rededication. Dr. King himself moved on from those remarkable legislative victories of 1964 and 1965 to take on the even tougher challenges of economic inequality and injustice and the misbegotten war in Vietnam. Let us remember: King was martyred in the midst of a struggle for dignity and fair pay for Memphis sanitation workers.And so the struggle for justice goes on on various fronts, including the front lines of health care. Sometime we yearn for what in retrospect seems the clarity of the civil rights challenge and the remarkably rapid advance from marches and protests to landmark legislation. I do wonder sometimes how even a cause as compelling as the one Dr. King led would fare among the deep divisions and ideological rigidity and opposition-for-opposition's sake that characterize our politics today. But I do know this: the quest for "liberty and justice for all" remains before us. The way forward may not always be as clear or as tractable as we would like, but the cause is no less compelling. Our observance of the King holiday falls short if we fail to ask ourselves what contribution to a more just and peaceful world, in whatever ways are open to us, we are prepared to make.And that, I believe, brings us back to health care, whether as practitioners or as policy makers or as citizens concerned about what kind of community we wish to be. Health care remains one of the most significant indicators and causes of inequality in our society. Much of the burden still falls on racial and ethnic minorities, who are less likely to receive preventive care and routine medical procedures, and who have higher rates of morbidity and mortality than their fellow citizens. We also have a long history of inequality of access to health insurance. Women have paid more just because they are women. People with pre-existing conditions or risk factors have been denied or priced out of coverage. Until recently, it has been all too easy for insurance companies that were so inclined to deny benefits to patients just when they need it most. And only now are we beginning to attend to the full range of health needs presented by returning service men and women and our veterans.Health care and health care reform therefore remain critical areas of soul-searching and policy debate for our country – whether we are struggling to give North Carolina families the access they need to mental health services, to make Medicaid in this state a model of collaborative care that both contains costs and improves outcomes, to expand the remarkable work of our community health centers, or to create an insurance exchange that makes coverage accessible and affordable to individuals not covered at work and to small businesses. At the federal level we have already enabled families to keep children on their insurance policies into their mid-twenties – the aspect of the Affordable Care Act that constituents probably most often mention to me – we have outlawed the denial of coverage to children based on pre-existing conditions, we've begun to close the infamous "donut hole" that has limited senior citizens' prescription drug coverage, and we've held the line on critical research funding.So health care is on the front lines of the struggle for a more just and inclusive society. Very little of this, unfortunately, comes without political controversy. It is critically important that we find agreement when we can but fight when we must. The Martin Luther King holiday is an opportune time to pause and consider these obligations and how we live up to the values we profess. The men and women of UNC Health Care are not waiting for the policy debates to be resolved: you are delivering compassionate and competent care every day, and our community is grateful to you for your service. But the policy debates are also important. May we take this occasion to reflect on where we've been and where we need to go – and what our own contributions can be – as we consider the health and wellness needs of all our people and the place they take in our quest for a just society.# # #
01.04.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) released the following statement applauding President Obama for appointing former Ohio Attorney General Richard Cordray to head the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). The President's decision to make the appointment while the Senate is in recess for holiday break circumvents Senate Republicans who have refused to confirm Cordray, or any other nominee to head the bureau, until the agency's power to protect consumers is curtailed."President Obama is right to appoint Mr. Cordray to head the CFPB. With a full-time, highly qualified director, the Bureau will have the leadership it needs to combat schemes that take advantage of consumers, to keep financial institutions honest, and to prevent the kinds of abuses that led to the financial crash. It's time every American had consumer protections they can count on, even if Senate Republicans want to deny them these protections to score political points."The CFPB was created as a part of comprehensive Wall Street Reform legislation passed in the previous Congress with Rep. Price's support. In early December, Rep. Price called on Senate Republicans to confirm Cordray. Senate Republicans used the filibuster to stop the nomination with a minority of votes.# # #
12.16.2011	Washington, D.C. – With legislation to cut payroll taxes and continue extended unemployment benefits stalled in the Senate, Representative David Price (NC-04) today called on Republicans to come to the negotiating table to reach an agreement that both houses of Congress can pass before Christmas.The House-passed GOP plan would continue unemployment benefits in the short term, but phase them out for the long-term unemployed by reducing the maximum number of federally-funded weeks of unemployment insurance from 73 to 33 in many states. According to estimates prepared by members of the House Ways and Means Committee, the GOP plan would reduce benefits for 180,000 North Carolina residents. Across the country, this change would result in a reduction in benefits for more than 3.3 million Americans in 2012, and a complete loss of benefits for 940,000."Many of my Republican colleagues have advanced the notion that cutting unemployment benefits will actually help the economy because unemployed people prefer collecting unemployment insurance over working. That is a fantasy," Rep. Price said. "We should have a safety net that helps people who lose jobs through no fault of their own. Slashing unemployment benefits while North Carolinians are still struggling isn't consistent with our values as Americans."The Republican plan's payroll tax cut would be paid for by freezing the salaries of federal workers until 2014, raising Medicare premiums, and cutting health insurance reform programs. The American Federation of Federal Government Employees estimates that the federal worker pay freeze would pull $60 billion in wages out of the economy over two-years. As the home of both the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences and the largest EPA facility outside of Washington, D.C., the Fourth District has thousands of federal workers."The GOP has spent enough time taking pot shots at working people and the economy," Rep. Price said. "Now is not the time to be pulling money out of the economy. They need to come to the negotiating table and do what's right instead of attacking the very benefits that help unemployed Americans get back on their feet."# # #
12.15.2011	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) gave the following statement for the record this evening as the House of Representatives considered H.R. 1540, the Fiscal Year 2012 Defense Authorization Act. Rep. Price voted against the measure, which usually passes with broad bipartisan support, because of provisions—included by Congressional Republicans—that tie the President's hands in the war on terror and give the military a role in the detention of terror suspects it has not sought.MR. SPEAKER, this Congress has enacted a defense authorization bill every year for the last half-century, generally with broad bipartisan support. The reason for this broad support is simple: under Republican and Democratic leadership alike, we have recognized that support for our nation's men and women in uniform should remain above the partisan fray, unencumbered by controversial policy debates that are only tangentially related to the mission of our Armed Forces.Throughout my service in Congress, I have almost always supported this annual measure, which authorizes funding for a wide range of programs upon which our military depends, from salaries and benefits to military health care to critical equipment and readiness accounts. I thus find it deeply unfortunate that the House Republican leadership chose to use this year's bill as a vehicle for advancing ill-advised policies that seek to tie the President's hands in the war on terror and expand the military's role in the detention and disposition of terror suspects, at the expense of our civilian justice system and our civil liberties.To be sure, the original House version of this bill, which I opposed, was much worse. It would not only have indefinitely extended the Authorization for the Use of Military Force that was enacted in the wake of September 11, but would also have required suspects detained pursuant to that authorization to be prosecuted in military tribunals. My Republican colleagues' inexplicable insistence on forcing terror trials into military commissions instead of civilian courts flies in the face of the facts; our court system has a strong record of trying and convicting terrorism suspects, while the record of military commissions has been spotty at best. It is no wonder that the Obama Administration threatened to veto this bill—as any administration, Democrat or Republican, would almost certainly have done.To their credit, our Democratic conferees succeeded in averting the worst aspects of the House bill in the conference report before us today. But they didn't go far enough. The measure would still require all foreign suspects detained in the war on terror to be kept in military custody, potentially disrupting critical anti-terrorism operations and muddying the waters of a process that should be crystal clear. As FBI Director Robert Mueller reiterated today, this provision would unnecessarily complicate interrogation and intelligence collection—the very capabilities that the provision's supporters claim they are trying to enhance. The conference report would also needlessly reaffirm our ability to detain terror suspects indefinitely, upholding an ambiguity in current law that should be resolved by the courts. And it would impose new consultation requirements that further restrain the discretion of the Attorney General to determine how to prosecute terror cases.For these reasons, I intend to oppose the measure before us today, despite my strong support for the majority of its provisions. In the future, rather than using the defense authorization bill to advance their partisan agenda, I urge the Republican leadership to return to the past practice of leaving controversial policy debates for another time and place. Our men and women in uniform deserve nothing less.# # #
12.14.2011	Washington, D.C. – On Tuesday, the United States Postal Service announced it will delay all closures or consolidations of its offices and facilities nationwide until May 15, 2012, due to pressure from Congress. Representative David Price (NC-04) is calling for Congress to use this opportunity to reform the Postal Service to ensure its long-term viability. At the heart of the Postal Service's current financial crisis is a backbreaking pension mandate that has led the Postal Service to consider closing thousands of post offices and hundreds of mail processing centers, including many in North Carolina.The USPS's proposed closure plan would eliminate 120,000 jobs nationwide by 2015. Two Fayetteville mail processing centers, which employ over 400 people, are being considered for closure and consolidation under the plan in addition to the East Durham and Raleigh Five Points offices in the Triangle. Last week, Rep. Price wrote to Postmaster Donahoe opposing the proposed closure and consolidation of the Fayetteville facilities and expressed his opposition at a public meeting held with Postal Officials in Fayetteville regarding the proposal. The Postal Service has also recommended eliminating six-day delivery and overnight delivery of first class mail in order to cut costs."Congress should seize the opportunity presented by the Postal Service's decision to delay the closure and consolidation of its offices and facilities," Rep. Price said. "We can reform the Postal Service and preserve its independence from taxpayer funding without drastic cuts that will cost thousands of jobs in our communities and lead to significant reductions of service, but we need to act before it's too late."Rep. Price is currently a cosponsor of legislation that would provide immediate relief to pension obligations imposed on USPS by a 2006 law. Under current law, the Postal Service is required to pre-pay $5.5 billion a year (until 2016) into a fund for future retiree health care costs. The legislation would also reimburse the Postal Service for overpayments it made into the Federal Employee Retirement System for employees who earned federal government retirement benefits while the service was still a government agency. Under the bill, the reimbursement amount would be determined by an Office of Personnel Management study."My colleagues should view this six month reprieve on post office and facility closures as a call to action. We must act with a sense of urgency to pass common-sense legislation pending before both the House and Senate to reform the Postal Service pension prepayment mandate before the Postal Service takes unnecessary draconian action." Rep. Price said. "Congressional leadership should get to work on this right away. Congress imposed this backbreaking mandate on the Postal Service and Congress should reform it before we talk about massive closures and layoffs."# # #
12.14.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. David Price (D-NC) will join President Barack Obama on a visit to Fort Bragg welcoming troops returning from Iraq. Rep. Price released the following statement this morning:"I am honored to join President Obama in welcoming our troops home to Fort Bragg," Rep. Price said. "Our fighting men and women from Fort Bragg, and their families here at home, have made immense sacrifices during the war in Iraq. We owe each returning member of every service branch and all our veterans a commitment to ensuring they receive the benefits they've earned."Rep. Price is a Co-Chair of the House Democracy Partnership (HDP), which works with parliaments in developing democracies to expand their capacities. HDP initiated a partnership with the Iraqi parliament in October.# # #
12.08.2011	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) released the following statement today after Senate Republicans voted to filibuster President Obama's nominee to head the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), former Ohio Attorney General Richard Cordray. Heading into today's vote, 44 Republican Senators had pledged to block the President's nominee until the CFPB's ability to protect consumers is curtailed. In a speech to Congress last week, Rep. Price urged the Senate to confirm Mr. Cordray right away."The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is a cornerstone of the Wall Street reform Democrats passed in 2010. The Bureau is empowered to act independently to immediately end schemes that take advantage of consumers and prevent the kinds of abuses that led to the financial crash. In short, its job is to keep banks, mortgage brokers, credit card companies and our financial markets fair and honest."As we recover from a recession made worse by predatory lending practices and regulators who were asleep at the switch, it is appalling that Senate Republicans have doubled-down on obstructing Mr. Cordray's nomination at the expense of the American people. I urge the President to continue his efforts to place Mr. Cordray in charge of the CFPB and to consider any and all options to do so."# # #
12.07.2011	Washington, D.C. – Representative David Price (NC-04) released the following statement today as the United States Postal Service announced that the downtown Raleigh Post Office will remain open. Earlier this year, Rep. Price aided efforts by local officials to keep the Century Station Post Office open, writing a letter to Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe."I'm very pleased to see the downtown Raleigh post office will stay open," Rep. Price said. "The Century Station Post Office has been essential to life in downtown Raleigh for 134 years, and I expect it to remain so for many more."The news comes a day after the Postal Service, which has already recommended eliminating six-day delivery, announced plans to end overnight delivery of first class mail and released a list of facilities it will close across the country, including many in North Carolina communities, eliminating 120,000 jobs by 2015. Two Fayetteville mail processing centers, which employ over 400 people, are slated for closure under the plan. On Monday, Rep. Price weighed in with another letter to Postmaster Donahoe opposing the closing of the Fayetteville facilities. Today, Price also added his name to a letter being circulated by Rep. Steve Cohen (D-TN) expressing opposition to the restructuring plan."I believe the Postal Service can and must be reformed. Congress should work with the Postal Service, considering all the options to keep the agency solvent amid declines in mail traffic while continuing its independence from taxpayer funding. Until we act, however, drastic measures that will cost thousands of jobs in our communities should be avoided."Rep. Price is a cosponsor of H.R. 1351, the United States Postal Services Pension Obligation Recalculation and Restoration Act of 2011, which would provide immediate relief to pension obligations imposed on USPS by a 2006 law. Under the law, the Postal Service is required to pre-pay $5.5 billion a year (until 2016) into a fund for future retiree health care costs. The bill would also reimburse the Postal Service for overpayments it made into the Federal Employee Retirement System for employees who earned federal government retirement benefits while the service was still a government agency. Under the bill, the reimbursement amount would be determined by an Office of Personnel Management study."No other government agency is held to such a prepayment requirement. By imposing this onerous mandate, Congress has legislated the Postal Service into a position where it is in danger of default and put thousands of jobs at risk, including many in North Carolina. We should fix this problem before we talk about closing facilities and firing workers.# # #
12.07.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) reintroduced H.R. 3585, the Stand By Every Ad Act aimed at expanding political ad disclosure requirements to entities covered by the Supreme Court's Citizens United decision. Rep. Price is the author of the "Stand By Your Ad" disclosure requirement, and the new bill builds upon the existing law by requiring corporations, labor unions and associations to abide by the same standards as candidates and political parties."In the wake of Citizens United, corporations, labor unions, and shadowy "Super PACs" are using their deep pockets to bankroll political ads with no accountability," Rep. Price said. "The 2012 election cycle is poised to set new records for special-influence money, and the least we can do is make every advertiser follow the same rules as candidates and political parties."Rep. Price's legislation would ensure that all paid campaign ads include a "Stand By Your Ad" disclaimer, no matter who pays for it. The requirements would apply to every paid ad – whether conveyed over the airwaves or via the internet (the requirement would not apply to unpaid activities of bloggers and activists consistent with existing FEC regulations). The requirement also would apply to pre-recorded robo calls, which have been used to deceive voters in recent elections.For ads paid for by corporations or unions, the CEO or highest ranking member of the union would have to appear in the ad and take credit for the advertisement. For an association or "Super PAC" ad, the highest official in the group would have to appear and the top five donors to the ad would have to be listed.During the 111th Congress, Rep. Price joined forces with Republican Rep. Michael Castle of Delaware to introduce identical legislation, and provisions of the measure were incorporated into the comprehensive bill introduced by the House Democratic leadership in response to the Citizens United vs. FEC decision (known as the DISCLOSE Act, or H.R. 5175). The House approved the DISCLOSE Act in June 2010, but the Senate failed to act on the measure before the 111th Congress adjourned."Republican leaders seem intent on doing away with the transparency and accountability that are at the heart of our democracy," Rep. Price said. "But 'Stand By Your Ad is no joke, and it shouldn't be treated as an afterthought. Knowing who is paying for the barrage of political advertising they will experience over the next year is no laughing matter for American voters.""Stand By Your Ad" has been credited with improving voters' understanding of the choices they face on Election Day and was explicitly upheld as constitutional in the Supreme Court's 2003 McConnell v. FEC decision.# # #
12.01.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04), the author of legislation to "mend, not end" the presidential campaign public financing system, spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives, urging his colleagues to oppose the third GOP effort this year to abolish the program. Rep. Price called on House Republicans to get to work on the American people's priorities—economic growth and job creation—instead of focusing on a bill that would allow more special interest and corporate money to pour into presidential elections.House Republicans brought the bill forward as a deficit reduction measure, using savings from repealing the campaign public financing system to pay for a bill undermining the rights of workers; an effort Rep. Price called "the height of cynicism." The text of Rep. Price's remarks is below.Watch Rep. Price's Remarks on YouTube"Mr. Speaker, I rise for the third time this year to oppose a measure that would summarily repeal our system of public funding for presidential elections."Once again, the House majority seems intent on dismantling the few remaining safeguards we have left against the influence of special interests in politics, following the Supreme Court's Citizens United ruling. The fact that they are ostensibly bringing this bill forward as a deficit reduction measure, in order to pay for a bill to undermine workers' rights, is the height of cynicism."The bill before us today would destroy one of the most successful examples reform that followed the Watergate scandal. Dare we forget what that scandal was about? The Committee to Re-elect the President, fueled by huge quantities of corporate cash, paying for criminal acts and otherwise subverting the American electoral system."The hallmark of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1974, enacted at a time when public confidence in the government was dangerously low, was our voluntary program of public financing for presidential elections. To this day, this innovative reform stands as one of the greatest steps we have taken to bring transparency and accountability to our electoral system."And it has worked remarkably well -- being utilized in the general election by every Republican and Democratic presidential nominee from 1976 through 2004 and by John McCain in 2008 -- although in recent years the need for modernization has become evident."Perhaps the best example of this program's success is President Ronald Reagan, who participated in the presidential public financing system in all three of his presidential campaigns -- in 1976, 1980 and 1984."The Reagan case illustrates the positive effects public financing has had in both parties, at both the primary and general election stages. It illuminates the way in which the system benefits candidates who challenge the party's establishment. It also highlights the system's focus on small donations, rather than big bucks from large contributors. Note that this is no free ride, no willy nilly spending program: candidates must seek the support of thousands of small donors during the primary to prove their viability, and only then do they receive matching public funds."Today one could wish -- in light of the positive history of this program and prior Republican support -- for a bipartisan effort to repair the system and restore its effectiveness. I don't know of any policy challenge that exemplifies the maxim, 'mend it; don't end it' better than this one."Earlier this year, Congressman Van Hollen and I reintroduced a bill that would do just that. It would modernize the presidential public financing system and again make it an attractive and viable option for presidential candidates. Our bill would bring available funds into line with the increased cost of campaigns, adjust the program to the front-loaded primary calendar, and enhance the role of small donors. The bill has been carefully designed and deserves deliberation and debate."Instead, we are faced with yet another Republican attempt to open the floodgates for corporate cash and special-interest influence to pour into our political system."With confidence in government at rock bottom and perceptions of government corruption through the roof, why is the majority trying to return us to the dark days of Watergate? Let's instead restore and improve our public financing system and move on to real solutions to put our nation's fiscal house in order."Let's not use valuable floor time to pass a bill that has NO chance of becoming law. The American people want us to get to work on important measures to revive the struggling economy and put people back to work."I urge the majority to heed their call and get to work on passing the remaining appropriations bills, fixing the Medicare physician reimbursement, extending the payroll tax cut and unemployment benefits, patching the AMT, and reauthorizing the FAA in time for families' holiday travel."But I'm afraid their pleas are falling on deaf ears. We need to get to work on the people's business, not on this flawed bill that threatens to allow big money to play an even larger role in our politics."Releated InformationThe New York Times: (Editorial) Watergate? Whatever Was That?November 30, 2011House Republicans will surely invoke their all-purpose rationale — deficit savings — as they try on Thursday to repeal the public financing option for presidential campaigns. This is the highly effective reform enacted after the Watergate scandal. It is revealing that just as a new era of unbridled corporate and special-interest money engulfs the 2012 elections, Republicans are determined to kill off the public financing option.For decades, every major candidate opted for the subsidies and the spending limits until Congress failed to increase the federal match to account for campaign inflation. George W. Bush opted out for the primary fight in his 2000 campaign, seeking a larger war chest from private donors. Barack Obama dropped it for both the primary and general elections. He vowed to fix a "broken" system — not now as he enjoys unprecedented private financing.The cynicism at work in the House is underlined by the fact that even as Republican leaders target the public option, the Republican Party has quietly requested and received a tidy $17.7 million in public money to pay for its presidential convention next year (while offering no righteous outcries that it be offset by budget cutbacks).Democratic Party leaders are also taking convention money, but at least House Democrats are fighting to repair, not bury, the public option. A strong measure to update donation formulas and campaign subsidies has been submitted by Representatives David Price of North Carolina and Chris Van Hollen of Maryland. It has the added virtue of continuing the Election Assistance Commission, set up after the 2000 presidential vote-count crisis to help upgrade state and local voting systems.Republicans want to shut that down, too, in the name of mission accomplished. Not hardly. More than ever, voters need a robust public presidential option and a continuing Election Assistance Commission.# # #
11.30.2011	Washington, D.C. –Representative David Price (NC-04) co-sponsored three bills today designed to stop efforts in North Carolina and other states to obstruct voting rights and disenfranchise hundreds of thousands of voters."Half a million North Carolina residents—including many minorities, seniors, women and young people—do not have a photo ID," Rep. Price said. "The General Assembly is trying to make it harder for these citizens to vote. It is an attack on voting rights, plain and simple."The bills Rep. Price is co-sponsoring would prohibit photo identification requirements to register to vote or cast a ballot, require same-day registration, and protect "no excuses" absentee voting by mail. This summer, General Assembly Republicans passed legislation instituting a voter ID requirement in North Carolina. The legislation was vetoed by Governor Perdue, but Republicans have continued to push for passage of the measure in a series of short, abruptly-called sessions this fall."The right to vote is the very bedrock of democracy. We must reject any attempt to restrict the ability of law-abiding citizens to exercise that right, especially when the clear motivation is political gain."Proponents of voter ID have raised the specter of voter fraud, but voter fraud is already a felony offense. That penalty appears to have a significant deterrent effect. According to Democracy North Carolina, between 2004 and 2008, a period encompassing multiple national, state and local elections, the State Board of Elections found only five votes per million cast were fraudulent.The bills Rep. Price is co-sponsoring are:• H.R. 3316 (Rep. Keith Ellison-MN) - prohibiting election officials from requiring photo identification to register to vote or cast a ballot.• H.R. 3317 (Rep. Keith Ellison-MN) – requiring states with a voter registration requirement to make same-day voter registration available at the polling place on the election days (or on the day of voting for early voting)• H.R. 2084 (Rep. Susan Davis-CA) – prohibiting a state from imposing additional conditions or requirements on the eligibility of and individual to cast a vote in federal elections by mail, except to the extent that it imposes a deadline for requesting the ballot and returning it to the appropriate state or local election official.# # #
11.22.2011	Washington, D.C. – Friday, Rep. David Price (NC-04) introduced legislation aimed at providing emergency relief to poultry farmers who lost out on production contracts because of corporate bankruptcies and the closure of numerous processing plants across the nation. The legislation would affect farmers across the Southeast, including growers in Chatham, Alamance, Harnett, and Orange Counties.Poultry farmers who contract with large poultry processors often incur significant debt to build and update their chicken houses and farms with the understanding that they will be reimbursed at a pre-determined rate upon delivery of their flock to the processors. But, poultry processors are not restricted from terminating contracts with the growers who incur such substantial start-up expenses. A string of poultry processing company bankruptcies and the resulting contract terminations have left farm families in danger of losing their farms, livelihoods, and homes."These farmers' contracts were pulled through no fault of their own," Rep. Price said. "This legislation will help growers land on their feet, allowing them time to find new contracts, or restructure their farms."Poultry growers are not currently eligible for disaster assistance from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). Price's legislation directs the USDA to provide funding to the growers through a temporary financial assistance program. A similar bill was introduced by North Carolina Representative Bob Etheridge in the 111th Congress, which resulted in the implementation of a USDA lost poultry contract relief assistance program in 2009.# # #
11.18.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. David Price (NC-04) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives opposing Republican Presidential Candidate Rick Perry's plan to eliminate foreign aid and require American allies, such as Israel and Egypt, to start "at zero" to justify any aid received in the future. Other Republican candidates have signaled their support for Perry's plan, which would apparently apply to all forms of foreign assistance, including military aid, global health, humanitarian relief, and economic development assistance. In his remarks, Rep. Price asked: "Is this the state of today's Republican Party? . . . The reality is foreign aid is one of the most cost effective investments our nation makes."Rep. Price serves as the co-chair of the House Democracy Partnership (HDP), which works with parliaments in 14 developing democracies (including Iraq, Afghanistan, Liberia and Haiti) to strengthen their institutional capacity. HDP uses member-to-member and staff-to-staff programming to build capacity in key areas such as executive oversight, budget analysis, and library and research services. The full text of Rep. Price's remarks is below.Watch Rep. Price's Remarks on YouTubeMr. Speaker, of all the extreme statements we've heard coming out of the Republican presidential debates in recent weeks, perhaps none is more alarming than the idea that we should "cut foreign aid to zero"—even for steadfast U.S. allies, even for critical global health and anti-terrorism efforts.We might dismiss this ridiculous assertion as a "Hail Mary" from a candidate desperate to revive his flagging chances were it not for the fact that it drew heavy applause from the Republican voters in the audience and eager agreement from the rest of the Republican field—including the presumptive front-runner.Is this the state of today's Republican Party, the party of internationalists such as Teddy Roosevelt, Dwight Eisenhower, and Ronald Reagan? "Cut foreign aid to zero?"Foreign aid has always been an easy target for demagogues, especially during difficult economic times, but the reality is that it is one of the most cost-effective investments our nation makes. For about one percent of our annual budget, it strengthens key allies such as Israel, the Palestinian Authority, Afghanistan, and Egypt; it promotes economic development that benefits American companies and creates jobs back home; it helps us respond to humanitarian disasters and supports democracy, human rights and the rule of law. Suggestions that we should "start at zero" and ask our allies to come to us with hat in hand are simply preposterous.# # #
11.18.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives, urging his colleagues to oppose a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution offered by Congressional Republicans. A final vote on the amendment is expected today. The text of Rep. Price's remarks is below.Watch Rep. Price's Remarks on YouTubeMr. Speaker, I rise today to vigorously oppose the Tea Party Caucus's latest misguided attempt to derail federal fiscal and economic policy.I understand the appeal of a simple, sound-bite friendly solution to all that ails us. In fact some people think that balancing the budget is just a matter of cutting foreign aid and converting to a flat income tax. Many of my colleagues have actually stoked such nonsense and similar claims that are mathematically impossible. They know very well that balancing the budget through cuts alone would require eliminating EVERY PENNY of discretionary spending – including the entire Department of Defense. I don't think that's really what they want. Why, then, would they vote for this amendment?Well, there is no real risk in establishing a constitutional requirement that can't be enforced and would likely never produce a balanced budget – it would in fact make balance harder to achieve. It does absolutely nothing to create jobs or strengthen the economy, and it would put Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid in real jeopardy. But in the short term, proponents are counting on a political payoff. They'll be brandishing their "aye" vote as proof that they are the most fiscally responsible folks in the land. In fact, these emperors have no clothes.Many of my colleagues seem to have forgotten this, but we've balanced the budget before, and not that long ago. It started with the bipartisan vote in 1990 and the subsequent vote by Democrats alone in 1993. Our country not only had a balanced budget; we ran four years of surpluses. And we did it without a balanced budget amendment. In fact, if the amendment we are considering tonight had been in place then, these critical agreements would have failed!The other lesson of the 1990s is that the best cure for budget deficits is a healthy economy. Here, too, the so-called balanced budget amendment would actually make things worse, tying our hands during periods of economic downturn or high unemployment – locking in recessions and making them deeper.In earlier years, we had some true fiscal conservatives in this body. They knew that raising the revenue needed to invest in our people and secure our economic success was a lot wiser than drawing ideological lines in the sand. They didn't need a balanced budget amendment to take tough votes, to make compromises, or to stand up for the future of our nation in the face of uncompromising "pledges" demanded by some group or another.As we watch the Supercommittee on the brink of failure, I don't know what further proof we could need that there isn't a silver bullet in the fight for fiscal security.The real answer – and I believe they know this very well – isn't a matter of gimmickry. It is about mustering the political will to do the right thing.I understand it's hard to revolt against King Norquist. But any Tea Party worthy of its name ought to be prepared to challenge the monarchy, not to do its bidding. I urge my colleagues to vote against this amendment.# # #
11.03.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives David Price (D-NC) and Doris Matsui (D-CA), Co-Chairs of the Congressional National Service Caucus, joined students and service program alumni on Capitol Hill in calling on House Republican leaders to save funding for national service programs like AmeriCorps. The Republican majority's Fiscal Year 2012 House bill to fund Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and related agencies cuts funding for all national service programs by 75 percent and calls for shutting down the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS) at a time when demand for opportunities to serve through national service programs has never been higher."In this time of high unemployment and growing poverty levels, AmeriCorps members are a crucial force in meeting community needs," Rep. Matsui said. If we are going to truly help our economy recover, this Congress must focus federal investments on these type of cost-effective programs that produce the highest returns. Now is not the time to cut programs that not only provide young adults with jobs and job training, but also carry out projects that tackle the nation's needs.""Over the last fifty years, these programs have experienced broad, bipartisan support because they are essential to providing citizens an active role in addressing the nation's challenges and keeping us strong, and making service at all levels by all ages a key component of what it means to be an American" Rep. Price said. "This effort to choke-off funding for cost-effective, job creating national service programs is another sad reflection of how polarized and beholden to its most extreme elements the Republican Party has become."Reps. Price and Matsui released a letter to Subcommittee Chair Denny Rehberg (R-MT) and ranking member Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), co-signed by 73 other House members, urging the subcommittee to protect service programs that provide vital services in communities across the country. The representatives are urging House Republicans to adopt the Senate bill's provision providing $1.09 billion for service programs in conference committee."Many of our service efforts have been under continual threat of elimination in this current Congress-- I could not disagree with these cuts more. Particularly in this economy, they move our country in the wrong direction," said Congresswoman DeLauro. "We should be creating opportunities for every American to get more involved in the life of his or her community. These services represent the fundamental moral obligations we have to each other, and that government has to the least fortunate. They are why we have government in the first place. I will keep fighting against these cuts, and will keeping working with Voices for National Service to save our critical national service programs."The student and service program alumni Rally to "Fight the Zero" for National Service staged gatherings at several locations on Capitol Hill on Thursday morning. Over 100 joined the rally and subsequent speaking program in Rayburn House Office Building where Reps. Matsui and DeLauro spoke about the need to preserve service programs which have been supported by Democratic and Republican Presidents and were recently reauthorized in 2009 with broad bispartisan support in both the House and Senate.Save Service in America's Campaign Director AnnMaura Connolly said: "These young people and AmeriCorps alums making the case for service to our nation's policymakers is further evidence of the desire Americans have to serve. Our nation should be investing in service to create jobs and help our local communities, not threatening to shut down effective, innovative, and fiscally efficient initiatives that account for over 100,000 jobs and provide vital services to communities in need across the nation. The tens of thousands of Americans engaged in the Save Service initiative stand in solidarity with these young people rallying to protect opportunities to serve their country. We will continue working to ensure policymakers see the great economic benefit to keeping open pathways for Americans to give back to their country."In their letter to the subcommittee, the members wrote:"Doing away with our national and community service programs would strike a devastating blow to communities, nonprofits, and millions of vulnerable citizens at a time when social needs are growing, unemployment is high, and American are eager to serve. Across the country, state and local governments are facing significant budget shortfalls, creating a gap between the services citizens require and the support services state and local governments are able to provide . . . we believe the investment in CNCS will pay off many times over—preserving jobs, strengthening our economy, improving communities nationwide and making service at all levels, but all age groups, a key component of what it means to be an American."# # #
10.26.2011	Washington, D.C. - Representative David Price (NC-04) issued the following statement today as President Obama announced an executive order to lower federal student loan repayments for low-income graduates, streamline student loan consolidation, and lower interest rates for all borrowers."President Obama is right: we can't afford to wait for Tea Party Republicans to support the job creation we need to revive the middle class. Easing the burden of student loan repayments will help recent graduates in North Carolina who have had a tough time entering a job market made worse by Republican stiff-arming of every initiative—like the American Jobs Act—that would make things better for working families."Tea Party Republicans have favored governance-by-brinksmanship, and we've seen them use control of Congress to force the country to lurch from one artificially-created crisis to the next. That's not right, and I support the President saying so. The American people believe it's time for Republicans to stop playing games and put country before party."# # #
10.21.2011	Durham, N.C. - On Friday, October 21, Representative David Price accepted the North Carolina Humanities Council's John Tyler Caldwell Award-the Council's highest honor-in Durham. The award recognizes individuals who through their lives and careers have strengthened the educational, cultural and civic life of North Carolinians. More information on the Caldwell Award is available at the Humanities Council's website. The text of Rep. Price's remarks is below.I am very grateful to the North Carolina Humanities Council for the generous citation and for the 2011 John Tyler Caldwell Award. I am honored more than I can say to join the list of distinguished past recipients. This award means all the more to me because I knew John Caldwell and had the highest respect for him as a teacher and educational leader, a champion of liberal education, and a warm and engaging human being whose counsel and encouragement meant a great deal to many people, including me. It's good to see Dr. Caldwell's sons, Chuck and Andy again, and I'm pleased they could join us. I want also to thank all of you for being here, Dick Brodhead for his remarkable lecture, and Tom Ross for such a generous introduction.As for the kind words said about me, I will simply recall my experience as a divinity school student being interviewed for a Kent Fellowship to undertake graduate study. One of the interviewers was Hans Frei, a theologian of great distinction. At one point he asked me how two well-know theologians might approach a particular issue. I took something of a leap, opining that although these thinkers started from quite different premises, they might actually come to the same conclusion on this particular issue. Professor Frei leaned forward: "Mr. Price!" he exclaimed, "I think you are exactly right! But I'm not going to ask you to explain it, because I'm afraid you would mess it up."So tonight I will try not to risk "messing it up." I do want to speak personally, however, about three "connections" I have experienced with and through the humanities, connections between what I have read and researched and taught in American political thought and ethics and what our country is now experiencing. That is the best way I know to express my indebtedness and gratitude to those who initiated me into historical and philosophical studies and to convince you, if anyone here needs convincing, that what you are dispensing – whether by teaching or writing or interpreting, or supporting those who do – connects in a powerful, sometimes transforming, way with the challenges and dilemmas we confront in daily life.I've strayed pretty far from the academic vineyards, but I can still say that nothing gives me greater satisfaction than when former students tell me how much something that happened in my classroom or around the seminar table influenced or benefitted them. We all have debts of this sort: for me they include Peter Walker and E.P. Douglass, who first introduced me to American intellectual history as a Carolina undergraduate; William Lee Miller, who introduced me to Reinhold Niebuhr and other social ethicists at Yale Divinity School; and political and social theorists such as Frederick Watkins, Roger Masters, David Calleo, Sidney Ahlstrom, and Staughton Lynd at Yale's graduate school. I always enjoyed the humanistic side of political science – political theory – more than its behavioral or institutional aspects, although I suppose in retrospect it is fortunate that I always kept that dual track of teaching and research on Congress and American politics going!The first connection pertains to what one might call the "Antifederalist moment" we are now experiencing in American politics. I used to tell my students that if they wanted to understand our constitutional history they should read The Federalist, but if they really wanted to understand American politics, they should read the Antifederalists. American revolutionary thought, as Bernard Bailyn, Gordon Wood, and others have pointed out, was distinctive in its juxtaposing of power and liberty – with little sense that power might serve or expand liberty, or that governmental power might counter power in other realms. The inclination rather was to see the power of government and the liberty of citizens as fundamentally opposed. This proved to be problematic as a governing principle and, after six perilous years under the Articles of Confederation, the drafters of the Constitution sought to strike a new balance between what they called "energy in government" and the checks and balances that would keep that government within its proper bounds.The Antifederalists were having none of it. In considering the proposed government, one of them wrote to a Boston newspaper, we "ought to look upon those who are to put it in motion as our enemies – to be careful what we give, to see what use it is to be put to, and where to resort for a remedy if it is abused."1 The Antifederalist legacy has positive aspects, including the addition of the Bill of Rights to the Constitution. But the extreme anti-governmental strain's continuing impact is decidedly mixed – often leading to a misdiagnosis of whose power we should be concerned about and throwing up ideological obstacles to the practical and judicious use of governmental power. The Tea Party movement is only Antifederalism's latest manifestation, ironically posing as the defender of Federalism and the Constitution. Understanding the historic power of Antifederalist themes in American thought can help us understand the appeal such ideas have to a major segment of America's population and how, at least for now, they have gained sway over one of our major political parties.The second connection also hearkens back to a recurring strain in American political thought, a "communitarian" strain that has often provided a counterpoint or corrective to the dominant themes of liberal individualism. The roots are Puritan and Transcendentalist, but the fuller articulation came in the Progressive era with thinkers ranging from philosopher Josiah Royce to pioneer sociologist Charles Horton Cooley, to Herbert Croly, W.E. B. DuBois, and John Dewey. These thinkers caught my attention early on and led me to make the late 19th–early 20th century the centerpiece of my teaching and writing in American political thought.2Communitarian thought invokes values and assumptions that exist in some tension with those central to the American liberal tradition: our interdependence as well as our autonomy; responsibilities as well as rights; identity, solidarity and obligation as well as freedom and voluntarism. It thus has serious implications for how we think about our common life and about public policy. This realization shaped the approach I took in the 1970s as part of the young faculty group launching what is now Duke's Sanford School of Public Policy. My assignment was to figure out what the ethics offering should look like in a new-model public policy curriculum–after Watergate, our director, Joel Fleishman, was fairly certain there should be such an offering! Working with like-minded colleagues across the country, with the help of a foundation grant that Joel secured, I decided that at the graduate level we should add an ethical component to policy analysis. This meant examining concepts of human well being and the public good prominent in our philosophical and moral traditions–liberty, justice, the public interest, community--and trying to discern their implications for public policy. One's thinking about affirmative action will be powerfully shaped, for example, by whether one sees college admissions as a contest among meritorious individuals, or as a mechanism for compensating individuals for past deprivation, or as an instrument for meeting the needs of the community, and of sub-communities, for trained leadership. I thought then, and I think now, that the communitarian tradition can bring unique insights, and often a needed corrective, to our policy debates.3The third connection involves what also must be regarded as a dissenting strain of thought, a sensibility at odds with prevailing views, although the text I will cite is among the most familiar in the American lexicon:Both [sides] read the same Bible, and pray to the same God; and each invokes His aid against the other. It may seem strange that any men should dare to ask a just God's assistance in wringing their bread from the sweat of other men's faces; but let us judge not, that we be not judged. The prayers of both could not be answered–that of neither has been answered fully.4Abraham Lincoln's Second Inaugural--words all the more remarkable for being uttered after almost four years of civil war, words that lead us to reflect on the perils of self-righteousness in politics or of absolutizing our own ideology or cause.Reinhold Niebuhr once wrote that Lincoln's words "put the relation of our moral commitments in history to our religious reservations about the partiality of our moral judgments more precisely than, I think, any statesman or theologian has put them."5 Lincoln expressed the moral commitment against slavery in uncompromising terms, along with his determination to "finish the work we are in." But there followed the religious reservation, the recognition that ultimate judgment belonged to God alone, the refusal, even in this extreme instance, to presume an absolute identification between his own cause and God's will.We may express our sense of human fallibility, and our relationship to powers and purposes that we sense are larger than ourselves, in theological or non-theological terms. But the sensibility, the warning against pride and self-righteousness, is surely rooted in our religious and literary traditions. It counsels a kind of humility in political life whereby we decline to claim ultimate sanction for our own ideology or political cause and reject the pretensions of those who do make such claims.I doubt that I need to argue very strenuously for the relevance of humility or of the "religious reservation" to today's politics. In citing this and the other two clear and present "connections," I mean to suggest and illustrate the ways that the study and reflection we undertake, particularly in the humanities, can illumine our personal lives and our shared history as well; it has worked that way for me. I am grateful for the opportunity to express my indebtedness to those who awakened my interest and deepened my understanding, and to commend and encourage as strongly as I can those who carry on this work today. Thank you.Notes1 - Cecilia Kenyon, "Introduction" to Kenyon, ed., The Antifederalists (Indianapolis: Bobbs-Merrill, 1966), p. Ixii.2 – David E. Price, “Community and Control: Critical Democratic Theory in the Progressive Period,” American Political Science Review, 68 (1974).3 – See David E. Price “Assessing Policy: Conceptual Points of Departure,” in Joel Fleishman et al, eds, Public Duties: The Obligations of Public Officials. Cambridge, MA: Howard University Press, 1981.1.4 - Philip Stern, ed., The Life and Writings of Abraham Lincoln (New York; Modern Library, 1940), p. 841.5 - Quoted in William Lee Miller, Lincoln's Second Inaugural: A Study in Political Ethics (Bloomington, IN: Poynter Center, 1980), p. 8
10.14.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today, Representatives David Price (NC-04) and Rush Holt (NJ-12) authored a letter to members of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction urging them to prioritize investments in education and research."Investments in education and research have made North Carolina a center of high-tech jobs in R&D and the industries that will drive the 21st Century economy," Rep. Price said. "We need to preserve these investments in NC—and across the country—because they ensure our economic success by giving our workers the tools they need to compete with the world and win.""The best approach for dealing with the economic ills of the country and the deficit is to promote economic growth, and the necessary ingredients are investment in research and education." Rep Holt said. "It is essential that the committee keep this in mind"The members wrote of education and research investment:Our investments in education, research and development – including funding for basic science and biomedical research at universities and federal labs and wise incentives for private sector research – have put our economy on the cutting edge of the world's most advanced industries. These investments are a powerful way to spur job growth and are a must for a country that seeks to be competitive in the 21st Century economy.We can fully develop our nation's human capital only if we offer all our citizens the opportunity to achieve the highest possible levels of education. Strategic investments in education and student aid have made it possible for generations of Americans to obtain a college education, regardless of their income.Further constraining domestic discretionary funding on education and scientific research will hinder our culture of innovation, adversely affecting our national security and the ability to improve our nation's health and economic recovery. As you continue your work, we strongly urge the Committee to ensure that deficit reduction policies strengthen, rather than harm, the nation's education, science and research infrastructure.Reps. Price and Holt both bring backgrounds in education and research to the funding debate. Rep. Price attended the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and taught political science and public policy at Duke University before his election to Congress. His district includes a number of flagship universities and the Research Triangle Park. Rep. Holt is the only research physicist in the House of Representatives. His district includes Princeton University and the Institute for Advanced Study. His constituents are reportedly fond of pointing out "my congressman is a rocket scientist."The Price-Holt letter has been endorsed by the Association of American Universities, the Association of Public and Land-grant Universities, the Task Force on American Innovation, the Student Aid Alliance, the Coalition for National Security Research, the Coalition for the National Science Foundation, he Energy Sciences Coalition, United for Medical Research and the Ad Hoc Group for Medical Research Funding.# # #
10.13.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives urging House Republicans to pass a bill authorizing an investigation into currency cheating by China, which is destroying jobs in North Carolina. The bill would impose tariffs if China or any other country is found guilty of currency cheating. Even though the bill is bipartisan, with 61 Republican co-sponsors, 235 Republicans voted against the measure yesterday when Democrats brought it to the floor. The Senate has already passed a similar measure. The text and video of Rep. Price's remarks is below."China's policy of undervaluing its currency is undercutting American manufacturing and American jobs by giving China an artificial and unfair advantage. In this time of economic uncertainty and high unemployment, we need to take direct, common-sense action to protect the American worker from unfair Chinese trading practices."The Senate has passed a bill to investigate currency cheating by China and other countries and to impose tariffs if they're found guilty. Yesterday, Democrats attempted to offer a similar bill—which has 61 Republican co-sponsors—but 235 Republicans voted against it. Moreover, Republican leaders have indicated the Senate bill will never see the light of day if they have their way."Speaker Boehner says the fair trade with China bill is 'dangerous.' The American people don't think there's anything dangerous about protecting American workers from schemes that burden our exports, subsidize their imports, and kill jobs. Republican leadership should bring the China currency bill to the floor so the House can give it the bipartisan vote it deserves."# # #
10.12.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) stood with President Obama and voted in favor of the free trade agreements the President has called on Congress to pass to boost the economy and create jobs. Rep. Price released the following statement:I will stand with President Obama and support his efforts to expand fair trade because they will make our economy stronger, create jobs by providing new markets for goods made in North Carolina's Fourth District, and protect our workers from unfair trade practices. For as long as I have been in office, my approach to trade policy has been guided by my conviction that American industry can compete with any country in the world and win when given a truly level playing field.One need to look no further than North Carolina's record of research and innovation to see the positive economic impact of trade. The cutting-edge industries that have transformed our state into a global leader in science and technology, creating hundreds of thousands of well paying jobs along the way, have depended on access to international markets for their success. Many of our state's traditional industries, from agriculture to auto parts, have also been able to adapt and thrive in the global economy. President Obama is right to see expanding opportunities for our workers by opening new markets as a critical part of Winning the Future.Further, our workers will not have the opportunity to out-innovate and out-build our international competitors if we cede international markets to countries that engage in unfair trade. By signing these trade agreements we secure a promise that Colombian, Panamanian, and South Korean corporations will not use unfair trade practices to undermine our workers. This creates the level playing field where American workers thrive. And, leveling the play field for our goods will help U.S. manufacturers boost our exports, reaching President Obama's goal of doubling exports within five years, and protecting good paying jobs for working families.Where there's unfair trade, we should stand against it. North Carolina provides a cautionary tale about the costs of reducing trade barriers with countries that do not abide by the same standards we require of our own businesses, as well as the necessity of ensuring that workers impacted by free trade have the support they need to transfer their skills to new vocations. For this reason, I made extending Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) to displaced workers a precondition for my support of these agreements.I hope Congress will act soon to address the unfair trade practices that are undercutting jobs in North Carolina. I am currently cosponsoring a bill to make it easier to investigate allegations of currency cheating by China and other countries and impose tariffs on the country's imports if it is found guilty of currency cheating. Our manufacturing and textile industries have been hammered by China's unfair trade practices and the sweatshops of Southeast Asia. The United States does not have a free trade agreement with China nor with many of the low-wage countries in Southeast Asia, so these abuses continue unabated as a much greater threat to jobs in our state than any trade agreement we consider today. House GOP leaders are blocking consideration of the China Currency bill—thwarting the will of the majority of House members and the American people. We should stand with American workers, not countries that engage in cheating trade schemes.I weigh each trade agreement that comes before the House carefully, based on how I think it will affect the Fourth District, North Carolina, the United States and our trading partners. Along with the majority of Democratic members of Congress, I have opposed inadequate and potentially damaging trade packages in the past. I voted against the Central American Free Trade Agreement, or CAFTA, and also opposed the renewal of "fast track" Trade Promotion Authority for President Bush. When the Bush Administration first proposed free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea that lacked tough labor and environmental standards, I made it clear that unless these standards were included, and TAA passed as well, I would also oppose these agreements. The agreements President Obama negotiated and asked me to support have largely addressed these demands.Finally, I have worked personally with both the Colombian government and the U.S. Trade Representative to help improve the Colombian labor environment, and I am encouraged by the Labor Action Plan agreed to between the Obama and Santos Administrations. This was another condition of my support: that Columbia undertake prosecutions and move decisively against violence against union organizers. The President deserves credit for responding to House Democrats who encouraged him to craft a Labor Action Plan that holds the Columbian government accountable for further progress on this issue. This is an important achievement, because I am convinced that democracies are made stronger when they extend the right of union membership to their citizens.Rep. Price also gave a statement for the record on the Columbia Free Trade Agreement. That statement is available online here.# # #
10.12.2011	Washington, D.C. - Yesterday evening, Rep. David Price (D-NC) introduced the High-risk Pool Fairness Act, expanding access to state-run federal high-risk insurance pools, and calling on his colleagues to engage in constructive efforts to strengthen the landmark health insurance reform bill passed last year. Currently, North Carolinians who are enrolled in the state's high risk pool, known as Inclusive Health, are paying higher rates and cannot enter the federal high-risk pool without dropping their insurance for six months. Rep. Price's bill makes those who have been insured through the state high-risk pool for six months eligible for the less expensive federal pool, which is also administered by the state."I have always said that the health insurance reform legislation passed by the last Congress was a starting point, not the last word on reform," Rep. Price said. "There are areas where we have additional work to do, and ensuring equitable access to federal high-risk pools is one of them. This is a modification that strengthens health care reform instead of undermining it as the current House majority has tried to do."The temporary federal high-risk pools were established as a part of health insurance reform legislation passed last year to provide health care benefits to eligible individuals between January 1, 2010 and the date on which health insurance exchanges created by the bill are established. Eligible individuals include people with pre-existing medical condition, such as breast cancer, and have not had creditable coverage for the previous six months. States were permitted to run the federal high-risk pool programs; North Carolina opted to do so.Federal and state high-risk pool premiums can vary considerably by state and by benefit factors such as the size of the deductible, with coverage in state high-risk pools being more expensive than the federal high-risk pool, as the chart below illustrates.North Carolina State High Risk Pool Premiums (A=Non-Smoker age 0-64) (B=Smoker age 0-64)$5000 deductible: (A - $85-$538) (B - $111-$709)$3500 deductible: (A - $125-$694) (B - $165-$916)$2500 deductible: (A - $144-$813) (B - $190-$1073)$1000 deductible: (A - $222-$1308) (B - $294-$1725)North Carolina Federal High Risk Pool Premiums (A=Non-Smoker age 0-64) (B=Smoker age 0-64)(A - $4500 deductible: $76-$304) (B - $5000 deductible: $100-$400)(A - $3500 deductible: $104-$417) (B - $3500 deductible: $137-$549)(A - $2500 deductible: $113-$450) (B - $2500 deductible: $148-$592)(A - $1000 deductible: $149-$595) (B - $1000 deductible: $196-$785)Under current law, in order to be eligible for the federal pool, an individual cannot have had insurance for at least six months; thus, North Carolinians in the state high-risk pool are ineligible for the federal pool, unless they go uninsured for six months--an unacceptable proposition for a person with a pre-existing condition like breast cancer, diabetes, or kidney disease."People on state high-risk pools should not be forced to make the decision between either paying higher rates than their peers or going uninsured for six months to become eligible for the more affordable federal high-risk pool," Rep. Price said. "This is a common-sense change that will ensure state and federal high-risk pools are complementary efforts as states move toward implementing health insurance exchanges."Under the health insurance reform law, health insurance exchanges will be will be in place effective January 1, 2014 creating a transparent and competitive insurance marketplace for small business owners and consumers who do not have insurance through their employers. The exchanges will offer a range of affordable and qualified health plans to meet the cost and benefit needs of consumers.# # #
10.12.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) issued the following statement as the Senate passed a bipartisan bill to crack down on Chinese currency manipulation, which gives Chinese companies an unfair advantage against manufacturers in North Carolina, destroying jobs in our state. House Republican leaders have signaled they will block consideration of a similar bill, H.R. 639, which would make it easier to investigate allegations of currency manipulation by China or other countries and impose tariffs on the country's imports if it is found guilty of currency cheating. Rep. Price has cosponsored the bipartisan House bill, which has 225 cosponsors in all, and has signed a discharge petition to force the House GOP leadership to bring it to the floor for a vote."Today's vote in the Senate is a bipartisan message to House Republican leaders: stand with American workers, not with China. House GOP Leaders should stop blocking this bill and bring it up for a vote right away."We've long known we need to get tough on China's unfair trade practices, but House Republican leaders have dismissed efforts to enforce fair trade with China as 'dangerous.' There is nothing dangerous about putting American workers first and protecting jobs by cracking down on China's unfair trade practices, which are a much greater threat to jobs in our state than any free trade agreements, past or future."Republican leaders are thwarting the will of the House of Representatives and standing in the way of a bill that could protect a million jobs here at home. If House Republican leaders are interested in ensuring our economic success and protecting American jobs, they'll stand up to China's currency cheating. If they're not, they won't, but the will of the American people is clear-this bill should be brought to the floor for the bipartisan vote it deserves."# # #
10.06.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) called on House Republicans to put American workers first by passing legislation to crackdown on Chinese currency manipulation, which is destroying jobs in North Carolina. The legislation (H.R. 639) would make it easier to investigate allegations of currency manipulation by China and impose tariffs on the country's imports if it is found guilty of currency cheating. House Republican leaders have signaled they will block the bipartisan House bill which has 225 cosponsors. The Senate agreed today to cast a final vote on a similar bill later this week."China's currency cheating is undercutting North Carolina manufacturing and North Carolina workers, and is resulting in fewer jobs for Americans and more jobs for China," Rep. Price said. "We need to get tough on China's unfair trade practices, but House Republican leaders have dismissed efforts to enforce fair trade with China as 'dangerous.' There is nothing dangerous about putting American workers first and protecting jobs by cracking down on China's unfair trade practices."By pushing down the value of its currency, China makes its goods and labor artificially cheaper than goods produced with comparatively higher labor costs in other markets, including the United States. Rep. Price believes this imbalance gives China, the world's second largest economy, an unfair advantage.According to estimates from the Economic Policy Institute, China's unfair trade practices account for the loss of 107,000 jobs in North Carolina over the past decade."I think the American people realize the politics of this are pretty simple. If House Republicans are interested in ensuring our economic success and protecting American jobs, they'll stand up to China's currency cheating. If they're not, they won't."# # #
09.22.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today, in a speech to the House of Representatives, Representative David Price (NC-04) urged his colleagues to see the end of the military's "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" policy as proof America has nothing to fear, and can only gain, from extending liberty and equality to all its citizens. Rep. Price vowed to help North Carolina residents defeat a ballot initiative amending the state constitution to ban same-sex marriage—condemning the initiative as "more about turning out the Republican political base than about marriage."Rep. Price also pledged to continue fighting in Congress to pass the Respect for Marriage Act (ROMA), which repeals the so-called Defense of Marriage Act, saying "This year I have again cosponsored repeal, and don't intend to rest until DOMA is erased from the U.S. Code." In the 111th Congress, Rep. Price was the first North Carolina member to support ROMA.See video of Rep. Price's remarksThe text of Rep. Price's remarks is below."Madame Speaker, The end this week of "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" shows us that we have nothing to fear, and can only gain, by extending liberty and equality to all of our citizens. Brave young men and women will not be denied the opportunity to serve their country, and soldiers will be judged on their ability to do their jobs, not their sexual orientation."This is a great step forward, but some seem eager to step back. In North Carolina, there is a ballot initiative to amend the state constitution to ban same-sex marriage. This seems to be more about turning out the Republican political base than about marriage, and many of our businesses say it would hinder their attempts to treat employees fairly. We must defeat it."At the national level, we also have an anachronistic law—the so-called Defense of Marriage Act—that should be repealed. This would ensure that marriages entered into in one state would be recognized by other states. This year I have again cosponsored repeal, and don't intend to rest until DOMA is erased from the U.S. Code."History will judge these efforts at discrimination harshly. It's time for America's political leaders, including members of this body, to catch up."# # #
09.21.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today, Representative David Price (NC-04) urged his colleagues in the House to reject a GOP Leadership plan to hold disaster relief funding hostage to offsetting budget cuts. Rep. Price called for the House to instead vote on a Senate plan that shores up the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) Disaster Relief Fund (DRF) and designates the funding as an emergency expense. The House rejected the bill put forward by GOP leaders on a 195-230 vote. Republican leaders choose to include FEMA funding in a continuing resolution to keep the government operating past September 30, raising the possibility of a government shutdown if the impasse between the House and Senate is not resolved.See video of Rep. Price's remarks"This is a radical departure from how both parties have treated emergency disaster relief funding, and it will undermine our economic recovery," Rep. Price said. "No wonder the American people are fed up with Congress. The majority is putting partisan ideology ahead of the dire needs of the American people by telling our communities they won't get relief until we wage yet another budget battle here in Congress."In the wake of Hurricane Irene, Rep. Price, the top Democrat on the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee which funds FEMA, has repeatedly clashed with House Republican Leaders who still insist that additional disaster relief funding be offset by cuts to other government programs despite opposition from rank-and-file Republicans and Republican governors. The decision to hold disaster relief funding hostage to budget cuts breaks with years of disaster relief precedent. Disaster relief funding is almost always designated an emergency expense to get money to affected communities as quickly as possible.Since late August, the looming budget shortfall has forced FEMA to postpone funding for all long-term recovery projects in order to respond to immediate needs. The policy has placed projects on hold in affected states including North Carolina, Louisiana, Florida, Iowa, North Dakota, Tennessee and Alabama.# # #
09.19.2011	Washington, D.C. - Representative David Price (NC-04) issued the following statement this afternoon in advance of the end of the military's 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' (DADT) policy on September 20."Bringing 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' to an end means brave young men and women will not be denied the opportunity to serve their country," Rep. Price said. "And it means soldiers on duty defending us right now can rest assured that they will be judged on their ability to do their jobs, not their sexual orientation."As General Assembly Republicans have forced a vote on a constitutional referendum designed to marginalize LGBT Tar Heel state residents, we would do well to remember that some of these residents are soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines. A constitutional amendment banning gay marriage doesn't do a thing to create jobs, and it surely doesn't honor the gay men and women who put their lives on the line in the service of their country. History will judge these discriminatory efforts harshly, just as it has 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell.'"In December of 2010, President Obama signed legislation to end the 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' policy pending the conclusion of a comprehensive Department of Defense (DoD) review on the impact of open-service. DoD concluded that the repeal of the policy posed little risk to force readiness. Rep. Price has been a long-time supporter of repealing DADT and was an original co-sponsor of stand-alone legislation repealing the policy in the 111th Congress.In the 111th Congress, Rep. Price was also the first North Carolina member to support the Respect for Marriage Act, which overturns the so-called Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA). He joined that fight again this year, signing on as a co-sponsor.# # #
09.15.2011	Washington, D.C. - Representative David Price (NC-04) released the following statement today following news that General Assembly Republican have succeeded in forcing a referendum on an amendment to the North Carolina state Constitution banning gay marriage."General Assembly Republicans seem willing to do anything—including amending the state constitution—to divert attention from their failure to create jobs. With their dismal record of cutting education and slowing the recovery, I can't say I'm surprised they've initiated this unnecessary exercise, even though everyone from the business community to the person on the street realizes it's the wrong thing to do."Last year in Congress, I became the first North Carolina member to support the Respect for Marriage Act, which overturns the so-called Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), and I joined that fight again this year. We will vote down the marriage amendment and I won't stop fighting to repeal DOMA until we succeed. History will judge these discriminatory efforts and the Republicans behind them harshly."# # #
09.14.2011	Washington, D.C. - Representative David Price (NC-04) issued the following statement today following President Obama's Jobs Speech in Raleigh. Since the President spoke, hundreds of constituents have contacted North Carolina and Washington, D.C. offices urging Congress to pass the Jobs bill."The American Jobs Act will improve the economy by putting workers back on the job rebuilding our infrastructure, by retaining teachers and firefighters, and by giving a tax cut to every family. And, it is completely paid for by closing tax loopholes," Rep. Price said. "With Republicans signaling they will stand in the way of this bill and its many bipartisan proposals, the President is right to ask Republicans to explain why they feel keeping taxes low for multi-millionaires and billionaires is more important than creating jobs now."# # #
09.11.2011	Washington, D.C. - On Sundray, Rep. David Price (D-NC), the ranking democrat on the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, gave brief remarks a memorial observance marking the 10th Anniversary of the attacks of September 11, 2011. The observance was hosted by the Chapel Hill Fire Department, the Chapel Hill Police Department and the Chapel Hill Firefighers Association. The text of Rep. Price's remarks is below.Remarks by Congressman David Price10th Anniversary of September 11, 2001Chapel Hill Fire Department's Public Safety Education CenterMeadowmont Village, Chapel Hill, NCOn behalf of our entire community, thanks to the Chapel Hill Fire and Police Departments and the Chapel Hill Firefighters Association for organizing this service to remember those who perished ten years ago in New York, Washington, and Shanksville, Pennsylvania.It is fitting that this observance be in a fire station setting with first responders in lead roles, for 9/11 will forever live in memory as an occasion when 343 firefighters, 60 police officers, and 8 emergency medical technicians lost their lives. As an occasion when firefighters and police officers, first on the scene, rushed into burning buildings to save lives. And they did save lives—but hundreds were lost in the inferno, both responders and those they were trying to save. So we honor those first responders, who modeled selfless service for their colleagues and whose sacrifice reminds the broader community of the debt we owe to those who are on the front lines of our community's and our country's defense every day.In the aftermath of 9/11 the Department of Homeland Security was formed and I assumed an unanticipated role as chairman—and now ranking minority member—of the Appropriations Subcommittee writing the Department's budget. One of the pleasures of that role has been a close working relationship with first responders in this and other North Carolina communities, with the organizations representing them, and with state and federal organizers of our response capacity—visible even as we speak, hard at work up and down the eastern seaboard in the wake of Hurricane Irene and last week's severe storms. 9/11 is a special day for our first responders, and it should also be a day when the wider community expresses its recognition and gratitude.The 9/11 memorials are being dedicated in New York today. They feature sunken walls and waterfalls in the footprints of the buildings. The names of the 2,997 victims are inscribed in bronze on parapets surrounding the pools. But they are not merely listed; they are placed next to each other in clusters to reflect their relationships. For the responders that is especially appropriate: the names from Engine 10 are listed together. Names from Rescue Squad 5 are listed together.Today is a day of solemn remembrance when we recall our personal memories—everyone here can remember where we were when we first heard of the attacks—and our collective memories as well. Our nation came together in shock, sorrow, solidarity and resolve, and we can still draw strength from the remembrance of those days. But it is not just about remembering: we also reflect on how our country has reacted and responded over the last ten years. We have strengthened our defenses in important ways and have provided our first responders with training and equipment to deal with new perils they may face, both natural and man-made.This work must be ongoing, and it must take place amid a broader awareness of what it means for a country truly to be strong and secure. I've often said that I take no comfort in a robust homeland security budget in isolation. We should be equally concerned about what we are investing in education, housing, infrastructure, research—the building blocks of a healthy economy, where people can fully exercise their productive capacity.So let us today remember those who were lost ten years ago. Let us be grateful for selfless men and women who, then and now, rise to the defense of our communities and our country. Let us remember the sense of community, of common purpose, of responsibility for one another that inspired us in the aftermath. And let us resolve to think broadly and creatively about what it means to bring our country to full strength—so that all may contribute to the commonwealth and that out of tragedy may arise a renewed commitment to a "more perfect union" with "liberty and justice for all."# # #
09.09.2011	Washington, D.C. - Tonight at 9:00 PM, Rep. David Price (NC-04) will appear on UNC-TV's North Carolina People. The show is hosted by former long-time University of North Carolina system President William Friday. Rep. Price was interviewed by Mr. Friday on his work in the 112th Congress and a number of other issues.This episode of North Carolina People will re-air on the following dates:• Saturday, September 10 at 3:00 AM• Tuesday, September 13 at 11:00 AM• Tuesday, September 13 at 5:30 PM• Tuesday, September 20 at 11:30 AMStarting on Monday, September 12, viewers can also stream this episode of North Carolina People on UNC-TV's website here: http://video.unctv.org/program/1616436260/. North Carolina People is UNC-TV's longest running programWho: Rep. David Price (NC-04)What: Interview on North Carolina People with William FridayWhen: Friday, September 9, 2011 AT 9:00 PMWhere: UNC-TV# # #
09.08.2011	Washington, D.C. - On Wednesday, Rep. David Price (NC-04) visited the GE Energy Industrial Solutions facility in Mebane to see a demonstration of one of the plant's primary products, the GE WattStationTM. Rep. Price hailed the company's commitment to creating manufacturing jobs in North Carolina and paving the way for vehicles that will reduce our dependence on foreign oil."The Green Jobs of the future are paying wages today, right here in North Carolina, and they are transforming transportation in the process." Rep. Price said. "These affordable charging stations will enable – and entice - more consumers to buy electric vehicles. That's good for the economy, the environment, and the nation's long term energy security."The WattStationTM is an electric vehicle charging station which is set to come to market soon across the country. It is already on the shelves in California, and high demand for the wall-mounted units there has required increased production runs at the Mebane facility. The Mebane GE plant now employs 294 workers in the Triangle and Triad regions of North Carolina.Rep. Price's visit to the plant comes ahead of President Obama's jobs speech, which the President is scheduled to deliver to a joint session of Congress this evening. In the above photo: Representative David Price (D-NC) stands in front of the new GE electric vehicle (EV) charging station during a tour of the company's Mebane, NC plant where the charging stations are produced. Joining him are representatives from Lowes, Nissan and GE plant staff.# # #
09.07.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today, in advance of President Obama's address to a joint session of Congress tomorrow evening, Rep. David Price (D-NC) renewed his call for infrastructure investments as a way to create jobs now and ensure our economic success."Infrastructure investments are the key to our economic success and should be a central focus of President Obama's jobs plan," Rep. Price said. "At a time of continued economic uncertainty, investing in infrastructure is a win-win for the American people: it creates well paying jobs today and lays the foundations for tomorrow's economic prosperity."During the recent congressional district work period, Rep. Price held numerous meetings with state and local government leaders, small business owners, labor and industry organizations, and community groups in the Fourth District, and all were united in their calls for greater federal investment in local infrastructure projects. Just this week, Rep. Price hosted a roundtable discussion with state government officials and representatives from various construction-related industries, which have been hit disproportionately hard by the economic downturn."When everybody from the Chamber of Commerce to organized labor to local mayors are calling on Congress to invest in roads, bridges, and schools in our communities, one would think the response would be a no-brainer," Rep Price said. "I'd like to see the President use the bully pulpit to make it clear that Republican opponents are being penny-wise and pound-foolish by undermining efforts to build the infrastructure we need to sustain and grow a 21st Century economy."In the current Congress, Rep. Price has advocated for investments in high speed rail projects, including the high-speed corridor connecting Raleigh to Charlotte, even as Republicans have attempted to rescind the investments Congress has already made through the Recovery Act and other measures."High-speed rail is an integral part of forward-thinking transportation strategies because it reduces dependence on foreign oil, relieves congestion on roads and because rail is environmentally sustainable," Rep. Price said. "In addition to these long-term benefits, planned high-speed rail investments could create 20,000 jobs in North Carolina alone in the near term."Rep. Price has also urged leadership to prioritize reauthorization of our nation's surface transportation and aviation programs, which can create millions of jobs, particularly in the construction sector. However, after pushing legislation that slashed key investments in roads and bridges and rescinded billions for high-speed rail, Republicans seem set to reject these common-sense proposals.# # #
09.01.2011	Washington, D.C. - According to press reports (Report: Cantor Softens on Disaster Relief), after initially indicating that additional funds for disaster relief in the wake of Hurricane Irene would have to be offset by cuts to certain government programs, House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-VA) is now declining to confirm or deny whether disaster relief funds will be held hostage to budget cuts. Today, Rep. David Price (D-NC), ranking democrat on the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees disaster relief funding, pushed for the Majority Leader to provide more certainty to communities affected by recent disasters such as Hurricane Irene."People affected by natural disasters need to hear with certainty that Republicans are not going to hold emergency relief hostage to political objectives, and we still haven't heard that," Rep. Price said. "Saying your position is 'maybe we will hold relief funds hostage' until we get cuts to things like education or infrastructure or state homeland security grants is not good enough when Americans are in dire need."Funds are needed to replenish the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) Disaster Relief Fund (DRF), which will run out of money before the end of the fiscal year. The looming shortfall has already forced the agency to shift disaster assistance funding from the tornadoes and flooding that devastated the Midwest and Southeast earlier this year to provide immediate disaster relief in the wake of Irene, effectively pitting parts of the country affected by natural disasters against one another. Rep. Cantor's suggestion that disaster funding might have to wait for budget tradeoffs departs from past bipartisan practice of designating emergency funding.Earlier this week, Republicans indicated that they would not provide FEMA's DRF with additional resources unless the funds are offset by spending cuts elsewhere in the budget. Rep. Cantor has reportedly said democratic objections to this unprecedented approach to emergency disaster relief funding were an attempt to "try to make a political story out of" the situation."I have no sympathy for Mr. Cantor's lament that this is a 'political' story," Rep. Price said. "This is a story about the core values that inform the Republican party's policy decisions. That they would even contemplate holding emergency relief hostage to the demands of the tea party caucus is abhorrent."# # #
08.31.2011	Lorem Ipsum is simply dummy text of the printing and typesetting industry. Lorem Ipsum has been the industry's standard dummy text ever since the 1500s, when an unknown printer took a galley of type and scrambled it to make a type specimen book.It has survived not only five centuries, but also the leap into electronic typesetting, remaining essentially unchanged. It was popularised in the 1960s with the release of Letraset sheets containing Lorem Ipsum passages, and more recently with desktop publishing software like Aldus PageMaker including versions of Lorem Ipsum.Lorem Ipsum is simply dummy text of the printing and typesetting industry. Lorem Ipsum has been the industry's standard dummy text ever since the 1500s, when an unknown printer took a galley of type and scrambled it to make a type specimen book.It has survived not only five centuries, but also the leap into electronic typesetting, remaining essentially unchanged. It was popularised in the 1960s with the release of Letraset sheets containing Lorem Ipsum passages, and more recently with desktop publishing software like Aldus PageMaker including versions of Lorem Ipsum.Lorem Ipsum is simply dummy text of the printing and typesetting industry. Lorem Ipsum has been the industry's standard dummy text ever since the 1500s, when an unknown printer took a galley of type and scrambled it to make a type specimen book.It has survived not only five centuries, but also the leap into electronic typesetting, remaining essentially unchanged. It was popularised in the 1960s with the release of Letraset sheets containing Lorem Ipsum passages, and more recently with desktop publishing software like Aldus PageMaker including versions of Lorem Ipsum.Lorem Ipsum is simply dummy text of the printing and typesetting industry. Lorem Ipsum has been the industry's standard dummy text ever since the 1500s, when an unknown printer took a galley of type and scrambled it to make a type specimen book.It has survived not only five centuries, but also the leap into electronic typesetting, remaining essentially unchanged. It was popularised in the 1960s with the release of Letraset sheets containing Lorem Ipsum passages, and more recently with desktop publishing software like Aldus PageMaker including versions of Lorem Ipsum.
08.31.2011	Lorem Ipsum is simply dummy text of the printing and typesetting industry. Lorem Ipsum has been the industry's standard dummy text ever since the 1500s, when an unknown printer took a galley of type and scrambled it to make a type specimen book.It has survived not only five centuries, but also the leap into electronic typesetting, remaining essentially unchanged. It was popularised in the 1960s with the release of Letraset sheets containing Lorem Ipsum passages, and more recently with desktop publishing software like Aldus PageMaker including versions of Lorem Ipsum.Lorem Ipsum is simply dummy text of the printing and typesetting industry. Lorem Ipsum has been the industry's standard dummy text ever since the 1500s, when an unknown printer took a galley of type and scrambled it to make a type specimen book.It has survived not only five centuries, but also the leap into electronic typesetting, remaining essentially unchanged. It was popularised in the 1960s with the release of Letraset sheets containing Lorem Ipsum passages, and more recently with desktop publishing software like Aldus PageMaker including versions of Lorem Ipsum.Lorem Ipsum is simply dummy text of the printing and typesetting industry. Lorem Ipsum has been the industry's standard dummy text ever since the 1500s, when an unknown printer took a galley of type and scrambled it to make a type specimen book.It has survived not only five centuries, but also the leap into electronic typesetting, remaining essentially unchanged. It was popularised in the 1960s with the release of Letraset sheets containing Lorem Ipsum passages, and more recently with desktop publishing software like Aldus PageMaker including versions of Lorem Ipsum.Lorem Ipsum is simply dummy text of the printing and typesetting industry. Lorem Ipsum has been the industry's standard dummy text ever since the 1500s, when an unknown printer took a galley of type and scrambled it to make a type specimen book.It has survived not only five centuries, but also the leap into electronic typesetting, remaining essentially unchanged. It was popularised in the 1960s with the release of Letraset sheets containing Lorem Ipsum passages, and more recently with desktop publishing software like Aldus PageMaker including versions of Lorem Ipsum.
08.31.2011	Lorem Ipsum is simply dummy text of the printing and typesetting industry. Lorem Ipsum has been the industry's standard dummy text ever since the 1500s, when an unknown printer took a galley of type and scrambled it to make a type specimen book.It has survived not only five centuries, but also the leap into electronic typesetting, remaining essentially unchanged. It was popularised in the 1960s with the release of Letraset sheets containing Lorem Ipsum passages, and more recently with desktop publishing software like Aldus PageMaker including versions of Lorem Ipsum.Lorem Ipsum is simply dummy text of the printing and typesetting industry. Lorem Ipsum has been the industry's standard dummy text ever since the 1500s, when an unknown printer took a galley of type and scrambled it to make a type specimen book.It has survived not only five centuries, but also the leap into electronic typesetting, remaining essentially unchanged. It was popularised in the 1960s with the release of Letraset sheets containing Lorem Ipsum passages, and more recently with desktop publishing software like Aldus PageMaker including versions of Lorem Ipsum.Lorem Ipsum is simply dummy text of the printing and typesetting industry. Lorem Ipsum has been the industry's standard dummy text ever since the 1500s, when an unknown printer took a galley of type and scrambled it to make a type specimen book.It has survived not only five centuries, but also the leap into electronic typesetting, remaining essentially unchanged. It was popularised in the 1960s with the release of Letraset sheets containing Lorem Ipsum passages, and more recently with desktop publishing software like Aldus PageMaker including versions of Lorem Ipsum.Lorem Ipsum is simply dummy text of the printing and typesetting industry. Lorem Ipsum has been the industry's standard dummy text ever since the 1500s, when an unknown printer took a galley of type and scrambled it to make a type specimen book.It has survived not only five centuries, but also the leap into electronic typesetting, remaining essentially unchanged. It was popularised in the 1960s with the release of Letraset sheets containing Lorem Ipsum passages, and more recently with desktop publishing software like Aldus PageMaker including versions of Lorem Ipsum.
08.30.2011	Washington, D.C. - As federal, state, and local first responders throughout the country work to assess the damage inflicted by Hurricane Irene and begin the process of recovery, Republicans in Congress have indicated that they will not provide the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) Disaster Relief Fund (DRF) with additional resources unless the funds are offset by spending cuts elsewhere in the budget. Yesterday, Rep. David Price (D-NC), ranking democrat on the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees FEMA's budget, condemned Republicans for putting budget politics ahead of communities affected by Irene and other recent natural disasters and called on Congress to ensure that FEMA has the resources it needs to respond to all disasters.Today, Rep. Price joined CNN to discuss this issue."Now is not the time for another round of budget politics," Rep. Price said. "Livelihoods and local economies depend on swift relief and assistance in the event of a natural disaster, and the millions of Americans affected by Irene and other recent events can't afford to wait around while Republicans pick another budget fight with the president by holding disaster relief hostage to further spending cuts."According to recent press reports, the looming shortfall in FEMA's DRF will force the agency to shift disaster assistance funding for the tornadoes and flooding that devastated the Midwest and Southeast earlier this year to provide immediate disaster relief in the wake of Irene. FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate confirmed the agency would cease accepting applications for new repair work stemming from previous disasters. But even after prioritizing immediate relief ahead of disaster recovery work, FEMA's DRF will still be exhausted well before the end of the current fiscal year.LA Times: Storm Brews in Congress Over Paying for Disaster ReliefBy Lisa Mascaro, Washington BureauAugust 29, 2011, 8:13 p.m.Reporting from Washington—Americans who saw their homes flooded, streets ripped apart and businesses disrupted by last weekend's hurricane are about to face another storm: a new congressional battle as House Republican leaders seek to match any additional spending for disaster relief with equal cuts elsewhere in the federal budget.Unless additional disaster aid is appropriated, federal officials said communities trying to rebuild from natural disasters this year in the Midwest and South will have to wait while funds are diverted to help victims of Hurricane Irene.The recent string of disasters, including a tornado that tore through Joplin, Mo., and a flood that inundated Minot, N.D., is running into the same political buzz saw that nearly forced the government into default during the bitter fight over the debt ceiling this summer.The federal budget fight has largely focused so far on gargantuan sums and giant bureaucracies. The dispute could hit home in a real way now, affecting families whose homes or livelihoods were destroyed.Congress doesn't return until next week, but the battle was joined Monday when House Republican leaders called for cuts to offset any new spending for disaster relief and reconstruction.Democrats immediately resisted what they called an unfair and unprecedented approach to emergency management.The House and Senate are headed toward a showdown as the Federal Emergency Management Agency's disaster relief fund runs out of money, possibly as soon as next month."We will find the money if there is a need for additional money, but those monies are not unlimited," Rep. Eric Cantor (R-Va.), the House majority leader, told Fox News. "We'll find other places to save so that we can fund the role the federal government needs to play."Cantor's district in central Virginia was the epicenter of a magnitude 5.8 earthquake that rumbled up the Eastern Seaboard last Tuesday. The quake rattled nerves and buildings, but caused little damage.Hurricane Irene, which eventually was downgraded to a tropical storm, was less fierce than originally feared. But the wind and rain are believed to have caused billions of dollars in damage."Now is not the time for another round of budget politics," said Rep. David Price of North Carolina, the top Democrat on the Homeland Security appropriations subcommittee. "Livelihoods and local economies depend on swift relief and assistance in the event of a natural disaster, and the millions of Americans affected by Irene and other recent events can't afford to wait around while Republicans pick another budget fight with the president by holding disaster relief hostage to further spending cuts."President Obama, speaking at the White House, promised the federal government would help communities affected by the storm."We're going to make sure folks have all the support they need as they begin to assess and repair the damage left by the storm," Obama said.Federal disaster assistance helps in ways large and small — including covering the rent for those who lost their homes and rebuilding roads, schools and libraries.The problem is that aid money is running out. FEMA has less than $800 million left in a special disaster fund. It already was spending $400 million a month before Hurricane Irene swept ashore.As a result, FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate said Monday the agency would not consider any new applications for what it calls permanent repair work in pre-Irene disasters, citing damage from tornadoes in Missouri, Alabama and Mississippi, and flooding in the Dakotas. He said the agency was discussing a supplemental funding request with the White House."Any projects that have not come in for approval, we're not going to be able to fund those as this point. We're going to postpone those," Fugate told reporters at the White House."Our goal is to keep this disruption as short as possible, but it was prudent," Fugate said. He emphasized that individual assistance programs were not being affected.Federal disaster funds have run low in years past, but rarely have so many back-to-back emergencies forced FEMA to publicly choose which communities will receive help and which won't.In the past, the White House has routinely sent Congress requests for supplemental funds to replenish disaster relief funds. And Congress generally has given its approval, as it did after Hurricane Katrina in 2005 and after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.But the GOP-led House has made clear that new spending this year must be offset by cuts in other programs.The House approved a new FEMA budget for the coming fiscal year, upping disaster aid by $2.6 billion, well above what Obama had requested. After Midwestern storms this year, Republicans led the effort to approve an additional $1 billion to aid recovery.But Republicans slashed funds elsewhere to cover the increased aid. Gone were Homeland Security grants to train and equip firefighters for natural disasters, forcing the loss of 1,600 jobs, congressional aides said.Money for an urban security initiative, which helps big cities buy equipment and training to prepare for terrorist attacks and other disasters, was cut, as was funding for research into new security technology. Republicans also dipped into an Energy Department account, cutting spending for alternative-powered vehicles, to offset the disaster aid.Rep. Robert B. Aderholt (R-Ala.), chairman of the Homeland Security appropriations subcommittee, is expected to press to offset any new disaster spending.Democrats don't necessarily oppose building emergency funds into the annual budget, rather than just approving them as disasters happen. But they oppose the deep cuts elsewhere to pay for it.Sen. Mary L. Landrieu (D-La.), chairwoman of the Senate's Homeland Security appropriations subcommittee, called the GOP cuts "shortsighted." The Senate is expected to present a larger disaster budget, she said."The House bill would say to America's communities: You can't count on the federal government as a reliable partner," Landrieu said Monday. "The excessive cuts in the House bill would be pulling the legs out from under state and local governments at the time when they need a helping hand the most."# # #
08.24.2011	Washington, D.C. - According to the National Hurricane Center (NHC), there is a high probability North Carolina will be affected by Hurricane Irene as it moves up the east coast. The onset of tropical storm force winds is usually accompanied by tree damage, power outages and significant beach erosion. Hurricane Irene is currently a Category 3 storm with sustained winds of 120 mph. Both the NHC and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) recommend residents take time to prepare in advance of the storm's arrival. A variety of resources are available to residents in the path of the storm.To follow Hurricane Irene's path and related weather predictions, updates are available at the National Hurricane Center website: http://www.nhc.noaa.gov/Learn what do• Before a hurricane• During an evacuation• During a hurricane• After a hurricane• Mitigate hurricane damages• The mobile website m.fema.gov allows the public to easily access disaster-related information directly on their smartphone. Preparing a Basic Emergency Supply Kit:• Water, one gallon of water per person per day for at least three days, for drinking and sanitation• Food, at least a three-day supply of non-perishable food• Re-fill automobile gas tank• Battery-powered or hand crank radio and a NOAA Weather Radio with tone alert and extra batteries for both• Flashlight and extra batteries• First aid kit• Whistle to signal for help• Dust mask, to help filter contaminated air and plastic sheeting and duct tape to shelter-in-place• Moist towelettes, garbage bags and plastic ties for personal sanitation• Wrench or pliers to turn off utilities• Can opener for food (if kit contains canned food)• Local maps• Cell phone with chargers, inverter or solar charger Additional Items to Consider Adding to an Emergency Supply Kit:• Prescription medications and glasses• Infant formula and diapers• Pet food and extra water for your pet• Cash or traveler's checks and change• Important family documents such as copies of insurance policies, identification and bank account records in a waterproof, portable container.• Emergency reference material such as a first aid book.• Sleeping bag or warm blanket for each person. Consider additional bedding if you live in a cold-weather climate.• Complete change of clothing including a long sleeved shirt, long pants and sturdy shoes.• Household chlorine bleach and medicine dropper – When diluted nine parts water to one part bleach, bleach can be used as a disinfectant. Or in an emergency, you can use it to treat water by using 16 drops of regular household liquid bleach per gallon of water. Do not use scented, color safe or bleaches with added cleaners.• Fire Extinguisher• Matches in a waterproof container• Feminine supplies and personal hygiene items• Mess kits, paper cups, plates and plastic utensils, paper towels• Paper and pencil• Books, games, puzzles or other activities for children# # #
08.11.2011	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (D-NC) released the followings statement this afternoon calling Republican efforts, lead by North Carolina Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), to pass S. 1116, the Department of Commerce and Workforce Consolidation Act, "an incredibly wrong-headed move for North Carolina families in this time of fragile recovery." Among other changes, the bill would end the Small Business Administration as we know it by collapsing the agency into a new Department of Commerce and the Workforce."Senator Burr's bill ending the Small Business Administration as we know it is an incredibly wrong-headed move for North Carolina families in this time of fragile recovery. Small businesses are our engines of job creation across North Carolina, and in our state the SBA's Small Business Innovation Research program has helped hundreds of businesses and created thousands of jobs. We should be boosting SBA programs that help small business owners expand and hire workers, not chipping away at the agency."Sadly, this effort picks up where George W. Bush left off after he slashed funding for the SBA in half and threw the agency out of his cabinet. Now is the time to invest in the things that ensure our economic success—education, small business innovation, research and infrastructure—but in debate after debate, Republicans insist on a vision of America that puts big business and the wealthy before helping middle class families and ensuring economic success. I am resolved to fight this and other backward, Republican efforts. This is bad economic policy, and it's inconsistent with our priorities and values."According to the SBA, the nation's 28 million small businesses employ over half of the private sector workforce and account for over half of the nation's GDP.# # #
08.01.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today, Representative David Price (D-NC) voted against the plan to raise the debt ceiling announced by President Obama on Sunday. The agreement would avoid a default by raising the debt ceiling through 2013, averting Republican attempts to create another artificial debt crisis in six months. However, the bill includes severe cuts to public investments that will damage the fragile economic recovery and stunt job growth. The bill includes no additional revenue, legitimizing the efforts of House Republicans who held the national economy hostage to enforce their extreme ideological agenda.Rep. Price released the following statement on his vote:"Mr. Speaker, we should never have reached this point. Under Democratic and Republican presidents alike, Congress has always fulfilled its responsibility to pay our nation's bills when they come due. We have disagreed vehemently about matters of fiscal policy, but we have always recognized that the full faith and credit of the United States should remain above the partisan fray."Until now, that is. Make no mistake, this is a manufactured crisis. For the last several weeks, Republicans have held our nation's economy hostage to their narrow and extreme ideological agenda, demanding a ransom of devastating cuts to critical domestic programs while protecting tax breaks for oil companies and other special interests. No matter that Social Security benefits, military pay, and the credit rating of our country have all been hanging in the balance – apparently, economic calamity is a small price to pay for ideological purity."I voted months ago for a clean debt ceiling increase. I voted days ago for an alternative, bipartisan Senate plan to increase the debt ceiling and cut spending in carefully targeted ways. That the House and Senate are just now considering legislation to stave off default is a tremendous failure by House Republicans, who could not bring the most extreme elements of their caucus to a more balanced legislative solution."The result is an agreement which could have been worse but is still not good enough. From the beginning, I have said that any serious approach to deficit reduction must do two things: protect the fragile recovery, because the best cure for a budget deficit is a growing economy, and take a balanced approach to finding savings by putting all types of spending and revenues on the table. This agreement meets neither of these tests."The President deserves credit for negotiating a package that rejects some of the worst Republican demands. It immediately moves us past this artificially created crisis by extending the debt limit through 2013, and it protects Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid against cuts from Republicans who have signaled a willingness to savage these middle class benefits as a part of deficit reduction. I am also encouraged that defense spending has finally been subjected to the same pressures as the rest of the budget."However, these positive aspects offer limited consolation. Instead of charting a responsible path to deficit reduction while continuing to invest in economic recovery, the bill imposes severe spending caps that will become even more severe if the deficit commission created by the bill fails to achieve consensus. Instead of taking a balanced approach that includes new sources of revenue, such as an end to special-interest tax breaks, the bill asks the elderly and working-class Americans to bear the brunt of the sacrifice. Why are we not asking the wealthiest Americans to make the same sacrifices other Americans have already been asked to make?"Finally, I also vote no because I refuse to legitimize the demands of ideologues who have recklessly held the national economy hostage to their extreme agenda. Governance by brinksmanship is not worthy of being called governance. The American people deserve better than a House of Representatives that forces the entire country to lurch from one artificially created crisis to the next. We are the United States Congress, not the Tea Party's Congress, and it's time we started acting like it."# # #
07.28.2011	Washington, D.C. - Representative David Price spoke during House consideration of the Boehner Debt Plan this afternoon, calling on Republicans to put an end to the unprecedented, unnecessary and politically motivated crises that have dominated the Congress and hurt the national economy. The text of Rep. Price's remarks is below.Video of Rep. Price's remarks:"Since my colleagues on the other side of the aisle assumed the majority in January, we have swung from one artificially-created crisis to the next."In the Spring, we barely dodged a government shutdown. Now, we face an unprecedented and unnecessary crisis over raising the debt ceiling, an event that has occurred more than 70 times since 1964. And we are already hearing rumblings of another potential shutdown in October, the end of the current fiscal year."Mr. Speaker, the most baffling part about the legislation before us today is that it would require us to have this debate all over again in just a few months."Time and time again, I've heard my Republican colleagues say that private capital has not found its way back into the market because of economic uncertainty. Surely, the majority cannot believe that going through this debate again in six months would do anything to increase market stability and reduce uncertainty."Mr. Speaker, lurching from one politically motivated calamity to the next is doing our economy and our country great harm. We need a bill that addresses this issue for the long term, not one that will require us to repeat this madness in a matter of weeks."It is past time for the majority to bring such a bill to this floor, so that we can focus on bringing jobs back and building our economy for the long haul."# # #
07.26.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today the House of Representatives will continue consideration of H.R. 2584, the FY 2012 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill, which includes sweeping new pollution exemptions, corporate giveaways, and cuts to the federal agencies charged with safeguarding public lands and public health. The Republican bill includes at least 38 anti-environment policy riders carving out exemptions for corporate polluters and prohibiting agencies from enforcing environmental regulations."This bill was written by special interests that want to roll back 40 years of progress towards cleaner air and water," Rep. Price said. "It is chock full of anti-environment riders that benefit oil companies, mining companies and other corporate polluters."Video of Rep. Price's remarks on the House floor:The bill would slash the EPA budget by 18 percent below FY 2011 and decimate the Clean Water State Revolving Fund with a 55 percent cut. The Clean Water State Revolving Fund helps states finance wastewater system improvements to meet Clean Water Act goals. The EPA cuts could cause significant job losses at the agency, which employs more than 2,000 local residents at its Research Triangle Park facility. The EPA's RTP facility is its largest operation outside of Washington, D.C."Like the budget cuts pushed through by General Assembly Republicans, the reckless cuts proposed in this bill by congressional Republicans risk job losses at a time when we can least afford them," Rep. Price said. "They have managed to attack the environment and the economy in a single piece of legislation."Overall, the bill provides $27.47 billion, a cut of $2.09 billion or 7 percent below the FY 2011 enacted level and $3.82 billion below the President's request. For the EPA, the bill provides $7.15 billion, a cut of $1.5 billion or 18 percent below the FY 2011 enacted level and a cut of $1.8 billion or 20 percent below the President's request. A final vote on the bill is expected later this week.What's in the Special Interest Gift Bag? –H.R. 2584 Policy RidersBlocks EPA Greenhouse Gas Standard for Automobiles [Section 453]: Prohibits funding for the EPA to develop or finalize a new greenhouse gas standard for automobiles after model year 2016. New EPA standards could help reduce oil consumption and by as much at 2.4 million barrels of oil every day by 2030, reducing our dependence on foreign oil. The rider also blocks states from implementing their own clean vehicle standards.Waives Clean Air Act Requirements for Big Oil Companies [Section 443]: Amends the Clean Air Act to (1) preclude EPA from requiring offshore sources to demonstrate compliance with health-based air quality standards anywhere but in a single onshore area; (2) reduce the length of time during which exploration platforms and drill ships are considered emission sources under the CAA, thereby limiting the time when emissions would be controlled; (3) make it impossible to use the permitting program to set emission control requirements for service vessels associated with offshore sources; and (4) replace a relatively fast, inexpensive process for citizens to challenge government action with a longer, more expensive review process in the Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit.Blocks Clean Air Act Regulations of Fine Particles/Soot [Section 454]: Prohibits funding for the EPA to regulate certain levels of particulate matter in the air under the Clean Air Act.Blocks Endangered Species Act Designations [Language on page 8]: Prohibits funding for Endangered Species Act listings or critical habitat designations.Blocks Greenhouse Gas Rule on Stationary Sources [Section 431]: Severely limits EPA's ability to regulate greenhouse gases. For a one-year period EPA is prohibited from proposing or promulgating regulations to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from stationary sources. The language also prevents civil tort or common law lawsuits during this one-year period. Furthermore the language states that any permit applied for during the one-year period shall not be federally enforceable.Blocks Update to Mountaintop Removal Mining Rule [Section 432]: Prohibits the Office of Surface Mining (OSM) from updating the Stream Buffer Rule. This is for the benefit of companies engaged in Mountaintop Removal Mining.Blocks Mountaintop Removal Mining Policy at Multiple Agencies [Sec. 433]: Prohibits EPA, the Corps of Engineers, and OSM from implementing or enforcing any policy or procedure contained in two specified documents on Mountaintop Removal Mining.Blocks Coal Ash Regulation [Section 434]: Prohibits EPA from regulating Fossil Fuel Combustion Waste (coal ash) under the Solid Waste Disposal Act.Blocks Modification of Clean Water Act [Sec. 435]: Prohibits EPA from changing or supplementing guidance or rules related to the scope of the Clean Water Act.Blocks Arsenic Cancer Study & Formaldehyde Risk Assessments [Section 444]: New authorization language requiring EPA to improve its Integrated Risk Information System (IRIS) seeking to draw doubt to the program that highlights health implications from environmental contaminants. The language stops the release of draft or final risk assessments that are not based on improvements in IRIS based on a National Research Council assessment of formaldehyde. Further requires the National Academy of Science to review EPA's changes to IRIS and review risk assessments undertaken by EPA. The language goes on to limit funds for any action that would lower exposure levels below or within background concentration levels in ambient air, drinking water, soil, or sediment. Report language directs EPA to take no further action to post its draft cancer assessment of inorganic arsenic until the completion of the NAS study.Removes Protection of Grand Canyon from Uranium Mining Claims [Section 445]: Prohibits the Secretary of the Interior from implementing a land withdrawal to protect the Grand Canyon from new uranium mining claims.Blocks EPA Opinions on Pesticides [Section 447]: Prevents the EPA from using biological opinions related to pesticides and the Endangered Species Act, with a focus on ESA-listed salmon.Blocks Clean Air Act Regulations of Cement Industry [Section 448]: Prohibits funding for the EPA to implement Clean Air Act regulations on the manufacture of Portland cement.Blocks EPA Enforcement of Florida Water Quality Standards [Section 452]: Prohibits funding for the EPA to implement or enforce numeric Florida Water Quality Standards even though the state receives millions in federal funds for water projects.Blocks EPA Regulation of Hard Rock Mining Operations [Section 455]: Prohibits funding for the EPA to develop additional financial assurance requirements for hard rock mining operations.# # #
07.19.2011	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (D-NC) gave the following remarks for the record today as the House of Representatives considered a Republican proposal to put an unrealistic hard cap on federal spending and require a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution be passed before any increase in the debt limit is considered. The proposal would make it impossible to maintain Medicare in its present form and would erect impossibly high barriers to removing abusive tax loopholes. The text of Rep. Price's remarks is below.Mr. Speaker, This "Cut, Cap and Gut" proposal isn't just a retread of the policies our colleagues voted for in their extreme budget resolution that would end Medicare as we know it; it's worse. This bill holds an increase in the debt limit hostage to passage of a radical GOP Constitutional Amendment that would require even deeper cuts after ending Medicare as we know it.It arbitrarily caps federal spending at 18% of GDP. To say this is unwise is an understatement. The last time federal spending was 18% or less of GDP was 1966. The problems of 2011 don't call for a rigid ideology 45 years behind the curve. Why would we tie Congress' hands in the event of future economic challenges? In economic downturns Congress should be able to cut taxes or increase investments to stimulate growth. This is basic economic policy.This proposal turns a blind eye not just to basic economics, but to the two pressing and related challenges facing our country: growing the economy and charting a course back to fiscal balance. It would necessitate across the board cuts in the domestic programs—education, research, infrastructure and Medicare—that make us strong and ensure our economic success. We know that the best cure for a budget deficit is a growing economy, but this bill requires deep spending cuts starting in October that could stall the recovery and put more Americans out of work.The budget surpluses we achieved during the 1990s were the result of a concerted effort to balance the budget through a comprehensive approach. Revenues, entitlements, military and domestic spending—all were on the table. We balanced the budget four years in a row. We paid off more than $400 billion of the national debt. Yet those surpluses were squandered during the George W. Bush administration through trillions in tax cuts and two wars and a privatized prescription drug plan—none of it paid for. Then, when the recession hit in 2008, we were already deep in a fiscal hole and our ability to take effective countermeasures was dangerously compromised. We must never let that happen again.The bill before us is the opposite of a balanced, comprehensive approach. This bill makes it easier for future Congresses to cut Medicare than to close tax loopholes for oil companies or millionaires, because it requires a 2/3 vote for any measure that raises revenue. The Ronald Reagan-Tip O'Neal agreement to save Social Security in 1983 would not have passed this hurdle. George H. W. Bush's bipartisan 1990 deficit reduction plan would not have passed this hurdle, nor would the Democratic deficit reduction plan of 1993. So this bill willfully cuts off Congress' access to the tools that have produced meaningful deficit reduction and boosted economic growth, at a time when our economy is fragile and millions of Americans are out of work.Perhaps this is just positioning by the House majority, but there is no need for this brinksmanship. We should not be making these decisions under duress, but that is exactly where the Republican no-compromise majority has left us. They ask us to alter the fundamental relationship between our people and government—undermining Medicare, education, infrastructure and research funding—by voting on a bill that has never seen a committee vote and was only completed last Friday.This legislation is not worthy of Congress' approval, and it deserves rejection from those on both sides of the aisle who understand that it is a dangerous diversion from the pressing tasks of job creation and sound fiscal policy.# # #
07.15.2011	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (D-NC) released the following statement this afternoon after voting against H.R. 2354, the Fiscal Year 2012 Energy and Water Appropriations bill. The bill rescinds high-speed rail funding already promised to states under the Recovery Act. It also undermines clean energy efforts."Today, I voted against H.R. 2354, the Fiscal Year 2012 Energy and Water Appropriations. This bill, which passed by a vote of 219-196, threatens to undermine common sense efforts to move us towards a clean energy economy. The bill provides $30.6 billion for energy and water related agencies, which is $1 billion below current levels and 16 percent less than the president requested."H.R. 2354 essentially eliminates the High Speed Rail program, by rescinding funds from the Recovery Act that have already been promised to states for their work on developing and improving high speed and intercity passenger rail. This is a political stunt by the majority to rob Peter to pay Paul by putting these funds toward disaster relief. In fact, members of the majority know full well that emergency disaster relief efforts have always been funded through supplemental legislation. What's worse is that this comes on top of the FY11 spending bill, which cut off future funding for the rail program."Planned high-speed rail investments will relieve congestion, reduce our dependence on foreign oil, make our neighborhoods more livable and environmentally sustainable, make our communities more attractive places to live and do business in the long term, and create well-paying construction and manufacturing jobs in the near term--20,000 jobs in North Carolina alone, as a matter of fact. Rescission of these funds is penny-wise and pound-foolish because it undermines an infrastructure project that would create jobs and pay dividends for years and years in the future. We should not be surprised by this, however, since we are now in the midst of a debt ceiling debate that revolves around the majority's disinterest in paying for the things already purchased by Congress' past appropriations."While the Republicans claim to support an 'all of the above' energy approach, it seems to me they mean 'fossil fuels above all.' While the bill sorely underfunds energy efficiency measures and clean energy research, this legislation leaves funds for fossil energy largely intact and does nothing to address substantive federal tax subsidies enjoyed by large oil companies. Eliminating these subsidies could save taxpayers more than $40 billion over the next ten years and provide the resources needed to invest in future energy sources. The bill also provides woefully inadequate resources to the Army Corps of Engineers and prevents the Corps from engaging in Administration-wide efforts to protect clean water."H.R. 2354 stands in stark contrast to the President's budget, which calls for increased investments in clean energy research, innovation, and manufacturing that will create American jobs, reduce U.S. oil dependence, and decrease pollution. While I understand the need to decrease spending in the bill overall, I could not in good conscience support a funding measure that would undermine key investments in our clean energy future, which are key to our nation's economic growth and job creation, as well as national security."# # #
07.13.2011	Washington, D.C. - Representative David Price (D-NC) gave the following remarks for the record during House consideration of a Republican measure weakening the Environmental Protection Agency's ability to enforce the Clean Water Act. Rep. Price and other Democrats dubbed the bill, the "Dirty Water Act". The House passed the bill by a 239-184 vote. The text of Rep. Price's remarks is below."Today, the House is considering H.R. 2018, the so-called Clean Water Cooperative Federalism Act. This bill, which represents the latest attempt by the House to weaken the Environmental Protection Agency, could just as easily be called the 'Dirty Water Act.'"Since 1972, the Clean Water Act, which is one of the nation's most successful and effective environmental laws, has protected the waterways Americans depend on for fishing, swimming, and clean drinking water. H.R. 2018 would overturn almost 40 years of federal protection by preventing the Environmental Protection Agency from safeguarding public health and protecting water quality. It also would undermine the agency's authority to ensure that state water quality standards comply with the law. What's at stake here is not federal oversight versus state's rights, but rather clean water versus dirty water."In case anyone is wondering why the Congress might consider such a bill, consider this example: coal companies want to conduct mountaintop removal mining in Appalachia and dump the waste they generate into Appalachia's streams and waterways. The EPA has rightly declined to classify this waste as fill material. Should the financial interests of a few coal companies outweigh the environmental and public health interests of the people of the entire region?"Rather than weakening our federal clean water protection laws, we should be strengthening these laws to protect our oceans, rivers, lakes and streams. I urge my colleagues to vote against H.R. 2018."# # #
07.12.2011	Washington, D.C. - Representative David Price (NC-04) released the following statement today regarding the U.S. General Services Administration's (GSA) decision to cancel a planned lease of new office space for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) operations in Cary. One of the few options being considered was a former Kroger supermarket off Highway 55, which had elicited many concerns from among Cary residents. GSA will now re-start the lease procurement process and consider other options for the ICE facility."I think GSA has made the right decision to cancel this move and to reopen the consideration of lease options. It's important that the Town of Cary and local residents be fully included in any decision about the location of a law enforcement facility of such a significant size in their community. I was glad to help bring the federal agencies together with the Town of Cary to ensure that all views and options were considered before a decision was made."# # #
06.29.2011	Washington, D.C. - North Carolinians affected by severe storms should be aware of local, state and federal resources as disaster recovery operations proceed. On April 19, President Obama issued a major disaster declaration for the State of North Carolina triggering the release of Federal funds to help individuals and communities recover from the severe storms, tornadoes and flooding. Information on the disaster declaration and assistance programs is provided below. FEMA has extended the disaster assistance registration period through July 5, 2011.-FEMA Extends Disaster Registration Deadline to July 5 (link)HOW CONSTITUENTS CAN REGISTER FOR FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE:• Telephone—1-800-621-FEMA (3362), TTY (800) 462-7585 for individuals with speech or hearing disabilities.• Internet—They may apply for disaster assistance online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov.• Smartphone—The mobile website m.fema.gov allows the public to easily access disaster-related information directly on their smartphone. The site also includes a registration form that the public can fill out to apply for disaster assistance after a Presidential declaration.TYPES OF FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE AVAILABLE AND DESIGNATED COUNTIESIndividual Assistance: Assistance to individuals and households (this can include temporary housing assistance for eligible applicants such as rental assistance and repair assistance so constituents are encouraged to register with FEMA as quickly as possible). Designated Counties: Bertie, Bladen, Cumberland, Halifax, Harnett, Johnston, Lee, Onslow, Wake, and Wilson.Public Assistance: Assistance for emergency work and the repair or replacement of disaster-damaged facilities. Designated Counties: Bertie, Bladen, Craven, Cumberland, Currituck, Greene, Halifax, Harnett, Hertford, Hoke, Johnston, Lee, Onslow, Pitt, Robeson, Sampson, Wake, and Wilson Counties for debris removal and emergency protective measures (Categories A and B), including direct Federal assistance, under the Public Assistance program.Hazard Mitigation: Assistance for actions taken to prevent or reduce long-term risk to life and property from natural hazards. Designated Counties: All counties in the State of North Carolina are eligible to apply for assistance under the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program.Tax Relief: Victims of severe storms, tornadoes and flooding on April 16, 2011 in parts of North Carolina may qualify for tax relief from the Internal Revenue Service. Individuals who reside or have a business in the following counties declared federal disaster areas may qualify: Bertie, Bladen, Cumberland, Halifax, Harnett, Johnston, Lee, Onslow, Wake and Wilson. The IRS is postponing until June 30 certain deadlines for taxpayers who live or have a business in the disaster area. This includes the April 18 deadline for filing 2010 individual income tax returns, making income tax payments and making 2010 contributions to an individual retirement account (IRA). In addition, the IRS is waiving the failure-to-deposit penalties for employment and excise tax deposits due on or after April 16 and on or before May 2, 2011, as long as the deposits were made by May 2, 2011. More information is available on the IRS website here.Additional designations may be made at a later date if requested by the State and warranted by the results of further damage assessments.-FEMA Blog: Aftermath of Severe Southern Storms – Supporting our State and Local Partners-Immediately After a Disaster-Recover and Rebuild-Disaster Assistance Frequently Asked QuestionsDonate or Volunteer to HelpReport a Disaster-related Scam to the North Carolina Department of JusticeFile a report by calling 1-877-5-NO-SCAM, or via the NCDOJ Online Complaint Form. Also see the NCDOJ's tips to consumers on avoiding post-storm scams.# # #
06.24.2011	Washington, D.C. - Yesterday afternoon, Representative David Price (D-NC) and other members of the House Democracy Partnership (HDP) met with Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf during her visit to Washington, DC. President Johnson Sirleaf updated HDP's members on Liberia's political and economic development and thanked the lawmakers for their continued work with the country's parliament.The House Democracy Partnership is a bipartisan commission of the House of Representatives that works directly with the legislatures of Liberia and 12 other developing democracies to strengthen their institutions of governance. Rep. Price has served as the senior Democratic member of the commission since its creation in 2005, including as chairman from 2007-2010. The commission is currently chaired by California Republican Rep. David Dreier.HDP's program in Liberia was initiated in 2006, shortly after the end of the country's devastating civil war, and has been a central focus of the commission's work in Africa. Over the last five years, HDP members have led three delegations from the U.S. House to Liberia, hosted three delegations of Liberian legislators for training programs in the United States, and conducted multiple training programs for Liberian staff in both countries. The commission has also played an instrumental role in the construction and development of the Liberian parliament's research library. (Read more about HDP's program in Liberia on the commission's website.)President Johnson Sirleaf has been a strong supporter of HDP's work in Liberia, and Rep. Price welcomed the opportunity to host the president during her Washington visit:"Liberia's democratic institutions are crucial to ensuring the country continues to make progress," Rep. Price said. "Doing what it takes to sustain and strengthen legitimate governance beyond a country's first democratic election, and between elections, has been a major focus of the House Democracy Partnership. We are pleased that President Johnson Sirleaf shares this important goal with us."Last year Rep. Price led a delegation of members to Liberia over the Fourth of July holiday. Upon the delegation's return, Reps. Price and Dreier co-authored a column reflecting on the experience and the importance of U.S. support for emerging democracies:"This July Fourth, as Americans congregated around their barbecue grills and fireworks displays to celebrate our nation's independence, we sat with six of our House colleagues in the Liberian village of Kakata, listening to a particularly vocal crowd of citizens air its grievances. More money was needed for a local school; a nearby bridge was on the verge of collapse; the government had not done enough for persons with disabilities."This may sound like a familiar story, but there's a twist: their comments weren't directed at us, but rather at the Liberian legislators who had organized this town hall meeting. Our delegation had been invited to attend not as participants but as observers — as witnesses to Liberia's fragile but maturing democracy, five years after free and fair elections brought an end to one of the bloodiest civil wars in modern history. And like voters the world over, these constituents weren't about to let their elected representatives escape the podium easily." (Read the entire column here).In addition to Liberia, HDP's current partner legislatures include Afghanistan, Georgia, Haiti, Indonesia, Kenya, Kosovo, Lebanon, Liberia, Macedonia, Mongolia, Pakistan, Peru, and Timor-Leste. HDP members and staff offer targeted assistance in areas critical to building parliamentary capacity such as legislative oversight, budget analysis, committee operations, constituent relations, and library and research services. The partnership's singular focus on the legislative branch of government and its unique ability to bring together American legislators and staff, and their peers from around the world have made the commission a valuable forum for strengthening democratic institutions and deepening bilateral relations.*In the above photo: Rep. Price and Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf after a meeting in the U.S. Capitol Building.# # #
06.22.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today, North Carolina Representatives David Price (D-NC) and Howard Coble (R-NC) introduced the American Textile Technology Innovation and Research for Exportation (ATTIRE) Act, urging their colleagues to support the legislation to boost high-tech textile manufacturing and job creation.The ATTIRE Act supports innovation and research in the U.S. textile and fiber products industry through the creation of a new $5 million competitive grant program at the Department of Commerce. University-based and non-profit research institutions seeking to bolster high-tech textile research and development projects would be eligible to compete for grant funds. Currently, no single federal program exists to support innovation in the U.S. textile and fiber products industry, which remains a major source of exports and job creation despite the contraction it has suffered in recent years."The textile industry contributes $60 billion to our national economy every year, and it employs over 500,000 workers across the country, including many right here in the Tar Heel state," Rep. Price said. "The ATTIRE Act will help keep these jobs here, ensuring this critical domestic industry out-innovates its international competitors by funding research into the next generation of textile and fiber technologies.""My mama was a textile worker and the textile industry will always remain important to me," Rep. Coble said. "That is why I am pleased to join with Congressman Price in cosponsoring the ATTIRE Act."North Carolina has long been a leader in both textile manufacturing and the research and development of innovative textile products. North Carolina State University researchers have pursued projects to develop mosquito bite-proof fabrics for use in malaria zones and waterproof leather boots for first-responders, who prefer their regular leather boots over the bulky, loose fitting rubber boots they currently use when responding to emergencies involving hazardous materials. The North Carolina State Thermal Protection Laboratory also conducts extensive analysis of the thermal protection properties of materials used in occupations such as military service, firefighting, welding and metal work, ensuring garments provide adequate burn protection.Rep. Price also introduced the ATTIRE Act near the close of the 111th Congress. However, today marks the first time the bill has been introduced with bipartisan support.# # #
06.14.2011	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (D-NC) today decried the plans of General Assembly Republicans to dismantle two education programs of national significance, the Teaching Fellows program and the NC Center for the Advancement of Teaching."Almost nothing we need to do to improve and reform public education will be possible without a quality teaching force," Price noted. "North Carolina's programs to recruit and retain teachers have not only served our state well but have served as national models. I have drawn on both in crafting federal legislation.""It is not my usual practice to comment in detail on state-level measures, but in this case I must speak out—as a citizen and as a national legislator aware of the excellence of these programs and the example they have provided nationwide."The General Assembly budget—vetoed by Governor Bev Perdue and slated for override votes this week—phases out the Teaching Fellows program, which provides scholarships for prospective teachers and has attracted many to long-term teaching careers. The budget also nearly halves resources for the North Carolina Center for the Advancement of Teaching (NCCAT), the state's premier teacher retention and continuing education program.# # #
06.06.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today, Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Representative David Price (D-N.C.) announced the introduction of legislation to ensure accountability under U.S. law for American contractors and employees working abroad. Their bill responds to several major incidents involving misconduct by overseas contractors in recent years. The Leahy-Price Civilian Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act (CEJA) will close a gap in current law that has allowed contractors to go unpunished for murder, rape, and other serious abuses, ensuring that legal accountability for such crimes doesn't end at the water's edge."For too long, contractors employed by our government have operated in a legal no-man's land, evading accountability for crimes such as murder, rape, and assault," Rep. Price said. "Our country's failure to hold its own employees accountable has damaged our relations with key allies, undermined our military and diplomatic missions, and compromised our core national values. It is time to close this accountability gap once and for all."Last month, Sen. Leahy, the Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, convened an oversight hearing on the subject of contractor accountability, in which witnesses from private industry and academia testified in favor of the bill. Assistant U.S. Attorney General Lanny Breuer also testified at the hearing in support of closing the gaps in the law the Price and Leahy bills would address. Sen. Leahy is expected to schedule a markup of the legislation soon."Ensuring criminal accountability will improve our national security and protect Americans overseas," said Leahy. "Importantly, in those instances where the local justice system may be less fair, CEJA will also protect Americans by providing the option of prosecuting them in the United States, rather than leaving them subject to hostile and unpredictable local courts. I hope Senators of both parties will work together to pass this important reform."Rep. Price has authored similar legislation to hold overseas contractors accountable in each of the last several Congresses. In 2007, after security contractors employed by Blackwater USA opened fire in a crowded square in Baghdad, killing up to 17 civilians, the House approved Rep. Price's MEJA Expansion and Enforcement Act (H.R. 2740) by a broad bipartisan margin, but the Senate failed to act on the companion legislation introduced by then-Sen. Barack Obama. In the last Congress, Rep. Price and Sen. Leahy introduced the Civilian Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act (H.R. 4567/S. 2979), an updated version of Price's previous legislation on which the current bill is based.The proposed legislation creates no new substantive offenses, but rather allows the Department of Justice to prosecute government contractors and employees for certain serious crimes committed overseas. The legislation would complement the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act (MEJA), which provides similar extraterritorial jurisdiction over Department of Defense employees and contractors but does not clearly apply to U.S. contractors working overseas for other federal agencies, such as the Department of State. The legislation would also require the Department of Justice to establish task forces to investigate and prosecute offenses under CEJA and to report to Congress on its progress implementing the law.Price is the Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee and the Co-Chair of the House Democracy Partnership, which works to strengthen civilian democratic institutions around the world.# # #
05.31.2011	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (D-NC) has welcomed five students to his office for a six-week internship. The students are the first of two groups of interns that will participate in the Congressman's summer internship program."As a former educator, I know there's a lot of value in learning by doing," Rep. Price said. "These young people have studied political science and public policy in the classroom, and now they are going to be able to experience the workings of Capitol Hill firsthand. I hope we'll inspire at least a few of them to pursue a career in public service!"Below is information about each intern, including a quote about what the students hope to learn while working in Washington.Peter Alfredson of Raleigh, NC. Peter is a rising sophomore at UNC-Chapel Hill double majoring in Political Science and Russian Culture."I hope to better understand how the legislative process works and how Congressman Price and his staff balance the many important issues that our country is facing right now. I am excited to work for Congressman Price because he is a strong voice for North Carolina and a progressive leader on so many issues. I am a political science major so this experience is helping me to better understand the things I am learning in the classroom."Lauren Hovis of Pfafftown, NC. Lauren is a rising junior at UNC-Chapel Hill majoring in Political Science and International Studies with a minor in Dramatic Art."I am excited to work for Congressman Price because he has proven to be a true public servant to the 4th district. I have enjoyed being a part of his office because it has given me a first-hand account of how constituents' issues are being eloquently addressed by Rep. Price's staff. I have also learned the ins and outs of the Capitol and I absolutely love the busy, productive atmosphere here."Korey Mercer of Durham, NC. Korey is a rising junior at North Carolina Central University majoring in Political Science with a minor in Spanish."I am so enthused to work in Congressman David Price's Office this summer. As a proud constituent of Rep. Price's, I am grateful for this opportunity to experience life on Capitol Hill. This internship will give me a firsthand look at different policies that are affecting me as a student and will allow me to gain valuable skills that will help me as I pursue a career in public service."Richard Alan Mitchell of Cary, NC. Richard is a rising senior at Pomona College majoring in Economics."I have applied economics to public policy in a classroom setting, and working in Congressman Price's office I hope that I will learn how economic intuition informs legislation. I am excited to work for Mr. Price because he is a clear example of enlightened leadership who is deeply involved with his constituency."Olivia Hammill of Raleigh, NC. Olivia is a rising senior at UNC-Chapel Hill majoring in Political Science and Peace War and Defense with a minor in History."I've learned about the political process in the classroom, so the opportunity to witness it first-hand is unlike any other. Congressman Price has a history of representing the needs of the people of North Carolina, and I'm very much looking forward to working with him and his staff this summer."Above photo: (from left to right) Korey Mercer, NCCU, rising junior; Peter Alfredson, UNC-CH, rising sophomore; Olivia Hammill, UNC-CH, rising senior; Lauren Hovis, UNC-CH, rising junior; Alan Mitchell, Pomona College, rising senior.# # #
05.25.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. David Price (D-NC) joined other Co-Chairs at the first meeting of the bicameral High Speed Intercity Passenger Rail Caucus in calling on Congress to see high speed rail investments as a key part of creating jobs now and ensuring our future economic competitiveness. Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood took questions from advocates and reporters on recent grants and the future of federal support for high speed rail. The caucus is dedicated to supporting federal legislative and funding policies to ensure the long-term viability of high-speed and intercity passenger rail."High speed rail needs to play a bigger role in our nation's overall transportation system so we can move people and goods from one place to another faster and more efficiently," Rep. Price said in his remarks. "Proposed rail investments will relieve congestion, reduce our dependence on foreign oil, and create jobs—including 20,000 jobs in North Carolina alone. And, if we want to stay competitive in the international economy, we simply cannot continue to lag behind countries like China in developing a 21st Century infrastructure."Over the last 15 years, North Carolina has invested approximately $300 million in state intercity rail service capacity, including the construction of new train stations and track improvements. These investments have helped reduce travel time between Raleigh and Charlotte by one hour. State intercity passenger rail ridership has increased 44 percent in the last five years.Congress included $8 billion in high speed rail funding in the Recovery Act. The North Carolina Department of Transportation pursued funding from this pool with the support of the entire North Carolina congressional delegation, ultimately winning $520 million in funding to make improvements along the Raleigh to Charlotte corridor and $25 million for smaller corridor projects. The U.S. Department of Transportation has designated 10 high speed rail corridors including the Southeast High Speed Rail Corridor, which runs from Washington, D.C. to Charlotte via Richmond, VA and Raleigh.Secretary LaHood cited infrastructure investments as both crucial to immediate job creation, and the long-term economic success of the country. Secretary LaHood called on congressional leaders to continue funding high speed rail projects, and to continue transportation investments as a part of deficit reduction measures."You can pay down the debt and deficit, and you can have priorities," LaHood said.President Obama has set a goal of providing 80 percent of Americans with access to high speed rail within 25 years. High speed rail investments also align with the President's plan to "Win the Future" by preserving investments in the programs that make us strong—infrastructure, education, research, innovation—and ensure our future economic competitiveness. At the President and Secretary LaHood's direction the U.S Department of Transportation continues to work with States to plan and develop high speed and intercity passenger rail corridors that range from upgrades to existing services to entirely new rail lines exclusively devoted to 150 to 220 mph trains.Opponents of high speed rail have tried to stop planned projects in some states. Florida rejected its high speed rail funding earlier this year, leading to larger grants for projects in other corridors. North Carolina received $4 million in additional funding for the Richmond to Raleigh corridor."I am pleased by the progress we have had in North Carolina, but there is more to be done in NC and nationwide -- particularly if we hope to achieve the vision of providing 80 percent of Americans access to high speed rail within 25 years," Rep. Price said in his remarks. "This vision stands in stark contrast to that of high speed rail opponents, whose ideas about infrastructure investments are penny-wise and pound foolish."Other Co-Chairs of the caucus include Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL), Senator Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ), Rep. Louise Slaughter (NY-28), Rep. Corrine Brown (FL-3), Rep. Zoe Lofgren (CA-16), Rep. Tim Walz (MN-1) and Rep. John Olver (MA-1). Each founding Co-Chair represents a region containing a major high-speed and intercity rail corridor that, when completed, will make up a national high speed rail network anticipated to both directly and indirectly spur the creation of hundreds of thousands of good-paying jobs across the country.In the above photo: Caucus Co-Chair Rep. David Price (standing) speaks to the first meeting of the High Speed Intercity Passenger Rail Caucus. Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood (left) and Rep. Louise Slaughter (center) also spoke at the gathering.# # #
05.18.2011	Durham, N.C. - Good afternoon. President Ingram; trustees, faculty, and staff; other distinguished guests; members of the graduating class; families and friends: thank you for inviting me to be here with you today and thank you, Ms. McNally for your kind introduction. It is truly an honor to address the graduating class of Durham Tech as it celebrates its 50th year of service to Durham and the Triangle community.My main order of business is to offer congratulations to today's graduates—and to the families, mentors and friends who helped them reach this point. Nobody, after all, reaches graduation day totally on his or her own. I also welcome the opportunity to reflect—briefly, I promise—on the mission of this institution, and on how your accomplishment relates not just to your future but to the future of our community and our country.In many ways, the story of Durham Tech is the story of this region. Fifty years ago, the area surrounding Raleigh, Durham and Chapel Hill, was, in the words of one of the pioneers of Research Triangle Park, composed of little more than "scrub pines and possums."But we had something else--visionary leaders, from government, the private sector, and academia--who came together to establish a research and development park in the middle of that pine forest. They did so because they recognized the Triangle's major assets: world-class educational institutions that could produce the ideas and innovations that would fuel the modern economy, as well as people with the talent and work ethic needed to bring such ideas to scale.As a result, the Triangle is now home not just to tobacco farmers but to some of the world's leading agricultural research and crop science enterprises, not just to textile mills but to institutions and firms researching and developing textile products for applications beyond our forebears' imagination. And, of course, these industries have been joined by newer ones – from information technology and biopharmaceuticals to green energy and financial services.Our four-year colleges and universities have been visible catalysts of this economic transformation, and our region's community colleges have served as its engine. Community colleges – and Durham Tech in particular – have produced business leaders and entrepreneurs as well as highly capable workers, and they have done so while constantly reinventing themselves as industries have evolved or given way to new ones.At the national level, our leaders have also recognized the critical role that technical and community colleges play as drivers of economic growth and renewal. President Obama has made community colleges a key focus of his innovation agenda, with enthusiastic support from the Vice President's wife, Dr. Jill Biden, who has taught in community colleges for the last 17 years. Dr. Biden recently noted that, "Today, community colleges are the largest, fastest growing, most affordable segment of America's higher education system."The President hosted the first-ever White House Summit on Community Colleges last fall. On that occasion he hailed community colleges as "the unsung heroes of America's education system." "They may not get the credit they deserve," he said, "They may not get the same resources as other schools. But they provide a gateway to millions of Americans to good jobs and a better life." And then he noted a telling statistic that underscores the key role of this level of education in providing both economic opportunity for individuals and economic competitiveness for our country: "In the coming years, jobs requiring at least an associates degree are going to grow twice as fast as jobs that don't require college."And so the story of Durham Tech in its 50th year is also the story of the economic future our community and our nation face. It is also your story, and I hope today will mark a significant chapter in your quest for a productive and prosperous life.Durham Tech's success is a particular source of pride for me because I began my own higher education at a two-year school—what was then Mars Hill Junior College, across the mountain from my home in Tennessee. After finishing at Mars Hill, I made the transition some of you will make—from a two-year institution to a four-year degree program, in this case at UNC-Chapel Hill, where I recently had the sobering experience of attending my 50th reunion!My experience at Mars Hill got me off to a positive and supportive start, and helped motivate one of my first legislative accomplishments after I was elected to Congress. I was assigned to serve on the House Science Committee, and I noticed that the federal government's education and training efforts, particularly those of the National Science Foundation, were focused overwhelmingly on four-year universities, with very little attention being paid to the role of two-year and community colleges in work force development and in increasing our nation's competitiveness.This seemed short sighted to me, and to help fill the gaps, I initiated what is now called the Advanced Technological Education program at the National Science Foundation. ATE provides targeted support to community colleges and community college systems to develop innovative curricula and teaching methods focused on high-tech industries, and also supports path-breaking partnerships between community colleges and private businesses.I recount this story to help make a broader point. The experience you've had at Durham Tech may be related in all sorts of anticipated and unanticipated ways to what you do later in life. And I hope that will apply not just to your own work life but to the kinds of citizens you become and the kinds of public undertakings you support. That brings us, as you might have expected, to politics.I don't know what image first comes to mind when you hear the word politics, but I hope it goes beyond 30-second attack ads, talk-show rants, special interest pleading, or power mongering. The fact is that politics in a democracy is an indispensable means of achieving our common purposes as a community. I have always been grateful to have come of age politically during the civil rights era, because it was such a positive formative experience—demonstrating that committed people acting together, using the legitimate instruments of power and persuasion, could right ancient wrongs.It is important not to lose—indeed we must insist upon—that vision of politics in a democracy as an instrument of common purpose. For that is the kind of politics it will take, with each of us participating, whether as leaders, advocates, or informed citizens, if our community is to flourish and more people are to have the kind of opportunity to realize their dreams that we celebrate here today.After all, the opportunities you have had and the successes you anticipate owe a great deal to the active and engaged citizenship of those who have gone before. So it is not enough for you to receive a diploma here today and take your place at a business or another institution tomorrow, as important as that is and as satisfying as it will be. You have enhanced potential as informed and active citizens, and your participation in our community must extend to its civic life.Durham Tech has already recognized this vital connection by marking its 50th anniversary as a "year of service" – a fitting tribute to the role of this institution has played in the service of the Triangle community. And so I urge all of you to carry forth this notion as you leave this institution and assume your next station of life. See both your work life and your civic life as proving grounds for your education.One essential way you might do so is by becoming advocates for the kinds of public policies that have helped bring you to where you are as students, well-trained workers, and citizens. If our nation is to remain a leader of the global economy, we must train our people to out-innovate and out-build our competitors. We will only do that with education. And if the Research Triangle success story is to be preserved and enhanced for future generations, we must understand the underpinning that good public policy—strong public education and training efforts, a robust research enterprise, staying ahead of the curve on infrastructure, a supportive environment for small and startup businesses—has played.At this moment, your elected officials—at all levels—are rethinking the role of government in supporting everything from roads to research. What kind of common stake do we have in grant and loan programs to make college more affordable? How much should we invest in job training programs and innovative curricula at institutions like this one?America deserves a government that isn't penny-wise and pound foolish. Do we have any doubt—here in the Triangle of all places—whether investments in education work? Here in this room is all the evidence we need.If we are to preserve and expand these fundamental efforts to meet the needs of the 21st Century, we need to hear from you – we need to hear from you at school board meetings, at city council meetings, in the state legislature and in Congress. We need your voices on this subject and many more. I hope you will consider it your obligation to contribute to the common good, not only through your work and enterprise, but also through your service and citizenship.I will end as I began: with heartfelt congratulations for what you, with the help and support of many, many people, have achieved. You have made it through Durham Tech's demanding course of study, often under trying circumstances, on tight budgets, balancing competing family and job demands. You have earned the admiration of this community and we look forward to the contributions you will continue to make.I wish you good fortune as you take your skills, industry and determination out into the world. I wish you the satisfaction of productive work that uses your full potential. And may you also make a positive contribution to those around you, giving as well as receiving, blessing even as you have been blessed, gladly assuming the jobs and responsibilities of citizenship.Thank you and Godspeed.# # #
05.05.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. David Price re-introduced the Keep Teachers Teaching Act, which would provide federal grants to states or school districts to develop innovative teacher retention programs. The bill would also direct the Department of Education to identify the most promising teacher retention approaches and to disseminate information about those approaches to states and school districts around the country. Rep. Price believes that retaining the highest caliber teachers should be a focus as Congress considers education reforms.The introduction coincides with this week's celebration of Teacher Appreciation Week, when students and parents across the country express their gratitude by giving small gifts of appreciation to their favorite teachers. However, one of the biggest challenges facing school districts throughout the country today is the retention of qualified public school teachers.According to the Congressional Research Service, nearly a third of K-12 teachers leave the profession within five years of being hired because of poor working conditions, low pay, low morale, and lack of opportunities for advancement. In some schools, the five-year attrition rate reaches 50 percent. The National Education Association (NEA), the American Association of Colleges for Teacher Education (AACTE), and the American Association of State Colleges and Universities (AASCU) support Rep. Price's legislation to address the pressing need to correct this trend."We have fallen woefully short in retaining the best-of-the-best teachers," Rep. Price said. "Too many are leaving mid-career, or even after only a few years. This bill will allow each school district to find the right mix of additional resources, career enrichment and financial encouragement to meet the needs of their best educators."Rep. Price's bill calls for no additional funding. It would provide grants to states or school districts through an existing program, allowing policymakers to create innovative retention plans that could be matched to the needs of individual school districts rather than imposing a top-down, one-size-fits-all plan. Effective programs to address teacher retention are already at work in school districts around the country. The Kenan Fellows Program, which pairs public schoolteachers in North Carolina with scientists and university faculty to develop innovative math, science and technology curricula, is but one example of such a model program that is already working. Many more innovative programs could be advanced if the right kind of resources were available."Teacher retention should be a focus of the debate as this Congress moves forward on education reform," Rep. Price said. "This is an area where we can hope for some bipartisan consensus."Price has been a leader in Congress on legislation to improve the quality of public education throughout the nation by bringing teachers of the highest caliber into the profession and then keeping them in the classroom. He has been working for years to build on North Carolina's success at recruiting qualified teachers through the Teaching Fellows program by proposing legislation to expand access to similar programs throughout the country.Original co-sponsors of the legislation include Reps. Corrine Brown (D-FL), G.K. Butterfield (D-NC), John Conyers (D-MI), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Larry Kissell (D-NC), John Lewis (D-GA), Mike McIntyre (D-NC), Brad Miller (D-NC), Jim Moran (D-VA), Tim Walz (D-MN) and Mel Watt (D-NC).# # #
05.05.2011	Washington, D.C. - Yesterday, Rep. David Price (D-NC) joined House Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer (D-MD) and House Democrats in unveiling the "Make It In America" agenda for the 112th Congress. The agenda supports job creation today and in the future by encouraging businesses to innovate in the US, by strengthening our infrastructure and by supporting investments in key areas like education and clean energy. The agenda builds on House Democrats' efforts to create jobs, grow the economy and cut wasteful spending."'Make It In America' is based on the belief that when we make more products in America, more families are able to Make It In America," said Rep. Price. "Clean energy, research, education and infrastructure are going to drive the innovation we need to strengthen this recovery and ensure the United States wins the future. The 'Make It In America' agenda is aimed at securing our long-term competitiveness. Democrats are committed to making sound investments in our ability to out-educate, out-innovate and out-build our competitors."Rep. Price plans to introduce his American Textile Technology Innovation and Research Exportation (ATTIRE) Act soon as Democrats continue to roll-out their job creation agenda. The bill will support innovation and research in the U.S. textile industry through a competitive grant program administered by the Department of Commerce. University-based and non-profit research institutions seeking to bolster growth in the textile industry would be eligible to compete for the funds. The $60 billion dollar a year American textile industry employs over 500,000 workers across the country."People want Congress to create jobs, not pursue an extreme and divisive social agenda," Rep. Price said. "Republicans have been in charge for 120 days without bringing up a single jobs bill. The only major initiative Republicans have outlined is a budget that ends Medicare as we know it to pay for tax breaks for the wealthy and oil companies."The "Make It In America" agenda addresses a range of issues that all help to create an environment where manufacturers and small businesses can expand and create jobs here. Make It in America bills include:• National Infrastructure Development Bank Act: Establishes a wholly-owned government corporation to facilitate efficient investments in and financing of infrastructure projects—from leading-edge broadband networks and energy delivery systems to modern ports—that foster economic development and keep America competitive.• Permanent R&D Tax Credit: Make permanent and expand the Research and Development Tax Credit so research investments can draw capital that create tomorrow's jobs. This tax credit is critical to many Triangle based firms.• Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) programs: Ensure that the nation's small, high-tech, and innovative businesses are a significant part of the federal government's research and development efforts.• Small Business Start-up Savings Accounts: Establishes tax-preferred savings accounts for small business start-up savings accounts.• Clean Energy Technology Manufacturing and Export Assistance Act: Establishes a Clean Energy Technology Manufacturing and Export Assistance Fund, to be administered through the International Trade Administration, to ensure that U.S. clean energy technology firms have the information and assistance they need to be competitive and to create clean energy technology sector jobs.• Workforce Investment Act: Our economy is only as strong as the people who work to grow it. The American workforce investment system is supported by a partnership of educators, workforce development professionals and the business community who work together to ensure the vitality of local economies. A robust reauthorization of WIA will ensure that workers who seek opportunities in a new field or new opportunities within their own field have the support they need.• STEM Education: To strengthen American innovation, create the industries of the future, and ensure that our kids have the skills they need to fill well-paying jobs in those industries, we must invest in outstanding science, technology, engineering, and math education.o Ensure that states develop rigorous core standards in science, to complement standards in math and readingo Help interested science, technology, engineering, and math professionals enter teaching careerso Build community partnerships to create externship opportunities for studentso Promote careers in manufacturing for high school studentso Fully fund STEM education provisions in the America COMPETES Act to strengthen manufacturing education, increase STEM career opportunities for women and minoritiesSince launching the "Make It In America" agenda in the previous Congress, President Obama has signed six "Make It In America" bills into law:• U.S. Manufacturing Enhancement Act: Makes it cheaper for American companies to obtain the materials they need to manufacture goods.• Protecting American Patents: Helps unclog the backlog of 1.2 million patent applications so innovative ideas can move to market more quickly.• Preventing Outsourcing: Prevents the outsourcing of U.S. jobs by closing tax loopholes that encourage companies to send U.S. jobs overseas.• Small Business Jobs Act: Expands much needed lending to millions of small businesses and offers tax incentives to help small businesses grow, hire, and fuel our economy, without adding a dime to the deficit.• Energy Jobs and Training for Veterans Act: Provides grants for programs to provide on-the-job training, apprenticeship, real experience, and long-term employment in all energy fields.• COMPETES Act: Establishes innovative technology federal loan guarantees for small- and medium-sized manufacturers and invests in science, technology, engineering, and math education.# # #
05.03.2011	Washington, D.C. - On Monday, May 9 from 9:00 AM to 1:30 PM, Representative David Price and North Carolina Senator Kay Hagan will host a grant funding and contracting workshop in conjunction with North Carolina Central University. Guests will hear from funding agencies at the federal and state level, as well as philanthropic organizations about potential resources for local governments, non-profits and business owners.Representatives from the following funding agencies and organizations will be on hand:• U.S. Department of Agriculture• U.S. Department of Commerce• U.S. Department of Energy• U.S. Department of Labor• U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development• U.S. Department of Education• The General Services Administration• N.C. Department of Commerce• Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation• The N.C. Rural Economic Development Center• The Golden LEAF FoundationWho: Rep. David Price (NC-04), Sen. Kay HaganWhat: Grant Funding and Contracting WorkshopWhen: Monday, May 9, 2011 (9:00 AM – 1:30 PM)Where: North Carolina Central University's H.M. Michaux School of Education Building (1801 Fayetteville Street Durham, NC 27707)# # #
05.02.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. David Price (D-NC), ranking member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement on the killing of Al-Qaeda head and 9/11 mastermind Osama bin Laden."For decades Osama bin Laden terrorized the world, killing men, women and children in the name of a perverse and fanatical ideology. The horrific events of September 11 and the bombing of the USS Cole are burned into the memory of all Americans. Today we have achieved a measure of justice. We honor and thank our Commander-in-Chief, members of our armed services, intelligence and security professionals and others who have carried out this remarkable operation."# # #
04.15.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today, the House voted on the annual budget resolution to set forth the broad framework for federal spending in 2012. Rep. David Price voted against the House Republican budget, which would end Medicare as we know it and use the savings to lower tax rates yet again for wealthy taxpayers. The Republican budget also would cut key investments in education, research, infrastructure and innovation, undermining long-term investments in the things that help America compete and win the international competition for jobs. Rep. Price supported the alternative budget offered by House Democrats, which achieves primary balance by 2018, and makes responsible adjustments to spending, preserving Medicare and investing our nation's future."The budget should not be a legislative magic trick in which Republican sleight of hand turns Medicare cuts into tax breaks for the wealthy," Rep. Price said. "There is simply no good reason to force seniors to pay more for their health care so that the rich can get richer."According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office's analysis of the Republican Budget, 65-year-olds would pay on average between $6,400 and $7,000 more per year to buy private coverage under the Republican plan than they would pay for coverage through Medicare. The Republican budget also would also replace Medicaid with a system of block grants that would shift costs to states and reduce access to care.The Republican budget would also close the door to college for many students by making the largest cut in the history of Pell Grants, slashing the maximum Pell Grant award by more than $2,500 (45 percent from the current $5,500). That change alone would affect nearly 10 million students nationwide, including over 17,000 students in North Carolina's Fourth District, who rely on Pell Grants to pay for their education.The Republican budget also makes large cuts in transportation funding and clean energy and medical research, including a $4 billion cut each year to research at the National Science Foundation, the Department of Energy, and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration."The federal budget is a statement of our priorities and values," Rep. Price said. "In the Triangle we know that investments in education, research, infrastructure and innovation are powerful engines of job creation. This is a budget that says we shouldn't invest in our competitiveness, in educating our people, or in caring for our seniors properly, but that instead we should cut taxes by trillions of dollars for the wealthiest taxpayers. If we are serious about fiscal balance, everything –entitlements, revenue, defense, and domestic programs—must be on the table."# # #
04.14.2011	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (D-NC) gave the following statement for the record today as the House of Representatives debated a Continuing Resolution funding the government for the remainder of the 2011 fiscal year. Rep. Price voted against the resolution, which passed by a vote of 260-167. The text of Rep. Price's statement is below.Congressman David PriceStatement on the Department of Defense and Full-Year Continuing Appropriations ActApril 14, 2011MR. SPEAKER, I rise today in reluctant opposition to this measure. I do so with a keen awareness that it reflects a bipartisan agreement reached to avert a government shutdown, and I commend the President and congressional leadership for negotiating a deal that avoided the most extreme aspects of H.R. 1, the Republican continuing resolution passed by the House in February. I also commend Chairman Rogers and the Appropriations Committee majority staff for soliciting input from the minority as they finalized the details of this proposal.But ultimately, I must judge this bill on its merits and not by the process that produced it. And I cannot in good conscience support a measure that will threaten our fragile economic recovery and undermine key investments in our future, while doing little to address our long-term fiscal challenges and requiring little in the way of shared sacrifice. It is simply not enough to observe that this bill could have been much worse.As the Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, I have concerns about the cuts the bill would impose on the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), but this is not the primary reason for my opposition. This area of the budget was spared the sort of drastic reductions the bill makes to investments in infrastructure, innovation and the health and well-being of the American people. I commend our Subcommittee Chairman, Robert Aderholt, for protecting the core operational functions of the Department – from Customs and Border Protection personnel to transportation security investments to the Coast Guard.Chairman Aderholt was not operating without constraints, of course. Overall funding for DHS will drop by two percent from last year's funding level, and the majority's decision to increase the Disaster Relief Fund by $1 billion to cover a shortfall that has traditionally been met through emergency supplemental appropriations only exacerbates this reduced allocation. Unfortunately, state and local first responder grants received the brunt of this blow, taking a 25 percent reduction overall. Not only does this adversely impact the efforts of communities across the country to keep their people safe by preparing for natural disasters and terrorist attacks, but it does so at a time when state and local budgets are already contracting, making federal assistance all the more vital.The bill also reverses course on a decision to fund the processing of asylum seekers and refugees out of general funds, rather than asking other immigrant petitioners to pay fees to fund a service they don't receive. A reduced allocation for the National Protection and Programs Directorate is likely to delay the critical effort to secure government cyberspace, and a cut to the flood hazard mapping program will make it difficult for FEMA to meet its legal obligation to update our nation's flood maps every five years.The bill does avoid significant cuts to most of the core DHS components, including the Coast Guard, TSA, ICE, Secret Service, and Customs and Border Protection. Importantly, the bill maintains level funding for firefighter equipment and staffing grants, which are critical to mitigate the impacts of widespread local budget cuts to public safety personnel. And because of the dire fiscal straits that local fire chiefs are facing, the bill maintains flexibility Congress has given FEMA in recent years to waive certain restrictions on SAFER grants that are difficult for most fire departments to achieve right now.Unfortunately, these homeland security provisions offer little consolation when we turn to other areas of the bill. The strength and security of our country are about much more than how much we spend on weapons systems or how thoroughly we police the border. They are about the investments we make in our people – in our nation's ability to recover from the current economic downturn, compete in the global economy, and build a future of greater prosperity for our children and grandchildren. The bill before us risks pulling the rug out from under the current recovery and compromising our future competitiveness.To be sure, it could have been worse. Some of the most reckless cuts included in H.R. 1 – such as a 17 percent cut to Pell Grants, a $1.6 billion cut to NIH, and an $800 million cut to the National Science Foundation – have been avoided, while the measure contains modest increases for programs such as Head Start and homeless assistance grants. Most of the extreme, ideologically driven policy riders being pushed by my Republican colleagues have been dropped.But the bill still cuts nutrition assistance to Women, Infants and Children (WIC) by over $500 million, Community Health Centers by $600 million, and public housing programs by $700 million – leading to more hungry children, reduced access to health care, and fewer families with a roof over their heads at a time when many are still struggling to make ends meet. It cuts Career Education programs, Dislocated Worker Assistance programs, and a range of highway and infrastructure projects – making it harder for out-of-work Americans to find jobs at a time when our economic recovery is still fragile. And it includes drastic cuts to high-speed rail ($2.9 billion), the EPA ($1.6 billion), energy efficiency and renewable energy research ($438 million), and other key investments in our long-term economic competitiveness. The federal budget is a statement of our priorities and values. These cuts will slow economic growth, as economists across the spectrum have warned, and cost hundreds of thousands of jobs. They will inflict pain on the most vulnerable and restrict opportunities for the middle class.Make no mistake: in order to preserve our economic competitiveness in the future, we must also put our country back on a path toward fiscal balance. As a veteran of the balanced budget agreements of the 1990s, I take a backseat to no one in my conviction that we must rein in our current deficits and put our long-term obligations on a more sustainable trajectory. And while some may claim that this bill is a necessary first step on this path, this view ignores the fact that by threatening the recovery, this bill could perversely exacerbate our fiscal troubles, all the while failing to address our the real budget crisis – the massive imbalance in projected revenues and government obligations in the long-term.Addressing this much more vexing challenge will require making targeted reductions in spending, but it should phase these adjustments in at a pace that does not jeopardize the fragile economic recovery. I have supported a series of measures in recent months that included real cuts to programs I care about. I helped draft an omnibus bill last fall that would have cut over $20 billion below the President's request, and when that wasn't enough to satisfy my Republican colleagues, I helped draft a yearlong Continuing Resolution (CR) that would have cut nearly $40 billion below the request (and $10 billion below last year's enacted level). Senate Republicans blocked both measures, choosing instead to threaten a March government shutdown. In recent weeks I supported three short-term continuing resolutions to give leaders time to negotiate our way out of this mess. These bills cut another $12 billion off of last year's level.But we will never balance the budget through cuts to domestic discretionary spending alone. What is needed is a comprehensive approach that includes reforms to entitlements and revenue, as well as targeted spending cuts–the kind of serious approach outlined by President Obama yesterday–instead of focusing myopically on just 12 percent of the budget, as the bill before us does. Twelve percent of the budget—programs that invest in our people and our future—is not 100 percent of the problem. A real budget solution requires shared sacrifice from all Americans, instead of seeking to balance the budget on the backs of lower- and middle-income Americans while cutting taxes for the wealthy.And so I cannot in good conscience support a measure that would threaten our economic recovery and undermine our long-term competitiveness while doing next to nothing to address our long-term fiscal challenges. This bill may have been a necessary step to avert the irresponsible shutdown of the government, but that does not make it a step in the right direction. I urge my colleagues to oppose this measure.# # #
04.13.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. David Price (D-NC) welcomed President Obama's speech outlining his vision for achieving long-term fiscal balance through carefully targeted spending cuts, reforms to the tax code, and adjustments to entitlement spending. The President's framework sets a goal of reducing our deficit by $4 trillion in 12 years or less, phased in over time to protect the ongoing economic recovery."I have always said that any truly serious proposal to reduce the deficit must put everything on the table – including entitlement and revenue reforms as well as targeted reductions in spending," Rep. Price said. "By this measure, the President's framework should be welcomed as a serious attempt to chart a course back to fiscal balance while preserving the momentum of the economic recovery and maintaining investments in key drivers of economic growth and competitiveness. The same cannot be said for the Republican budget unveiled this week, which calls for extreme cuts to domestic programs and an end to Medicare as we know it in order to pay for more tax cuts for the wealthy."The President's framework, drawing on the approach taken by the bipartisan Bowles-Simpson deficit commission, calls for three dollars of spending cuts and savings for every dollar of revenue that contributes to deficit reduction. The framework also calls for reforms to strengthen the long-term viability of Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. The Republican budget resolution, which the House could vote on as early as Thursday, proposes changing Medicare from a system of guaranteed benefits into a voucher system that would result in benefit cuts and premium increases over time as the cost of insurance rises. Under the Republican budget, a 65-year-old eligible for Medicare in 2021 would pay nearly $6,400 more than he or she would today. It would also replace Medicaid with a system of block grants that would shift costs to states and result in fewer services as the cost of health care increases."Instead of proposing commonsense reforms to protect Medicare, House Republicans seem intent on destroying it," Rep. Price said. "Turning Medicare into a voucher program flies in the face of our commitment to America's seniors. This is not only unacceptable, it's also unnecessary: as the President's proposal lays out, we can preserve Medicare benefits by reforming the tax code to produce a system which is fairer and not rigged in favor of those who can afford lawyers and accountants to game it."Rep. Price has long advocated a comprehensive approach to balancing the budget such as that pursued during the 1990s. He believes Congress should look seriously at expenditures through the tax code, entitlements, revenue and defense and domestic programs. Earlier today, he joined House Democrats in calling on Republicans to pass a clean debt ceiling extension so good faith negotiations can continue on deficit reduction measures."While I don't agree with everything in the President's proposal, his framework represents a balanced approach that puts everything on the table, much like the Bowles-Simpson plan," Rep. Price said. "This is serious business, and both parties are going to have to negotiate in good faith as we chart a course to fiscal balance."Information below provided courtesy of the White House:DETAILS OF THE PRESIDENT'S FRAMEWORK FORSHARED PROSPERITY AND SHARED FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY1. A Fiscally Responsible Economic Strategy to Invest in Competitiveness and GrowthThe President believes that, if we are going to promote economic recovery, invest in our long-term competitiveness and meet our values of dignity for retirees, protection for the most vulnerable and opportunity for all Americans, a comprehensive, balanced deficit reduction framework must be part of our overall economic growth strategy.The question is not whether we need to bring down long-term deficits and debt to build economic confidence and promote investment in the United States; instead it is how to best do so consistent with a pro-growth economic strategy. The framework the President outlined today charts a course to achieve deficit reduction and support economic growth, with a balanced approach and an enforceable backstop to ensure that we achieve our economic and fiscal goals.2. A Deficit Reduction Goal and Enforceable Debt FailsafeThe framework the President announced today offers a balanced approach to maintaining our economic recovery while living within our means. It centers on the following goal:• Achieving $4 trillion in deficit reduction over 12 years or less. The President believes that this goal is achievable over a 12 year period, consistent with the goals of promoting economic growth that benefits the middle class and strengthening the health and economic security of our nation's seniors, people with disabilities and most vulnerable. The Administration projects that this framework will reduce deficits as a share of our economy to about 2.5% of GDP in 2015, and put deficits on a declining path toward close to 2.0% of GDP toward the end of the decade.• Deficit reduction should be phased in over time to ensure that fiscal policy does not undermine the momentum of our economic recovery. Our economy has created 1.8 million private sector jobs over the last 13 months and the pace of job growth has accelerated in recent months. While long-term deficit reduction is a crucial component of the President's economic strategy, this goal cannot be used as an excuse to undermine the near-term policies and investments we need to continue our economic recovery.• Deficit reduction efforts should be held accountable by a "Debt Failsafe" trigger: The President is confident that, with a robust economic recovery and bipartisan agreement on deficit reduction, we will put our debt as a share of the economy on a declining path by the second half of the decade. However we must provide a strong incentive for Congress to act on a deficit reduction framework and renew confidence that we will hit this goal. Therefore, the President is calling for:-A debt failsafe that will ensure that our nation's debt is on a declining path as a share of our economy. If by 2014, budget projections do not show that the debt-to-GDP ratio has stabilized and is declining in the second half of the decade, the failsafe will trigger an across the board spending reduction, including on spending through the tax code.-The trigger will ensure that deficits as a share of the economy average no more than 2.8% of GDP in the second half of the decade.-Consistent with prior fiscal enforcement mechanisms put in place by Presidents Reagan, George H.W. Bush and Clinton, the trigger should not apply to Social Security, low-income programs, or benefits for Medicare enrollees.-The trigger should also include a mechanism to ensure that it does not exacerbate an economic downturn or interfere with our nation's ability to respond to a national security emergency.3. Discretionary Spending• Non-Security Savings Equal to the Fiscal Commission's, While Investing In Our Future:-The budget agreement negotiated by the President last week represented the largest one-year reduction in discretionary spending in our history, even as it invested in areas key to our long-run economic growth and competitiveness.-We should build on this year's savings, while ensuring that we continue to make the investments we need to win the future and not threaten the economic recovery. The President believes we can do so while generating additional deficit reduction by cutting non-security spending to levels consistent with what the Fiscal Commission recommended over the next decade.-This would generate an additional $200 billion in savings over 10 years beyond the $400 billion in savings from the President's Budget. Over 12 years, it will generate a total of $770 billion in deficit reduction.• Additional Discipline on Security Spending While Keeping America Safe:-While the President will never accept cuts that compromise our ability to defend our homeland or America's interests around the world, Secretary Gates has shown over the last two years that there is substantial waste and duplication in our security budget that we can and should eliminate—proposing savings of $400 billion in current and future defense spending.-As part of a comprehensive deficit reduction framework, the President is calling for pushing harder to not only eliminate waste and improve efficiency and effectiveness, but conduct a fundamental review of America's missions, capabilities, and our role in a changing world.-The framework sets a goal of holding the growth in base security spending below inflation, while ensuring our capacity to meet our national security responsibilities, which would save $400 billion by 2023. (The President will make decisions on specific cuts after working with Secretary Gates and the Joint Chiefs on the comprehensive review.)-Note: this deficit reduction is in addition to the savings generated from ramping-down overseas contingency operations.4. Health Care• Medicare and Medicaid Savings of $480 Billion by 2023 and At Least an Additional $1 Trillion over the Subsequent Decade, Providing Better Care at Lower Costs:-Building on the Affordable Care Act, the President is proposing additional reforms to Medicare and Medicaid designed to strengthen these critical programs by reducing waste, increasing accountability, promoting efficiency, and improving the quality of care, without shifting the cost of care to our seniors or people with disabilities.-The framework will save $340 billion over ten years and $480 billion by 2023 (including the proposals already included in the President's Budget). This framework includes the same aggregate savings that House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan proposed in his November 2010 plan with Alice Rivlin and an amount sufficient to fully pay to reform the Medicare Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) physician payment formula while still reducing the deficit.-Over the subsequent decade, the President's proposal will save well over $1 trillion by further bending the cost curve, doubling the savings from the Affordable Care Act.-The President's framework offers a stark contrast with the House Republican plan that would increase seniors' health costs by $6,400 annually starting in 2022, raise health insurance premiums for middle-class Americans and small businesses, cut Federal Medicaid spending by one-third by the end of the decade, and increase the number of uninsured by 50 million.• The President's framework proposes specific reforms to strengthen Medicare and Medicaid over the long term, including:Addressing the long-term drivers of Medicare cost growth: The President's framework would strengthen the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) created by the Affordable Care Act. The IPAB has been highlighted by economists and health policy experts as a critical contributor to Medicare's solvency and sound operations. Under the Affordable Care Act, IPAB analyzes the drivers of excessive and unnecessary Medicare cost growth. When Medicare growth per beneficiary exceeds growth in nominal GDP per capita plus 1 percent, IPAB recommends to Congress policies to reduce the rate of growth to meet that target, while not harming beneficiaries' access to needed services. Congress must consider IPAB's recommendations or, if it disagrees, enact policies that achieve equivalent savings. If neither acts, then the Secretary of Health and Human Services would have to develop and implement a proposal to achieve the savings target.The President's framework will strengthen IPAB to act as a backstop to the other Medicare reforms by ensuring that Medicare spending growth does not outpace our ability to pay for it over the long run, while improving the program and keeping Medicare beneficiaries' premium growth under control. Specifically, it would:-Set a new target of Medicare growth per beneficiary growing with GDP per capita plus 0.5 percent. This is consistent both with the reductions in projected Medicare spending since the Affordable Care Act was passed and the additional reforms the President is proposing.-Give IPAB additional tools to improve the quality of care while reducing costs, including allowing it to promote value-based benefit designs that promote proven services like prevention without shifting costs to seniors.-Give IPAB additional enforcement mechanisms such as an automatic sequester as a backstop for IPAB, Congress, and the Secretary of Health and Human Services.Reforming the Federal-State partnerships to strengthen Medicaid and promote simplicity, efficiency, and accountability: Under current law, States face a patchwork of different Federal payment contributions for Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP). The President's framework would replace the current complicated Federal matching formulas with a single matching rate for all program spending that rewards States for efficiency and automatically increases if a recession forces enrollment and State costs to rise.In addition, the President has called on the National Governors Association (NGA) to make recommendations for ways to reform and strengthen Medicaid, and the framework will consider the ideas that its Task Force produces. The President also supports reform of Medicaid to incentivize more efficient, higher quality, care for high-cost beneficiaries, including those who are eligible for both Medicaid and Medicare. These nine million beneficiaries comprise 15 percent of Medicaid enrollment but consume nearly 40 percent of total Medicaid spending.-Improving patient safety: Together with employers, States, hospitals, physicians and nurses, the Administration has launched a new public-private partnership called Partnership for Patients that will help improve the quality, safety and affordability of health care for all Americans. The two goals of this new Partnership are: preventing patients from getting injured or sicker while they are in the hospital and helping patients heal without complication. Achieving the initiative's goal would mean more than 1.6 million patients will recover from illness without a preventable complication, reducing costs by up to $50 billion in Medicare and billions more in Medicaid over the next 10 years.-Cutting unnecessary prescription drug spending: The framework would limit excessive payments for prescription drugs by leveraging Medicare's purchasing power – similar to what was called for by the bipartisan Fiscal Commission. It would speed up the availability of generic biologics, and prohibit brand-name companies from entering into "pay for delay" agreements with generic companies. And, it would implement Medicaid management of high prescribers and users of prescription drugs.-Reducing abuse and increasing accountability in Medicaid and Medicare: The framework would clamp down on States' use of provider taxes to lower their own spending while not providing additional health services through Medicaid; recover erroneous payments from Medicare Advantage; establish upper limits on Medicaid payments for durable medical equipment; and take other actions to improve program integrity.• A major contrast with the House Republican approach. The President's framework rejects plans that would end Medicare as we know it or transform Medicaid into a dramatically underfunded block grant, putting at serious risk not only seniors but also the most vulnerable children and people with disabilities. Some of the major problems with the House Republican approach include:-The House Republican plan does nothing to reduce health costs. Instead it actually increases costs by doing nothing to reform the way health care is delivered in addition to putting a larger fraction of the burden on beneficiaries and States.-In the first year the Republican plan goes into effect, a typical 65-year-old who becomes eligible for Medicare would pay an extra $6,400 for health care, more than doubling what he or she would pay if the plan were not adopted.-States would get one-third less for Medicaid by 2021, potentially leaving 15 million people without coverage, including seniors in nursing homes, people with disabilities, children and pregnant women.-The House Republican plan would no longer guarantee the same level of benefits and choices that seniors have today in Medicare, because the proposal allows private health plans to determine benefits, raise cost sharing, and limit choice of doctors and hospitals.5. Other Mandatory Spending• Outside of health care, comprehensive deficit reduction must include savings in other mandatory programs.• The President's Budget includes measures to reform agricultural subsidies, shore up the federal pension insurance system, restore solvency to the federal unemployment insurance trust fund, and enact anti-fraud measures.• Building on these efforts, the President's framework includes a target of $360 billion in savings from other mandatory programs by 2023.• The Fiscal Commission and other bipartisan efforts have put forward additional proposals that should be considered as part of a comprehensive deficit reduction effort to meet this target.• Reforms to mandatory programs should protect and strengthen the safety net for low-income families and other vulnerable Americans.6. Tax Reform• The President is calling on Congress to undertake comprehensive tax reform that produces a system which is fairer, has fewer loopholes, less complexity, and is not rigged in favor of those who can afford lawyers and accountants to game it.• He believes we cannot afford to make our deficit problem worse by extending the Bush tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans.• He also supports efforts to build on the Fiscal Commission's goal of reducing tax expenditures so that there is enough savings to both lower rates and lower the deficit. Reform should be designed to ask more of those who can afford it while protecting the middle class and promoting economic growth.• In addition, as he explained in the State of the Union, the President is continuing his effort to reform our outdated corporate tax code to enhance our economic competitiveness and encourage investment in the United States. By eliminating loopholes, reducing distortions and leveling the playing field in our corporate tax code, we can use the savings to lower the corporate tax rate for the first time in 25 years without adding to the deficit.7. Social Security• The President does not believe that Social Security is a driver of our near-term deficit problems or is currently in crisis. But he supports bipartisan efforts to strengthen Social Security for the long haul, because its long-term challenges are better addressed sooner than later to ensure that it remains the rock-solid benefit for older Americans that it has been for past generations. The President in the State of the Union laid out his principles for Social Security reform which he believes should form the basis for bipartisan negotiations that could proceed in parallel to deficit negotiations:-Strengthen retirement security for the low-income and vulnerable; maintain robust disability and survivors' benefits.-No privatization or weakening of the Social Security system; reform must strengthen Social Security and restore long-term solvency.-No current beneficiary should see the basic benefit reduced; nor will we accept an approach that slashes benefits for future generations.# # #
04.07.2011	Washington, D.C. - Earlier today, Rep. David Price (D-NC) addressed the FY2011 budget debate on the House floor. He spoke in opposition to a Republican proposal that would fund the government for one week but make $12 billion in damaging cuts to investments in federal law enforcement, homeland security, environmental protection, supplemental nutrition for women infants and children and other programs. In past weeks, Rep. Price has supported two short-term continuing resolutions to allow additional time for budget negotiations. Those resolutions cut spending but avoided real damage to the economic recovery. The text of Rep. Price's remarks is provided below.Video of Rep. Price's remarks:Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to this continuing resolution.All of us know we are having this debate at a challenging and tense time. We are facing an entirely unnecessary government shutdown, a shutdown that has already been disruptive to critical government functions and to our communities, and which may become radically more so. But we all know – everyone in this Chamber knows – that this could have been avoided. This is a politically generated crisis.In December, this House had the opportunity to pass an omnibus appropriations bill – 12 subcommittee bills, each written with bipartisan cooperation, with substantial savings relative to the President's budget request – and Republicans in the Senate refused to even consider that omnibus bill.So, failing that, we asked, what about a year-long continuing resolution with even more savings? Again, Republicans in the Senate said they would filibuster such a bill. What our friends on the other side of the aisle opted for instead was a potential March shutdown that they thought they could use to leverage the tea party agenda. And so here we are.In recent weeks, I and many others on this side of the aisle have been willing to vote for two short-term continuing resolutions to give the process of negotiation more time. We accepted additional cuts in these short-term measures, cuts that avoided real damage to the recovering economy. Unfortunately, the resolution before us today breaks with that pattern. It attempts to hold the House and the country hostage to an extreme ideological position to which the Republican Conference has, unfortunately, caved in.This resolution proposes $12 billion in unacceptable and damaging cuts, cuts that would threaten this fragile recovery, destroy jobs, and pull back critical national investments. It takes, for example, $200 million from the Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children. It takes $150 million from federal law enforcement. It takes over $200 million from the Department of Energy's environmental cleanup programs.In the homeland security area, with which I am most familiar because of the subcommittee I chaired and on which I now serve as ranking member, it would reduce FEMA's state and local grants by 20 percent, below 2010 levels. Both the state homeland security grants program and the Urban Area Security grants program would be cut to historically low levels.This continuing resolution would decimate the Land and Water Conservation Fund. It would radically cut the Clean Water and Drinking Water Revolving Funds. It cuts school improvement investments by $148 million, including efforts to improve education for retiring veterans. It cuts hundreds of millions from the Centers for Disease Control. It would cut $1.5 billion from a critical national investment – high speed rail. It would cut public housing operating funds drastically.Madam Speaker, these cuts are economic folly. They have the potential to damage this fragile recovery and to compromise critical national investments. Republicans may be willing to risk a governmental shutdown to appease extremist elements, but we cannot allow our country to be held hostage to their radical agenda. Let us pass a clean continuing resolution and continue the discussions. But do not deliver this ideologically driven body blow to our economy.# # #
04.06.2011	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (D-NC) gave the following remarks for the Congressional Record today as the House of Representatives considered H.R. 910, the Energy Tax Prevention Act. The legislation would roll back provisions of the Clean Air Act and bar the Environmental Protection Agency from regulating greenhouse gases."Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 910. While cynically called the Energy Tax Prevention Act by its sponsors, the bill could more aptly be named the 'Dirty Air Act'."This legislation would overturn EPA's scientific finding that greenhouse gases endanger human health and welfare, which stemmed from a landmark 2007 Supreme Court decision, and prevent the EPA from using the Clean Air Act -- now or in the future -- to limit greenhouse gas pollution from power plants and other industrial sources. This reckless and misguided attack on our environment and public health will allow more pollution into the air we breathe and threaten the health of Americans across the country."Supporters of the bill claim that setting standards for greenhouse gases under the Clean Air Act will cost jobs and undermine the competitiveness of America's manufacturers. But the argument that clean air somehow poses a hazard to the economy is as ridiculous now as it was in the 1970s, when the major polluters used it to try and stop enactment of landmark environmental laws. Rolling back the EPA's authority to limit pollution – whether it be carbon or lead – won't create a single job. It will simply undo 40 years of progress toward a cleaner environment and better public health."In fact, the very provisions of the Clean Air Act that this bill attacks have a forty-year track record of delivering cleaner air and improved health, along with the benefits of enormous growth in the economy. In its first 20 years, the Clean Air Act prevented an estimated 200,000 premature deaths. Some 1.7 million tons of toxic emissions have been removed from our air each year since 1990. Innovations spurred by the Act have made our cars up to 95 percent cleaner today than they were in the past. EPA economists estimate that the total benefits of the Clean Air Act amount to 30 times its costs."Passage of this bill would also mark the first time in history that Congress has approved legislation to overrule an objective scientific finding. Congress enacted the Clean Air Act precisely to require the EPA to make science-based decisions about the threats to health and welfare presented by air pollution instead of allowing such decisions to be driven by political ideology or special interests. And that is exactly what EPA's scientists have done: under both the Bush and Obama administrations, objective scientific studies have found that greenhouse gases pose a real and indisputable threat."Recently, more than 2,500 scientists – from all 50 states – sent a letter to Congress calling on Members to support EPA's updated carbon pollution standards under the Clean Air Act, noting that the 'science-based law has prevented 400,000 premature deaths and hundreds of millions of cases of respiratory and cardiovascular disease during the 40 years since it was first passed—all without diminishing economic growth.'"Rather than heeding the science and letting the EPA and the states do their job to protect public health and our environment, this bill would give the nation's biggest polluters a free pass to keep polluting and place the health of our nation -- particularly our children, elderly citizens and other vulnerable populations -- at risk. A vote for this bill is a vote against the commonsense Clean Air Act provisions that keep our air clean and protect our public health. I urge my colleagues to support science and the Clean Air Act and oppose H.R. 910."# # #
03.18.2011	On March 21, 22 and 24, Rep. David Price (D-NC) will host four town hall events in Fourth District communities to discuss issues before Congress. The town halls are open to the public and members of the media. Space at each venue is limited and seating will be available on a first-come, first-served basis.Need help dealing with a federal agency? Members of Rep. Price's staff will also be on hand at the Town Hall Meeting to help constituents dealing with federal agencies like the Social Security Administration or the Veterans Administration.Town Hall Meetings in Order of Occurrence:Wake County – March 21 (two meetings)RaleighWhen: Monday, March 21, 2011 from 5:15 PM – 6:45 PMWhere: Laurel Hills Community Center, 3808 Edwards Mill Rd., Raleigh, NC 27612Holly SpringsWhen: Monday, March 21, 2011 from 7:30 PM – 9:00 PMWhere: Holly Springs Cultural Center, 300 W. Ballentine St., Holly Springs, NC 27540Orange County - March 22Chapel HillWhen: Tuesday, March 22, 2011, 7:00 PM – 8:30 PMWhere: Town Council Chambers, 405 Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., Chapel Hill, NC 27514Durham County – March 24DurhamWhen: Thursday, March 24, 2011, 7:00 PM – 8:30 PMWhere: Durham County Main Library, 300 North Roxboro St., Durham, NC 27701# # #
03.18.2011	Washington, D.C. - There are many international, federal, state, and local government agencies and departments responsible for providing or coordinating the delivery of U.S. aid and participation in relief efforts. Telephone numbers and other contact information for several of the key agencies, departments, and organizations can be found at the following Web sites.United States Agency for International Development (USAID)www.usaid.gov/japanquake/help//japanquake/help//japanquake/help/U.S. Department of Statehttp://travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/pa/pa_5378.htmlU.S. Department of Energywww.energy.govThe White Housewww.whitehouse.gov/issues/foreign-policy/japan-earthquake-tsunamiNOAA's National Weather Service Pacific Tsunami Warning Centerhttp://ptwc.weather.gov/OECD Nuclear Energy Agencywww.oecd-nea.orgNuclear and Industrial Safety Agency (in Japan)www.nisa.meti.go.jp/english/Japanese Meteorological Agencywww.jma.go.jp/en/tsunami# # #
03.15.2011	Washington, D.C. - The founding members of the Bi-Cameral High- Speed & Intercity Passenger Rail Caucus today joined together at Union Station to announce the formation of a coalition that will serve as the leading advocates to advance high-speed and intercity rail programs across the country.Congresswoman Louise Slaughter (NY-28) and Senator Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ), along with Congressmembers Corrine Brown (FL-3), Zoe Lofgren (CA-16), David Price (NC-4), Tim Walz (MN-1) and John Olver (MA-1) joined together today at Washington's Union Station to announce the founding of the Bi-Cameral High-Speed Rail Caucus. Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL) will also join the bicameral delegation. The caucus will be dedicated to supporting federal legislative and funding policies to ensure the long-term viability of the high-speed and intercity passenger rail program.Each founding Co-Chair represents a region containing a major high-speed and intercity rail corridors that, when completed, will make up a national high-speed rail network anticipated to both directly and indirectly spur the creation of hundreds of thousands of good-paying jobs across the country.The Obama Administration has set the goal to give 80 percent of Americans access to high-speed rail within 25 years. Lawmakers gathered together today to argue that funding for high-speed and intercity rail programs are exactly the type of bold investment necessary to increase America's competitiveness."Like President Obama, we share the goal of giving 80 percent of Americans access to high speed rail within 25 years," said Congresswoman Louise Slaughter (NY-28). "We understand that this investment will more than pay for itself with the jobs created for Americans in need of work, and opportunities it creates for future growth. As rail lines open and communities are brought closer together, the potential long-term impact of rail service will only grow. I represent Upstate New York which is home to the busiest freight corridor in the nation, stretching between Buffalo and Albany. A dedicated third track for high-speed, intercity travel will mean $1.1 billion in new wages and 21,000 estimated new jobs in my home state alone."High-speed rail needs to play a bigger role in our nation's overall transportation system so we can move people and goods from one place to another faster and more efficiently," said Congressman David Price (D-NC). "Planned rail investments will relieve congestion, reduce our dependence on foreign oil, and create jobs – including 20,000 jobs in North Carolina. If we want to stay competitive in the international economy, we simply cannot continue to lag behind countries like China in developing a 21st Century infrastructure. We must invest in a smarter transportation system that includes high-speed rail.""As a long-time supporter of high-speed rail, I am pleased to join forces with Senator Durbin and my House colleagues to put America's rail network on the fast track," said Senator Lautenberg, Chairman of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Surface Transportation, which has jurisdiction over our nation's passenger rail infrastructure. "This Caucus will help further develop the Northeast Corridor and lead a high-speed rail revolution in America that will create jobs and boost the economy."For several years, we have had a strong coalition of leaders in the Midwest advocating for high speed rail," said Senator Durbin. "That partnership has resulted in over $1.4 billion in federal high speed rail funding to Illinois, including funding for the CREATE project, new rail service from Chicago to the Quad Cities and implementing 110 mph service on the Chicago to St. Louis line. This is more than just an alternative mode of transportation – the Midwest high speed rail network will create an estimated $23.1 billion in economic activity. With job-creating funding like this under attack in some states, forming a nationwide coalition that affirms our commitment to high speed rail is crucial.""High-speed rail is an important component of a modernized transportation system. Without an adequate investment in passenger rail, population growth will create more congested highways and airspace, increased travel delays, and environmental degradation. The creation of this caucus demonstrates our commitment to making high speed rail a reality across our nation," said Congressman John Olver."As the Ranking Democrat on the Railroad subcommittee, I am more than pleased to serve as an active participant in the newly created High-Speed and Intercity Passenger Rail Caucus," said Congresswoman Corrine Brown. "Indisputably, the creation and maintenance of a high speed rail system in the United States would serve as a tremendous boost for our nation's infrastructure, our economy, and for job creation. I have been a key advocate in the effort to secure a dedicated funding source for high speed rail and believe that with the creation of this Caucus, we will build even more momentum towards achieving this goal.""As the demands on our nation's transportation infrastructure continue to grow, we must ensure that the investments we make today carry us well into the future," said Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren. "By investing in high-speed rail, we give travelers an alternative, one that will lower our reliance on foreign energy sources and create American jobs. I'm proud that California is leading the way – as it is the only state that has passed a high-speed rail measure. It is estimated that California's high-speed rail program will create nearly 100,000 jobs over its first five years. Nationally, high-speed rail will connect communities and increase our nation's competitive edge."Our ability to move our products to market quickly and cheaply is a major factor in our global economic competitiveness," said Rep. Tim Walz "This caucus is going to be a voice for making America more competitive and I am proud to serve as co-chair.""President Obama's bold high-speed rail plan will create jobs, reinvigorate our manufacturing sector and spur economic development for years to come," said U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood. "If we are going to win the future, we have to move goods and people more efficiently and quickly than ever before, and we look forward to working with Congress to bring Americans all of the economic benefits of high-speed rail." In the above photos Rep. Price speaks during the caucus press conference at Union Station in Washington, D.C. Amtrak’s Acela Express, which offers high-speed rail service along the Northeast Corridor, is in the background.
02.17.2011	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (D-NC) gave the following remarks for the Congressional Record during debate on H.R. 1, the Republican bill to fund the government through the end of the 2011 fiscal year. The bill cuts billions of dollars in funding for innovative medical research, green energy, education programs like the Pell Grant and Head Start and rescinds federal investments in critical infrastructure and high-speed rail. In his remarks, Rep. Price says the cuts undermine our future competitiveness by crippling advantages that have made us strong, secure and prosperous as a nation.Security, Strength, and the U.S. BudgetRemarks on H.R. 1, the Republican Spending Bill for Fiscal Year 2011Rep. David E. PriceEntered into the Congressional Record, Thursday, February 17, 2011Mr. Speaker, as Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, I rise to discuss the impact this bill will have on our nation's security.I am talking, in part, about its impact on the efforts directly managed by the Department of Homeland Security. But I am also talking about our security in a broader sense: about what makes us strong, secure, and prosperous as a nation.As for the bill's Homeland Security title, I want to commend Chairman Aderholt for doing what he could to shield several critical programs from the ill-advised cuts throughout this bill. Our border security, disaster relief, immigration enforcement, and transportation security efforts – for the most part – are protected.Unfortunately, these investments offer little consolation when we look at other areas of the DHS budget. This bill would severely cut federal support for state and local first responders, which is particularly troubling when we consider the fiscal restraints that state and local governments are facing right now.The elimination of firefighter grants is especially galling. That cut is guaranteed to result in thousands of firefighter layoffs across the United States.But while I am concerned about the problems with the homeland security section of this bill, I know that these cuts pale in comparison to other critical domestic services and investments.And that is exactly my point: the strength and security of our country are about so much more than how much we spend on weapons systems or how thoroughly we police the border. They are about the investments we make in our people, in our nation's ability to recover from the current economic downturn and compete in the global economy.By this measure, this Republican proposal would dangerously weaken our security by undermining the things that make us strong – from education to scientific research to infrastructure – in an effort to achieve an arbitrary level of cuts dictated by the most extreme elements of the Republican Conference.As an illustration, look no further than my own congressional district, the Research Triangle of North Carolina. In just a few decades, the Triangle has become one of the leading centers of research, education, and innovation in the world -- an engine of economic growth whose impact extends well beyond state lines.But now my Republican colleagues are threatening to undermine the very basis of our economic success.This bill would gut higher education by slashing the maximum Pell Grant award by 17 percent. In my district, over 27,000 students receive Pell Grants -- over 249,000 students in North Carolina overall.We cannot possibly "out-educate" our competitors by denying a college education to thousands of American students and allowing the most disadvantaged children to fall even further behind.Nor can we "out-build" our competitors by slashing funding for high-speed rail, clean energy technologies, and other investments in the infrastructure that will be necessary to sustain the industries of the 21st Century – as this Republican proposal would do. Cuts to transportation and infrastructure in this bill would directly result in the loss of over 20,000 jobs in North Carolina alone.Indeed, the enactment of this measure could sound the final death knell for any hope that the United States will become the global market leader in "green" technologies. Instead, we will only fall further behind as China and other countries develop the energy sources that will fuel our economy as the price of oil soars.Finally, this Republican plan would eviscerate our investments in scientific research – the source of so much of our economic success, especially in the Research Triangle.It would cut cancer research and other NIH funding by nearly $1.6 billion. It would cut National Science Foundation research and education by over $800 million. And it would cut $400 million from agricultural research that keeps our farmers competitive in the global market.These are just a few of the dozens of initiatives which have built the foundation for our nation's economic prosperity – and, by extension, our nation's security. To take a wrecking ball to this foundation at a time when we are struggling to recover from a financial crisis and compete again in the modern global economy would be both reckless and reprehensible.We shouldn't even be calling this bill a Continuing Resolution. The "C-R" could more accurately stand for "Continuing the Recession", or "Choking the Recovery" – because that's exactly what this bill will do.I urge my colleagues to oppose this dangerous measure, and I yield back the balance of my time.# # #
02.15.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. David Price (D-NC), ranking member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee released the following statement reacting to the Republican Continuing Resolution (CR) to fund the government for the remainder of the fiscal year, and commenting on President Obama's FY2012 budget request."The difference between these two budget proposals is not just measured in fiscal years: they offer two starkly different visions for the future of our country. The Republican plan would eviscerate the government's investments in the programs that make our country strong – from education to scientific research to first responders – to reach an arbitrary level of cuts dictated by the most extreme elements of the Republican Party. While I do not agree with every one of the President's budget decisions, his request represents a coherent path forward, prioritizing investments in education, infrastructure, innovation and competitiveness while also reducing spending to achieve primary budget balance within five years."Where the President invests in what makes us strong and cuts what does not, Republicans have proposed a plan to cut what makes us strong. The Republican majority seems to be invested only in meeting a symbolic Tea Party campaign promise to cut $100 billion dollars from core government functions—no matter the consequences."As the ranking Democratic member of the Homeland Security subcommittee, I vigorously disagree with the cuts that Republicans have proposed to our homeland security budget – including $1.3 billion from local homeland security support and first responder grants that help localities hire the police and firefighters who keep our communities safe. These grants are critical to our strength and security, and their elimination by the Republican House will result in thousands of firefighters and cops being laid off."But I firmly believe that making our nation more secure is about far more than spending more money on Homeland Security programs, and the cuts to homeland security support and first responder grants are just the beginning of my concerns about this reckless Republican plan."Republicans severely curtail funding for Pell Grants. The President's budget preserves Pell Grants of vital concern in my district where over 27,000 students depend on some federal aid to attend college. Republicans slash overall investments in Education by $5 billion, including reducing assistance for educating children of low-income families, and assistance funding programs for school-aged children with disabilities. As the President has said, we should seek to out-educate other countries, giving our children a competitive edge in today's global economy. The Republican proposal does not meet this call."Nor does it meet the call to out-build our competitors. Republicans effectively 'zero-out' funding for high-speed rail this fiscal year, while the President proposes investing in a national high-speed rail network that will move people and goods from one place to another faster and more efficiently."The Republican plan would also undermine the very foundation of the American economy—our innovative spirit. Among other things, Republicans would cut $147 million from National Science Foundation education programs and fund the National Institutes of Health's research programs at our nation's universities at a level $2.5 billion below the FY11 request. These programs are of critical importance to our economy right here in the Research Triangle. The President is right to support this research in his budget because medical and scientific breakthroughs should be made in America, and because these breakthroughs create jobs."In short, Americans want a plan to 'Win the Future,' The President has one, and the Republican vision—less access to education, less research, ignored infrastructure—is not the plan we've been looking for."# # #
02.14.2011	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (D-NC) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives this evening, urging his colleagues to support a Democratic amendment to legislation reauthorizing the PATRIOT Act. The amendment required the executive branch comply with the Constitution when investigating American citizens, including national security investigations. The amendment also required that the cases of citizens challenging the government's use of PATRIOT Act powers in a court of law be expedited to ensure individual rights are upheld. Republicans rejected the amendment by a 186-234 vote. The text of Rep. Price's remarks is provided below:Video of Rep. Price's remarks:"This motion is a straightforward as they come: the PATRIOT Act should be enforced in a manner that doesn't violate Americans' constitutional rights, and those who believe their constitutional rights have been violated should receive fair and equitable treatment by the courts."I can't imagine any of my colleagues voting against the bedrock principle that the Executive Branch should respect the Constitution when it comes to investigating American citizens."After all, when each of us took the oath of office last month, we swore to "support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic. We all take this oath seriously – indeed, we opened this session of Congress by reading our Constitution on this very floor just last month, an exercise in which I was pleased to participate."It is in this same spirit that we offer this motion. For while we all may have different views on how best to protect our national security while upholding our cherished liberty – and, in this case, on whether the 'enhanced' authorities in this underlying bill are still needed, nearly a decade after the September 11 attacks – we should all be able to agree that the United States Constitution is our last line of defense in cases where an American's civil liberties may be threatened."By ensuring that the exercise of these powers does not violate our basic constitutional rights, this motion would provide a 'safety net' to protect Americans' civil liberties in the absence of a more comprehensive review of the PATRIOT Act."The second part of the motion states simply that Americans who believe their constitutional rights may have been violated by the government should receive the same expedited consideration by the courts that the government already receives."Why shouldn't our courts be equally responsive to the concerns of American citizens as they are to those of the government, especially when an individual believes his constitutional rights have been violated?"A government of the people, by the people, and for the people has the utmost responsibility to protect the constitutional rights of every individual, especially when it comes to matters of national security."This motion to recommit is simple, straightforward, and consistent with the bedrock principles of our Republic. I urge all of my colleagues to vote YES – regardless of their views on the underlying bill – as an affirmation of their support for our Constitution."# # #
02.09.2011	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (D-NC), the ranking Democrat on the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement this afternoon as details emerged on the House Republican plan to fund the government for the remainder of fiscal year 2011. The proposal would slash federal investments in a wide range of critical domestic programs, making $42 billion in cuts."If ever there were a wolf in sheep's clothing, this so-called 'continuing resolution' is it: far from continuing to fund the government through to the end of the fiscal year, the measure would in fact drastically slash the investments Democrats have made in our economic recovery – and undermine our national security in the process."Compared to most other departments, Homeland Security is pretty well protected in this bill, and the Defense Department actually gets an increase. But the strength and security of our country are about much more than how much we spend on weapons systems or how thoroughly we police the border. They are about the investments we make in our people, in our nation's ability to recover from the current economic downturn and compete in the global economy.In this light, this Republican spending plan would weaken our security by undoing the investments we have made in putting Americans back to work and laying the foundations of our future competitiveness. The cuts are disproportionately focused on the small fraction of the budget – domestic discretionary spending – through which we invest in our people and in our economic capacity. For example, the bill will cut $1 billion from the National Institutes of Health, $139 million from the National Science Foundation, $1 billion from the Environmental Protection Agency, and $246 million from university-based agriculture research funding."I am especially concerned about the impact of these cuts on the Research Triangle, where federal research funding is a major economic driver. The Triangle's success over the last 50 years is no accident: our business community is populated with companies that were 'spun off' of federally funded research projects. The Fourth District alone accounts for $799 million of the $1 billion in NIH research conducted in North Carolina. These investments are a powerful way to spur job growth—to say nothing of attacking dread diseases—and without them we have little hope of meeting the President's call to out-innovate our international competitors."The best cure for our budget deficit is a recovered economy, not a 'continuing resolution' that could more accurately be called 'Continuing the Recession.' The notion that economic recovery will be somehow promoted by undoing the very investments that have been critical to our recovery is nothing more than wishful thinking."# # #
02.08.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. David Price (D-NC) circulated a letter to colleagues from over 2,500 scientists—from all 50 states—who wrote Congress urging members to support the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) authority carry out its mission to protect public health and address global warming under the Clean Air Act. Republicans have proposed rolling back the EPA's authority in the wake of significant pressure from outside groups."The argument that clean air somehow poses a hazard to the economy is as ridiculous now as it was in the 1970s, when the major polluters used it to try and stop enactment of landmark environmental laws," Rep. Price said. "Rolling back the EPA's authority to regulate pollutants – whether carbon monoxide or lead – won't create a single job. It will simply undo 40 years of progress toward a cleaner environment and better public health."In the letter, Rep. Price defended the Clean Air Act and EPA's regulatory role noting that the "science-based law has prevented 400,000 premature deaths and hundreds of millions of cases of respiratory and cardiovascular disease during the 40 years since it was first passed—all without diminishing economic growth."In the second paragraph of their letter, the scientists outline the legal, regulatory and scientific timeline of the updated standards:On April 2, 2007, the Supreme Court ruled that global warming emissions are air pollutants covered by the Clean Air Act (CAA).1 Subsequently, the EPA performed an exhaustive review of the relevant scientific research and determined that global warming emissions endanger public health and welfare and therefore must be regulated under the CAA. Because the EPA's finding is based on solid science, any effort to prevent or delay the agency from taking action to reduce global warming emissions is a rejection of that science.The full text of both letters follows. A complete list of signatories to the scientists' letter is available here.Scientists support Clean Air Act carbon pollution standardsDear Colleague:I would like to draw your attention to the letter signed by more than 2,500 American scientists calling on the Congress to support the EPA's updated carbon pollution standards under the Clean Air Act, noting that the "science-based law has prevented 400,000 premature deaths and hundreds of millions of cases of respiratory and cardiovascular disease during the 40 years since it was first passed—all without diminishing economic growth."Sincerely,Rep. David PriceMember of CongressFebruary 2011Scientists' Statement on the Clean Air ActDear Congress,We, the undersigned, urge you to support the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA's) authority under the Clean Air Act to take action that will protect public health and address global warming.On April 2, 2007, the Supreme Court ruled that global warming emissions are air pollutants covered by the Clean Air Act (CAA).1 Subsequently, the EPA performed an exhaustive review of the relevant scientific research and determined that global warming emissions endanger public health and welfare and therefore must be regulated under the CAA. Because the EPA's finding is based on solid science, any effort to prevent or delay the agency from taking action to reduce global warming emissions is a rejection of that science.The scientific evidence overwhelmingly suggests that climate change poses a clear threat to public health. Numerous scientific studies, including the U.S. Global Change Research Program's 2009 report Global Climate Change Impacts in the United States and the National Academy of Sciences' report America's Climate Choices, show that if heat-trapping emissions continue unabated, global warming is likely to cause more extreme heat in our cities, severe water shortages, loss of species, hazards to coasts from sea level rise, and extreme weather.2,3,4 The economic and social costs of such impacts are potentially calamitous.The EPA must be allowed to fulfill its responsibilities and take action to regulate global warming emissions under the Clean Air Act. This science-based law has prevented 400,000 premature deaths and hundreds of millions of cases of respiratory and cardiovascular disease during the 40 years since it was first passed5—all without diminishing economic growth.As the EPA ruling now states, global warming regulation will apply only to the biggest sources of these emissions6 (such as large coal-fired power plants, oil refineries, and cement plants7) while exempting small businesses and homeowners. This is a practical, fair, and effective way to target the biggest sources of pollution, which together account for 70 percent of the nation's global warming emissions from stationary sources. By targeting the oldest, dirtiest, and most inefficient power plants, these regulations can help transition our energy system to a cleaner, healthier, and more efficient one without sacrificing reliability or affordability.Congress should work to pass a comprehensive climate and energy policy based on robust science and economics that will curb global warming, save consumers money, and create jobs. In the meantime, we urge you to oppose attacks on the Clean Air Act by respecting the scientific integrity of the EPA's endangerment finding, and the agency's authority to act based on this finding.Sincerely,___1 Massachusetts v. EPA, 549 U.S. 497 (2007).2 Thomas R. Karl, T.R., J.M. Melillo, and T.C. Peterson (eds.). 2009. Global climate change impacts in the United States. CambridgeUniversity Press.3 National Research Council. 2010. America's climate choices: Panel on advancing the science of climate change. ISBN 0-309-14589-9.4 Solomon, S., et al. 2007. Climate change 2007: The physical science basis. Contribution of Working Group I to the FourthAssessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (AR4). Cambridge University Press.5 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). 1999. The Benefits and Costs of the Clean Air Act 1990 to 2010. EPA-410-R-99-001. November.Washington, DC. Online at www.epa.gov/air/sect812/1990-2010/fullrept.pdf.6 EPA Final Rule: Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule. Online athttp://www.epa.gov/nsr/documents/20100413final.pdf.7 The regulations will cover new facilities that emit more than 100,000 tons per year on a CO2e basis and existing facilities thatundertake modifications resulting in emissions of more than 75,000 tons per year on a CO2e basis.# # #
01.31.2011	Raleigh, NC - I am honored to be here today to recognize the St. Francis of Assisi community for its efforts to make its buildings more environmentally friendly and sustainable, and to offer my congratulations for attaining LEED Gold certification – not just once, but three times!Today, this church community is being presented with three Gold Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) awards from the U.S. Green Building Council. The attainment of any LEED certification is no small feat – and it is indeed a rarity for an organization to receive Gold Level certifications for three buildings all at once.In meeting LEED Gold certification standards, these buildings have been held to the highest green building and performance measures. Their environmentally conscious design and construction has ensured that the buildings used more recycled materials and diverted waste from landfills during construction, and they will consume less energy, conserve more water, and enhance indoor environmental quality for years to come.It is fitting that Bill Laxton be presiding here today, given his leadership in this effort and his leadership for many years of the Environmental Protection Agency's research enterprise in the Research Triangle Park. The construction of EPA's state-of-the-art laboratory after many years of effort and the world-class research that is conducted there represent Bill Laxton's lasting contribution to a cleaner and healthier environment for our generation and those to come.And for those of us familiar with the prophetic vision and activism of the St. Francis community, this announcement today comes not as a surprise but as a confirmation of this community's fidelity to the witness of its founder and its determination to live out its faith in our common life. Let us hope that the achievement we celebrate today sets a precedent for other faith communities.It is important to understand and take to heart the familiar scripture regarding human "dominion" over creation (Genesis 1:28), as suggested in an exegesis offered by Presiding Bishop Katharine Jefforts-Schori of the Episcopal Church:Having dominion does mean to rule, but in the way God rules, not in the way of earthly rulers. 'Dominion' is related to domus – a house, a temple, even the dome over the earth. We all live under that same dome, and caring for one's fellow inhabitants is the sign of a wise and holy householder. That kind of steward operates out of compassion, lives beyond self, cares for the children to the seventh generation. (Gospel in the Global Village: Seeking God's Dream of Shalom, p. 134)It is in this spirit that I want to commend and congratulate the St. Francis community and present this flag of our country, flown over the U.S. Capitol, in honor of this occasion.# # #
01.30.2011	Washington, D.C. - On Sunday, Rep. Price joined WRAL-FM's News and Views with Chris Fitzsimon to discuss President Obama's State of the Union address. The two also discussed Rep. Price's opposition to Republican legislation abolishing the public financing system for presidential campaigns. Rep. Price has introduced legislation to mend the financing system by empowering small donors and curbing the influence of special interest money in politics.Listen to Rep. Price's interview on WRAL-FM:More information on Rep. Price's Presidential Public Financing Act is available here.# # #
01.25.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today, Reps. David Price (D-NC) and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) introduced the Presidential Funding Act, a bill to modernize the public financing system for presidential campaigns and enhance the influence of small donors in U.S. elections. The move comes as Republicans plan to bring to the floor a bill to abolish the public financing system. Coming in the wake of the Supreme Court's Citizens United vs. FEC decision, the Republican legislation would further open the floodgates to special interest money in politics by eliminating one of the most significant campaign finance reforms in our nation's history."Dare we forget what Watergate was all about? President Nixon's Committee to Re-elect the President, fueled by huge quantities of corporate cash, paid for criminal acts and otherwise subverted the American electoral system," Rep. Price said. "Let's not return to the darkest days of our democracy. We should be mending the system, not ending it.""There is no question that the deluge of outside spending – especially in the wake of the Citizens United ruling – has fundamentally changed our democratic process for the worse. Unfortunately, instead of voting to pass the DISCLOSE Act and increasing transparency for voters, our Republican colleagues stood on the side of secret special interest spending. Now, Washington Republicans want to dismantle the public financing system for Presidential campaigns and allow big money, special interests to have even more influence. That is why I'm joining my colleague David Price in introducing this important legislation – it will ensure that voters continue to have a voice in our political process," said Congressman Chris Van Hollen (D-MD).The presidential public financing system was enacted as part of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1974, at a time when public confidence in government was at an all-time low. The system is funded through a voluntary income tax "check-off." It offers public matching funds to candidates who demonstrate their viability by raising small contributions. In exchange, they must abide by voluntary limits on private fundraising. The system has been credited with leveling the playing field by helping lesser-known candidates, such as then-Governor Ronald Reagan, run viable campaigns against better-funded opponents.Because the program has not been updated since 1974, it has become increasingly inadequate for today's presidential campaigns, and in 2008 then-Senator Barack Obama became the first candidate to opt out of the system for the general election. The Price-Van Hollen proposal would modernize the system by increasing the public matching funds available to candidates, adjusting the program to today's front-loaded primary calendar, and further enhancing the role of donors who contribute $200 or less.Instead of working to reform the system, however, the House Republican leadership has rushed to the floor legislation to repeal it altogether. This move comes in violation of their pledge run the House more transparently and with greater input from the minority party. Today, Rep. Price testified before the House Rules Committee opposing the Republican bill. Reps. Van Hollen and Price both plan to speak in opposition when the legislation comes to the floor. Video of Rep. Price's testimony is available here."The public financing system ensures politicians are accountable to voters instead of special interests, but our colleagues can't even be bothered to remain accountable to their own rules," Rep. Price said. "Forcing a vote on legislation undermining 30 years of post-Watergate limits on money in politics without the approval of a single committee, and without even a single hearing in the committee of jurisdiction, is exactly what the new majority promised not to do."A summary of the Presidential Funding Act is included below along with a selection of editorials supporting the need to "mend not end" the public financing system for Presidential campaigns. The Obama Administration has also announced it opposes the Republican proposal, issuing a Statement of Administration Policy (pdf).Summary of the Presidential Funding ActBackgroundEvery party nominee since 1976 has accepted public financing until the most recent election, when then-Senator Barack Obama opted out of the system. In doing so, now-President Obama vowed to work to modernize the system and restore its viability for candidates in future presidential elections.Primary Election• Eliminates the state by state and overall primary election spending limits.• Increases the amount of matching funds for the presidential primaries from the current 1:1 match for up to $250 of an individual's total contributions, to a 4:1 match for contributions from individuals of $200 or less. In order to be matchable, a contribution must be from an individual who has not given, and will not give, more than a total of $200 to the candidate. Participating candidates can receive up to $100 million in matching funds.• Requires a candidate who participates in the public financing system to agree to accept contributions of no more than $1,000 from any person, instead of the current contribution limit of $2,400. Participating candidates must also pledge not to accept any contributions from, or bundled by, lobbyists or PACs.• Provides that to qualify for public financing in the primary election, a candidate must raise $25,000 (increased from $5,000 under current law) in each of 20 states, of which no more than $200 can come from any one individual. A candidate also must commit to accept public financing in both the primary and general election.• Moves the starting date for the payment of matching funds to primary candidates from January 1 of the election year to six months before the first presidential primary or caucus. Also establishes a single date – the Friday before Labor Day -- for payments of general election funding grants to the major party nominees.General Election• Eliminates the general election spending limit on participating candidates.• Provides a grant to participating general election candidates of $50 million, payable on the Friday before Labor Day. Also provides up to an additional $150 million in matching funds based on a 4:1 match of contributions raised after June 1 of the election year of up to $200 per donor.• General election candidates can also raise up to $500 per donor after June 1 of the election year. (Only contributions of $200 or less will be matched.)• Increases the limit on coordinated spending by a national party and its presidential candidate from approximately $15 million to a total of $50 million. The entire cost of an ad coordinated with a presidential candidate must be covered by that candidate with general election funds and the party committee with coordinated expenditure funds.• Prohibits a participating general election candidate from soliciting funds for a joint fundraising committee that includes a party committee after June 1 of the election year, and prohibits soliciting for any party committee after September 1 of the election year.General Provisions• Requires presidential campaigns to disclose all individuals or groups (not just lobbyists as under current law) that bundle contributions totaling more than $50,000 in the four year election cycle. Prohibits the bundling of matchable contributions by anyone other than an individual or a party committee.• Increases the amount of the check-off on the income tax form to fund the public financing system from $3 to $10 per individual and from $6 to $20 for a married couple, and indexes these amounts for inflation. Directs the IRS to require that approved tax preparation software does not automatically accept or decline a check-off of taxpayer funds for the public financing system.Party Conventions• Eliminates public funding for the national party conventions.• Allows individuals to contribute up to $25,000 in each four-year presidential election cycle to pay for national party convention costs. These contributions would not count against an individual's aggregate contribution limit.• Prohibits the use of soft money funds, including in-kind contributions from corporate and union sponsors, to pay for national party convention costs.Cost• Estimated cost of the new presidential public financing system would be approximately $275 million per year, or $1.1 billion over a four-year period.Editorials Supporting a "mend not end" approach to public financingLA Times: (Editorial) You Can't Rush Reform1-25-11The Republican Majority in the House wants to quickly—too quickly—repeal the system of public financing of presidential campaignsJust as it voted to repeal healthcare reform without first holding hearings, the new Republican majority in the House is rushing to repeal the system of public financing of presidential campaigns. The vote, scheduled for Wednesday, is designed to show that Republicans are serious about cutting government spending. Public financing does deserve another legislative look 35 years after it was first used to diminish candidates' reliance on large donors and special-interest groups, but it shouldn't be the victim of a stampede.Currently, presidential candidates are eligible for public funds to pay for their campaigns in exchange for an agreement to abide by spending limits. As several campaign reform groups pointed out in a letter to members of the House, every Republican presidential nominee from 1976 to 2008 used the public financing system to fund his general election campaign, as did every Democratic nominee except Barack Obama.They also argued that public financing has served to increase the number of viable candidates and to promote competition. They cited the example of Ronald Reagan, who "was able to capitalize on his small-donor fundraising capacity to accrue substantial sums of public money." Reagan wasn't the only candidate to leverage private contributions to obtain public funding — and visibility.Nevertheless, problems with the system have developed over time. One is that the payments are so low that they discourage participation in the program. Another is that candidates can raise sufficient funds without having to abide by the spending limits that come with public funds. That explains Obama's decision to refuse public funding. Finally, the Supreme Court's decision in the Citizens United case has made expenditure limits less important; even if a campaign abides by limits, the candidates' allies will be able to flood the airwaves.All of these developments have inspired a major rethinking among campaign reform advocates. One result is legislation proposed by Reps. Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.) and David E. Price (D-N.C.) that would end spending limits but increase the role of small donors by giving candidates a 4-to-1 match for contributions of $200 or less. That proposal and others, including abolition of public financing, deserve a fair hearing before the 2012 campaign begins in earnest. Meanwhile, the House should leave the present system alone.Washington Post: (Editorial) System of Publicly Funding Presidential Campaigns Needs a Serious FixJanuary 25, 2011WHAT DO Ronald Reagan, Jimmy Carter and John McCain have in common? All three - and others as well - fueled their presidential campaigns with federal matching funds. Absent that money, they might not have been able to mount serious primary efforts, and the political landscape would have been less competitive as a result.The system of presidential public financing was set up in the aftermath of Watergate and worked well for a long time. During primary seasons, federal matching funds - the first $250 of every contribution is matched on a dollar-for-dollar basis - helped sustain a more vibrant field of candidates. During general elections, full public financing for candidates who elect not to raise private funds eased the pressure on them to raise funds rather than connect with voters and reduced the influence of high-dollar bundlers. But the system is broken, the victim of spending limits that have not kept pace with the cost of modern campaigns and the new fundraising capacity unleashed by the Internet. In 2008, President Obama became the first candidate since the system was established to win the presidency solely with private money. He pledged at the time that he was "firmly committed to reforming the system as president, so that it's viable in today's campaign climate," but on that subject he hasn't been heard from since.That's bad enough, but even worse is the planned move this week by House Republicans to abolish the presidential public financing system entirely. Leave aside that this proposal is being brought up without the benefit of committee hearings or serious debate. On the merits, it's a terrible idea. The potential cost savings are minimal - $520 million over 10 years, according to Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-Va.). The potential damage is huge. The last thing that the political system needs is having presidential candidates devote even more time to raising money and enhancing the influence of well-connected bundlers.If anything, in the wake of ill-considered Supreme Court rulings that have paved the way for more campaign spending by outside interest groups, wealthy donors and corporations, the need for rehabbing the presidential funding system is even greater than during the 2008 campaign. Fix the system - don't junk it.New York Times: (Editorial) Watergate? What's That?In the Republicans' thumbs up-or-down version of lawmaking, the House majority leader, Eric Cantor, is targeting for extinction the publicly subsidized presidential campaign finance system adopted in the wake of the Watergate scandals.Mr. Cantor wants to kill off the program — rather than update its limits to meet the costs of modern campaigns. He says it is necessary for budget cutting. We suspect his real motive is to give an even bigger voice to big-money contributors in presidential campaigns.The majority leader has made a show of soliciting taxpayer gripes on his blog and presenting them directly on the floor, as if he were the M.C. of a dance marathon. He appears determined to bypass the House's entire committee hearing system, just as the Republicans did last week when they voted to repeal the nation's new health care law. Why bother to review and refine?President Obama should be the first politician to object. He was, regrettably, the first presidential nominee to entirely forgo the public subsidy system in favor of a bonanza in small-dollar Internet donations. Mr. Obama argued that he had no choice since the finance system was "broken," but he also vowed to fight for its repair.The time for that fight is at hand. There are good proposals to update the subsidy formulas and take into account the virtue of small-dollar donors attracted via the Internet. A workable system is all the more necessary now that politics is plunging deeper into unlimited, secretive campaign donations after the Supreme Court gutted decades of sensible controls.Killing a system that helped hold down campaign spending and defend the nation against the buying and selling of political office is the last thing that should be on the agenda of the new House majority.# # #
01.19.2011	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (D-NC) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives this afternoon as the body debated Republican legislation repealing health insurance reform. Rep. Price will oppose the Republicans' budget-busting efforts to eliminate consumer protections and tax breaks that have already dramatically improved health care for families and small businesses in the Triangle.Watch Rep. Price's Remarks:A detailed analysis of the impact Republican repeal legislation would have on North Carolina's Fourth Congressional District is available here.# # #
01.19.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today, Democratic House Appropriators agreed on subcommittee assignments for the 112th Congress. Rep. David Price (D-NC) will remain the top Democrat on the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, serving as ranking member alongside new Republican Chairman, Rep. Robert Aderholt (R-AL). Rep. Price will also serve on the Legislative Branch Subcommittee and the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Subcommittee (T-HUD). The ranking member selections will be ratified by the full Democratic caucus later today."I look forward to working with Rep. Aderholt to ensure our first responders and homeland security professionals have the tools they need to keep the American people safe," Rep. Price said. "I trust that the subcommittee will continue to carefully scrutinize administration requests as we make the tough choices necessitated by our country's fiscal standing and security needs. As I have said in the past, no area of federal spending should be off limits to scrutiny, and we should view the budget, in its entirety, as a reflection of the values and priorities of the American people."Rep. Price plans to continue his leadership on disaster preparedness, transportation and cargo security, intelligence and information sharing, and addressing the challenges of the Southwest border. Under Rep. Price's leadership from 2007 to 2010, Democrats took important steps to rebuild FEMA and increase aid to first-responders. His Subcommittee pushed the Department to enhance the screening of cargo on passenger planes and the targeting of high-risk cargo. He has also worked to upgrade aviation security with better technology for screening and the improvement of high-risk passenger databases.Price also worked to increase the presence of investigators and intelligence analysts along the Southwest border to take on the cartels. Since 2007, Democrats increased the number of border patrol agents by more than 50%, combining personnel investments with targeted upgrades in infrastructure and technology to make border agents more effective at halting the illegal movement of people and things across the border. And under Rep. Price, the Subcommittee initiated funding for criminal alien removal programs targeted at removing those who have shown they will do harm in our communities."During my tenure, the Homeland Security Subcommittee was characterized by both robust debate and bipartisan good faith," Rep. Price said. "We won't agree on everything, but challenges like grappling with new and emerging threats, reaching a workable and effective immigration enforcement policy, and ensuring that we are rooting out inefficiencies in homeland security – just as everywhere else in the budget – are too important for us not to work together."On the T-HUD Subcommittee, Rep. Price has championed infrastructure investments, transit alternatives and the development of a viable regional commuter rail system. Rep. Price has also worked to support adequate funding for programs designed to promote affordable housing, homeownership and community development projects to put the American dream within reach for as many Triangle families as possible.# # #
01.13.2011	Durham, N.C. - It's wonderful to start this year's Martin Luther King observance at North Carolina Central as the university embarks on its second century of service!I had hoped today to have the welcome duty of introducing my friend and colleague, John Lewis. John and I were first elected in the same year, 1986, and began our service together. He was probably the best-known member of our class and has distinguished himself further over these 24 years, serving on the Ways and Means Committee and in the Democratic leadership as Senior Deputy Whip.NCCU made a wise choice in inviting John Lewis, and I hope you will still be able to welcome him some day when snow and ice in Atlanta are not a problem! No one alive today can speak more authoritatively about the life and legacy of Martin Luther King than John Lewis. For him it is not only a matter of historical proximity and knowledge, but also shared vision, inspiration, and leadership of the movement. As chairman of the Student Nonvioent Coordinating Committee, John was an architect of and keynote speaker at the March on Washington in 1963. And then in 1965 he led over 600 peaceful protestors across the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama, where they were attacked and beaten by state troopers. This "Bloody Sunday" shocked the conscience of the nation and led directly to passage of the Voting Rights Act.John frequently visits campuses like this one—he has been awarded over 50 honorary degrees—and last week he told me how much he was looking forward to visiting Durham. Next month President Obama plans to award him our county's highest civilian honor, the Presidential Medal of Freedom.Today I want to begin, as I know John would, with a word about the horrific events in Tucson last weekend. You may have heard his moving words on television about our colleague, Representative Gabrielle Giffords. John is often called upon for words of wisdom or comfort in times of crisis because of the depth of his experience, character, and insight. But all of us were left grasping for words to express the shock, outrage, and sorrow that we felt at the deaths, the injuries, and the torn fabric of our democracy. Gabrielle Giffords is a dedicated and effective member of Congress, and she was struck down doing her most basic duty, engaging and communicating with her constituents.Beyond the shock and outrage, I believe that some reflection and soul searching are called for--on the responsibility each of us has, whether as an elected official or citizen, to be respectful and civil in our dealings with one another and as we advocate in the public square. President Obama stressed this very strongly last night. We do not yet know what might have motivated or influenced the deranged would-be assassin, but we do know the climate in Rep. Giffords' district was toxic—smashed windows at her office, bomb threats, an opposition campaign that used violent rhetoric. Disturbed people often act literally on what others see as metaphor. So as we advocate—and in our democracy, we have not only a right but an obligation to speak out for what we believe in—we should do so responsibly, with civility and restraint. As John Lewis said in a column he wrote after the shooting, "Words that allude to violence, words that demonize our colleagues and question the integrity of their opinions can be the only approval the angry or unhinged will need to act."We also need to reflect on how this tragedy could have been prevented, or the destruction limited. Obviously, this troubled young man should have been identified and given mental health treatment, but where does that responsibility lie? How can we make certain such individuals cannot and do not obtain weapons? And why should anyone be able to purchase a 30-round magazine, the only purpose of which is to mow people down? I hope we can reflect and act on such questions in a reasoned way, and that this tragedy does not merely become fodder for the talk shows and for political posturing. This is potentially an occasion for us to come together in sympathy and solidarity and to take steps that might make our country safer and better.As the President said, "The loss of these wonderful people should make every one of us strive to be better. To be better in our private lives, to be better friends and neighbors and coworkers and parents. And if, as has been discussed in recent days, their death helps usher in more civility in our public discourse, let us remember it is not because a simple lack of civility caused this tragedy -- it did not -- but rather because only a more civil and honest public discourse can help us face up to the challenges of our nation in a way that would make them proud."Ironically, this tragedy occurs on the eve of our Martin Luther King observances, which remind us of another assassination and, beyond that, a series of assassinations in troubled times. It was the awful event of April 4, 1968 that led to the holiday we now observe, an occasion of solemn remembrance and resolve which each year we hope and believe can make us and our country better. "As we try to understand ....the horrors in Tucson," Al Sharpton wrote earlier this week, "it is not lost on me that the anniversary of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr's birth is fast approaching. I hope that we can heal in this moment rather than just take sides and assign blame. Although his house was bombed, he was stabbed, and he lived under constant threats, Dr King never pointed his finger at others. He sought to be a healer rather than exacerbate tensions." Sharpton then went on to describe the soul searching that he personally has felt led to undertake.So Dr. King's words and example are still helpful to us as we confront the tragedy in Tucson and think about how we should respond. This morning I want to go a step further and remind us of the broader context in which Dr. King viewed our public life and the place he assigned power and love in our common endeavors. I take my text from his last presidential address to the Southern Christian Leadership Conference in 1967. The proper understanding of power, he says, is that it is sought and exercised not just for its own sake, but as a means to achieve our purposes:One of the great problems of history is that the concepts of love and power have usually been contrasted as opposites—polar opposites--- so that love is identified with a resignation of power, and power with a denial of love. We've got to get this thing right. What is needed is a realization that power without love is reckless and abusive, and love without power is sentimental and anemic. Power at its best is love implementing the demands of justice, and justice at its best is power correcting everything that stands against love. It is precisely this collision of immoral power with powerless morality which constitutes the major crisis of our time.This is the framework, I believe, in which the political traumas and troubles of our time need to be placed. We must harness power to the imperatives of justice, and we must make love real in the kind of community we build. Our continuing challenge is to construct a strong and reliable connection between power and leadership on the one hand and our deepest values, "love implementing the demands of justice," on the other.We have had too much of "reckless and abusive," indifferent and unaccountable power in our country. We cannot simply relegate love, justice, our deepest values to the realms of advocacy and protest, as important as advocacy and protest can be. We must link-up love and power.People of conscience need to get practical, yes political, and put our shoulders to the wheel. The realms of power need to be made responsive and accountable. That is what elections—and politics between elections—should be about in a democracy. It is what Martin Luther King Jr. stood for. Today is the day to clarify our understanding and steady our resolve for the challenges that lie before us.# # #
01.08.2011	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement this afternoon following reports that Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, members of her staff and several other people were shot in Arizona."This unspeakable act of violence is an enormous tragedy. The thoughts and prayers of my wife Lisa and me are with Congresswoman Giffords, her family, her staff, the other victims of this horrible shooting and all affected members of their community."Congresswoman Giffords is my friend and we have worked together closely on Homeland Security matters. She has been instrumental in educating members of Congress on security issues along the southwest border and she was the driving force behind a border security supplemental appropriations bill passed last summer. In just four years, she has impressed me and her other colleagues with her warmth, dedication and effectiveness. We fervently wish for her full recovery."# # #
01.07.2011	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (D-NC) released the following statement this morning following reports from the Bureau of Labor Statistics that the national unemployment rate fell from 9.8% to 9.4% in the month of December bringing the unemployment rate to its lowest level since May of 2009."Today's job creation announcement is enormously positive—and affirms the pro-growth agenda pursued by Democrats—but it is still not enough. The number one priority of Congress should be continuing and accelerating the economic recovery. Instead, House Republicans' first priority is a Tea Party-driven repeal of health care reform that would hurt America's middle class, subjecting millions to rising premiums and exclusions from coverage if they have pre-existing conditions. Repeal would increase the deficit by $230 billion in the next ten years. And according to a recent study repeal would kill over four million jobs this decade by eliminating small business tax credits and reigniting rapid growth in business' health costs."Now is not the time to discourage hiring or eliminate health care reforms that Americans already are counting on. Republicans should return their focus to job creation and the investments in education, research and infrastructure that will position us to not just compete—but win—in the global economy."# # #
01.06.2011	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (D-NC) joined colleagues on the floor of the House this evening to speak in opposition to Republican plans to repeal health insurance reform legislation. He termed the plan horrible health policy and bad budget policy. Earlier today the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office announced that repealing reform legislation will increase the deficit by $230 billion in 2021.Watch Rep. Price' Remarks: # # #
12.21.2010	Washington, D.C. - With President Obama slated to sign legislation repealing "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" into law tomorrow, Rep. David Price (D-NC) met with constituent and former University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill ROTC Cadet Sara Isaacson to mark the successful repeal of the policy."I'm ecstatic and relieved repeal has passed Congress, and I hope for an expedient certification process so that all service members—regardless of their sexual orientation—can serve their country with integrity," Isaacson said.Rep. Price has been a longtime supporter of repealing the law, taking Isaacson's case to Secretary of Defense Robert Gates after she revealed her sexual orientation to her ROTC commander and was released from her contract. In a letter to Secretary Gates sent in May, Rep. Price wrote, "Denying brave men and women such as Ms. Isaacson the opportunity to serve their country because of their sexual orientation is an affront to their human dignity and a disservice to the Armed Forces as an institution."Rep. Price will renew his advocacy for Isaacson, asking that the military reinstate her as an ROTC cadet. Isaacson intends to re-enlist once the legislation is implemented following the certification process and 60-day review period mandated by the legislation."Sara's case vividly demonstrates why 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' was both unfair and detrimental to our military," Rep. Price said. "I was proud to cosponsor this legislation and cast my vote for repeal, but a lot of credit goes to the passionate advocates like Sara who stood up for what they believe—often at great personal and professional cost—and today have helped achieve an historic victory for the civil rights of Americans. Her case also highlights the need to create a path back to active service for personnel discharged under 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' who still desire to serve their country."The Pentagon's release earlier this month of a report on the impact of repealing the policy on the military helped renew the legislation's momentum. The report concluded based on a survey of military personnel that repeal would have minimal impact on readiness, finding that more than two-thirds of personnel expressed no objection to repealing the policy. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates joined Joints Chiefs Chairman Admiral Michael Mullen in urging Congress to act, arguing that those blocking the legislation risked a much more disruptive outcome to military policymakers by inviting a court ruling overturning the policy. Recent polling data indicate that nearly 70% of the American public supported repealing the discriminatory policy.To overcome Senate objections to the inclusion of repeal language in the defense authorization bill passed by the House earlier this year, the House approved stand-alone repeal legislation last week. Rep. Price voted in favor of both the Defense Authorization bill and stand-alone legislation and was an original cosponsor of legislation to repeal the policy.# # #
12.16.2010	Washington, D.C. - This evening the House of Representatives approved H.R. 4853, the Middle Class Tax Relief Act of 2010. Rep. David Price (D-NC) gave the following statement for the record during debate on the legislation:"Madam Speaker, I rise in qualified support of this tax cut agreement. I do so only after carefully weighing its positive elements against its severe flaws and with a realistic sense of the dire consequences should the measure fail."This conclusion says as much about the gamesmanship of our colleagues on the other side of the aisle – and, I'm afraid, about what we can expect in the next Congress – as it does about the contents of the legislation. No program or priority has been too sacred for House and Senate Republicans to hold hostage in their fervor to extend President Bush's tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, regardless of how many hard-working families have had to suffer in the process. Programs that have always enjoyed strong bipartisan support – such as unemployment insurance and small business tax credits – have suddenly become 'Democratic' priorities, fair game to be stonewalled by Republicans until they could squeeze every last concession out of this deal."The disconnect between what they say and what they do should be painfully obvious to the American people. How does their support for tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires square with their stated priorities of balancing the budget and growing the economy? Spending $130 billion over the next two years alone on tax cuts for the richest two percent of Americans – without paying for a cent of it – is certainly a strange way to demonstrate their fiscal discipline. And it's also the least effective step we can take to spur the economy. If economic recovery were really the goal, they would have extended unemployment insurance the first chance they had, because nothing plows money back into the economy more effectively."If this is where the Republican Party's true priorities lie, then I have never been prouder to be a Democrat. I have never been prouder to stand up for hard-working Americans who have lost their jobs and cannot find a new one by assuring them that their unemployment insurance will not expire. I have never been prouder to stand up for middle-class families who have seen their savings depleted and cannot afford to have their taxes raised during an economic downturn. To stand up for small businesses by giving them the certainty and support they need to grow and prosper. And to stand up for future generations by allowing expensive tax cuts that benefit only the wealthiest while doing nothing to stimulate the economy to expire on schedule, so that we can finally get back on track toward a balanced budget."Two weeks ago, this House approved, with my strong support, a bill that would have done all of these things. This earlier version of the legislation before us today would have given all American families a permanent tax cut on the first $250,000 of their income, including capital gains and dividends; it would have extended AMT relief, the enhanced EITC, and the enhanced child tax credit; and it would have maintained critical expensing provisions to encourage small businesses to invest. Simply put, this bill would have provided tax relief to those who need it most, and with the maximum economic impact. Yet our Republican colleagues dismissed it as a 'symbolic' vote."Since then, the measure has been amended substantially to reflect the negotiations that have occurred between the White House and Congressional leaders. The result is a much more expansive package that has many positive elements but also major negative ones. It is also an expensive package, adding over $850 billion to the deficit over the next decade. This cost is only justifiable to the extent that the legislation is both effective as an economic stimulus and equitable in its benefits, and each of its provisions should be subjected to these criteria."On the positive side, the measure will extend unemployment insurance through the end of next year. This is both a moral obligation and a sound economic decision: there is perhaps no greater return on our investment in the short run than to ensure that Americans who have lost their jobs and cannot find another one can continue to make ends meet. At the same time, they put almost all of this money back into the economy, maintaining aggregate demand for goods and services – in stark contrast to tax cuts for the wealthy."The agreement maintains the historically low tax rates that lower- and middle-income Americans have enjoyed for the past decade for two more years. While doing so will not be cheap, we cannot afford to raise taxes on working families during the current downturn, and the stimulative impact of these extensions will be significant. It also extends several tax credits targeted directly at lower- and middle-income Americans, including the refundable child tax credit, the enhanced Earned Income Tax Credit, and important credits or deductions for child care, education, and other essential services. The fact that the child tax credit is refundable for low-income people whose income tax liability is limited will provide a particularly important boost to them and to our economic recovery."In addition, the package offers critical relief to small businesses, including an extension of the bonus depreciation provision included in the Recovery Act, a two-year extension of the Research & Development tax credit so critical to the Research Triangle, and several important renewable energy incentives. These and other provisions will provide business owners with the stability and support they need to expand their operations, hire new workers, and continue the economic recovery."Finally, the legislation includes a payroll tax holiday that will result in a lower tax burden for all American workers next year. Some respected advocates, in North Carolina and elsewhere, have argued that this provision could in fact hurt lower-income workers, compared to the Making Work Pay tax credit that expires this year. Some have also claimed that this provision would threaten Social Security by temporarily reducing payments to the Social Security trust fund."To be clear, if I had my choice I would prefer to be voting for an extension of Making Work Pay instead of a payroll tax holiday – but that is not the choice we face today. The choice is between a payroll tax holiday and nothing, and the simple fact is that if we do nothing, then lower-income workers will be much worse off than they are now: their income taxes will be higher; they will lose the many other benefits this bill provides, such as enhanced EITC; and they won't receive any form of payroll tax relief. Moreover, because the benefits of a payroll tax holiday will be more broadly shared, the stimulative impact of a payroll tax holiday will be more broadly felt. And as for its impact on Social Security, both the President and the AARP have assured us that the diversion of funds will be both temporary and repaid in full. There are reasons to be concerned about threats to Social Security's future, but this should not be one of them."Now, these positive elements must be weighed carefully against the major concessions that were made to Republicans during the negotiations that produced this bill. I am referring, of course, to the extension of the Bush tax cuts on income over $250,000, which will add over $100 billion to the deficit over the next two years while doing almost nothing to stimulate the economy. This isn't simply my personal opinion or the view of the Democratic Party: it is a fact confirmed by the Congressional Budget Office and any number of respected economists, and well understood by the American people. As I have already stated, the fact that the Republican leadership held this entire package hostage so that millionaires could get an average tax break of $100,000 per year tells us exactly where their true priorities lie: Tax cuts for the wealthy are clearly the 'holy grail' of their economic policy, to which all other policy outcomes are subjugated."I am equally disappointed by the inclusion of an estate tax proposal that is little more than a gratuitous giveaway to some 6,600 wealthy families. We hear a lot of dire warnings about the impact of the estate tax on small farmers and business owners, but even to the extent that they would be affected, the compromise estate tax proposal passed by the House last December was more than sufficient to protect them. Now, we are considering a proposal that costs $23 billion more than the 2009 proposal and will have no economic impact at all aside from letting a few thousand millionaires and billionaires keep even more of their inherited wealth—an average windfall of $3.5 million per family."As the details of these provisions have become known, I have actively engaged in discussions here and at home, doing everything within my power to oppose the inclusion of giveaways to the wealthiest Americans in the package. I have joined my colleagues in sending two separate letters to the House leadership opposing the inclusion of upper-income tax cuts and a third letter arguing against the gratuitous estate tax provision, and last week I voted for the House's middle class tax cut package which omitted these giveaways. I have also signed several letters arguing for a more sensible package of energy incentives in the legislation, including a reduction of the ethanol credit that was added by the Senate at the last minute. I was a strong supporter of the 2009 estate tax compromise offered by Rep. Earl Pomeroy, which unfortunately failed to pass the Senate, and I will be voting for it again tonight."While I am deeply disappointed that these efforts have not been more successful, we are now called upon to evaluate this package as it is, not as we would like it to be. The bottom line is that the positive impact of this package for working- and middle-class Americans and our economic recovery outweighs its negative impact on the deficit and its unjust giveaways to the wealthy."We must also consider the consequences of failing to enact this legislation today. Deferring action on these expiring tax provisions until next year would not only create chaos for American taxpayers; it would also likely result in a package that is nowhere near as generous or as equitable, given the extreme views of the incoming Republican majority on many of its provisions. Republicans leaders openly state that their chief concern in the 112th Congress is not economic recovery, not putting Americans back to work, but ensuring President Obama is a one term President. While their stated goals may be grossly misguided and narrow, mine will not be. Scuttling this package would mean foregoing what will likely be our last opportunity to provide any stimulus to the economy, given that the Republicans have made clear their opposition to additional aid to states, infrastructure investments, and other countercyclical programs. The need to maintain demand and stimulate growth has not fully abated—this economy is not yet out of the woods. The question is not whether the package before us is the most effective one conceivable—it is not—but whether we will do anything to keep the recovery going before the next Congress shuts the door entirely."Under these circumstances, I support this legislation despite its flaws. I cannot in good conscience cast a 'no' vote that, were it to prevail, would expose working Americans to tax increases and end the EITC and child credit provisions that have benefitted so many people. I cannot in good conscience cast a vote that would rip away the safety net for those not yet able to find work, and in the process hobble an economic recovery. We risk all of these if this bill fails. Our good conscience also causes us to question this bill's violations of tax fairness and fiscal prudence; I have worked and will continue to work to change these things. But tonight we must vote while we have the chance to do so, and on the only vehicle available to us, to protect the vast majority of our constituents and to bring this economy back to health."# # #
12.15.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today the House of Representatives voted to pass stand-alone legislation repealing the military's "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" policy. Rep. David Price (D-NC) was an original cosponsor of the legislation, which was previously passed by the House as a part of its Defense Authorization bill. This afternoon he released the following statement:"This discriminatory policy has kept dedicated and patriotic young people from serving their country for too long, and I am proud that the House has once again sent a clear signal of its intent to repeal it."Time and again, we have seen Congressional Republicans move the goalpost when it comes to repeal. First Republicans wanted to hear from military leadership; Chairman Mullen and Secretary Gates have testified in favor of repeal. Then they wanted to hear from the troops; the Pentagon's own report found that the vast majority do not object. We also know from the Pentagon report that repeal does not pose a significant risk to readiness and could be implemented without disrupting ongoing training and operations. In fact, Secretary Gates has warned that those blocking repeal are 'rolling the dice' on a far more disruptive outcome: the immediate implementation of repeal by court dictate.""Today's bipartisan passage of 'stand-alone' repeal legislation should put to rest yet another Republican objection: that repeal legislation was passed as a part of the Defense Authorization Bill earlier this year. With this final accommodation, Senate Republicans should end their legislative and rhetorical contortions and join efforts to repeal this discriminatory policy once and for all."# # #
12.08.2010	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (D-NC) released the following statement today after House passage of the bipartisan DREAM Act (H.R. 5281), which would allow a limited number of undocumented young people who were brought to the United States as minors a chance to apply for legal residency. The legislation would give these young people a chance to contribute to the well-being of all Americans by serving in the Armed Services and/or pursuing higher education."The DREAM Act is a carefully targeted bill that creates a pathway to citizenship for hardworking young people who were brought to this country as children. It requires that they be of good moral character and demonstrate their commitment to their own future and that of their community by seeking higher education or volunteering for military service. In short, it provides deserving young people a shot at the American dream, which is the right thing to do."The DREAM Act also serves an important homeland security goal. Our immigration enforcement dollars should be—and increasing have been during my tenure as Chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee—targeted at removing criminal aliens. It makes little sense to expend resources and manpower to deport young people who have made this country their own and who want to serve in the military or attain higher education. By granting these young people legal status, The DREAM Act will allow us to continue focusing our enforcement efforts on the most serious offenders in our communities."Summary of H.R. 5281 – DREAM ActUnder the bill, a DREAM Act applicant who meets the bill's requirements becomes a "conditional nonimmigrant." The DREAM Act would allow an individual to obtain this conditional status only if he or she meets all of the following requirements:1) was brought to the United States as a child (15 years old or younger);2) is currently 29 years old or younger3) has lived in the U.S. for 5 years or more before the date of enactment;4) has graduated from an American high school, has obtained a GED, or is admitted to an institution of higher education;5) has been a person of "good moral character," as defined by our immigration laws, from the date the individual initially entered the United States;6) submits biometric and biographic information and completes security and law-enforcement background checks;7) undergoes a medical examination;8) registers for the Selective Service; and9) pays a significiant surcharge in connection with the initial application.The DREAM Act further limits eligibility for conditional status by specifically excluding anyone who has committed a felony or three misdemeanors, engaged in voter fraud, committed marriage fraud or abused a student visa.Under the bill, a successful Dream Act applicant receives conditional status for an initial period of 5 years. After those 5 years, the individual applies for an extension of their conditional status for a second period of 5 years, provided they meet all of the following requirements:1. has demonstrated good moral character during the 5-year period they have had conditional status;2. has lived continuously in the United States during the 5 years; and3. has either:A. earned a degree from an institution of higher education;B. completed at least two years of post-secondary education in good standing towards a bachelor's degree; orC. served in the U.S. Armed Forces for at least two years and, if discharged, has received an honorable discharge.After 10 years in conditional status, the Dream Act then gives this limited group of young, highly-motivated individuals the chance to earn lawful permanent resident status, but only if the applicant meets all of the following additional standards:1. has paid taxes;2. has demonstrated the ability to read, write, and speak English and demonstrates knowledge and understanding of the fundamentals of the history, principles, and form of government of the United States;3. has maintained good moral character throughout the 10 years;4. has lived continuously in the United States throughout the 10 years; and5. has once more submitted biometric and biographic information and completed security and law-enforcement background checks.# # #
12.08.2010	Washington, D.C. - The House of Representatives today passed a Continuing Resolution to fund the operation of the government for the 2011 Fiscal Year at the same level as the previous fiscal year. Rep. David Price (D-NC), as Chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, worked to ensure that despite the flat funding level, the bill was able to accommodate a number of additional requirements that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) must fulfill in order to keep the American people safe.Price worked with his colleagues to cut areas of lower priority in order to provide needed funding for critical items such as aviation security enhancements, adequate pay for Border Patrol agents, strengthened enforcement efforts along the Southwest border, and Secret Service preparations for the next Presidential campaign – needs that otherwise would not have been fulfilled in a Continuing Resolution, which assumes that all federal programs are flat-funded from one year to the next.The resolution provides $42.5 billion for all homeland security programs, which is equal to the fiscal year 2010 level."These fixes in the Continuing Resolution help ensure that we are able to accommodate as many needs as possible for border security, airline security, Coast Guard initiatives, and other functions at DHS," Price said. "Of course, I would prefer that Congress pass a year-end funding bill that would allow us to fulfill even more of these security needs and to provide additional oversight and guidance to federal agencies through legislative language. That's why I remain hopeful that the Senate will agree to an omnibus appropriations bill, which the House could then pass as an alternative to this Continuing Resolution."Adjustments in the Department of Homeland Security section of the continuing resolution respond to changes in law or evolving threats to the homeland, including:• Adjusting funding to allow the Coast Guard to maintain personnel hired in 2010 as well as address operational cash flow challenges, such as military pay, military allowances, and operation of new assets procured in prior years.• Providing funding for the Coast Guard acquisition budget at a level lower than FY 2010 enacted, but higher than the FY 2011 request to continue critical recapitalization projects for a deteriorating fleet.• Adjusting funding to cover the remainder of FY 2011 costs associated with the mandated pay grade increase for U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers and Border Patrol agents that took effect in September of 2010.• Providing the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) with some of the President's FY 2011 requested increases to enhance defenses against terrorist attacks, and combat the recent attempts against all-cargo aircraft. Funds will enable TSA to continue increased Federal Air Marshals coverage on key international flights, continue staffing for 500 Advance Imaging Technology (AIT) machines currently being deployed, and procure additional screening machines as needed.• Providing partial funding to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to sustain the ICE agent presence on the Southwest border for drug, bulk cash, and weapons smuggling investigations, as well as partial funding to detain illegal aliens and enforce immigration laws.• Adjusting funding to cover costs associated with asylum and refugee applications that were previously funded through a fee that was terminated on November 23, 2010.• Providing funding to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Disaster Relief fund to ensure that FEMA has the resources necessary to respond to disasters as the Nation enters hurricane season.• Adjusting the United States Secret Service budget so it can begin to prepare for the protection requirements of the 2012 campaign for President, and continue to implement the Uniformed Division Modernization Act, signed in October of 2010.The resolution also extends homeland security related expiring authorities for one year, including:• The Chemical Facilities Anti-Terrorism Standards law;• The Stafford Act authority for making predisaster mitigation grants;• Authority for US Secret Service investigations;• Extension of Other Transaction Authority authorized in the Homeland Security Act of 2002.Additionally, the resolution:• Includes a provision to waive the cost share and certain limitations on funds related to firefighter hiring grants to ensure fire departments can retain recently hired staff.• Increases the civil and criminal penalties for airport exit lane breaches in response to an exit lane security breach at a major airport.• Includes language restricting funding for the National Bio- and Agro-defense Facility in Manhattan, Kansas until the design of the facility has matured and a revised risk assessment of the site is completed and reviewed by the National Academy of Sciences.• Includes a provision to ensure the appropriate level of National Flood Insurance Program funding can be retained by FEMA to support the new workload burden for writing flood insurance policies. This change is necessitated by the recent decision by State Farm to opt out of the program.# # #
12.07.2010	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (D-NC) issued this statement Tuesday evening following news that Elizabeth Edwards had passed away after a long battle against breast cancer."I was saddened to learn of Elizabeth's passing. She was a warm and engaging person, and she fought valiantly and gracefully to live as long and as well as she could. In addition to her personal strength, I had enormous respect for her intellect and insight, her passionate advocacy for the less advantaged, and her ability to relate to people in all walks of life."# # #
12.02.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. David Price (D-NC) voted in favor of the Middle Class Tax Relief Act of 2010, which permanently extends lower tax rates for middle and lower income families making up to $250,000 a year. The package also extends lower dividend and capital gains tax rates for lower and middle income taxpayers, and maintains American Recovery and Reinvestment Act improvements to the child tax credit, earned income tax credit and small business expensing."Extending these tax cuts will let every working family keep more of their paycheck, strengthen small businesses and protect seniors who rely on income from investments," Rep. Price said. "It will also strengthen our economy because most of these funds will be used right away to purchase goods and services, or expand small businesses. I am proud to vote for middle class tax relief as we fight to keep the economic recovery going."The Middle Class Tax Relief Act also includes a permanent extension of several education tax incentives. It makes up to $2,500 of student loan interest payments deductable for single filers with adjusted gross income of $75,000 ($150,000 for married couples filing jointly) and extends the $2,000 yearly contribution cap for tax-preferred Coverdell education savings accounts."Education is the key to our success here in the Triangle, but it's also the key to our long-term prosperity and competitiveness as a country," Rep. Price said. "Tax-advantaged loan repayment and educational savings plans respond to pressing needs: making college more affordable and expanding access to education for middle class Americans."The Middle Class Tax Relief Act does not extend the lower tax rates for income over $250,000, allowing President Bush's tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans to expire. Extending these lower rates would benefit only three percent of the population but would add $700 billion to the deficit over the next ten years. Economists agree that extending lower rates for the wealthiest Americans would have a minimal simulative effect on the economy."Borrowing $700 billion from foreign governments to give millionaires a permanent tax break just plunges us further into debt," Rep. Price said. "It is simply not credible for Republicans to claim concern about our long-term debt challenges, and at the same time favor blowing a $700 billion hole in the deficit to give tax cuts to millionaires."SUMMARY OF THE MIDDLE CLASS TAX RELIEF ACT OF 2010I. EXTENSION OF ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM TAX RELIEFTwo-year extension of alternative minimum tax relief. The alternative minimum tax ("AMT") has the effect of taking back many of the benefits of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts. In order to ensure that middle-class taxpayers are able to enjoy the benefits of extending these tax cuts, the bill would extend AMT relief for nonrefundable personal credits and increasing the AMT exemption amount to $72,450 for joint filers and $47,450 for individuals in 2010 and 2011. This will protect more than 25 million families from the AMT. This proposal is estimated to cost $134.609 billion over 10 years.II. EXTENSION OF THE 2001 AND 2003 TAX CUTSPermanent extension of marginal individual income tax rate reductions for middle-class taxpayers. The Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 ("EGTRRA") created a new 10-percent regular income tax bracket for a portion of taxable income that was previously taxed at 15 percent. EGTRRA also reduced the other regular income tax rates of 28%, 31% 36% and 39.6% to 25%, 28%, 33%, and 35%, respectively. These marginal individual income tax rate reductions are scheduled to expire for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2010. The bill would permanently extend the 10%, 25% and 28% rate brackets. It also permanently extends the 33% rate bracket to the extent that this bracket applies to income of $200,000 or less for single filers ($250,000 or less for joint filers). This proposal is estimated to cost $655.686 billion over 10 years.Permanent reduced capital gains and dividend tax relief for middle-class taxpayers. The bill would make permanent the temporarily reduced rates on capital gain and dividend income for taxpayers with adjusted gross income up to $200,000 for single filers and adjusted gross income up to $250,000 for married couples filing jointly. The bill would maintain the current 15% rate for middle-class taxpayers. For taxpayers with income above $200,000 ($250,000 for married couples filing jointly), the capital gains rate would revert to the pre-tax cut rate of 20%, and the dividend rate would revert to the pre-tax cut ordinary income rates. This proposal is estimated to cost $99.113 billion over 10 years.Permanent extension of EGTRRA and ARRA improvements to child tax credit. EGTRRA doubled the value of the child tax credit from $500 to $1,000, allowed the child tax credit to be claimed against the alternative minimum tax, and enhanced the refundable child tax credit. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 ("ARRA") further enhanced the refundable child tax credit by allowing taxpayers to begin claiming the refundable credit once the taxpayer has received $3,000 of earned income (e.g., wages, tips, salaries). All of these enhancements are scheduled to expire for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2010. The bill would permanently extend these enhancements. This proposal is estimated to cost $432.748 billion over 10 years.Permanent extension of PEP and Pease relief for middle-class taxpayers. Prior to 2010, certain taxpayers were subject to limitations on the amount that they could claim with respect to itemized deductions (the "Pease" limitation) and personal exemptions (the "PEP" limitation). These limitations reduced the value of itemized deductions and personal exemptions based on the amount that the taxpayer's adjusted gross income exceeded a specific threshold. EGTRRA gradually phased out these limitations and these limitations were fully repealed in 2010. However, these limitations are scheduled to come back in full force for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2010. The bill would permanently set the threshold at which these limitations apply so that taxpayers with adjusted gross income under $200,000 ($250,000 for a married couple filing jointly), adjusted for inflation, would not be subject to these limitations. This proposal is estimated to cost $10.158 billion over 10 years.Permanent marriage penalty relief for middle-class taxpayers. A "marriage penalty" exists when the combined tax liability of a married filing a joint return is greater than the sum of the tax liabilities of each individual computed as if they were not married. Prior to EGTRRA, numerous marriage penalties existed in the tax code. Among other things, EGTRRA increased the basic standard deduction for a married couple filing a joint return to twice the basic standard deduction for an unmarried individual filing a single return and also increased the size of the 15% regular income tax bracket for a married couple filing a joint return to twice the size of the corresponding rate bracket for an unmarried individual filing a single return. The bill would permanently extend this tax relief. This proposal is estimated to cost $140.682 billion over 10 years.Permanent earned income tax credit simplification and increase. The bill would make permanent certain EGTRRA modifications and ARRA modifications to the earned income tax credit. The bill would retain the EGTRRA provisions to simplify the definition of earned income; simplify the relationship test, simplify the tie-breaking rule; provide additional math error authority for the IRS; repeal the prior-law provisions that would reduce an taxpayer's earned income tax credit by the amount of the taxpayer's AMT liability; and increase the beginning and ending points of the credit phase-out for married taxpayers. The bill would also make permanent the ARRA provision that increases the beginning point of the phase-out range for all married couples filing a joint return (regardless of the number of children) by $1,880. The estimated cost of this proposal is included in the estimate immediately preceding.Permanent extension of education tax incentives. The bill would make permanent certain modifications to the suite of education tax incentives included in the EGTRRA. Included in this extension would be the deduction of student loan interest (maximum of $2,500) for single filers with adjusted gross income up to $75,000 and married couples filing jointly with adjusted gross income of $150,000; allowance of up to $2,000 in contributions per beneficiary to a tax-preferred Coverdell education savings account for qualified education expenses; and extensions of tax-preferences for certain bond-financing mechanisms for education facilities. This proposal is estimated to cost $18.741 billion over 10 years.Permanent extension of tax benefits for families and children. The bill would make permanent certain tax benefits for families and children enacted in the EGTRRA, including: the maximum $13,170 adoption tax credit (as well as the maximum exclusion of $32,170 per eligible child), the employee tax credit for employee child care (25 percent of qualified expenses for employee child care and 10 percent of qualified expenses for child care resource and referral services), and the increased dependent care tax credit (35% of up to $3,000 of eligible expenses for one qualifying individual up to $1,050, and 35% of up to $6,000 of eligible expenses for two or more qualifying individuals up to $2,100). This proposal is estimated to cost $6.314 billion over 10 years.Permanent extension of enhanced small business expensing. The bill would make permanent the increased small business expensing amounts set to expire at the end of 2010 that were enacted prior to the ARRA and prior to the "Small Business Jobs Act of 2010". In order to help small businesses quickly recover the cost of certain capital expenses, small business taxpayers may elect to write-off the cost of these expenses in the year of acquisition in lieu of recovering these costs over time through depreciation. The bill would provide that small business taxpayers be allowed to write-off up to $125,000 (indexed for inflation) of capital expenditures subject to a phase-out once capital expenditures exceed $500,000 (indexed for inflation). This proposal is estimated to cost $25.693 billion over 10 years.# # #
11.07.2010	Durham, NC - I very much appreciate the opportunity to join you on this happy occasion and to honor this fine group of graduates. Our main order of business this afternoon is simply to offer our congratulations to the graduates and to the families, mentors, and friends who helped you reach this point – and perhaps also to offer a little free advice, as is customary on such occasions. But I also welcome the opportunity to reflect upon the mission of this program, on the kind of support and training you have received at TROSA.This is a kind of homecoming for me. My association with TROSA began many years ago, not long after the organization began. In fact, I have distinct memories of my first visit, four impressions which struck me then and still hold true:First, the energy, vision and can-do optimism of the founder, Kevin McDonald.Second, how small Kevin's staff was, because TROSA was (and is) mainly run by residents themselves,Third, the determination of the residents to make TROSA work for them, to turn their lives around. TROSA will work only for those determined to help themselves, and it was clear the residents understood that from day one.Finally, the utter honesty and openness of the conversations residents were having with each other and even with visitors like me. Residents had learned to face problems honestly, to talk about them openly, to confront them courageously, and to acknowledge readily what many of us sometime have trouble acknowledging: that we need one another for sustenance and support. There is no weakness in understanding our interdependence; in fact, it is a source of strength, and it makes us better, more caring people.That was a number of years ago. And now, as I continue to represent you in Congress and have had many opportunities to work with this organization, I remain mightily impressed with how TROSA helps individuals turn the page, to fight addiction, learn workplace skills, and live independently. The success rate of the rehabilitation program is phenomenal. But I am also impressed with TROSA's role in the Durham community – as a good neighbor, as a purveyor of everything from moving services to picture frames, groceries, and Christmas trees, and as a living symbol of the values we want to stand for, the kind of community we want to be.Commencement is a time of celebration. You all have come a long way, with your own determination and with the support of friends, family and previous TROSA graduates. You have earned the right to take great pride in what you've accomplished, feeling great relief that you're finished, looking forward eagerly to your new futures.As you look back on what you have accomplished, please remember that it is not enough for you to receive a diploma here today, as important as that is and as satisfying as it will be. Today you attain the status of a TROSA graduate and tomorrow you will be expected to be an active member of our community. I urge you to take that responsibility within the broader community seriously. After all, the opportunities you've had and the prospects you anticipate owe a great deal to active, engaged, and caring people who have gone before.Let me end as I began: with heartfelt congratulations for what you, with the help and support of many, many people, have achieved. You have made it through TROSA's demanding program, often under trying circumstances, on tight budgets, balancing competing family and job demands. You have earned the admiration of this community and we look forward to the contributions you will continue to make.I wish for you good fortune as you take your skills, industry, and determination into the workplace. I wish for you the satisfaction of productive work that uses your full potential. And may you also make a positive contribution to those around you, giving as well as receiving, blessing even as you have been blessed, gladly assuming the joys and responsibility of citizenship.Thank you and Godspeed.# # #
10.27.2010	Holly Springs, NC - Thank you for inviting me to be here today to celebrate the dedication of the Town's new – and first ever – reclaimed water system. It is the fruition of years of hard work by so many people to address the enormously vexing challenge of water supply. I don't have to tell you that the Triangle area remains one of the highest population growth areas in the country – and Holly Springs has led the way! That's great news for economic development, but it poses challenges for our infrastructure needs. In fact, North Carolina's public water, sewer and storm water utilities will require an estimated $16 billion investment to keep pace with growth over the next 20 years!In order to meet increasing demands – particularly for drinking water – we must use our limited resources more efficiently. Water efficiency is the single most cost-effective source of clean, reliable water, and it can be achieved both through conservation and through water reuse.I'm proud that the communities of the Fourth District are meeting these challenges head on. Here in Holly Springs, you have developed a long-term Master Water Reuse Plan that will reduce the demand for drinking water by enhancing the capacity of your wastewater treatment infrastructure. The result is that industrial customers like Novartis and the Twelve Oaks community, who are with us here today, can utilize treated wastewater rather than drinking water for many of their high-use needs.I want to commend Mayor Sears and the Town Council for their work on the Master Plan. It represents the kind of innovative long-term planning that every community should strive for. It will minimize competition for drinking water, reduce the community's risk during drought or other water shortages, and extend the useful life of the existing potable water treatment and distribution infrastructure.At a time like this we need especially to stress that investments in water infrastructure are also good for the economy: Every $1 billion of federal infrastructure funding creates about 30,000 jobs. So, in addition to the environmental benefits and savings to the Town, projects like this help meet everyone's number one priority: putting North Carolinians to work.I am pleased that I was able to help secure federal grant funding for this project through the Environmental Protection Agency, and I'm committed to ensuring that the federal government remains a partner in meeting our water infrastructure needs. Again, thank you for inviting me to share in your celebration here today.# # #
10.25.2010	Cary, NC - Thank you, Chuck Watts, for the gracious introduction – and thank you all for being here to share in today's good news. It's always a pleasure to see our transportation Secretary Gene Conti, and I especially want to thank Administrator Szabo for coming down from Washington to help us mark this occasion. Earlier this year, we heralded the news that North Carolina would join an elite group of only seven states receiving a portion of the high-speed rail funding included in the Recovery Act. Today, we come together again to witness the rubber hitting the road – or, more accurately, the metal hitting the rails.This day has been a long time coming. As some of you will remember, it has been twenty years since Congress first designated the Southeast High Speed Rail corridor, and more than a decade since Governor Jim Hunt challenged our state to achieve two-hour rail service from Raleigh to Charlotte.We've come a long way toward that goal, but for the most part, we've been on our own. Over the last two decades, the federal investment in this or any other high-speed rail corridor outside the Northeast has been very, very modest. The burden fell almost completely to the states, and in light of the enormous capital investments needed, our progress was – like the train to Charlotte – steady, but slow.That all changed with President Obama, who made a major federal investment in high-speed rail one of his top priorities for the Recovery Act. The approval by Congress of $8 billion for the development of high-speed rail is a threefold win for our country and our state: it creates well-paying construction and manufacturing jobs in the near-term; it makes North Carolina a more attractive place to live and do business in the long-term; and it makes our communities more livable and environmentally sustainable.Competition for this Recovery Act funding was intense, and it is a huge tribute to the vision of Governor Hunt, the tireless efforts of Pat Simmons and others at NCDOT, and the advocacy of community leaders all along the corridor, that our state received such a significant award: $545 million to modernize North Carolina's rail system and increase rail speeds. Half a billion dollars is no small change.We will still have a ways to go to complete the corridor and take it all the way to Washington, DC. But this investment represents the turning point for high-speed rail in our state. We can finally see that light at the end of the tunnel. One day soon, North Carolina won't be merely known as the "good roads" state; she'll also be "the high-speed rail state." And I look forward to working with President Obama, Administrator Szabo, Governor Perdue, and Secretary Conti, and others, to make it happen.# # #
10.16.2010	Cary, N.C. - Good afternoon! It's a pleasure to be with you on this gorgeous fall day to help you celebrate the 10th annual Cary Diwali Festival! It's hard to believe it's been nearly a decade since we first gathered here in Cary to celebrate the lighting of the lamps, enjoy the artistic and culinary traditions of India and South Asia, and share in conversation and good cheer with our friends and neighbors.And what a festival it's become! I'm told that in recent years you've had over 12,000 people attend this event, which has truly become one of the marquee cultural celebrations in the Triangle. I want to congratulate the volunteer leadership of Hum Sub on this tremendous success, as well as the Town of Cary for its steadfast support of this festival from the very beginning.The success of this festival over the past decade is a testament to our area's strong and vibrant South Asian community, which has grown from a few hundred families to over 10,000 people in just three short decades.Of course, much of this rapid growth can be attributed to the expansion of Research Triangle Park and the many businesses, universities, hospitals, and research facilities that surround it. But it also has a lot to do with what we all know to be true: that the Triangle is the best place in the nation to live, work, and raise a family.And so today, Americans of all stripes can catch a Bollywood movie at the Galaxy Cinema, grab a delicious tandoori at one of the Triangle's many Indian restaurants, and, of course, come take in some world-class Indian dance and music at this annual event. I understand we're in store for a special treat tonight, when the Pandit Sisters take the stage with Parleen Singh of "Indian Idol" fame.Diwali is also important not just as a unifying event for our community, but also because it reminds us of the values and principles that India and the United States have in common: democracy, pluralism, civil liberties, and a respect for diversity and human rights.These shared values are reflected in a bilateral relationship that is today one of the closest and most important our country possesses, as reflected in President Obama's decision to host Prime Minister Singh for his first official state dinner last year, in Secretary Clinton's early visit to New Delhi to launch a Strategic Dialogue between our two countries, and, of course, in President Obama's trip to India next month.These visits are more than ceremonial: they represent a concerted effort at the highest levels to maintain and build upon the close relations our two nations have enjoyed in recent years, and to address the common challenges that face us both – even when we may disagree on the specific solutions.While the ties between our two governments are strong, however, the real strength of our friendship derives from the relationships that exist between our two peoples: between Indian and American business leaders and investors, between exchange students and tourists traveling in both directions, and between Indian American families and their relatives back home.Of course, the same holds true for those of you from other South Asian countries, such as Sri Lanka and Bangladesh, that have a strong presence in the Triangle community.And so in the months and years ahead, all of you have a critical role to play, both in keeping your elected representatives in Washington informed of your views and in keeping the lines of communication open with your friends and relatives back home.In the meantime, let's all enjoy this day of celebration and gratitude. Thank you again for inviting me to participate in this opening ceremony, and Happy Diwali to you all!# # #
10.12.2010	Durham, N.C. - Good morning! It's a pleasure to be back here at GE Aviation to help you celebrate this exciting news: 40 more good-paying jobs this year right here in the Triangle, to build on the success of this already accomplished facility!After what we've been through in the past couple of years, rebuilding our economy will be a long and difficult process, and you all know as well as I do that we're not out of the woods yet.But every day as I travel around the Triangle, I see businesses such as GE leading the way back to recovery and putting the world on notice that North Carolina remains as innovative and competitive as anybody in today's global economy.o I see it in the manufacturer that makes transmissions I visited in Durham last month that just adding a new line of production, with over 350 new jobso ...in the manufacturing firm in Fuquay Varina that makes cooking ranges for hotels that is bringing on new employees to their production facility and in-sourcing from overseas and creating jobs here in the USA...o ...in the furniture maker down in Holly Springs that is increasing its profit margin and reducing its carbon footprint by installing a solar farm on its roof...o ...and in standard-bearers such as Cree, which just added another 240 jobs that it could have shipped to China...In fact, it's probably more accurate to say that companies such as these aren't leading us back to where we were, but rather are leading us forward by laying the foundations of the 21st Century economy.Of course, here at GE in Durham, you're quite familiar with leading the way forward in an industry that relies on constant innovation and evolution. Your horizontal, team-oriented organizational structure has captured the interest of business leaders throughout the country, and having visited here regularly over the years, I can attest to the positive impact that it has had, both for your success as a facility and for the energy and enthusiasm of your team members.You have also done an exceptional job of putting our State's military veterans to work in a dynamic environment in which the skills they have developed in uniform are valued and respected, and I hope more North Carolina employers will look to your example in this important area.My job as your representative in Congress is to do everything I can to make sure the government is providing you with the support you need and then getting out of your way. This means investing in scientific research and development, such as the development of the competitive engine for the F-35, which I have fought to maintain funding for against the President's proposed cuts.It also means investing in high-quality education, building on our success in research and innovation, investing in improvements to our local transportation infrastructure, and alternative energy projects that will lower our power bills and reduce our nation's dependence on foreign oil – as well as tax relief for small businesses and working families to get them hiring again and making ends meet.You have my word that I will continue to fight for these things until I am confident that our economy is back to full strength. But today, we're here to celebrate a company that is already strong – and growing stronger.And so I want to congratulate Doug McLean, his leadership team, and all of the team members here at GE on this announcement. I mean this as genuinely as I can state it: your success is our success – as a community, as a region, and as a country...and it is well deserved.Thank you again for having me here today.Event Pictures# # #
10.09.2010	Cary, N.C. - Good afternoon! It's a pleasure to be here on this gorgeous fall day to kick off this Fourth Annual Eid Festival with all of you. It's great to see so many friends and familiar faces here today. I want to offer a special thanks to the festival's organizers, including the Chair of the NC Eid Festival Board, Dr. Nadeem Iqbal, and of course to Mayor Weinbrecht, Councilman Jack Smith and the Town of Cary for its sponsorship of this celebration. And what a celebration it is! One quick look at today's program should leave no doubt that this is truly, as advertised, a "festival without borders." From Puerto Rico to Pakistan to the Philippines, you really have brought together a dizzying array of cultures and traditions from around the world.This intercultural theme is fitting for the occasion for several reasons:First, it's a reflection of the rich and growing diversity of our community – all around the Triangle, but especially here in Cary. Just a couple decades ago, few would have imagined that we would one day be able to grab a delicious Lebanese meal on Maynard Road, take in a Chinese dance performance at a local theater, and then catch a Bollywood movie at the Galaxy Cinema!This diversity has strengthened the fabric of our State and made the Triangle an even more attractive place to relocate for families or businesses from around the world that are looking for a close-knit community and a high quality of life.Second, the theme is fitting because Islam is truly a religion without borders: its traditions and teachings are woven throughout the cultural and religious fabric of every country in the world, including our own. Just as the world's other major religions are far from monolithic, so too is Islam a religion of diversity, tolerance, and respect for local values and customs.This is especially the case in the United States: A recent Gallup poll of American Muslims found that Islam was by far the most ethnically diverse religion in our country.Third, and related, the theme of bringing all cultures together is important because of the significance of the two holy days which this festival commemorates:The first "Eid" (Eid al-Fitr) is a celebration of the end of the holy month of Ramadan, in which Muslims are called upon to rededicate themselves to worship and devotion. And while this holiday is unique to Islam, the principles and traditions it embodies – fasting as a tribute to the divine, breaking of the fast with friends and loved ones, and promoting peace and brotherhood in the community – are central to every religious tradition.The second "Eid" (Eid al-Adha) commemorates a story with which we are all familiar – the willingness of Abraham to sacrifice his child on Mount Moriah as a test of his faith. Like Abraham himself, this tale of sacrifice and devotion is central to the three Abrahamic faiths, and its lessons are relevant for the religious and non-religious alike, as is the emphasis that is placed during Eid on ensuring that the poor have enough to eat.This common thread in our religious traditions should serve as a reminder that even in today's fractured world, we have much more in common than we have apart, and an opportunity to rededicate ourselves to striving constantly for unity and brotherhood among all races and religions.This message is particularly poignant these days, as a small but growing number of Americans seem to be susceptible to anti-Muslim sentiment and simplistic equations of Islam with violent extremism. This trend is deeply disturbing, and all of us must be vigilant about educating our neighbors that Islam is a religion of peace and understanding. But what is even more disturbing – and disgraceful – is that some politicians seem to be exploiting this sentiment for their own political gain, as we have witnessed in the manufactured controversy over the Islamic Center in New York City.Our nation is better than that. Our strength is and has always been rooted in our diversity, our tolerance and respect for all cultures and traditions, and our constitutional guarantees of free expression and freedom of religion.And so I hope that the recent signs of anti-Muslim sentiment in our country are an aberration and not a trend, and that our nation rises above such base and simplistic appeals and finds its strength in unity and common purpose, as it always has before during times of national challenge.As your representative in Congress, I have tried to do my humble part by advocating for greater U.S. engagement with the Muslim world and a more balanced approach to vexing foreign policy challenges such as the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the rise of Islamist political parties – and by speaking out strongly against those who lump Muslims together with terrorists or adopt a black-and-white approach to the world's problems.I have also engaged with Muslim leaders directly as the chairman of the House Democracy Partnership, a bipartisan commission that works to build stronger, independent legislatures in 14 countries around the world, including five majority-Muslim nations: Pakistan, Afghanistan, Lebanon, Indonesia, and Kosovo.And of course, I've tried to promote greater religious tolerance and understanding among my colleagues in Washington. I was honored to invite Duke University's first-ever Muslim chaplain, Abdullah Antepli, to offer the opening prayer in the U.S. House earlier this year. As many of you know, Abdullah has acquired quite a following in our community: he showed up in D.C. with at least fifty of his friends and students, and we had to reserve a special section of the House balcony just to hold them all! We're pleased to see him here today.But your actions right here in the community are immeasurably more important than mine. And so today, as we celebrate the great diversity of our region and our world, I encourage all of you to rededicate yourselves to promoting tolerance and understanding every single day: in your homes, your schools, and your places of work.For it will be through the positive actions and attitudes of individuals, and individual communities like this one, that we rise above our divisions and form, in the words of our founding fathers, a more perfect union for our children and grandchildren.Thank you again for inviting me here today, and I wish all of you an "Eid sa-yeed" [happy Eid].# # #
10.06.2010	Thank for you for inviting me to be here today, and thank you for being part of the national effort to grow our economy through innovations in energy. As many of you know, energy efficiency and renewable energy technologies have been at the forefront of congressional efforts over the past couple of years to put Americans back to work and lay the foundation for our economic future. The Recovery Act alone included over $45 billion in investments in energy efficiency and renewable energy programs and another $21 billion in energy tax incentives, and Congress has taken various other steps to encourage families and businesses to adopt cleaner, more efficient energy technologies. Not surprisingly, the Triangle has been a major beneficiary of these programs and is poised to be a national leader in the new "green" economy.In addition to funding research and innovation that will help us to make energy sources that will never run out—like wind and solar—more competitive, the Recovery Act will also help make our current energy sources cleaner and more efficient. The weatherization, energy efficiency, and conservation programs advance both of those goals. The end result is that Americans save both energy and money.You are part of our country's effort to create jobs and bring our economy back to full strength. Even better: these are good jobs, on the cutting edge of our economy, and they will be there for North Carolinians in the future.All of you are here today because you recognize the benefits of these investments for our region and for the country as a whole...but also because you recognize that the success of the Recovery Act will depend on creative solutions and effective implementation at the local level. And so I applaud the Department of Energy and the State of North Carolina's Energy Office for conducting this grantee workshop and others like it across the state.I am confident that you, our North Carolina grantees, will prove to be responsible stewards of these public funds, and I look forward to continuing to partner with state and local governments on energy initiatives in the future. As you work to meet our state's energy needs, do not hesitate to be in touch if my office can ever be of assistance.Thank you again for having me here today, and I wish you the best as you go about your important work.# # #
09.16.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. David Price (D-NC) announced that the North Carolina Central University School of Law will receive a $1.9 million grant through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to deploy broadband videoconferencing technology to five legal assistance facilities across the state. The project will serve low-income residents and undergraduates at Legal AID of North Carolina offices at NCCU and four other Historically Black Colleges and Universities, including Elizabeth City State University, Winston-Salem State University, North Carolina A&T University and Fayetteville State University."This project builds on the NCCU School of Law's long tradition of community involvement," Rep. Price said. "Using broadband to reach underserved communities is an innovative and promising way to provide all North Carolinians, regardless of economic disadvantages, full access to the legal system."By providing writing seminars for undergraduates to better prepare them for law school, the project also aims to increase the number of ethnic and economic minorities in the legal profession. High school students interested in the legal procession will also be able to join introductory law classes across the region sponsored by the project.The NCCU project builds on other ARRA broadband investments across the state. This year, MCNC has received over $103 million in ARRA funding to expand broadband access throughout the most rural and economically disadvantaged counties in North Carolina. The ARRA grants won by MCNC are also expected to strengthen and expand broadband access at the state's universities, research institutions, community colleges, libraries, and K-12 public schools.# # #
09.11.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement marking the ninth anniversary of the terror attacks of September 11, 2001. President Obama declared September 11, 2010 a National Day of Service earlier this year."All of us remember where we were when tragedy struck on September 11th, 2001. That day is a shared experience that has profoundly influenced our lives and has shaped our nation in many ways."For me, it has meant a challenging and unanticipated role in Congress as Chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. Our committee oversees funding for the Department of Homeland Security – a department that would not have been created were it not for 9/11."This experience has exposed me to countless dedicated public servants who defend our country from threats on a daily basis. It is because of these committed individuals that we've been able to fill the most glaring of the gaps exposed by the 9/11 attacks and to ensure that our ability to deal with natural disasters is strengthened as well. However, the job is never done, and we must make sure that our homeland security professionals have the resources and intelligence they need to best prevent, prepare and respond. On this day every year we pay tribute to their service and look back nine years to remember the very sobering reason that we rely on their good work."We also use this day, the National Day of Service, to highlight the spirit of unity and service that was so evident following the terrorist attacks. I was privileged to spend some time with a dedicated group of volunteers at the Food Bank in Durham. Community service embodies something fundamental to the American character: we recognize that we are better unified than divided. In times of national tragedy, or times of great need, we come together to solve seemingly intractable problems. It is in that spirit that I wholeheartedly commend the men and women who keep us safe and the citizens who show their patriotism and serve the country by serving one another."# # #
09.04.2010	As the engine of the American economy, small businesses play a vital role in creating jobs, investing in our workforce, and maintaining our competitive advantage in the global economy. In fact, small businesses employ over half of all private-sector employees and have created two-thirds of new jobs over the past 15 years. In order for small businesses to thrive, however, they need at least three crucial ingredients: reliable access to capital, a regulatory environment that promotes growth and innovation, and a highly trained workforce. In recognition of the critical role that small businesses will play in driving our economic recovery, the 111th Congress has made each of these areas a top priority.Since the recession began, I have met with dozens of local business owners to discuss the many challenges they are facing, and one problem often rises to the top of the list: access to credit. As a result of the economic downturn, many financial institutions have imposed strict lending terms or stopped lending altogether, leaving small businesses without the lines of credit on which they have traditionally relied.Over the past 18 months, Congress has taken several major steps to get credit flowing again. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) included several changes to Small Business Administration (SBA) programs, including an increase in the SBA loan guarantee limit to 90 percent, the elimination of various fees for SBA-backed loans, and an investment of $255 million in direct loans of up to $35,000 through the American Recovery Capital program. As a result of these provisions, SBA has supported more than $29 billion in new loans to small businesses and the weekly volume of SBA loans has risen more than 90 percent over pre-Recovery Act levels.This June, the House approved another major bill to stimulate small businesses lending: the Small Business Jobs and Credit Act of 2010 (H.R. 5297). In addition to extending the Recovery Act's SBA provisions through the end of 2010, this bill would create a new $30 billion lending fund for community banks, leveraging up to $300 billion in new loans for small businesses. Unfortunately, the measure stalled in the Senate on a party-line vote, but I am hopeful that it will receive a vote when Congress returns from its August district work period.In addition to working to get credit flowing again, the 111th Congress has also sought to provide targeted tax and regulatory relief to small businesses. The Recovery Act included $5.7 billion in small business tax benefits for 2008 and 2009, including an extended carryback period for net operating losses incurred in 2008, an increase in the capital expensing limit of up to $250,000 in 2009, and an expansion of the Work Opportunity Tax Credit program to provide payroll tax credits for businesses that hire veterans and at-risk youth. In March, Congress enacted another tax relief bill (H.R. 2847) that provides an additional payroll tax credit for businesses that hire unemployed workers and extends the Recovery Act capital expensing provision through 2010.Congress has also been working to ensure that the health insurance reform legislation enacted this year benefits small business owners and employees alike. Although 96 percent of all small businesses (those with fewer than 50 employees) are exempt from the employer mandate in the new law, businesses that choose to provide coverage anyway will be able to claim a tax credit of up to 35 percent of their share of premium costs beginning this year, and up to 50 percent beginning in 2014. Reform also gives small businesses something they have long struggled for – negotiating power – by providing access to state-based insurance exchanges. While most aspects of the new law have been beneficial to small businesses, one provision – expanded Form 1099 reporting requirements – could be quite burdensome. I recently voted in favor of legislation (H.R. 5982) that would have repealed this provision, but unfortunately the measure was defeated on a mostly party-line vote. Here, too, I am hopeful we can try again in September.Finally, I understand that small businesses depend on a steady supply of well trained workers and have been a consistent advocate for robust federal investments in education, particularly in the science, math and engineering (STEM) fields. I am pleased to report that the House recently approved a broad reauthorization of federal science and technology programs, the America COMPETES Act (H.R. 5116), which would double the federal investment in basic scientific research and improve coordination of STEM programs throughout our educational system.While these are all steps in the right direction, I am keenly aware that much work remains to be done to ensure that our nation's small businesses have the resources and support they need to lead our nation back along the path to recovery. As Congress continues to debate issues of concern to small businesses, I hope you will continue to keep me informed of your views.
08.24.2010	Washington, D.C. - Earlier this week a federal judge issued an injunction blocking the Obama Administration's executive order that allowed the federal funding of human embryonic stem cell research. Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement calling for a legislative fix to end the controversy:"Stem cell research holds great promise for medical breakthroughs that could help treat and cure devastating diseases such as cancer, Parkinson's, and diabetes. This news is a setback for researchers, physicians, and most importantly for patients and their loved ones, but that setback should not be permanent."In an area like ours, the home of the Research Triangle Park and world class medical research institutions, we know firsthand both the therapeutic promise of medical innovation and its ability to be an engine of economic growth. I call on Congress to act quickly to resolve the current controversy with clarifying legislation that will give our scientists the tools they need to heal patients with incurable diseases and keep our nation competitive in the global medical marketplace."# # #
08.24.2010	Washington, D.C. - Earlier today the Obama Administration announced that North Carolina will receive up to $400 million in Race to the Top education grant funding as a part of efforts to modernize public education. The grant program is funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Rep. David Price (D-NC) released the following statement:"North Carolina has always been a leader in innovative education, and today's announcement of Recovery Act grant funding will reinforce that position. These resources to help train and retain the next generation of teachers will pay dividends for years to come, emphasizing common-sense measures that ensure every school can make the grade. And since the long-term strength of our economy depends upon a well-educated, well-trained workforce, this investment will put our state in a better position to recruit businesses and create jobs for Tar Heel state residents."I applaud Governor Perdue, Superintendent Atkinson, and our local education leaders for their willingness to explore new ways to ensure that every child who graduates in North Carolina is prepared to succeed. This is an achievement of the first order for our state and our young people."# # #
08.13.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today, President Obama signed H.R. 6080, House-Senate compromise legislation investing $600 million in border security improvements. Yesterday, the Senate returned for a special session to pass the legislation. Rep. David Price (D-NC), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee shepherded the bill through the House of Representatives on Tuesday. Rep. Price released the following statement."I applaud the Senate for coming back into session as the House did to pass this legislation as quickly as possible. With President Obama's signature today, we have taken an important step that will clamp down on cartel activity along our Southwest border and give our law enforcement professionals working in the region a much needed boost."This investment will expand the Border Patrol's interdiction programs targeted at drug, weapons and alien smuggling operations, and put better communications equipment in the hands of Border Patrol agents. Importantly, quick passage of this legislation ensures new Border Patrol agents will be trained and ready to deploy to the border region when the National Guard troops deployed by the President return home.""As chairman of the Homeland Security funding committee, I know as well as anyone that enforcement and border security alone will not solve our immigration challenges. But border security is an important part of broad reform of our broken immigration system. I am hopeful that with this legislation, Congress—with the President's involvement and support—has laid the groundwork for comprehensive reform in the coming months."A statement by the President on the passage of the border security bill and a fact-sheet provided by the White House are below:Statement by the President: I have made securing our Southwest Border a top priority since I came to office. That is why my administration has dedicated unprecedented resources and personnel to combating the transnational criminal organizations that traffic in drugs, weapons, and money, and smuggle people across the border with Mexico. Today's action by Congress answers my call to bolster the essential work of federal law enforcement officials and improve their ability to partner with state, local, and tribal law enforcement. The resources made available through this legislation will build upon our successful efforts to protect communities along the Southwest border and across the country. And this new law will also strengthen our partnership with Mexico in targeting the gangs and criminal organizations that operate on both sides of our shared border. So these steps will make an important difference as my administration continues to work with Congress toward bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform to secure our borders, and restore responsibility and accountability to our broken immigration system.Fact Sheet on the President's Strategic and Integrated Southwest Border Security StrategyThe President will sign into law a comprehensive plan to secure the Southwest border, including $600 million in supplemental funds for enhanced border protection and law enforcement activities, offset by cancelling $100 million from the SBInet program within DHS. Though not specifically provided in this bill, the President has also authorized the deployment of up to an additional, requirements-based 1,200 National Guard troops to the border, a deployment that has already begun.$600 Million in Additional ResourcesThe Administration has secured $600 million in supplemental funds which will be utilized to enhance technology at the border, share information and support with state, local, and tribal law enforcement, and increase DOJ and DHS presence and law enforcement activities at the border, to include increased agents, investigators, and prosecutors, as part of a multi-layered effort to target illicit networks trafficking in people, drugs, illegal weapons, and money. The supplemental is fully offset by cancelling $100 million from the SBInet program within DHS and from a temporary increase to the fraud prevention and detection fees for some employers seeking high skilled foreign workers.Department of Homeland Security• The supplemental provides $394 million for the Department of Homeland Security. The bill includes $244 million to hire new and maintain existing levels of Border Patrol agents and Customs and Border Protection Officers, $32 million for two new unmanned aerial detection systems, $6 million for forward operating bases for Border Patrol agents, $14 million for tactical communications to support enforcement activities, and $80 million for new ICE agents and supporting investments along the border, and $8 million to train new law enforcement staff.Department of Justice• The supplemental provides $196 million for the Department of Justice to surge federal law enforcement officers in the Southwest border region and the temporary deployment of personnel to high crime areas. Location of assignments will be operationally dependent. Specifically, Justice funding would increase the presence of federal law enforcement in the Southwest border districts by adding seven (7) ATF Gunrunner Teams, five (5) FBI Hybrid Task Forces, additional DEA agents, equipment, operational support, and additional attorneys including over thirty (30) prosecutors and immigration judges. It also would provide additional funds for detention and incarceration of criminal aliens in coordination with Department of Homeland Security enforcement activities.• The supplemental request would also provide funding to support Mexican law enforcement operations with ballistic analysis, DNA analysis, information sharing, technical capabilities, and technical assistance, including over twenty (20) Deputy US Marshals dedicated to the Mexican Investigative Liaison Program and the El Paso Intelligence Center (EPIC) to address cross-border investigations.Additional National Guard DeploymentThe President has also authorized the deployment of up to an additional 1,200 National Guard troops to the border to provide intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance support; and immediate support to counternarcotics enforcement until Customs and Border Protection can recruit and train additional officers and agents to serve on the border.Unprecedented Resources Already Being DedicatedThe Obama Administration has dedicated an unprecedented amount of resources to securing the border and combating the flows of drugs, weapons, and cash on the borders. During the past year, since the Southwest Border Initiative was launched, the Administration has:• Doubled the personnel assigned to Border Enforcement Security Task Forces by deploying additional Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) special agents;• Tripled the number of ICE intelligence analysts focused on cartel violence along the Southwest border;• Quintupled deployments of ICE Border Liaison Officers.• Begun screening, for the first time, 100 percent of southbound rail shipments for illegal weapons, drugs, and cash;• Deployed thousands of technology assets along the Southwest Border and currently has 150 operational aerial assets along the Southwest border.• Deployed two new DEA SWB enforcement groups in El Paso and Phoenix, and added 25 new DEA intelligence analysts;• Deployed two new FBI Border Corruption Task Forces in Del Rio and Houston.• Added 200 new U.S. Marshal service positions including Deputy U.S. Marshals and Asset Forfeiture Criminal Investigators at the Southwest Border to increase fugitive apprehension and cross border violent crime response; to identify and seize the financial assets of the cartels; to increase court security and prisoner operations; and to investigate and mitigate security threats and improve security awareness for judiciary and other court personnel;• Surged ATF agents to Arizona to target gun trafficking to Mexico.• Hired nearly 50 additional Department of Justice (DOJ) attorneys to prosecute drug and arms trafficking and bulk cash smuggling by the Mexican cartels, and added five DOJ attorneys to focus exclusively on extradition requests from Mexico. There were 107 extraditions from Mexico to the United States in 2009, a record, compared to 12 in 2000;• Increased cooperation with U.S. and Mexican law enforcement to target money laundering and bulk-cash smuggling, including $50 million in DOJ grants to federal, state, and local law enforcement, a 120-day multifaceted ICE operation, and the hiring of a DOJ prosecutor dedicated exclusively to targeting money laundering cases in and to Mexico;• Resumed DOJ asset-sharing of forfeited proceeds with the Mexican government as a result of successful bi-lateral criminal investigations;• Trained 5,462 Mexican prosecutors and investigators at the state and federal level and in the executive and judicial branches, on target to reach 9,261 trained by the end of 2010;• Planned the expansion of El Paso Intelligence Center (EPIC) to include additional staffing to collect, analyze and disseminate intelligence and support law enforcement operations against a broad array of transnational threats; and• Repositioned $80 million of existing resources in the Border Security Fencing, Infrastructure, and Technology account to higher priority replacement and repair of fences to enhance physical infrastructure along the Southwest border.These strategic initiatives are producing meaningful results. The Administration has:• Seized, through the combined efforts of CBP and ICE, more than $103 million in illegal currency, more than 1.7 million kilograms of drugs and more than 1,400 firearms – increases of more than $47 million, more than 450,000 kilograms of drugs and more than 300 firearms compared to 2008.• Seized, through the combined efforts of CBP and ICE, more than $39.2 million in southbound illegal currency – an increase of more than $29.4 million compared to 2008.• DOJ-led multi-agency law enforcement investigations (which may include DEA, FBI, ATF, ICE, CBP, and others) "Project Deliverance" resulted in more than 2,200 arrests, seizure of approximately 74 tons of drugs and $154 million in U.S. currency; "Project Coronado" resulted in the arrest of 303 individuals in 19 states and seizure of $3.4 million in U.S. currency, 729 pounds of methamphetamine, 62 kilograms of cocaine, 967 pounds of marijuana, 144 weapons and 109 vehicles; "Operation Xcellerator" resulted in the arrest of more than 750 individuals on narcotics-related charges and the seizure of more than 23 tons of narcotics and more than $59 million in cash;Additionally, the San Diego DHS Maritime Unified Command, composed of U.S. Coast Guard, CBP, ICE, DEA and other law enforcement partners, saw a more than six-fold increase in maritime drug interdictions in the Pacific waters extending from the Southwest border—seizing 57,437 pounds of drugs in Fiscal Year (FY) 2009 compared to 8,884 pounds seized in FY 2008. Already in FY 2010, the Coast Guard has seized 11,500 pounds of drugs across the San Diego sector.Statistics reflect a significant reduction in the number of people attempting to cross U.S. borders illegally. CBP statistics show that illegal immigration into the United States is down, with apprehensions between points of entry having dropped as a result.Since 2004, the Border Patrol has doubled in size to over 20,000 Border Patrol agents.# # #
08.10.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today, the House of Representatives passed a compromise version of House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman David Price's Border Security Funding Supplemental bill, investing $600 million in border security improvements administered by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Department of Justice (DOJ). The Senate must pass the compromise legislation before it can be signed into law by President Obama. Rep. Price included a similar package of investments in the Afghanistan/Iraq war funding supplemental bill. He reintroduced that funding as a separate bill on July 27th after the Senate stripped border security funding out of its version of the war supplemental.The legislation (H.R. 6080) will provide $176 million for an additional 1,000 Border Patrol officers and provide $14 million for new equipment to the Border Patrol as it confronts increased cartel violence along the Mexican side of the border. It will bring the number of Border Patrol agents to 21,370, a 70 percent increase since 2006."This bill addresses the urgent need for enhanced security on our Southwest border," Rep. Price said. "Violence on the Mexican side of the border has intensified because of turf battles murderous transnational criminal organizations competing for drug, alien, and weapon trafficking business. We need these new officers trained and ready to ensure there is not an enforcement gap as the National Guard troops recently deployed to the border leave."The bill also includes $32 million in funding for two unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and $6 million for two forward operating bases. Both investments will expand the Border Patrol's range in drug and human smuggling interdiction efforts. The UAVs, communications equipment, and forward operating bases will allow the border patrol additional flexibility, narrowing enforcement gaps along remote portions of the border. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) programs will receive $80 million to expand the presence of drug, human and gun trafficking investigators on the border.Rep. Price partnered with a number of border-state colleagues in bringing the bill to floor. Original co-sponsors of the legislation included: Reps. Henry Cuellar (D-TX), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Bob Filner (D-CA), Chet Edwards (D-TX), Gabrielle Giffords (D-AZ), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Ruben Hinjosa (D-TX), Alan Mollohan (D-WV), Solomon Ortiz (D-TX), Silvestre Reyes (D-TX), Ciro Rodriguez (D-TX) Harry Teague (D-NM), and Dina Titus (D-NV)."Our border members have been making the case directly to their colleagues on both sides of the aisle that each of these investments will expand the range and effectiveness of our enforcement efforts," Rep. Price said. "Those members deserve a lot of credit for the fact that this bill has moved very quickly through the legislative process."A comprehensive list of investments funded by the legislation is included below. All of the funding in the bill is offset by spending cuts and fee increases for certain foreign visa applicants:Department of Homeland Security: $394 million for department efforts to strengthen enforcement on the southern border, including:• Border Patrol Agents: $176 million for 1,000 additional Border Patrol agents deployed between the ports of entry along the Southwest Border.• CBP Officers: $68 million to hire 250 new Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers at ports of entry along the Southwest Border and maintain 270 CBP officers funded through declining user fees and.• CBP Tactical Communications: $14 million for designing, building, and deploying an improved tactical communications system for support of enforcement activities on the Southwest Border.• Border Patrol Forward Operating Bases: $6 million for the construction of two forward operating bases along the Southwest Border for improved border enforcement activities.• Airborne Interdiction: $32 million to procure two additional CBP unmanned aircraft systems.• Immigration Enforcement Activities: $80 million for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to hire more than 250 special agents, investigators, intelligence analysts, and mission support staff and for targeted activities directed at reducing the threat of narcotics smuggling and associated violence.• Workforce Integrity: $10 million for a surge of workforce integrity investigations designed to prevent corruption among CBP officers and agents.Department of Justice: $196 million for Justice Department programs, including:• ATF: $37.5 million for the continued expansion of ATF's Project Gunrunner, which targets firearms trafficking across the Southwest border, and to increase ATF's capacity to complete firearms trace requests related to border cases.• DEA: $33.7 million for investigations, intelligence, surveillance and other operational needs of the DEA to target and pursue major drug trafficking organizations along the border.• FBI: $24 million for FBI investigative, intelligence, tactical and forensic responses to gangs, violent crime and public corruption in the border region.• Interagency Enforcement: $21 million for the operation of prosecutor-led task forces involving Federal, state and local law enforcement officials to target the biggest, most significant drug trafficking organizations with ties to the Southwest border.• U.S. Marshals: $37.7 million for the U.S. Marshals Service to provide prisoner production and security support for defendants referred by CBP and ICE, as well as for an expansion of the Marshals presence in Mexico.• Federal Prosecutions: $13.1 million for prosecutorial support to address increased cases referred by CBP, ICE and DOJ investigative agencies.• Executive Office for Immigration Review: $2.1 million to process and adjudicate removal proceedings involving criminal aliens.• Detention & Federal Prisons: $27 million for detention and incarceration space to address the increase in the prisoner population resulting from new DHS and DOJ investigative activity.The Judiciary: $10 million for the Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and other judicial services to meet increased workload requirements resulting from immigration and other law enforcement initiatives.OffsetsThe bill is fully offset. It increases, for five years, the cost of two visas which permit foreign workers to come and work in the United States. These fee increases, which would raise $550 million, would apply only to companies with more than 50 employees AND for whom the majority of their workforce is visa-holding foreign workers. The bill also includes a $100 million rescission from unobligated balances within the Department of Homeland Security's border security fencing, infrastructure, and technology appropriation due to an ongoing assessment of the SBInet program.# # #
08.04.2010	Between 2003 and 2006, funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) was $8 billion below the Independent Budget, an estimate of the VA's funding needs produced each year by a group of respected veterans' service organizations. Our country was engaged in two wars, but the VA was woefully unprepared to care for the tens of thousands of new veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. Instead of building capacity and investing in research to provide the best care for veterans suffering from new types of injuries, the VA was forced to make ends meet by proposing new user fees and increased co-pays. By 2006, years of chronic underfunding had strained the VA to its breaking point.Fortunately, over the past three and a half years, the VA has gotten back on sound footing. Since January 2007, Congress has provided an unprecedented 70 percent increase in funding for veterans' health care and benefits – enough funding for over 10,000 new claims processors to reduce VA case backlogs, over 3,300 new doctors and 14,000 new nurses, 145 new community-based veterans' outpatient clinics, and nearly 100 new veterans centers. For the first time ever, we took the additional step of securing "advance appropriations" for VA health care funding, protecting it from the uncertainties of the annual budget process and providing our local VA hospitals and clinics with a stable and reliable funding stream.These positive trends have been maintained in the VA funding bill for fiscal year (FY) 2011, which was approved by the House on July 28 by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 411 to 6. In an effort to bolster the VA workforce and reduce the VA's claims backlog, the FY 2011 bill included $11.2 billion to hire an additional 4,000 veterans' claims processors. The bill also would increase funding for mental health services, medical facilities, and medical and prosthetic research. In addition, we were able to provide funding for the construction of much-needed facilities for the North Carolina National Guard. Finally, in response to a recent study conducted by the Army's Inspector General, the bill would provide $3.96 million to address deficiencies identified at Arlington National Cemetery.In addition to increasing funding for core veterans programs, Congress also has worked to provide new or expanded benefits to meet the needs of a new generation of veterans and their families. Perhaps the greatest achievement in this area has been the "Post-9/11 G.I. Bill," which covers the cost of a college education at a public university and includes a housing and textbook allowance for returning veterans. In the past year alone, the VA has issued Post-9/11 G.I. Bill benefits to more than 275,000 individuals and delivered $2.1 billion in education benefits to veteran students. Congress has also made sure that our National Guard and Reserve veterans have access to these and other new benefit programs, in recognition of their critical contributions to our nation's combat missions over the past decade. To cite just one example, the 2009 National Defense Authorization Act allows National Guard and Reserve members to count their overseas deployments toward an earlier retirement date.As a member of the Congressional Invisible Wounds Caucus, I am also pleased with the actions that Congress has taken to address the urgent mental health needs of America's veterans. The 2008 National Defense Authorization Act increased VA health care eligibility for returning Iraq and Afghanistan veterans from three to five years and improved treatment benefits for veterans suffering from traumatic brain injury. The Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010, which was signed into law in May, addresses the troubling reality of post-traumatic stress and incidents of suicide among the veteran population by commissioning a much-needed study on veterans' suicide and instructing the VA to provide counseling referrals for servicemembers who are not otherwise eligible for readjustment counseling. In an effort to provide immediate relief to combat veterans, the VA has also simplified the process for a veteran to claim service connection for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) by lowering the burden of proof.Additionally, Congress has responded to President Obama's call to end veteran homelessness in five years. The Caregiver Act of 2010 gives the VA the authority to expand the number of places where homeless veterans may receive supportive services, and I am also pleased to report that the housing funding committee on which I sit provided additional housing vouchers for 10,000 veterans in its FY 2011 appropriations bill. For veterans struggling without a roof over their heads, these small changes in the law will make a big difference.While I am very proud of these positive actions, I am also keenly aware that much work remains to be done to ensure that our nation's commitment to its veterans is commensurate to their service. For starters, many veterans are unaware of the new benefits available to them, and we can use your help in spreading the word. But Congress also has more work to do, including finding a permanent solution to unresolved issues such as concurrent receipt and survivors' benefits.I also stand ready to assist you with any issues you may be having with the VA or other federal agencies. If you need help, please contact one of my three district offices in Raleigh (919-859-5999), Durham (919-688-3004), or Chapel Hill (919-967-7924). In the meantime, I hope you will continue to keep me informed of your views on issues before the Congress.
07.30.2010	The Deepwater Horizon explosion on April 20th has led to the largest oil spill in our nation's history, and the most significant one since the Exxon Valdez incident 20 years ago. It is an unprecedented environmental catastrophe for the Gulf Coast. Although the successful capping of the wellhead on July 15th was welcome news, recovery is likely to take a generation.Since oil began flowing into the Gulf, Congress and the Administration have conducted hearings and investigations into every facet of the disaster. As Chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees the U.S. Coast Guard, I have been closely monitoring the Coast Guard's management of the response efforts, and I am grateful for the ongoing efforts of tens of thousands of Americans who are working around the clock to contain and recover the oil and protect the Gulf environment.In the aftermath of the spill, I've made certain that the Fiscal Year 2011 homeland security funding bill, which I am responsible for drafting, would provide new resources to bolster the Coast Guard's oil spill response mission. The legislation includes $38.5 million to better equip the men and women who are the first to respond to such emergencies, and to improve the Coast Guard's safety inspection of offshore drilling operations.In addition to providing more federal resources for oil spill response, the BP incident has made clear that we need to make significant policy reforms in the areas of legal liability, offshore drilling oversight, and overall energy policy. One of the most immediate concerns is ensuring that those responsible for the spill bear its costs.Under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the responsible parties are liable for oil spill removal costs and economic damages resulting from a spill, but their economic damages are capped. At the President's insistence, BP announced the creation of an independently-administered $20 billion escrow account to cover claims against the company by Gulf Coast residents. This is an encouraging first step, but we will need to remain diligent to ensure that the responsible parties – and not taxpayers – foot the total clean-up bill. The CLEAR Act (H.R. 3534), which was passed by the House, would remove the $75 million cap on economic damages paid by oil spillers to families and small businesses.We've also got to take steps to reduce the likelihood of future spills. The CLEAR Act would impose strong new safety measures, including independent certification of critical equipment, increased inspections, and stiffer penalties for safety violations. The legislation also would completely reform the scandal-ridden agency responsible for conducting oversight and collecting royalties from oil and gas companies.The BP disaster has reaffirmed my longstanding concerns about drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf, particularly off the Outer Banks of North Carolina. I agree with the President's determination following the Gulf spill that more thorough environmental and safety reviews are required before any new areas are approved for offshore drilling. It is evident that current environmental oversight and response planning are not adequate, particularly in light of the risks that deepwater drilling poses. Where drilling already is occurring, we must ensure that the companies have viable strategies to deal with oil spills immediately, which is also required under the CLEAR Act.Ultimately, the Deepwater spill has proven that we need a comprehensive energy overhaul to transition away from fossil fuels – upon which our nation has been dependent for far too long – and move toward renewable energy sources. In June 2009, the House approved the American Clean Energy and Security Act (H.R. 2454), which would reduce our dependence on foreign oil and offshore drilling, create a new generation of clean energy jobs, and drastically reduce our greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to climate change. That bill awaits action in the Senate.In the meantime, we must recognize that this disaster is far from over. We need to diligently oversee the latest procedures designed to permanently seal the well, while recognizing that our country will be dealing with the environmental fallout of this spill for years to come. I will continue to closely monitor the ongoing recovery effort and to work with my colleagues to hold BP and those responsible for this tragedy accountable.
07.30.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. David Price (D-NC) introduced the Presidential Financing Act of 2011 joined by his colleagues Reps. Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Mike Castle (R-DE) and Todd Russell Platts (R-PA). The bill would modernize the outdated public funding system for presidential campaigns and reduce the influence of special-interest money in the electoral process. Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate by Sen. Russell Feingold (D-WI)."The integrity of our electoral process is the foundation of our democracy," Rep. Price said. "Public financing of presidential campaigns has provided a viable alternative to the private money chase since the days of Watergate, but today that system is clearly in need of modernization."The Presidential Financing Act creates new incentives for candidates to choose the public financing system instead of relying on private funds, empowering small donors and improving the transparency and integrity of presidential campaigns. The presidential public financing system was created in 1966 but has not been updated since the 1970s."Until there is public financing of political campaigns, the endless flow of campaign fundraising will be a reality," said Mike Castle. "By leveling the playing field for candidates, more Americans will be able to participate in the political process and voters will be provided with greater choices in elections."Every major-party nominee since 1976 accepted public financing until the year 2000, when then-Governor George W. Bush's campaign declined primary campaign matching funds, opting out of the public system. Both Barack Obama and Senator John McCain declined public financing during the 2008 primary. Although Senator McCain opted-in to the system for the general, then-Senator Obama became the first major candidate decline public financing in the both the primary and general elections. In doing so, now-President Obama vowed to work to modernize the system and restore its viability for candidates in future presidential elections."I am very pleased to join with Representatives David Price, Mike Castle, and Todd Platts as an original sponsor of this legislation to repair the presidential public financing system," said Congressman Van Hollen, who also serves as chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. "I fully support a presidential public financing system. The current system was enacted in 1974 and has become outmoded over the years. The goal of this legislation is to revitalize the presidential public financing system and make it once again an attractive alternative for presidential candidates to use in financing their campaigns. A principal focus of this legislation is to make small donors far more important in the system by matching contributions of $200 or less with public funds on a four to one basis. I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass this legislation in time to have a new presidential public financing system for the 2012 presidential election."In addition to decreasing the influence of special interests through reinvigorating our current public financing system, the bill would help shift politicians' focus from large donors to smaller donors by increasing the public match for donors who contribute $200 or less. Because special interests may chose to use their general treasury to finance political ads as a result of the Citizens United ruling, the bill would lift spending caps and allow opt-in candidates to continue to raise money in the general election."The public financing system for presidential elections worked well for a generation, but it is obviously in dire need of reform," Sen. Feingold said. "This bill will increase the importance of small donors and allow qualified candidates to seek the Presidency without becoming entirely beholden to wealthy contributors. By repairing and reinvigorating the cornerstone of the post-Watergate reforms, Congress can greatly reduce the money chase and improve confidence in the electoral process."Provisions of the legislation are outlined below:Primary Election• Eliminates the state by state and overall primary election spending limits.• Increases the amount of matching funds for the presidential primaries from the current 1:1 match for up to $250 of an individual's total contributions, to a 4:1 match for contributions from individuals of $200 or less. In order to be matchable, a contribution must be from an individual who has not given, and will not give, more than a total of $200 to the candidate. Participating candidates can receive up to $100 million in matching funds.• Requires a candidate who participates in the public financing system to agree to accept contributions of no more than $1,000 from any person, instead of the current contribution limit of $2,400. Participating candidates must also pledge not to accept any contributions from, or bundled by, lobbyists or PACs.• Provides that to qualify for public financing in the primary election, a candidate must raise $25,000 (increased from $5,000 under current law) in each of 20 states, of which no more than $200 can come from any one individual. A candidate also must commit to accept public financing in both the primary and general election.• Moves the starting date for the payment of matching funds to primary candidates from January 1 of the election year to six months before the first presidential primary or caucus. Also establishes a single date – the Friday before Labor Day -- for payments of general election funding grants to the major party nominees.General Election• Eliminates the general election spending limit on participating candidates.• Provides a grant to participating general election candidates of $50 million, payable on the Friday before Labor Day. Also provides up to an additional $150 million in matching funds based on a 4:1 match of contributions raised after June 1 of the election year of up to $200 per donor.• General election candidates can also raise up to $500 per donor after June 1 of the election year. (Only contributions of $200 or less will be matched.)• Increases the limit on coordinated spending by a national party and its presidential candidate from approximately $15 million to a total of $50 million. The entire cost of an ad coordinated with a presidential candidate must be covered by that candidate with general election funds and the party committee with coordinated expenditure funds.General Provisions• Requires presidential campaigns to disclose all individuals or groups (not just lobbyists as under current law) that bundle contributions totaling more than $50,000 in the four year election cycle. Prohibits the bundling of matchable contributions by anyone other than an individual or a party committee.• Increases the amount of the check-off on the income tax form to fund the public financing system from $3 to $10 per individual and from $6 to $20 for a married couple, and indexes these amounts for inflation. Directs the IRS to require that approved tax preparation software does not automatically accept or decline a check-off of taxpayer funds for the public financing system.Party Conventions• Eliminates public funding for the national party conventions.• Allows individuals to contribute up to $25,000 in each four-year presidential election cycle to pay for national party convention costs. These contributions would not count against an individual's aggregate contribution limit.• Prohibits the use of soft money funds, including in-kind contributions from corporate and union sponsors, to pay for national party convention costs.# # #
07.28.2010	Washington, D.C. - Late Tuesday, Rep. David Price (D-NC), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, introduced a border security supplemental funding bill to send 1,700 new Customs and Border Patrol agents and officers to the Southwest border to address ongoing threats from Mexican drug cartels and improve the operations at our ports of entry. A vote on the bill is expected tonight.With turf battles among criminal organizations on the Mexican side leading to intensifying violence, the border security supplemental funding bill would give DHS and the Department of Justice additional resources, building on the current border enforcement surge. Total funding in the bill is $701 million, with $201 million of that total offset by cuts elsewhere in the DHS and DOJ budgets."With cartels fighting the Mexican government and amongst themselves for drug, alien and weapons trafficking routes, we have to prevent any threat of spillover violence and shut down illicit smuggling operations," Rep. Price said. "Funding is urgently needed to expand the number of border patrol agents and officers, improve our border surveillance efforts, and beef up anti-smuggling investigations."The border funding was originally approved by the House earlier this month, along with emergency funds to curtail teacher layoffs, as part of the war and disaster supplemental funding bill. But these funds were removed by the Senate Republicans last week when they refused to allow the addition of border funds to the war funding bill. The funds were requested by the President as an emergency need earlier this summer."Senate Republicans are playing political games with this issue, which does nothing to help our border communities, local law enforcement and federal agencies dealing with this problem," Rep. Price said. "We were all sent to Congress to do something constructive rather than simply stand in the way because you're of a different political party than the President. I hope Republicans will decide to stand with us and with border communities, and vote for this bill."Price recognized the work of border state members in Congress in helping to shape this legislation and pushing for it to be resurrected after the Senate removed the funding. "Under the leadership of dedicated border state representatives like Gabrielle Giffords, Ciro Rodriguez, Silvestre Reyes, Harry Teague and others, the House now has an opportunity to directly address our border security challenges. Their commitment to the security of the region is what brings this bill to the floor today."Investments included in Rep. Price's border security bill:• 1,200 new Border Patrol agents, to ensure we sustain current levels on the Southwest border and build up capacity needed for when the National Guard is withdrawn next year.• An additional 500 CBP Officers for the Southwest Border. This is critical for enforcement against smuggling, and to maintain smooth operations at our ports, where trade volumes are increasing in Arizona, Texas and California.• Integrity programs to combat intense efforts by the cartels to compromise and corrupt law enforcement officers on whom our border security and law enforcement efforts depend.• Three new forward operating bases and better tactical communications, enabling the Border Patrol to close enforcement gaps that can be exploited by cartels and smugglers.• Four new Border Enforcement Security Task Forces on the border to build up a permanent ICE presence in joint counterdrug efforts in the region, as well as surge operations of the ICE Criminal Alien Program and related criminal alien removal efforts.• $50 million for the Stonegarden grant program to expand support for State and local law joint law enforcement efforts on the border.• Two additional Predator unmanned aircraft systems to ensure better coverage of the Southwest Border, in particular to support the increased emphasis on the Texas border.Within the Department of Justice, the bill provides funds for a comprehensive strategy that will:o Surge DEA agents, ATF agents, Deputy Marshals, FBI agents and US Attorneys to high crime areas in the Southwest Border region, and provide related detention and incarceration support;o Provide assistance to Mexican law enforcement authorities through ballistic analysis, DNA analysis, information sharing and technical assistance; ando Add attorneys, immigration judges and detention and incarceration support to handle criminal aliens referred by the Department of Homeland Security.# # #
07.21.2010	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (D-NC) announced today that he has secured over $13 million to aid Triangle-area economic recovery and job creation efforts through critical transportation, community development, and military construction investments. The funding is included in the annual appropriations bills for military construction and the Departments of Transportation and Housing and Urban Development, which the House Appropriations Committee approved late yesterday.In the military construction bill, Rep. Price secured $8,815,000 in federal funding for the North Carolina National Guard (NCNG) to design and construct a new Army Aviation Support Hanger in Morrisville. The new facility will provide support and maintenance for the fleet of helicopters and planes used by the NCNG, which has outgrown its current facility as the Guard's mission has expanded in recent years."Our National Guard units have been at the forefront of our military efforts over the past decade, and their continued readiness depends on having adequate facilities." Rep. Price said. "This investment comes on top of Recovery Act funding already invested in building a new North Carolina National Guard headquarters in West Raleigh. Both projects will create and sustain good jobs—my highest priority in Congress."Rep. Price recently spoke at a welcome home ceremony for members of the NCNG's 1-130th Attack Reconnaissance Battalion, a 420 soldier unit based in Morrisville. The unit was the first Reserve component Apache Longbow helicopter battalion to deploy in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom.Rep. Price also secured federal investments in several local transportation projects, including $2.5 million for new fuel-efficient hybrid and clean diesel buses for the Chapel Hill Transit, Triangle Transit and Capital Area Transit systems."Our local transit systems are integral to their communities, providing low cost transportation, alleviating traffic congestion and providing a greener way to travel," Rep. Price said. "This investment will help ensure that our local transportation systems meet the needs of Triangle residents as the region continues to grow."Other local transportation and community development projects for which Rep. Price secured federal investments include:• $1,500,000 to support the North Carolina Department of Transportation's planning, design and environmental work along the Western Wake portion of the Raleigh Outer Loop (NC-540).• $500,000 to support the North Carolina Department of Transportation's railroad-highway traffic separation studies in Durham and Wake County. The studies will allow the Department to ensure that local communities are prepared for the expansion of high-speed commuter rail between Raleigh and Charlotte, which recently received over $500 million in federal Recovery Act funding.• $500,000 to support the City of Durham's planning work on its Fayetteville Street Corridor Project. The project near North Carolina Central University would revitalize a distressed area of the city as a commercial hub and promote a safe, livable environment for the surrounding community.Rep. Price stressed that these investments come in a context of overall fiscal restraint. President Obama proposed a freeze on non-security discretionary spending, and House appropriators have produced bills that spend $7 billion less than the President requested.# # #
07.20.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. David Price issued the following statement assailing Senate Republicans for using the filibuster to delay the passage of legislation extending unemployment benefits three times in recent weeks. Approximately 10,800 Tar Heel state residents have already lost unemployment benefits because of these tactics."On economic, fiscal, and moral grounds, Republicans' obstruction of unemployment benefits is thoroughly indefensible. Their objection that the funds are not offset is phony and hypocritical: these are the same people who voted for trillions of dollars in tax cuts and new spending without offsets under President Bush—and didn't bat an eye."We have to get the economy back to full strength and chart a course to fiscal balance. Extending unemployment benefits is consistent with both of those goals. This issue is fundamentally about whose side you're on, and Senate Republicans have failed to put middle class Americans first."Democratic Senators succeeded in advancing the legislation today, overcoming the long-standing Republican filibuster on a 60-40 vote only after the swearing in of Sen. Carte Goodwin (D-WV). The Senate is expected to complete consideration of the measure tomorrow, when it will be returned to the House for a final vote. Rep. Price will vote in favor of the legislation in the House.Amidst the delays, influential economists have weighed in on the importance of these benefits in stimulating the economy. Mark Zandi, a former economic advisor for Arizona Republican Senator John McCain's presidential campaign and the chief economist at Moody's Analytics, has touted unemployment benefits as one of the most efficient ways to maintain economic demand. He estimates that each dollar the government spends on unemployment benefits generates $1.61 in economic growth. Analysis from the Congressional Budget Office confirms the positive impact of unemployment benefits on the economic recovery.# # #
07.15.2010	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (D-NC) offered remarks for the Congressional Record celebrating the 90th birthday of William C. "Bill" Friday, long-time President of the University of North Carolina system, this week. The text of Rep. Price's remarks is printed below.Rep. David PriceJuly 14, 2010Extension of Remarks: Honoring Bill FridayMadame Speaker, I rise to honor William C. "Bill" Friday, the man whose name was synonymous with higher education in North Carolina for much of the 20th century. This week, he celebrated his 90th birthday.Few North Carolinians are as well known or as widely respected as Bill Friday. Although he has never run for elected office, the former president of the University of North Carolina (UNC) system has been prominent in public affairs for decades and ranks as one of the most important American university presidents of the post-World War II era. As the longest-serving President of North Carolina's public university system, Bill Friday has been a friend to anyone and everyone educated in that system, anyone employed by that system, and anyone living in the vibrant towns and cities that surround our state's public universities.Bill Friday was born in Raphine, Virginia, but he grew up in Dallas, North Carolina, a small community in Gaston County. He graduated from Dallas High School, where he played baseball and basketball, and went on to earn a bachelor's degree from North Carolina State University and a law degree from UNC Chapel Hill. He also served in the United States Naval Reserve during World War II.Friday's entire professional life was spent in higher education. Before becoming president of the UNC system in 1957, he served as assistant dean of students at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (1948-1951), assistant to the President of the Consolidated University of North Carolina (1951-1955), and Secretary of the University of North Carolina system. After a brief period as Acting President of the system, he was chosen to take the position permanently. It was a job at which he thrived.Friday's tenure as UNC president spanned the greatest period of growth for higher education in American history, and he played a crucial role in shaping our sixteen-campus university during that time. Early on, the Council of Advancement and Support of Education identified Friday as the most effective public university president in the nation.Bill Friday was a consistent supporter of academic freedom and integrity. During the civil rights movement, he often served as mediator between student activists and the conservative state legislature. He led a five-year effort to repeal the 1963 Speaker Ban Law, which prohibited campuses from hosting appearances by government critics. And he fought to keep tuition affordable so that limited means would not be a barrier to higher education.Friday was also a visionary leader, and he pursued that vision in many areas. His involvement in the Carnegie Commission on the Future of Higher Education led to gains in North Carolina and the nation in federal funding for student aid in Pell Grants and the establishment of the Area Health Education Centers. He served as founding co-chair of the Knight Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics, which has worked persistently to reform college athletics. Friday helped to develop the National Humanities Center; he supported the establishment of North Carolina public radio through UNC; and he was instrumental in the creation and growth of the Research Triangle Park.As Charlotte Observer associate editor Jack Betts noted about Bill Friday: "He often seemed to be everywhere, but he was always no further away than a telephone, willing to talk about state history, fully cognizant of the state's many needs and always enthusiastic about the progress the state could make through its various educational enterprises, especially the university. He was a university president, but at heart he has always been a teacher." I can certainly attest to this personally as the recipient of many Bill Friday notes and calls and as one who has benefitted enormously from his generous and wise counsel.Friday has mentored university leaders, governors and presidents in the course of his public life and he has received a multitude of accolades – including just about every honor North Carolina has to bestow. These honors include the American Council on Education's National Distinguished Service Award for Lifetime Achievement, the National Humanities Medal, the American Academy for Liberal Education's Jacques Barzun Award, and the John Hope Franklin Award. In 2004, the N.C. General Assembly held a special joint session to honor Friday's life and work. The legislature and then-Gov. Mike Easley presented William and Ida Friday with the Order of the Long Leaf Pine award for service to North Carolina.Now retired from the university, Friday heads the William R. Kenan, Jr., Fund and the Kenan Charitable Trust. Friday also currently hosts a public television talk show, North Carolina People, which he began while still president of the UNC system. The show brings Tar Heel state residents insights from leaders in education, politics, business, and the arts, adding richly to our public discourse.Even in retirement, Friday keeps an office at UNC Chapel Hill and serves as a formal and informal sounding board and dispenser of wisdom for students, administrators and others. The University of North Carolina System has given its state so much: public servants, educators and other professionals, small and large business leaders, innovative researchers, informed citizens: these make up the fabric that weaves together our communities. At 90, Bill remains fiercely dedicated to the idea that education is uniquely powerful, giving young people the tools they need to shape their lives, live out their dreams, and better society.As Bill himself would insist, he has not achieved these great things on his own. He had the good fortune and good sense in 1942 to marry his wife Ida, who has been a lifetime partner in his service and civic endeavors. Their names grace a continuing education center in Chapel Hill and an education innovation center in Raleigh, both of which host hundreds of gatherings each year, promoting collaboration and furthering the causes to which the Fridays' lives have been dedicated.Fortunately, nothing Bill Friday has done in the last few years suggests his life will begin to slow down as he turns 90. I am honored to know Bill and to call attention to his service to our state and her citizens. The Tar Heel State owes much to him.# # #
07.09.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. David Price (D-NC) announced that, starting tomorrow, Medicare will begin mailing tens of thousands of seniors $250 'donut hole' checks. Under the recently enacted health reform law, seniors who fall in the donut hole coverage gap in 2010 will receive this one-time tax-free $250 rebate check. These checks will continue to be mailed monthly over the next several months as seniors enter the coverage gap. Last year, roughly 119,000 Medicare beneficiaries in North Carolina fell into the donut hole and received no extra help to defray the cost of their prescription drugs.The checks are just one of health reform's benefits for seniors in the Medicare program. Beginning in January 2011, seniors in the donut hole will receive a 50% discount on brand name drugs. Meanwhile, the gap in coverage will be narrowed year-by-year, disappearing completely by 2020."Prescription drugs cost many people thousands of dollars a year and this check is a down payment on reducing prescription drug costs for seniors and eventually closing the donut hole altogether," Rep. Price said. "Medicare recipients don't have to do anything to get the $250 check – once their drug costs for the year hit $2,830 the one-time check will be issued automatically."Congressional Republicans created the donut hole as a part of Medicare prescription drug benefit legislation passed during the Bush Administration. The gap in coverage extends from the point when a beneficiary's drug costs reach $2,830 to the catastrophic coverage threshold of $6,440. Costs in this interval must be borne 100% by beneficiaries.Making prescription drugs more affordable for seniors is only one of the many benefits for seniors included in the recently enacted health reform law. Other benefits include:• Provides free preventive care services under Medicare, beginning in 2011.• Strengthens Medicare by extending its solvency by an additional 12 years, from 2017 to 2029.• Improves seniors' access to doctors.• Strengthens safeguards against waste, fraud and abuse.• Expands home and community-based services to keep seniors in their home, instead of in nursing homes.Seniors should be on the lookout for Medicare donut hole check fraud. From Healthreform.gov Frequently Asked Questions:Q: Who will the checks be sent by? What will the return address on the checks be?A: The $250 checks will be mailed by the Department of the Health and Human Services (HHS), and the HHS logo will be clearly displayed on the envelope. It will also include Medicare's 1-800 toll-free number in case Medicare beneficiaries have any questions. It should be noted that the checks will be mailed by one of Medicare's contractor. The envelope will include the contractor's Wisconsin address in case any checks are returned for follow-up.# # #
07.09.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative David Price (D–NC) issued the following statement today marking the one year anniversary of the tragic ConAgra plant explosion in Garner, NC last year. A memorial service was held in Garner today mourning the four workers who lost their lives in the explosion."As a result of this tragedy, both lives and livelihoods have been lost. Although the plant is not in my district, many of my constituents worked at ConAgra, and the plant was a cornerstone of Garner and southeastern Wake County for nearly 50 years. Today, we know the reasons this accident occurred and steps have been taken to make our workplaces safer and prevent future accidents, but that does not change the fact that this tragedy continues to touch many lives across the Triangle region. Our hearts remain with the families, friends and coworkers of those who lost their lives, and our support remains with the community as it continues to weather the challenges this tragedy has created."# # #
06.30.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today, the House of Representatives passed the final version of the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act by a vote of 237-192. Rep. David Price (D-NC) voted in favor of the legislation, which emerged from a House-Senate conference yesterday. The Senate is scheduled to consider the conference agreement after the July 4th break."The Wall Street Reform Act is critical to rebuilding our economy. Triangle residents deserve—and our national economy depends on—a stable, transparent financial system," Rep. Price said. "This legislation puts in place long overdue common-sense rules to ensure Big Banks and Wall Street can never again play Russian roulette with our retirement savings and the very livelihoods of working families."The legislation will rein in big banks and undeserved bonuses, put an end to bailouts and the idea of "too big to fail," and create a consumer financial protection agency to protect and empower consumers to make the best decisions on homes, credit cards, and their own financial futures. It also includes tough new rules cracking down on risky financial instruments like derivatives and gives more enforcement power to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) will be responsible for overseeing consumer financial services and products. The CFPB will have the power to end abusive mortgage lending practices, require easy-to-read mortgage contracts, eliminate hidden fees, and put an immediate end to bad deals or schemes in the marketplace."Eight million Americans lost their jobs and $17 trillion in retirement savings evaporated, yet during this debate Republicans have said that we don't need reforms, or that we need even fewer regulations on Wall Street firms and big banks," Rep. Price said. "The idea that Wall Street will police itself is absurd. This bill is fundamentally about whose side you're on, and I'm going to side with Triangle families every time."The bill has been endorsed by the AARP, Consumer Federation of America, Consumers Union, Council of Institutional Investors, National Fair Housing Alliance, National Restaurant Association, Public Citizen, SEIU, and US PIRG, among other organizations.HIGHLIGHTS OF THE LEGISLATIONConsumer Protections with Authority and Independence: Creates a new independent watchdog, housed at the Federal Reserve, with the authority to ensure American consumers get the clear, accurate information they need to shop for mortgages, credit cards, and other financial products, and protect them from hidden fees, abusive terms, and deceptive practices.Ends Too Big to Fail Bailouts: Ends the possibility that taxpayers will be asked to write a check to bail out financial firms that threaten the economy by: creating a safe way to liquidate failed financial firms; imposing tough new capital and leverage requirements that make it undesirable to get too big; updating the Fed's authority to allow system-wide support but no longer prop up individual firms; and establishing rigorous standards and supervision to protect the economy and American consumers, investors and businesses.Advance Warning System: Creates a council to identify and address systemic risks posed by large, complex companies, products, and activities before they threaten the stability of the economy.Transparency & Accountability for Exotic Instruments: Eliminates loopholes that allow risky and abusive practices to go on unnoticed and unregulated -- including loopholes for over-the-counter derivatives, asset-backed securities, hedge funds, mortgage brokers and payday lenders.Executive Compensation and Corporate Governance: Provides shareholders with a say on pay and corporate affairs with a non-binding vote on executive compensation and golden parachutes.Protects Investors: Provides tough new rules for transparency and accountability for credit rating agencies to protect investors and businesses.Enforces Regulations on the Books: Strengthens oversight and empowers regulators to aggressively pursue financial fraud, conflicts of interest and manipulation of the system that benefits special interests at the expense of American families and businesses.# # #
06.30.2010	Washington, D.C. - On Tuesday afternoon, Representative David Price (D-NC) joined former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, European Parliament President Jerzy Buzek, Congressman David Dreier (R-CA), and former Congressman Vin Weber to host a reception on Capitol Hill as part of a two-day conference on democracy promotion organized by the National Democratic Institute for International Affairs (NDI). Rep. Price's appearance at the reception on Tuesday followed his participation in a panel discussion on Monday during the plenary session of the conference.Rep. Price serves as chairman of the House Democracy Partnership, a bipartisan congressional commission that works with partner legislatures in 14 developing democracies around the world to support their institutional development. HDP pairs U.S. legislators and staff with their counterparts in other countries to help them develop the fundamental building blocks of legislative government such as executive oversight, budget development, transparency, accountability, effective legislation and responsiveness to constituents.On Tuesday, Rep. Price spoke about the often overlooked role of Parliaments in emerging democracies and the role of democracy promotion in advancing core U.S. interests."We need to reject the notion that democracy promotion is an idealist goal that should be pursued only after our more 'realist' interests have been met," Rep. Price said during his remarks at the reception on Tuesday. "Strong democratic institutions enhance stability by ensuring popular support for a nation's security policies and providing a venue in which conflicts can be resolved by compromise rather than violence. They also promote economic growth by providing a consistent regulatory framework upon which economic assumptions can be made. In short, strong institutions are much better partners for a country's citizens and for the United States, than strongmen."Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, who served as a co-chair of the NDI "Transatlantic Dialogue," agreed with Rep. Price that the democracy promotion will continue to play a prominent role in U.S. foreign policy, but that we must refine and recalibrate our approach after the experience of the Bush Administration."Our collective efforts to strengthen democracy abroad – both as an expression of our national values and in pursuit of our strategic interests – will only be effective if they are conducted in a spirit of partnership and humility and not as an imposition of our own models of government," Rep. Price said. "If we maintain this spirit of partnership in our efforts, then democracy support can and should remain a core goal of our foreign policy."HDP partner legislatures include Afghanistan's Wolesi Jirga, Haiti's Chamber of Deputies and Senate, Lebanon's National Assembly, Liberia's House of Representatives and Senate, and the parliaments of Georgia, Kenya, Indonesia and Pakistan. A complete list of HDP partner legislatures can be found here.In closing, Rep. Price acknowledged the work of past democracy promotion efforts in the House of Representatives, in particular the Frost-Solomon Task Force of the early 1990s. The Task Force was a bipartisan congressional commission that helped stand up parliaments in ten Central and Eastern European countries following the collapse of the Soviet Union. Earlier this month the Polish Parliament convened a twentieth anniversary commemoration of the Task Force's work and invited HDP to organize training sessions for its current partner legislatures in conjunction with the event."I think all of us were struck by how vividly Poland's democratic reformers remembered the work we did two decades ago, how much gratitude and goodwill it generated, and how greatly Poland's democratic institutions have flourished in the years since, especially in this time of tragedy," Rep. Price remarked.# # #
06.23.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. David Price (D-NC) met with the four Congressional Award Gold Medal winners from across North Carolina. The award winners were in Washington to receive their medals, which recognize a coordinated commitment to community service, personal development, and physical fitness."Despite the temptations of video games or Facebook, and the demands of their school work, these young people have made time – over 400 hours – to serve their communities and better themselves. They are role models not only for their peers but for every American."Award winners from North Carolina's Fourth Congressional District were:Michael Bojanski of DurhamWilliam Lindsey of DurhamNeel Mandavilli of CaryRep. Price also met with North Carolina's fourth Congressional Award Gold Medal winner, Erin Mullen of Fayetteville.Over 250 young people from across the country were honored at the event, which was held in the Caucus Room of the Cannon House Office Building. The Congressional Award Foundation was created by Congress in 1979 to recognize outstanding young Americans. Young people between the ages of 14 and 23 are eligible for the award.# # #
06.10.2010	Washington, D.C. - On Saturdays during the month of June, Time Warner Cable Channel 9 will broadcast Representative David Price's (NC-04) interview on Appalachian Perspective, hosted by Appalachian State University Chancellor Dr. Kenneth E. Peacock, in the Triangle region. The interview is also available online here.In the interview, Price discusses his formative years in nearby Erwin, Tennessee, his early involvement in politics, and his work representing the Fourth Congressional District, including historic votes on deficit reduction and health insurance reform legislation. The two also discuss Price's support for education, his chairmanship of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, and his work as a member of the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee.Rep. Price sat for the interview before addressing the Blue Ridge Parkway 75th Anniversary Symposium in Boone, NC. Earlier this year, Price joined with Rep. Heath Shuler and members of Congress from Virginia to sponsor the Blue Ridge Parkway Protection Act, which authorizes funds to preserve endangered portions of the Parkway for future generations.# # #
06.01.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. David Price (D-NC) urged North Carolina consumers to take advantage of the newly launched Healthcare.gov, the first website to provide consumers information on public and private health coverage options tailored specifically to their needs. Establishing an online clearinghouse for health insurance information was required by the Affordable Care Act, the major health insurance reform legislation signed into law earlier this year."When Triangle residents shop for anything, they know information is power, and this puts power back into their hands," Rep. Price said. "For too long, the insurance market has been almost impossible to navigate. Healthcare.gov gives consumers and small businesses a tool to compare all of the insurance options available, and choose the one that works best for them."The core of the website is a powerful insurance options finder, which makes more information available to consumers on health insurance options than has even been available before. After consumers input a few pieces of background information – such as state, age range, and current insurance status – the tool will generate a list of both private and public health insurance options. The tool will list details of insurance plans offered in that state, and include contact information for each company so consumers can pursue enrollment. Beginning in October, the tool will also include pricing information, further simplifying health insurance shopping. A video tour of website features is available here."The insurance marketplace should be one of transparency and competition so consumers are in control of their health care," Rep. Price said. "With unbiased, comprehensive information available all in one place, it will be much easier for families and businesses to make informed decisions based on quality and cost, and that will foster competition."• Information on new consumer protections and benefits of the Affordable Care Act tailored to each consumer's situation, and information on new provisions of the law that will be implemented by 2014• Aggregated information and pricing options on over 1,000 private insurance carriers with 5,561 plan options• Information on all Medicaid, Children's Health Insurance Program and operational high risk pool programs across the country• Information about preventing illness to help consumers control their health care costs# # #
05.28.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today, the House of Representatives approved H.R. 5136, the National Defense Authorization Act, which included an amendment sponsored by Representative David Price (D-NC). The amendment would extend existing oversight requirements for private security contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan to additional areas in which there is a significant security contractor presence. The reforms would build on the FY 2008 defense authorization bill, which included a number of contractor oversight provisions drawn from Rep. Price's Transparency and Accountability in Security Contracting Act (H.R. 369)."These reforms have already improved both the operational capabilities of the Armed Forces in Iraq and Afghanistan and Congress's ability to conduct effective oversight of private security contractors," Rep. Price said. "This amendment is a critical step toward ensuring that today's oversight capabilities keep pace with tomorrow's emerging threats."Rep. Price has been a leading advocate of efforts to promote transparency and accountability in private security contracting, particularly in areas where the military is operating. High profile incidents of contractor abuses have punctuated the military campaigns in Iraq and Afghanistan.Under the Price amendment, which was cosponsored by Rep. John Spratt (SC), the Department of Defense (DoD), in coordination with the Department of State and U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), would be required to extend certain existing contractor regulations to Yemen, the Horn of Africa, the Philippines, Haiti, and any other area in which the U.S. Armed Forces engage in significant military operations. Among other things, these regulations would:• Register personnel performing private security functions;• Register equipment for private security functions, including weapons, armored vehicles, and helicopters;• Require contractors to report incidents in which a weapon is discharged, a person is killed or injured or property is destroyed as a result of conduct by contractor personnel, and subject these reports to independent review;• Verify the qualifications of contractor personnel through proof of training and background checks.Contractors would also be subject to rules governing the use of force and several other requirements designed to improve coordination between contractors and government agencies. The Price-Spratt amendment was adopted by voice vote and included in the final version of H.R. 5136, which now awaits consideration by the Senate.# # #
05.27.2010	Washington, D.C. - On Thursday, Rep. David Price (D-NC) voted for an amendment to H.R. 5136, the 2011 National Defense Authorization Act, to repeal the Department of Defense's 1993 "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" policy, which bans gay and lesbian individuals from serving openly in the armed forces. The amendment, which the House approved by a vote of 234-194, was introduced by Rep. Patrick Murphy (D-PA), a veteran of the Iraq war. Following passage of the amendment, Rep. Price released the following statement:"In recent weeks, the injustice of 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' has been starkly illustrated by the ordeal of a brave and patriotic UNC ROTC Cadet, Sara Isaacson. I believe soldiers should be judged on how well they do their jobs, not on their sexual orientation. It's time to repeal the outdated Don't Ask, Don't Tell policy so that every American has the opportunity to fight for the country we all love."Earlier this week, Rep. Price and two other members of congress wrote to Secretary of Defense Robert Gates about the "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" (DADT) policy's impact on college students participating in the ROTC program.The letter (pdf) followed a visit by University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill ROTC cadet Sara Isaacson to the congressman's office to advocate for a repeal of "Don't Ask, Don't Tell." As local news accounts have detailed, Ms. Isaacson's experience after she revealed her sexual orientation to her commander just before her graduation and commissioning ceremony. Ms. Isaacson was released from her contract and as a result will not be commissioned as an officer. The Army is now seeking repayment of approximately $80,000—the amount of scholarship money paid to UNC under her ROTC contract. Rep. Price's district includes UNC.The Murphy amendment was approved during House consideration of the Fiscal Year 2011 National Defense Authorization Act, an annual measure that sets funding levels and policy priorities for the military. The amendment stipulates that the repeal of "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" would not take effect until a Pentagon working group examining the impact of repeal on military readiness issues its final report, which is due by December 1, 2010.# # #
05.20.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today, the House of Representatives passed H.Res. 1361, Recognizing North Carolina Central University (NCCU) on its 100th Anniversary by a vote of 408-1. NCCU is one of the nation's oldest and most prestigious Historically Black Colleges and Universities. The resolution was sponsored by Representatives David Price (NC-04) and G.K. Butterfield (NC-01). Rep. Price's district includes NCCU and Rep. Butterfield earned an undergraduate and juris doctorate from the university.Yesterday, Rep. Price addressed the House of Representatives to recognize the institution's impact on North Carolina and urge swift passage of the resolution. The text of Rep. Price's remarks is below.CONGRESSMAN DAVID PRICEFLOOR STATEMENT ON H. RES. 1361Recognizing North Carolina Central University on its 100th AnniversaryMay 19, 2010Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.Res.1361, which commemorates the centennial anniversary of North Carolina Central University and honors its founder, Dr. James E. Shepard. I've introduced this resolution as the member of this body privileged to represent North Carolina Central, but I'm proud to say it has the support of the entire North Carolina delegation as well as a number of other members who recognize the university's significance.People frequently talk about the "Big 3" universities in the Research Triangle area of North Carolina – referring to Duke University, North Carolina State University, and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill – but I like to remind them that it is actually the "Big 4". North Carolina Central is fully as integral to the historical fabric of our state as its three peer institutions; it is one of the oldest and most prestigious Historically Black Colleges and Universities in the nation; and it has rapidly assumed an important role as a research institution.Established by Dr. James E. Shepard in 1909 in Durham, North Carolina, the University first opened its doors to students a year later as the National Religious Training School and Chautauqua. Dr. Shepard was a visionary leader guided by the conviction that individual self-improvement and collective self-advancement were inextricably intertwined. "There is no economy in ignorance," he declared. "Education is a vastly expensive resource, but ignorance is incomparably more so. Ignorance and poverty are cures for nothing."Dr. Shepard led the University until his death in 1947, guiding the institution through several name changes; watching the University grow in size and mission; and helping the school to gain the support of the North Carolina state legislature. In 1925, thanks to Dr. Shepard's leadership, the school became the nation's first state-supported liberal arts college for African-American students.Now an integral part of the University of North Carolina system, NC Central offers bachelor's degrees in more than 100 fields of study and graduate degrees in about 40 disciplines to a student body of about 8,500. U.S. News and World Report recently ranked NC Central the top public HBCU in the nation and one of the top ten HBCUs overall. The NC Central School of Law has been named the "Best Value Law School" in the nation by National Jurist magazine for two consecutive years.NC Central is also renowned for its contributions to the cultural and performing arts. The University is home to the "Marching Sound Machine," an award-winning marching band that will be performing on New Year's Day 2011 in the Rose Parade, and the NC Central Jazz Ensemble, which recently performed in the Newport Jazz Festival.NC Central also has a strong history of athletic prowess: its sports teams have won 41 conference championships, three NCAA regional titles, and two national championships. More than 50 of its student-athletes have won individual NCAA and NAIA national championships; and student-athletes representing NCCU competed in every Olympic Games from 1956 to 1976 in track and field, capturing eight Olympic medals, including five gold medals, during that span.As a co-chair of the congressional National Service Caucus, I must also note that NC Central was the first state university in North Carolina to establish community service as a requirement for graduation and has been recognized by the Carnegie Foundation as a "community-engaged university". It should therefore come as no surprise that the University has enjoyed a mutually beneficial relationship with its home city of Durham throughout its 100-year history.Thousands of NC Central graduates have served Durham as community leaders, educators, professionals, entrepreneurs and volunteers. However, the reach of NC Central extends far beyond the borders of the Triangle region of North Carolina. In the century since its founding, the University has graduated approximately 40,000 students and proudly boasts many distinguished alumni, including civil rights lawyer and educator Julius L. Chambers, basketball Hall of Famer Sam Jones, two-time Olympic track gold medalist Lee Calhoun, NC Superior Court Judge Toby Fitch, state Senator and former Speaker Dan Blue, and state Rep. Mickey Michaux, not to mention my friend and lead cosponsor of this legislation, Congressman G.K. Butterfield.In the words of NC Central's current Chancellor, Dr. Charlie Nelms: "It's no small accomplishment that an institution of higher education - and in this case founded by African-Americans at a time when African-Americans were barred from most colleges - survived and thrived for 100 years." I could not agree more. Under the visionary leadership of Dr. Shepard, Dr. Nelms, and all who served the institution in between, the University has flourished and has touched countless lives in North Carolina and throughout the country and the world.With that, I urge my colleagues to join me in support of this resolution and yield back the remainder of my time.# # #
05.19.2010	Washington, D.C. - Representatives Bob Etheridge (NC-02) and David Price (NC-04) praised a House of Representatives vote today, which honors the historical and community significance of the Chatham County Courthouse. The resolution was co-sponsored by the entire North Carolina delegation."The people of Chatham County have been through a lot in the last year and this fire will serve to remind us that we can remember the past, rebuild for the future, and persevere for the good of our families and towns," Etheridge said. "The restoration effort will involve a lot of effort by a lot of people, and I will work with local officials to help rebuild the courthouse.""Although the building will be rebuilt in time and many of the records lost will be recreated, I grieve with the Chatham County community today for the loss of the courthouse," Price said. "County courthouses are the cornerstones of justice and the rule of law in our communities but attain a significance larger than their day-to-day role."The resolution was prompted by the March 25, 2010 fire which partially destroyed the Chatham County Courthouse. Both congressmen and elected county officials have publicly commended local firefighters and emergency responders for their response and bravery during the catastrophe. The building had stood proudly since 1881 and had a central role in the local pride and independence felt by Chatham residents.Rebuilding and restoration efforts have begun on the building thanks to community support. Government officials with the North Carolina Administrative Office of the Courts, Chatham County and the Town of Pittsboro have worked since the fire to enable the continued operation of the local courts.# # #
05.13.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today, Representatives David Price (NC-04) and G.K. Butterfield (NC-01) introduced a resolution celebrating the centennial anniversary of North Carolina Central University (NCCU), one of the nation's oldest and most prestigious Historically Black Colleges and Universities. Price's district includes NCCU. Butterfield earned an undergraduate and juris doctorate from the university.The resolution recognizes the leadership of the school's founder, Dr. James E. Shepard, who started the university in 1909. Dr. Shepard guided the university until 1947, increasing its size, expanding its mission, and securing the support of the North Carolina state legislature. In 1925, the school became the nation's first state-supported liberal arts college for African-American students."NCCU is a pillar of the Durham community, that has long produced leaders dedicated to public service at the local and state levels," Rep. Price said. "It is a privilege to represent the university in Congress and to introduce this resolution today, which celebrates a great success story in the world of higher education.""I am proud to be a graduate of our nation's first public liberal arts institution founded for African-Americans," Rep. Butterfield said. "NCCU is an integral part of the University of North Carolina that upholds its strong liberal arts tradition and commitment to academic excellence and diversity."The school is an integral part of the University of North Carolina system, offering bachelor's degrees in more than 100 fields of study, and awarding graduate degrees in over 40 disciplines.The full text of the resolution follows:RECOGNIZING NORTH CAROLINA CENTRAL UNIVERSITY On Its 100th ANNIVERSARYWhereas North Carolina Central University (NCCU) in Durham, North Carolina was chartered in 1909 as a private institution and opened to students on July 5, 1910;Whereas the School was founded by Dr. James E. Shepard as the National Religious Training School and Chautauqua for the Colored Race with the purpose of developing African-American men and women into citizens of fine character and sound academic training;Whereas the School's name was changed to the National Training School in 1915, following its sale and reorganization;Whereas the School became a publicly supported institution in 1923 under the name of the Durham State Normal School, with funding from the North Carolina General Assembly;Whereas the General Assembly rededicated the institution as the North Carolina College for Negroes in 1925, making it the nation's first state-supported liberal arts college for African-American students;Whereas the College saw significant expansion between 1927 and 1929 through additional funding from the General Assembly, a generous gift from B.N. Duke, and contributions from the citizens of Durham;Whereas the College was accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools as a class "A" institution in 1937, and gained membership in that association in 1957;Whereas the College was authorized to offer graduate studies in 1939, which led to the establishment of the School of Law in 1940 and the School of Library Science in 1941;Whereas the General Assembly changed the name of the institution to North Carolina College at Durham in 1947 and, finally, to North Carolina Central University in 1969;Whereas NCCU became part of the consolidated University of North Carolina system, which includes all 16 of North Carolina's public institutions that grant baccalaureate degrees, in 1972;Whereas the University was led by Dr. Shepard from its inception until his death on October 6, 1947, and was led subsequently by Dr. Alfonso Elder, Dr. Samuel P. Massie, Dr. Albert N. Whiting, Dr. LeRoy T. Walker, Dr. Tyronza R. Richmond, Julius L. Chambers, Dr. James H. Ammons, and Dr. Charlie Nelms;Whereas NCCU currently offers bachelor's degrees in more than 100 fields of study and awards graduate degrees in about 40 disciplines;Whereas the U.S. News and World Report recently ranked NCCU the number-one Public Historically Black College and University (HBCU) in the country, the number-one HBCU in North Carolina, and one of the top ten HBCUs in the country overall;Whereas the NCCU School of Law has been named the "Best Value Law School" in the nation by National Jurist magazine for two consecutive years;Whereas NCCU has a state-of-the-art biotechnology research institute that collaborates with pharmacy and biotechnology companies in the Research Triangle area of North Carolina and trains students to meet the State's biotechnology workforce needs;Whereas the University is home to the "Marching Sound Machine," an award-winning marching band that will be performing on New Year's Day 2011 in the Rose Parade, and the NCCU Jazz Ensemble, which recently performed in the Newport Jazz Festival;Whereas NCCU sports teams have won 41 conference championships, three NCAA regional titles, and two national championships (1989 NCAA Division II men's basketball and 1972 NAIA men's outdoor track and field);Whereas more than 50 student-athletes have won individual NCAA and NAIA national championships;Whereas student-athletes representing NCCU competed in every Olympic Games from 1956 to 1976 in track and field, capturing eight Olympic medals during that span, including five gold medals;Whereas NCCU was the first state university in North Carolina to establish community service as a requirement for graduation and has been recognized by the Carnegie Foundation as a "community-engaged university";Whereas NCCU has graduated approximately 40,000 students in the century since its founding and now has the largest freshman class in its history, with an overall record enrollment of more than 8,500 students;Whereas NCCU and its home city of Durham, North Carolina, have long enjoyed a close and mutually beneficial relationship; the University's total economic impact on Durham and the surrounding region has been estimated at more than $300 million per year; and thousands of NCCU graduates have served Durham and its citizens as leaders, educators, professionals, entrepreneurs and volunteers; andWhereas NCCU's undergraduate and graduate programs have produced many distinguished alumni, including, to name just a few, civil rights lawyer and educator Julius L. Chambers, basketball Hall of Fame member Sam Jones, two-time Olympic track gold medalist Lee Calhoun, North Carolina philanthropy executive Valeria L. Lee, Vogue magazine editor André Leon Talley, attorney Willie E. Gary, banking executive Evelyn F. Smalls, insurance executive James Speed, educator and state Senator Jeanne Hopkins Lucas, former North Carolina House of Representatives Speaker Dan Blue, longtime state legislator Henry M. "Mickey" Michaux, former Atlanta Mayor Maynard Jackson, biochemist Ida Stephens Owens, actor and director Ivan Dixon, Metropolitan Opera soprano Hilda Harris, psychologist Norman B. Anderson, former Raleigh Mayor Clarence Lightner, former North Carolina Governor Michael F. Easley, U.S. Congresswoman Eva Clayton , and U.S. Congressman G.K. Butterfield;Now, therefore, be it –Resolved, that the House of Representatives –(1) honors the memory of Dr. James E. Shepard for his role in founding North Carolina Central University;(2) celebrates the 100th anniversary of North Carolina Central University, recognizes the University's accomplishments over the past century, and encourages North Carolina's citizens to participate in activities marking this historic occasion; and(3) directs the Clerk of the House of Representatives to make available five enrolled copies of this resolution to Dr. Charlie Nelms, the current Chancellor of North Carolina Central University.# # #
05.07.2010	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the follow statement today following reports from the Bureau of Labor Statistics that the national economy created 290,000 jobs during the month of April. This is the first time since 2007 that the economy has created jobs two months in a row."Progress isn't always linear, but two consecutive months of job growth – for the first time since 2007 - is evidence that the economy is headed in the right direction," said Price. "Federal investments in the economy are working.""Just eighteen months ago, we lost a record 779,000 jobs in a single month. Today there is firm evidence of sustained economic growth: Consumer confidence is rising, GDP is growing at a rate of 3.2%, and businesses are hiring."As encouraging as this news is, I consider it a call to further action. We know folks are still hurting and we know we have a long way to go before all of our people are back to work."Earlier this month, the administration announced that the economy—measured by the Gross Domestic Product (GDP)—grew at an annual rate of 3.2%. during the first quarter of 2010, which represents a nearly 10 percentage point rebound from the first quarter of 2009 when the GDP fell by 6.4%. This also marks the fourth consecutive quarter of economic growth according to GDP calculations. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act was signed into law mid-way through the first quarter of 2009.# # #
05.06.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today, the House of Representatives passed the Home Star Energy Retrofit Act (H.R. 5019) by a vote of 246-161. Rep. David Price (D-NC) voted in favor of the bipartisan legislation, which has the potential to save families billions of dollars in energy costs and spur job creation in the struggling construction and manufacturing sectors. The bill provides rebates to consumers who install energy efficiency upgrades in their homes."The Home Star Jobs Act is a win-win-win for the American people. By helping Americans upgrade to more energy efficient appliances and equipment and install better insulation, this bill will lower family energy bills; create new jobs in building and manufacturing, and reduce our dependence on foreign oil," Rep. David Price said. "It's Triple Crown legislation that will greatly benefit businesses and families in the Triangle."The bill authorizes $6 billion for job-creating energy efficiency incentives, including on-the-spot rebates for the purchase of energy-saving products. These products will save American families an estimated $9 billion in energy costs over 10 years. Since 90 percent of these energy saving products—efficient windows, doors and insulation—are manufactured in the US, it will boost domestic job creation by an estimated 170,000 jobs. The bill authorizes two consumer incentive programs:• Silver Star – Provides up-front rebates for specific energy-saving investments, including insulation, duct sealing, windows and doors, air sealing and water heaters, at the time of sale. Homeowners receive up to $1,500 per improvement, with a total rebate of up to $3,000 or 50 percent of the total project cost.• Gold Star – Rewards homeowners who conduct a comprehensive energy audit of their home and then implement recommended measures to reduce energy use, backed by a quality assurance program. Consumers can receive up to $3,000 in rebates for a demonstrated savings of 20 percent, with $1,000 more for each additional 5 percent energy savings up to 50 percent of the project cost.The bipartisan legislation is endorsed by a wide range of industry and consumer interest groups including the National Association of Manufacturers, National Association of Home Builders, Owens Corning, Home Depot, Laborers' International Union of North America, Natural Resources Defense Council, and the Home Star Coalition with over 1000 business and organization members nationwide.# # #
04.29.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today, Reps. David Price (NC-04) Bob Etheridge (NC-02) and Brad Miller (NC-13) announced that two local clean energy projects will receive a total of $4.7 million in Recovery Act funding awarded through the Department of Energy's Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E). A North Carolina State University based project, which uses organisms that thrive in high-temperature environments to produce biofuels directly from Hydrogen and CO2, will receive $2.7 million. A $2 million award will go to RTI International's CO2 solvents project, designed to aid carbon capture."America's economic, energy, and national security depend on the development of American-made, alternative energy sources that can reverse our dependence on foreign oil," Rep. Price said. "While we work to make energy sources that will never run out—like wind and solar—more competitive, we need to take steps to make our current energy sources cleaner, protecting the air we breathe and the water we drink. These Recovery Act projects advance both of those goals.""In America, we pride ourselves on our ingenuity and our leadership in the development of new industrial technologies," Rep. Miller said. "However, for years, our dependence on foreign petroleum products and other non-renewable energy sources has stifled clean energy technology innovation. These kinds of projects help us move forward.""This cutting edge energy initiative is a win-win for NC. It creates good jobs now and helps free us from the grip of foreign oil," said Rep. Etheridge.The $106 million in awards announced across the country today are targeted to projects that could produce advanced biofuels, help design new batteries to make electric vehicles more affordable and the cost-effective removal of carbon pollution from coal-fired power plants."I'm extremely pleased to see that the Recovery Act is funding work at NC State University by Dr. Robert Kelly," Dr. Terri Lomax, Vice Chancellor for Research and Graduate Studies at NC said. "The ARPA-E grant from DOE will accelerate research using ancient organisms that thrive in high temperature environments like underwater thermal vents and hot water pools heated by geothermal activity to produce biofuels directly from Hydrogen and C02 as a replacement for fossil fuels.""Our carbon capture technologies represent a practical solution for controlling carbon dioxide emissions," said David Myers, Vice President RTI's Engineering Technology Unit. "This new award will help us further develop those technologies and ultimately reduce greenhouse gases and mitigate climate change."The Recovery Act, signed into law in March of 2009, includes over $100 billion for investments in job creation through innovation, science and technology. After the Recovery Act became law in March of 2009, job losses trended downward, gross domestic product (GDP) increased, and the economy is once again creating jobs. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics 162,000 jobs were created in the month of March, the most recent month for which data are available.# # #
04.28.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. David Price (D-NC) applauded the House of Representatives' approval of the IMPROVE Acquisition Act (H.R. 5013), which would overhaul defense acquisition spending to clean up waste, fraud and abuse and provide greater oversight of the Department of Defense's use of private contractors. The bill, which the House passed by a vote of 417 to 3, could save taxpayers up to $135 billion over the next five years."This bill represents a major step toward cleaning up wasteful defense spending and bringing greater transparency and oversight to the Pentagon's outsourcing practices," Rep. Price said. "The House's overwhelming and bipartisan approval of this bill should send a clear signal that we want every taxpayer dollar spent on defense to be used responsibly, effectively, and with maximum benefit to our men and women in uniform."In recent years, Rep. Price has been at the forefront of congressional efforts to bring greater transparency and accountability to the use of private contractors by federal agencies including the Department of Defense, with a particular focus on the use of private security contractors in war zones. In 2007, the House approved Rep. Price's bill to bring overseas contractors under U.S. legal jurisdiction (the MEJA Expansion and Enforcement Act, or H.R. 2740) by a broad bipartisan majority, and he has introduced an updated version of the legislation (the Civilian Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act, or H.R. 4567) in the current Congress. He is also the sponsor of two related bills in the current Congress – the Transparency and Accountability in Security Contracting Act (H.R. 2177), and the Transparency and Accountability in Intelligence Contracting Act (H.R. 963) – that seek to clean up the federal government's contracting practices more broadly.By requiring the Department of Defense to establish new, comprehensive guidelines for the acquisition of services (including private security services), the IMPROVE Act represents an additional step toward greater oversight and accountability for private contractors."The bill's explicit focus on services contracting should empower the Pentagon to devote greater scrutiny to private security contracts before they are issued and provide greater oversight of them once they are operational," Rep. Price said "I am hopeful that it will also lead DoD to think harder about which services should be outsourced to begin with."H.R. 5013, sponsored by Reps. Rob Andrews (D-N.J.) and Michael Conaway (R-TX) – who were appointed to lead a special Panel on Defense Acquisition Reform – would clean up the defense acquisition system in four key areas:• Building a better accountability system to make sure that we get the most value for every dollar spent on defense acquisition;• Strengthening the acquisition workforce to give both military and civilian personnel better training, better tools, and more opportunities to improve their performance and produce better outcomes;• Improving DOD's financial management system to make it auditable so that American taxpayers know where their money is going; and• Expanding the industrial base to enhance competition and gain access to more technology.The measure awaits action in the Senate where it has been referred to the Committee on Armed Services.# # #
04.22.2010	Washington, D.C. - Health insurance reform legislation, which was signed into law in March, includes provisions allowing parents to carry their children on their insurance until their 26th birthday, effective September 23, 2010. Today, Rep. David Price (D-NC), a supporter of the reform legislation, applauded Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius for HHS's outreach to health insurers, which led several —including UnitedHealthcare and Blue Cross Blue Shield —to initiate early implementation of the new law. The provision's effective date was problematic for graduating college seniors and students turning 21 before September 23rd. Early implementation will allow parents to continue covering their children and avoid a gap in coverage."I applaud Secretary Sebelius reaching out to private insurers, and the insurers themselves for implementing one of health insurance reform's central benefits for families and young adults early," Rep. Price said. "Their proactive efforts will help ensure that graduating college seniors and students turning 21 before September can maintain their health insurance and avoid a gap in coverage ."The change follows an April 19, 2010 letter from Secretary Sebelius to private insurers urging them to implement the change. In her letter to insurers, Secretary Sebelius wrote:"Enabling young adults to remain on their parents' policies between May, 2010 and the new plan year beginning on or after September 23, 2010, rather than dis-enrolling them in Mary and then re-enrolling them in six or more months, has substantial benefits for all involved. The action would enable young, overwhelmingly healthy people, who will not engender large health care costs, to stay in the insurance pool and retain important insurance coverage. Taking this step will also save money for your companies by avoiding the administrative costs of dis-enrolling and then re-enrolling young adults. . . Taking this step is good business and will offer relief to grateful families across the country."# # #
04.21.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement in advance of Earth Day, which is celebrated on April 22 each year. Rep. Price's statement comes as House prepares to consider a resolution honoring the 40th anniversary of Earth Day and commemorating its founder, the late Senator Gaylord Nelson of Wisconsin."Tomorrow is the 40th anniversary of Earth Day, the annual global celebration of the bounty and natural wonders of our planet and a reminder of our individual and collective obligation to be good stewards of it."Managing our natural resources and minimizing the impact of human activity on the environment are both profound and fundamental responsibilities. The very survival of the human race depends upon our ability to effectively fulfill these responsibilities."Since April 22, 1970, people have gathered on this day to renew their commitment to making our planet greener and healthier, and to encourage their leaders to take action on critical environmental policy issues."We have made substantial progress since that first Earth Day, when twenty million eco-pioneers brought environmental protection to the forefront of the national consciousness. Their advocacy gave birth to the green movement and a green generation that has been critical in shaping our society. The green generation spearheaded community support for passage of the laws that we still rely on to improve the quality of the air we breathe, ensure the availability of clean drinking water, and protect endangered species and fragile ecosystems."But this struggle is not over. We continue to face significant environmental challenges, and as a nation, we must pursue policies that promote responsible stewardship here at home and provide leadership in the global arena as well."Perhaps our most acute challenge – and one we have ignored for far too long – is climate change. This is no idle threat: Scientists tell us that we must reduce emissions by roughly 80 percent by mid-century to avoid a dangerous climate tipping point. As the world's largest per capita emitter of greenhouse gases, our nation has a unique responsibility to work towards a comprehensive emissions solution that includes a 21st century energy policy. We must find the political will to do just that."We took a significant step forward in December, when President Obama played a critical role in establishing the international Copenhagen Accord. Although this is a nonbinding agreement, it represents a major departure from the prior Administration's abandonment of the Kyoto Protocol, and demonstrates our nation's commitment to being a partner and a leader in finding a global solution to climate change."I applaud the President's leadership on this issue and urge him to continue working with Congress to develop comprehensive, science-based legislation to provide climate and energy security for us and the generations to come. The House has approved robust legislation to address this issue, and today I call on my Senate colleagues to move forward as well."I also urge the President and my colleagues in Congress to continue to promote policies that safeguard the environment and facilitate sound management of our natural resources. And I encourage all Americans to renew their commitment to the environment and to take actions in their individual lives to reflect it."# # #
04.15.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price today reminded his constituents of the upcoming Census deadline and encouraged residents of his Triangle-based congressional district to return their 2010 Census forms. Friday, April 16th is the deadline for Americans to mail back their forms."It's vitally important that everyone mail back their forms to allow for an accurate Census count. Many federal grant programs distribute funds to states and localities proportionately, so if everyone from our area isn't counted, the whole state will get less until the next Census in 2020," Rep. David Price said. "Mailing Census forms back by the deadline also saves money: If every household met the deadline, it would save taxpayers $1.5 billion."Census forms mailed after April 16th will not reach the Census Bureau before door-to-door Census takers are dispatched to visit all the households that did not respond. Sending back mail-in Census forms saves taxpayers money by allowing the Census Bureau to complete the decennial population count with fewer door-to-door Census takers.According to the Census Bureau, Durham County is lagging behind its 2000 Census response rate. As of Wednesday, 67 percent of residents had responded to the 2010 survey, compared with 70 percent shortly before the deadline in 2000. Census data determines how federal investments in schools, roads, and other projects are divided among the states. The Census also drives the apportionment process, which determines the number of House congressional districts in each state. North Carolina has gained one House seat in each of the last two reapportionments because of robust population growth.The Constitution mandates a Census of the population every 10 years. All residents should have received a 2010 Census form in the mail. Extra forms, information on where to find local 2010 Census offices and questionnaire assistance are available on the 2010 Census website.# # #
04.14.2010	Washington, D.C. - On Wednesday afternoon, the House of Representatives considered H. Res. 1242, Rep. David Price's (NC-04) resolution honoring the Duke University Men's Basketball team on winning the 2010 NCAA Division I National Championship. The resolution is expected to pass the House on Thursday morning.Rep. Price spoke in favor of the resolution. His full remarks are copied below.Congressman David PriceFloor Statement on H. Res. 1242April 14, 2010Madam Speaker, I am the proud sponsor of this resolution, and it congratulates the Duke University Men's Basketball team for winning the 2010 NCAA Division I National Championship. I've introduced this resolution as the member of this body privileged to represent Duke University, and I'm proud to say it has the support of the entire North Carolina delegation.From its roots as tiny Trinity College in 1838 to its current status as one of the world's premiere research and educational institutions, Duke University – like its basketball team – is a testament to the virtues of hard work, determination, and excellence in the classroom, in the community, and in Cameron Indoor Stadium, as well.I actually have the distinction – not always enviable – of representing both sides of college basketball's most intense rivalry: UNC- Chapel Hill is just down the road from Duke and is also in the Fourth District. I've had an interesting vantage point, having attended UNC and having taught at Duke. Trust me, I understand the importance of team loyalties to Members of Congress! And I also understand the need, occasionally, to balance these loyalties. But I think we can all agree today that the Blue Devils should be commended—and they should be commended unanimously—for reaching this pinnacle of men's college basketball.At the risk of stoking the flames, let me talk about their record a little bit. I would be remiss if I did not remind my colleagues that the Duke Blue Devils have a long history of success in men's basketball. They've played in fifteen Final Fours, and this is their fourth title win in the last two decades (1991, 1992, 2001, and 2010). Despite this record, the team was not favored to win a National Championship at the beginning of the year. But they peaked at the right time. They finished the year with ten straight wins; they won a share of the ACC Regular Season Championship; they won outright the ACC Tournament Championship and the National Championship; and they finished the season with a record of 35-5 record, a tie for the most wins this season, nationally. This improbable end to the season underscores that anything is possible in both politics and basketball. It is also a testament to what a team should be: greater than the sum of its parts. This is an idea Duke teams have long exemplified. I will enclose in the record at the end of this statement the full roster of this remarkable team – the players and their hometowns.Special credit is due to head coach Mike Krzyzewski, known far and wide as "Coach K," who has built one of college basketball's most stellar programs since he came to Duke in 1980. This season, Coach K brought his overall record to 868-279 overall, he won his seventy-seventh NCAA Tournament game, and won his fourth National Championship. Needless to say, this places this Hall of Famer in elite company. Only Adolph Rupp and John Wooden have won an equal or greater number of national championships. But his achievements have not been bounded by the baselines of the court. Coach K's success is about mentoring young men, coaching them to succeed not just on the court but also in the classroom and in life. His teams uphold a high standard of academic excellence, achieving a graduation success rate of 92 percent and boasting a strong tradition of Academic All-Americans.Each step of the way, the team was buoyed by its fans—its incredible fans—the Cameron Crazies, who make Duke's Cameron Indoor Stadium one of the toughest places to play in the country. That again proved true this year, when the Blue Devils went undefeated on their home court.This year's National Championship game was considered by many to be one of the closest and most exciting title games in tournament history. It literally came down to the last shot. Butler—and Coach Brad Stevens—are also to be congratulated for their strong season and for their effort in a title game that reminded us anew of why the American people simply can't resist March Madness. And both teams deserve recognition for their dedication to sportsmanship and fair play throughout the entire season.It is a unique privilege to introduce, for the second year in a row, the resolution in our body recognizing the 2010 NCAA Men's Basketball National Champions. Madam Speaker, I'd like for the record to reflect that I'll be perfectly happy to introduce such a resolution next year. In the meantime, I and Duke's many friends and alumni in this body look forward to welcoming the Blue Devils to the White House and Capitol Hill.With that, I yield back the remainder of my time.Duke Blue Devils Roster 2009-2010 Season:# 2 Nolan Smith – Upper Marlboro, MD# 3 Seth Curry - Charlotte, NC#5 Mason Plumlee - Warsaw, IN#12 Kyle Singler - Medford, OR# 20 Andre Dawkins - Chesapeake, VA#21 Miles Plumlee - Warsaw, IN#30 Jon Scheyer - Northbrook, IL#34 Ryan Kelly - Raleigh, NC#41 Jordan Davidson - Melbourne, AR#42 Lance Thomas - Scotch Plains, NJ#51 Steve Johnson - Colorado Springs, CO#52 Todd Zafirovski - Lake Forest, IL#53 Casey Peters- Red Bank, NJ#55 Brian Zoubek - Haddonfield, NJ# # #
04.02.2010	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (NC-04) issued the follow statement today following reports that the national economy created 162,000 jobs during the month of March."The new jobs number is the best we've had since November of 2007 and it shows the investments we've made through the Recovery Act and other initiatives are starting to get our economy back on the right track. There's still a long way to go, and that's why job creation will continue to be my top priority."Small businesses are the primary engines of job creation in this country, and getting them hiring again is essential to our recovery efforts. I recently voted for the HIRE Act, which is designed to do just that. The new law cuts taxes by $15 billion for small businesses that hire additional works."The Recovery Act and the HIRE Act reflect what I think is the best way to move forward: a comprehensive, multi-pronged approach that creates jobs now, and invests in a strong foundation for a 21st Century economy."# # #
03.21.2010	Washington, D.C. - On Sunday, Representative David Price gave the following statement for the record during debate on health insurance reform legislation. Rep. Price voted in favor of the legislation."'Once to every man and nation,' wrote the great abolitionist poet James Russell Lowell, 'comes the moment to decide.'"Madame Speaker, there are moments in history when it becomes clear that we simply cannot wait any longer to do what is right. When we have the opportunity to take a significant step to make our country better, the sort of opportunity that comes only a few times in a lifetime. We face such a moment tonight."Our health insurance system is falling far short of the American peoples' basic needs. It isn't working for families, who have seen their insurance premiums increase 75% over the past decade, while their earnings have risen only 14%. It isn't working for young adults, whose parents' policies stop covering them in their early 20s in most states, as if people that age don't need health insurance. It isn't working for people who have pre-existing conditions and can't find affordable coverage. It isn't working for the countless Americans whose coverage has been revoked when they get sick and need it most. And it isn't working for small business owners who want to provide coverage for their employees but can't access the low group rates that insurance companies willingly negotiate with large employers."Over the past year, I have attended numerous town hall meetings and roundtable discussions. I have met personally with doctors and patients, parents and children, seniors and students, business owners and employees. I have read thousands of letters and emails from constituents about this critical issue."In the course of these conversations, I have heard a rich and diverse range of views on the current state of our nation's health care system, but one conclusion has been shared by almost everyone: The status quo is unacceptable."Our current system penalizes the sick. It sells young people short. It puts small businesses – the primary engine of job creation in our country – at a competitive disadvantage. And instead of medicine, it offers seniors the Medicare doughnut hole."Why, then, would we continue to accept it? Particularly when we have before us a carefully crafted bill that directly addresses the system's flaws, preserves its strengths, and sets us on the path to meeting longer-term challenges."The time for reform is now."In an effort to defeat this bill, some of my colleagues have fabricated claims about "death panels" and damage to Medicare. They have raised the specter of "socialism" and "government takeovers" when they know quite well that this bill leaves the provision of care, and most insurance, in the private sector. They urge us to "start over," but when challenged to come up with an alternative, they produced a plan that leaves insurance discrimination in place as well as tens of millions of uninsured."Reform will save money for employees, business owners, and taxpayers. It will end insurance company abuses. It will let young people stay on their parents' policies until age 26. It will extend coverage to 95% of Americans. It expands community health centers and increases the number of primary care doctors and nurses. And it will end the hidden tax that the insured pay every month in the form of higher premiums."If my colleagues don't want to take my word for it, ask some of the people – right in their own backyards - who have lived through it firsthand. Ask David Swanson, whose insurance company raised the premium for his daughter's coverage 54% when she turned 17. Ask Blake Anderson, a small business owner who cannot afford coverage for his 4 employees. Ask Libbie Hough, who fears her 18 year old daughter won't be able to find insurance when she finishes college because of a genetic disorder. Or ask the thousands of Americans who think they have good coverage until they get sick and hit annual or lifetime benefit caps, or lose their jobs."Madame Speaker, the American people have waited long enough. We face an historic decision tonight, one that will resonate throughout our country, as have Social Security and Medicare, for decades to come. Let us seize the moment for the people we were elected to serve, and for future generations."# # #
03.15.2010	Washington, D.C. - Flanked by constituents who favor comprehensive health insurance reform, Representative David Price (D-NC) today announced his support for the legislation that will come before the House of Representatives later this week. Rep. Price is the first member of congress from North Carolina to announce that he will back the legislation, lending more momentum to one of President Barack Obama's top initiatives.Rep. Price's endorsement of the bill comes as House leadership is signaling that Congress will stay in session into the weekend to deliver a comprehensive health insurance reform package to the President's desk. Last week, President Obama delayed a scheduled trip to Asia to aid the final push for reform. Later today he will continue the White House's advocacy for the legislation at a rally in Ohio.At the press conference, Rep. Price was joined by three local constituents who spoke about the importance of health insurance reform legislation to them. They included:• David Swanson – Mr. Swanson, an independent investment advisor who lives in Durham, spoke about his frustration with increased premiums. This year, the premium for Mr. Swanson's 15-year-old son rose 11%, while the premium for his 17 year-old daughter rose 54%. (Article)• Blake Anderson – Mr. Anderson is a small business owner with four employees. He is currently unable to offer his employees health insurance coverage, or pay for his own insurance on the private market, but he does have access to insurance through his wife's employer. Mr. Anderson has a pre-existing condition and previously experienced medical problems at a time when he did not have coverage. Mr. Anderson believes lack of access is a major impediment to small business growth in North Carolina.• Libbie Hough – Mrs. Hough is the mother of 18-year-old Natalie Hough. On Sept. 30, Natalie, a student at Cedar Ridge High School, suffered a heart attack. Two teachers who had just received emergency training performed CPR and used a defibrillator before EMTs arrived. Natalie will be attending college in the fall and her mother worries that her daughter will not be able to get insurance coverage in the future. (Article)The reform legislation would end the insurance industry's practice of denying care because of pre-existing conditions, ban the imposition of lifetime limits for care, create oversight for insurance rate increases and allow children to remain on their parents' insurance plan until they turn 26. The legislation strengthens the existing system of employer-based health insurance with the goal of ensuring stable coverage, affordable premiums and copayments, and quality care for all Americans. The bill also reduces the deficit. Rep. Price believes health insurance reform is an essential investment both in the American people, and in our nation's long-term fiscal and economic well-being.# # #
03.09.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. David Price announced the opening of the 2010 Congressional Art Competition. The annual competition brings together the best student artwork from across the Fourth Congressional District. The winner of the competition will receive a $1,500 scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design and accompany their entry to Washington to attend the opening of an exhibit featuring the work of all congressional art competition winners from across the country. Winning entries will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol Building for one year."I am always amazed by the quality of the artwork my constituents create for the competition." Rep. Price said. "I look forward to seeing all of the entries and I am proud to see Congress celebrating the talents of our nation's young people."The deadline to submit entries for the competition is Friday, April 19, 2010 for Orange County, and Friday, April 16 for Wake and Durham Counties. For information on how to submit an entry, contact Nadia Alston at 919-859-5999 or Nadia.Alston@mail.house.gov by March 15.There are three ways to qualify for the competition:1. Art Center Contests - High school students who place (first, second, third, or honorable mention) in appropriate categories at art center contests are eligible to submit their winning entries.2. High School Contests or School Selection - Public and private high schools in the Fourth Congressional District are invited to select up to three pieces of artwork to represent their school in the competition. The selection process for that artwork is completely at the discretion of school officials. Local schools will be mailed a packet with the complete rules, deadlines, and an entry form.3. Home School Participation - Home school students are encouraged to enter their artwork at regional art center competitions. However, if a student is not able to submit their work for some reason (location, did not know about the contests, etc.), he/she may still be considered for the contest.The second place winner's art will be displayed in Congressman Price's Washington office, and the third place piece will be displayed in his Raleigh office. Special recognition will also be given to the teacher whose student is awarded first place.# # #
03.04.2010	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (D-NC) released a statement today applauding House passage of H.R. 2847, the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment (HIRE) Act. The legislation creates a payroll tax holiday for businesses that hire unemployed workers, establishes an income tax credit of $1,000 for businesses that retain those employees long-term and extends infrastructure investments that are vital to job creation. Rep. Price's statement is below:"Small businesses are the primary engine of job creation in this country. That's why they are absolutely essential to our economic recovery. I hope $15B in payroll tax cuts and income tax credits will go a long way in helping small businesses hire new employees and getting Americans back to work."The House action follows the Senate's 70-28 passage of similar legislation law week. It is one of several in a series of job creation and consumer protection measures that Congress is taking to accelerate the economic recovery. A summary of the legislation follows.H.R. 2847 – The Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment ActNew Tax Incentives for Businesses to Hire Unemployed Workers• Tax incentives for businesses to spur immediate job growth. A new payroll tax exemption would create a common-sense, targeted, and effective way to encourage employers to begin hiring unemployed workers today and is estimated to spur about 300,000 new jobs, according to economist Mark Zandi of Moody's Economy.com.• Payroll Tax Exemption. Provides businesses with an exemption from Social Security payroll taxes for every worker hired in 2010 who has been unemployed for at least 60 days. (The maximum value of this incentive is $6,621, which equals to 6.2 percent of wages paid in 2010 up to the FICA wage cap of $106,800.) The longer that a business has a new qualified worker on its payroll, the greater the tax benefit. The House amendments incorporate an IRS fix to make sure that small businesses can take advantage of the payroll tax holiday.• Bonus for Keeping Employees Long Term. Provides an additional $1,000 income tax credit for every new employee retained for 52 weeks. Estimated cost of these provisions: $13 billion over 10 years.Spur Small Business Investments to Grow• Small Business Expensing. Extends Recovery Act provisions that double the amount small businesses can immediately write off their taxes for capital investments and purchases of new equipment made in 2010 from $125,000 to $250,000. This will help small business make the investments they need to grow and hire more workers. Estimated cost: $35 million over 10 years.Highways and Infrastructure• School Construction, Energy Conservation and Renewable Energy. Allows qualified school construction bonds, qualified zone academy bonds, clean renewable energy bonds, and qualified energy conservation bonds to take advantage of the Build America bonds direct payment program. TIME magazine calls the Build America Bonds "one of the economic recovery efforts biggest successes." The House will act later to expand the Build America Bonds program. Estimated cost: $4.6 billion over 10 years.• Transportation Extension. Extends surface transportation programs through December 31, 2010 to provide states and localities with the certainty they need to make decisions on capital-intensive projects and allow for billions more to be invested in infrastructure throughout the United States. It includes language continuing the application and enforcement of the minority-owned business enterprise contracting requirements for surface transportation projects.• Avoiding a Highway Shortfall & Bolstering the Trust Fund. Transfers approximately $20 billion from the General Treasury and to the Highway Trust Fund (HTF), as the HTF is estimated to run short of funds in June. This transfer will reimburse the HTF for interest it should have collected in the past and will allow the federal government to support existing federal highway and transit programs through the end of this year at the levels authorized for Fiscal Year 2009. Under the bill, the HTF will be more financially healthy as it will able accrue interest going forward, just like other federal trust funds. The bill also restores $8.7 billion that was rescinded in SAFTEA-LU.# # #
03.03.2010	Washington, D.C. - On Wednesday, Reps. David Price (D-NC) and Mike Castle (R-DE) introduced the bipartisan Stand By Every Ad Act, to hold corporations, unions and associations accountable for their political advertisements. Rep. Price penned a column for The Huffington Post titled, "I'm David Price, and I Approve This Column . . .," on the importance of the legislation. The text of the column is provided below:I'm David Price, and I Approve This ColumnBy Representative David PriceIf you think special interest money plays too large a role in politics, be prepared for an election cycle that will confirm your worst suspicions -- unless Congress is successful in a race against time to dampen the deeply corrosive effects of the Supreme Court's decision to overturn century-old campaign finance precedents in Citizens United v. F.E.C.By now many of you are familiar with the Citizens United case, in which five Supreme Court justices gutted campaign finance law as we know it by empowering corporations, unions and associations to spend unlimited funds to directly influence the outcome of elections by advocating for or against a candidate. Today, I joined with Rep. Mike Castle (R-DE) in a bipartisan effort to fight back against the Court's regressive decision.Rep. Castle and I have introduced the Stand By Every Ad Act, which would hold corporations, unions and associations accountable for the political advertisements they fund. This legislation is modeled after my original Stand By Your Ad legislation, which requires candidates to appear in and claim responsibility for their ads and was enacted as part of the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002. If candidates have to appear in their ads and say, "I approve this message," the CEO of a corporation or the president of a union should have to do the same.If we do not hold these entities accountable, we will be giving them permission to run disparaging or deliberately misleading ads without voters ever knowing who's behind them. Some of my colleagues seem to desire a return to the Wild West of campaign spending: they have hailed the Supreme Court's decision as a great achievement for free speech. But others on both sides of the aisle have clearly recognized the situation for what it is: the opportunity for corporations, unions and associations to dominate the playing field, intimidating public officials and drowning out the candidates' own messages. The least we can do is inform viewers who has bought the ads they are seeing.Our bill also would expand accountability to the next generation of political advertising by applying Stand By Your Ad requirements to campaign ads conveyed via the internet or email. It makes little sense to treat a campaign video differently just because it's broadcast online instead of on television. It's important to note that this provision would apply only to paid audio and video ads and would not apply to the unpaid activities of bloggers and other online political activists, preserving the careful balance struck by the Federal Election Commission in its regulation of online political activities.Finally, we also would address the need for accountability in "Robocalls" in the bill by requiring them to include the Stand By Your Ad tagline at the beginning of the call. Those of us who have lived through competitive political campaigns will be glad for the chance to hang up sooner rather than later on the inevitable call that comes right as you're sitting down for dinner with the family.All of these provisions would restore accountability to our electoral process in places where it has been missing. The internet and new media are quickly altering the parameters of our debate, but our campaign finance legislation hasn't kept pace. Treating all communications equally, and giving voters the power to hold organizations accountable for their advertising, will help preserve the integrity of our political process.This bill is by no means a panacea, but we do know it can stand up to a hostile Supreme Court if it becomes law. The original Stand By Your Ad legislation has been upheld as constitutional in the Court's 2003 McConnell v. FEC decision. Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) and Senator Charles Schumer (D-NY) are working on a comprehensive effort to mitigate the damage inflicted by the Citizens United decision. They have included several provisions from our bill, and I look forward to partnering with them to meet the need for reform. We must act quickly, before the 2010 elections make all too clear the Court's destructive impact on open and transparent campaign dialogue.# # #
03.03.2010	Washington, D.C. - Representative David Price introduced his colleagues to Duke University's Muslim Chaplain Abdullah Antepli today. Imam Antepli delivered the opening invocation for today's legislative session in the United States House of Representatives at Rep. Price's invitation. Each lawmaker is allowed to nominate one religious leader per Congress to serve as guest chaplain. Rep. Price's remarks are provided below.Watch Chaplain Antepli's invocation and Congressman Price's remarks:"Madam Speaker, I wish to introduce to my colleagues my distinguished constituent and today's guest chaplain, Imam Abdullah Antepli."Imam Antepli has a long and distinguished record of faith-based and humanitarian service in countries ranging from his native Turkey to the Southeast Asian nations of Burma and Malaysia. Since moving to the United States in 2003, he has been a true pioneer in the field of Muslim campus ministry, serving as the first Muslim chaplain at Wesleyan University, the founding member of the Muslim Chaplains Association, and later at Hartford Seminary, where he completed his doctorate on the challenges and opportunities facing Muslim campus ministry in the United States."In July 2008, he came to Duke University to serve as the school's first full-time Muslim chaplain. Although he's been on campus less than two years, he has made an enormous impact on the university community. His role is obviously to facilitate worship for the school's Muslim population, but he's taken on much more than that. He counsels students of all faiths, fosters understanding of the Muslim faith, and is much in demand as a speaker at community events. This is a remarkable accomplishment at a time when religious differences still threaten to divide us from each other and from other nations."I first met Imam Antepli last September at a meeting of Islamic studies scholars in which he participated, and I was immediately struck by his enthusiasm, intellect, and his readiness to engage. Throughout his career, he has truly exemplified the notion of faith in action and has made a habit of practicing the values of tolerance, understanding, and respectful dialogue which he preaches."I am very pleased to be able to introduce and welcome Imam Abdullah Antepli here today."# # #
02.02.2010	Washington, D.C. - On Thursday, Reps. David Price (D-NC) and Mike Castle (R-DE) announced their plans to introduce the Stand By Every Ad Act, a bipartisan bill to hold corporations, unions and associations accountable for their political advertisements. In the wake of the Supreme Court's decision in Citizens United v. FEC, which overturned significant portions of federal campaign finance law, these entities are now empowered to spend unlimited funds to directly influence the outcome of an election by advocating for or against a candidate.Rep. Price was the lead sponsor of the original "Stand By Your Ad" legislation, enacted as a part of the 2002 Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act, which forces candidates to appear in and claim responsibility for their ads. "Stand By Every Ad" would build upon existing law by forcing corporations, labor unions and associations to abide by the same standards as candidates and political parties."Failure to apply 'Stand By Your Ad' to these entities may lead to a regression to the days when disparaging or deliberately misleading ads could be run without voters ever knowing who was behind them," Rep. Price said. "If candidates and political parties have to take responsibility for the ads they run, corporations and labor unions should have to do the same.""Unfortunately, the recent ruling of the Supreme Court in Citizens United v. FEC will now allow special interests to spend limitless dollars in campaign advertisements in effort to persuade an election," Rep Castle said. "This bill would simply extend the same transparent disclosures requirement to special interest groups that candidates are currently required to provide in their campaign advertisements."The Stand By Every Ad Act would also expand accountability to the next generation of political advertising by applying "Stand By Your Ad" requirements to ads conveyed via the internet or email. This provision would apply only to paid audio and video ads and would not affect the unpaid activities of bloggers and other online political activists, consistent with existing Federal Elections Commission (FEC) regulations. In addition, the bill would require pre-recorded robocalls, which have been used in efforts to deceive voters in recent elections, to include the "Stand By Your Ad" tagline at the beginning of the call. Price and Castle introduced similar versions of this legislation in the 109th and 110th Congresses."The internet and new media have transformed the political landscape, but our legislation to ensure responsible advertising hasn't kept pace," Rep. Price said. "Treating a campaign video broadcast online the same as an identical video broadcast on TV will help preserve our electoral process by holding candidates and organizations accountable for all of their ads, regardless of how they are conveyed.""The 'Stand By Your Ad' standard must be applied consistently across the board, including the pre-recorded robocalls that flood our answering machines during the campaign season," Rep Castle said. "Americans have a right to know the information about the source of contact to ensure transparency and fairness in elections.""Stand By Your Ad" has been credited with improving voters' understanding of the choices they face on Election Day and was explicitly upheld as constitutional in the Supreme Court's 2003 McConnell v. FEC decision. The introduction of the Stand By Every Ad Act comes as the 111th Congress is actively considering legislative responses to Citizens United v. FEC. Rep. Price is a member of the taskforce of Democrats considering legislative solutions to the decision.# # #
02.02.2010	Washington, D.C. - Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Congressman David Price (D-N.C.) Tuesday introduced companion bills in the House and Senate to ensure accountability under U.S. law for American contractors and employees working abroad. The Civilian Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act (CEJA) will close a gap in current law to make certain that American government employees and contractors are not immune from prosecution for crimes committed overseas.The legislation follows efforts in previous Congresses by Leahy, Price and others, including then-Senator Barack Obama, to provide for prosecution of violations of U.S. law by Americans working overseas for the U.S. government. Recent examples, including the violent rape of Jamie Leigh Jones, a contractor with Halliburton, while stationed in Iraq, and the killing of unarmed civilians in Baghdad by private security contractors with Blackwater, have further highlighted the need for this legislation. Jones testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee in October.Price said, "The overseas contractor loophole has compromised the rule of law and imperiled our nation's moral authority. We simply must close it. By establishing clear legal jurisdiction and better investigative capacity, this legislation will ensure that contractors who break the law will be held accountable."Leahy said, "To restore accountability, having a responsible administration will unfortunately not be enough. Congress must change the law to make sure that our criminal laws reach serious misconduct by American government employees and contractors abroad. The Civilian Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act will accomplish this important and common sense goal. No one should be above the law, certainly not American employees and contractors representing this great nation throughout the world. This bill would promote the rule of law throughout the world and make us stronger in the process."The legislation is cosponsored in the Senate by Senator Ted Kaufman (D-Del.).Kaufman said, "As we have seen in recent years, the failure to address serious criminal conduct by American contractors working abroad has undermined our counterinsurgency efforts and strained our diplomatic ties. This bill, by providing federal law enforcement the tools necessary to arrest and prosecute the wrongdoers, will establish needed accountability and further emphasize the United States' commitment to justice and the rule of law."The proposed legislation creates no new substantive offenses, but rather allows the government to prosecute government contractors and employees for certain serious crimes. The legislation expands on the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act (MEJA), which provides similar criminal jurisdiction over Department of Defense employees and contractors but does not clearly apply to U.S. contractors working overseas for other federal agencies, such as the Department of State.Leahy is the Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, to which the legislation will be referred in the Senate. Kaufman is also a member of the panel. Price is the Chairman of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee.The Civilian Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act will:• Direct the Justice Department to create new investigative units to investigate, arrest and prosecute contractors and employees who commit serious crimes.• Allow the Attorney General to authorize federal agents to arrest alleged offenders outside of the United States, if there is probable cause that an employee or contractor has committed a crime.• Require the Attorney General to report annually to Congress the number of offenses received, investigated and prosecuted under the statute; the number, location, and deployments of the newly created investigative units; and any changes needed in the law to make it more effective.# # #
02.01.2010	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price, the Chairman of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, today released the following statement on President Obama's FY11 Budget Proposal for Homeland Security."President Obama's budget request clearly demonstrates his resolve to fill gaps in our aviation security, proposing innovative solutions such as more canine inspection teams and a beefed-up presence at high-risk airports abroad to increase coordination with foreign authorities. I am also pleased that the President wants to build on some of our Committee's key priorities: continuing to deploy better technology to screen passengers and baggage at our airports, expanding Secure Communities to cover the vast majority of the incarcerated criminal alien population, and creating additional Border Enforcement Security Task Forces to confront transnational criminal threats."The President is laudably seeking to strike a balance between achieving fiscal sustainability and addressing critical security challenges. We will not agree on every proposed cut or increase, but we will work with the Administration to achieve that balance through the appropriations process."As we begin hearings to more closely examine the budget, no program or account will be off limits to scrutiny. When discussing homeland security, some have a tendency to fixate on one threat while downplaying others. Our obligation, by contrast, is to take a balanced, realistic approach; to weigh risks carefully, and make prudent investments in effective security. While the President has exempted the homeland security budget from the spending freeze for domestic programs, we must recognize that Americans are tightening their own budgets at home and at their businesses. Likewise, we must root out waste and inefficiency – wherever it exists – and focus on the country's priorities throughout the Federal budget. I look forward to working with my colleagues, in a bipartisan fashion, to achieve our homeland security goals in a fiscally responsible way."# # #
01.28.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. David Price received the Chapel Hill-Carrboro Chamber of Commerce's Duke Energy Citizenship and Service Award. The award is presented annually to an individual or groups that help foster a culture of citizenship and service to positively impact the lives of others.Previous winners of the award include North Carolina House of Representatives Speaker Joe Hackney and former University of North Carolina Chancellor James Moeser.Aaron Nelson, President and CEO of the Chamber, said honorees are also selected based on the exhibition of strong business values such as integrity, stewardship, inclusion, teamwork and accountability. Nelson said of Rep. Price:Price champions our Universities as a leader on education and research. Price improves our confidence in government with his leadership on ethics and campaign reform. Price makes our local and regional transit and transportation system work as he champions our needs in Washington and helps deliver the resources to improve our infrastructure. Price supports our small businesses with exceptional constituent service and by making himself and his team available to Chamber members, staff and volunteers each and every time we call on him for assistance and support.In his acceptance remarks, Rep. Price thanked the Chamber for their hard work on behalf of local businesses. Jumpstarting small businesses is one of the central issues before Congress. Programs under consideration would move aggressively to end the credit crunch and provide tax breaks for small businesses that create jobs."I recently held a Jobs roundtable with local business leaders and it's clear that businesses of all sizes need credit to start hiring again," Rep. Price said. "However, empowering small business is especially important because they are the primary engine of job creation and innovation in this country and they will play a critical role is sustaining an economic recovery."Rep. Price also applauded the Chamber's recent service on behalf of Haiti relief efforts. As the Chairman of the House Democracy Partnership, Rep. Price has worked directly with the Haitian Parliament to strengthen its effectiveness as an institution, getting to know many of its members on a personal level."I would like to take a moment today to recognize the work that the Chamber does beyond the Chapel Hill-Carrboro community," Rep. Price said. "Yesterday, the Chamber organized many of its members to participate in Chapel Hill's Haitian Relief Day. A portion of participating businesses' proceeds were donated to the American Red Cross Orange County Chapter as part of their relief efforts in Haiti."My heart is with the people of Haiti in this time of extreme and profound tragedy, and I appreciate the efforts of the Chapel Hill-Carrboro business community to provide relief."Rep. Price is a leader on service issues in the Congress. He co-chairs the Congressional Service Caucus and has introduced legislation to create additional opportunities for national service. Recently, he joined with Rep. Mike Castle (R-DE) to introduce the Roosevelt Scholars Act, which would create graduate-level scholarships for students who commit to entering government service. Price also has been a consistent advocate for full funding and expansion of national service programs, such as AmeriCorps, Learn and Serve, and SeniorCorps.# # #
01.26.2010	Washington, D.C. - In commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the Blue Ridge Parkway, U.S. Representatives Heath Shuler (D-N.C.), David Price (D-N.C.), Rick Boucher (D-VA) and Tom Perriello (D-VA) introduced a bill today that authorizes the National Park Service to acquire up to 50,000 acres of land bordering the scenic roadway. The Blue Ridge Parkway Protection Act will allow the Park Service to protect the views that make the Parkway such a popular attraction and roadway.Nearly 20 million people visit the Blue Ridge Parkway each year, making it the National Park Service's most popular site. The Parkway is an economic driver for the region, generating about $2.3 billion in economic activity in both states annually."The Blue Ridge Parkway offers some of the most spectacular mountain views in the nation, and this legislation will preserve those views for our children and grandchildren," Shuler said. "Additionally, the Parkway provides convenient access for residents and visitors to hiking, hunting and other recreational activities. The Parkway has become an important source of income for Western North Carolina and it is imperative that we protect it."The Blue Ridge Parkway Protection Act will authorize $75 million over five years to buy and preserve land adjacent to the Blue Ridge Parkway. The legislation would allow adjustments to the Parkway's boundary to include the new land acquisition, and no property would be acquired through eminent domain."Visitors say that the pristine, undeveloped landscape is the biggest reason they choose to visit the Parkway, so preserving those views is of vital economic importance to North Carolina and Virginia," Rep. Price said. "Ensuring the continued conservation of the land around the Parkway is also a fitting way to celebrate the Parkway's 75th year."The Conservation Trust of North Carolina proposed the legislation as an appropriate commemoration of the 75th anniversary. U.S. Senators Kay R. Hagan (D-NC), Richard Burr (R-NC), Mark Warner (D-VA) and Jim Webb (D-VA) introduced companion legislation in the Senate."The Blue Ridge Parkway is one of our region's most valuable assets, bringing millions of visitors from across the nation each year to experience our unparalleled natural landscape. This legislation ensures that the scenic vistas the Parkway affords will remain intact for future generations," Rep. Boucher said."Growing up as an Eagle Scout in the shadow of the Blue Ridge Mountains, I want to preserve this national treasure for future generations to enjoy. Protecting the Blue Ridge Parkway will increase its attraction to more tourists, boosting economic activity for our region," Rep. Perriello said.In addition to the Blue Ridge Parkway Protection Act , Reps. Heath Shuler, David Price, Rick Boucher, Tom Perriello, Virginia Foxx, and Patrick McHenry will be introducing a commemorative resolution celebrating the Parkway's 75th anniversary in the U.S. House of Representatives.# # #
01.22.2010	Washington, D.C. - On Saturday, January 23 from 10:00 AM – Noon, Representative David Price (D-NC) will hold Neighborhood Office Hours in the lobby of the Holly Springs Cultural Center. Rep. Price will be available on a walk-up basis to meet individually with constituents.Who: Rep. David Price (NC-04)What: Neighborhood Office HoursWhen: Saturday, January 23, 2010 (10:00 AM – Noon)Where: Holly Springs Cultural Center, 300 W. Ballentine Street, Holly Springs, NC# # #
01.21.2010	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price released the following statement today after the Supreme Court overturned significant portions of existing campaign finance legislation in its 5-4 decision in the case of Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission."Today's Supreme Court ruling is a major setback for the integrity of our democracy. By striking down a cornerstone of the bipartisan McCain-Feingold legislation, this decision will open the door for special interest groups and corporations to spend millions to influence the outcome of political campaigns. I have no doubt that it will have a corrosive effect on the electoral process.As Justice John Paul Stevens wrote in his dissenting opinion, the Court's ruling represents 'a rejection of the common sense of the American people, who have recognized a need to prevent corporations from undermining self¬-government since the founding [of our nation]... While American democracy is imperfect, few outside the majority of this Court would have thought its flaws included a dearth of corporate money in politics.'As a longtime advocate of transparency and integrity in our nation's electoral process, I call on the leadership of Congress to move swiftly to close the gaping loophole that the Supreme Court has left in our campaign finance laws."Before the Supreme Court considered the case, Rep. Price joined with several other lawmakers to file an amicus curiae (friend of the court) brief arguing that the Court should uphold existing bipartisan campaign finance legislation. That brief can be found here.# # #
01.15.2010	Washington, D.C. - As the critical 72-hour window after the earthquake draws to a close, the situation in Haiti remains extremely dire, but the results of the massive humanitarian relief effort that is underway are beginning to show.President Obama has directed the Department of Defense, Department of State and US Agency for International Development to make Haiti their highest priority, and military, government and civilian personnel are streaming into the region to assist search and rescue operations over this critical 48-hour period. The Port-au-Prince airport is serving as a staging point for relief efforts and planes from nations across the world are continuing to fly in much needed supplies. The President also has committed $100 million in immediate relief and reconstruction funding with a promise of more to come, and private relief organizations have raised millions more in donations from individual citizens.While this initial response has been encouraging, we cannot rest until every remaining survivor of this catastrophe has been accounted for. As the Chairman of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, I have been closely monitoring the efforts of the Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency, U.S. Coast Guard, and other agencies to support search and rescue operations, evacuate victims for medical attention, and help manage the flow of refugees and displaced persons.Having worked closely with members of Haiti's parliament in my capacity as chairman of the House Democracy Partnership – including some who have lost their lives or remain missing – I have been both profoundly saddened by this tragedy and deeply moved by the stories of individual heroism I have already heard. My thoughts and prayers are with those who have been personally affected by this disaster, in Haiti as well as our own country. I also urge any concerned citizen with the means to do so to contribute to the recovery effort.More information on the government's response to the earthquake follows. If you need further assistance, please contact my office at 919.859.5999 (Raleigh) or 202.225.1784 (DC).U.S. Citizen InquiriesThe U.S. Embassy in Port Au Prince has set up a task force at the Embassy which is taking calls as conditions permit. The Embassy is working to identify U.S. citizens in Haiti who need urgent assistance and to identify sources of emergency help. U.S. citizens in Haiti are urged to contact the Embassy via email (ACSPaP@state.gov) to request assistance. U.S. citizens in Haiti can call the Embassy's Consular Task Force at 509-2229-8942, 509-2229-8089, 509-2229-8322, or 509-2229-8672. The State Department has also created a task force to monitor the emergency.People in the U.S. or Canada with information or inquiries about U.S. citizens in Haiti may reach the Haiti Task Force at 888-407-4747; Haiti-Earthquake@state.gov. Outside of the U.S. and Canada, call 202-501-4444. For further information and updates, please see the State Department's Consular Affairs website.Haitian Citizens in the U.S.Haitian citizens in the U.S. should call the Haitian Embassy in Washington, D.C., 202-332-4090, or the Haitian Consulate in New York City, 305-859-2003.Adoptions InfoU.S. citizens with pending adoption cases in Haiti are requested to contact the Department of State at AskCI@state.gov for information about their adoption case. In your inquiry, please include: full name and contact information of parents, full name(s) of child(ren), date(s) of birth of child(ren) [if known], and the name and contact information of orphanage. Travel to HaitiIf you have planned a trip to Haiti, please be advised that the State Department has issued a travel advisory which urges U.S. citizens to avoid personal travel to Haiti at this time. To read the full advisory, visit http://www.travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/tw/tw_4632.html.
01.13.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today, Representatives David Price (D-NC) and David Dreier (R-CA) released the following statement addressing the tragic earthquake in Haiti. Reps. Price and Dreier serve as the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Democracy Partnership, which partners with legislatures in developing democracies. HDP has partnered with Haiti's legislature since 2007 on a variety of good government projects."Our deepest condolences and heartfelt prayers are with the people of Haiti today as they confront this profound tragedy. While the extent of the devastation is still becoming clear, President René Préval has called the human toll 'unimaginable,' and all reports indicate that we have not witnessed a catastrophe of these proportions in our hemisphere in some time."As the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Democracy Partnership, we have had the privilege of working closely with the Haitian Parliament for the last several years to strengthen its effectiveness as an institution, and we have come to know many of its members and staff on a personal level. As the Parliament building lies in ruins, with leaders including Senate President Kely Bastien reportedly trapped in the rubble, our thoughts are with these members and staff and their families. While our hearts are heavy, the many dedicated public servants with whom we have worked give us hope that Haiti's recovery will be in good hands."We call on the United States and the international community to respond swiftly, decisively, and compassionately to provide immediate humanitarian relief to the earthquake victims and their families and to help the government of Haiti rebuild its country. We also call on any concerned citizen with the means to do so to contribute to the relief and recovery effort. To find out more about how to help, visit http://www.state.gov/p/wha/ci/ha/index.htm."# # #
12.22.2009	Washington, D.C. - Representative David Price, who chairs the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Appropriations, wrote a letter today urging Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano to take full advantage of the authority Congress recently provided her to prevent firefighter layoffs through federal grants. The letter comes after passage of Rep. Price's FY 2010 Homeland Security funding bill, which boosted funding for firefighter personnel grants to an historic $420 million.Rep. Price writes, "This nation is facing a crisis concerning job loss for firefighters. The International Association of Firefighters estimates since September 2008, nearly 6,000 firefighter jobs have been lost or will soon be lost due to local budget cuts. In addition, more than 6,000 lost to attrition. These figures are not only troubling because of their impact on the nation's economy; I am also concerned that such widespread downsizing among fire companies threatens public safety and local preparedness."The grants are a part of the Staffing for Adequate Firefighter Emergency Response (SAFER) program, which is designed to ensure communities have enough firefighters for adequate emergency preparedness. Grant funds have traditionally been used to cover costs associated with hiring new firefighters. Because of the work of Congressman Price and others, however, grants for fiscal years 2009 and 2010 can also be used to rehire firefighters who have been laid off, and to retain firefighters whose positions are in danger of being eliminated because of stresses on state and local budgets. Congress made these changes to the law as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and the fiscal year 2009 supplemental appropriations bill , which also temporarily allows the Secretary to eliminate requirements that localities match federal dollars with local money and eventually cover all costs for personnel hired using grant funds. Despite a recent announcement from DHS that there would be fewer strings attached to the 2009 grants, the Department has not made full use of these tools to minimize layoffs."I am concerned that the Department's implementation of waiver authority for the SAFER grant program has not been entirely consistent with Congressional intent and therefore is failing to adequately prevent firefighters from being laid off," Rep. Price writes. "As the Department finalizes its fiscal year 2010 guidance that fire companies will use when applying for SAFER grants, I urge you to carry out the intent of Congress to do everything possible to keep firefighters on the job."Rep. Price's letter comes less than a week after the House passed the Jobs for Main Street Act, which would include an additional $500 million for firefighter staffing grants in 2010 and would now require—instead of simply authorizing—DHS to grant the aforementioned waivers. Since the Jobs bill will not be considered in the Senate until early next year, Congressman Price is urging the Secretary to make the necessary changes to the program on her own authority.Rep. Price has chaired the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Appropriations since 2006. During his time as Chairman, meeting the needs of firefighters and first responders has been a special policy emphasis. Rep. Price believes they play a crucial role in preparing for any potential disaster, and meeting the routine public safety needs of our communities.LETTER TEXT# # #
12.14.2009	Washington, D.C. - Triangle-area Congressmen Bob Etheridge (NC-02), Brad Miller (NC-13) and David Price (NC-04) hosted a jobs roundtable at MCNC in Research Triangle Park today, hearing from a broad range of business and industry leaders about the jobs situation in the state. Congress is working on additional initiatives to improve our economy and create jobs.Participants updated the Congressmen on the progress made toward rebuilding the local economy over the last year and the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead."The industries represented at this roundtable are critical to our local, state, and national economy," Rep. David Price said. "In the Triangle, we are uniquely situated because we have businesses that are poised both to help bring us out of the current downturn and to help lay the foundation for an economic future that will benefit all families."Attendees at the event included representatives from the Home Builders Association, MCNC, the Vice President for the North Carolina Institute of Minority Economic Development and the President of the Council for Entrepreneurial Development."North Carolina has lost more manufacturing jobs than just about any other state," said Rep. Brad Miller. "Yet, our state and its business community will continue to weather the storm through innovation."Jobs Roundtable participants discussed opportunities to create jobs in the Triangle in the short and long term. Many of the industries represented have also benefited from significant investments through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. They cited the need for additional credit availability to fund planned expansions. Major research programs at Duke University, North Carolina State University and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill have received over $200 million to conduct innovative biomedical and technology research."As a former small business owner, I know that local entrepreneurship drives prosperity and job creation," Rep. Bob Etheridge said. "Public officials must continue to partner with the private sector and non-profits to help companies access capital, which will allow them to create jobs and improve our economy."Complete list of attendees:Mark Pearce, Deputy Commissioner, North Carolina Commissioner of BanksFarad Ali, Senior Vice President, North Carolina Institute of Minority Economic DevelopmentJoan Siefert Rose, President, Council for Entrepreneurial DevelopmentMaria Kingrey, Southern Energy ManagementBenjamin J. Matthews, Director, North Carolina Department of Public InstructionIvan Hankins, Senior Area Manager, U.S. Small Business AdministrationMaryBe McMillan, Secretary-Treasurer, North Carolina State AFL-CIOAsst. Secretary John Morrison, North Carolina Department CommerceMike Carpenter, Home Builders AssociationDr. Stephen Scott, President of Wake Technical Community CollegeDempsey Benton, North Carolina Office of Economic Recovery & InvestmentCourtney Crowder, Legislative Director, Office of Governor Bev PerdueJoe Freddosso, MCNCRick Weddle, Research Triangle Park Foundation# # #
12.14.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price gave the following remarks today at an economic development announcement at the Research Triangle Park Foundation welcoming risk management consultant IEM. IEM is moving its headquarters to the RTP, creating 430 jobs:This is a good news day for the Triangle. And during these trying economic times, we are so thankful to share good news.This is good news for the people of Durham and surrounding communities, because here we have the promise of hundreds of well-paying jobs.IEM has made the smart choice to call North Carolina its home. It's the right choice because hardly any other place in the country matches the highly educated workforce; the strong partnership for development among our leaders in government, private industry, and our institutions of higher learning; or the unparalleled quality of life that makes us proud to call the Triangle home. So we welcome Ms. Beriwal and her company to our community. I know she will find it to be a good fit.Because of my role as Chairman of the Homeland Security funding committee in Congress, I have a keen interest in disaster preparedness and risk management. North Carolina has had its share of disasters (especially from hurricanes), and I like to think we are one of the most advanced states in the country when it comes to preparedness. One of my top priorities in Washington has always been to make sure the federal government is working cooperatively with states like ours to strengthen our ability to respond to disasters, whenever and wherever they strike.So I am particularly interested to see a company like IEM, which has a long record of working on risk management and disaster preparedness, join our community.IEM has worked with government agencies like FEMA, the Department of Defense, the National Institutes of Health, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. They've also done work for major U.S. cities and ports. Their services range from compiling risk assessments associated with natural disasters, to creating performance measurement tools to help government agencies improve outcomes for the taxpayers, to developing IT solutions to enhance the efficiency and awareness of emergency management and defense professionals.So we will be interested in watching your further development as you take root here in the Triangle.I am particularly excited that Ms. Beriwal will join the ranks of our many accomplished businesswomen in the Triangle. She has more than 25 years of experience in disaster and emergency management, homeland security, and national defense. She has built IEM from scratch, turning the business into the prominent consulting and technical services firm that it is today.In addition to running a major business, Ms. Beriwal is a guest lecturer at the Naval Postgraduate School's Center for Homeland Defense and Security, and is a frequent speaker at its conferences. She is a member of the prestigious Army Science Board (ASB), and a former member of the Defense Science Board's Task Force for Intelligence-Gathering on Terrorism.Please join me in offering a warm North Carolina welcome to the President and CEO of IEM, Ms. Madhu Beriwal.# # #
12.11.2009	Washington, D.C. - Representative David Price issued the following statement today on the House of Representative's passage of H.R. 4173, the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009:"This bill will address the root causes of last year's financial collapse and protect working Americans from unscrupulous lenders and the excesses of Wall Street. It puts in place common-sense regulation of our financial system that will allow capital markets to flourish without imperiling global economic stability," Rep. David Price said.Summary: H.R. 4173, the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009Consumer ProtectionsCreates the Consumer Financial Protection Agency (CFPA), a new, independent federal agency solely devoted to protecting Americans from unfair and abusive financial products and services.Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory LendingWould incorporate the tough mortgage reform and anti-predatory lending bill the House passed earlier this year. The legislation outlaws many of the egregious industry practices that marked the subprime lending boom, and it would ensure that mortgage lenders make loans that benefit the consumer. It would establish a simple standard for all home loans: institutions must ensure that borrowers can repay the loans they are sold.Ending "Too Big to Fail"Establishes an orderly process for dismantling large, failing financial institutions like AIG or Lehman Brothers in a way that ends bailouts, protects taxpayers, and prevents contagion to the rest of the financial system.Investor ProtectionsStrengthens the SEC's powers so that it can better protect investors and regulate the nation's securities markets. The bill also responds to the failures to detect the Madoff and Stanford Financial frauds by ordering a study of the entire securities industry that will identify needed reforms and force the SEC and other entities to further improve investor protection.Financial Stability CouncilCreates an inter-agency oversight council that will identify and regulate financial firms that are so large, interconnected, or risky that their collapse would put the entire financial system at risk. These systemically risky firms will be subject to heightened oversight, standards, and regulation.Regulation of DerivativesRegulates, for the first time ever, the over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives marketplace. Under the bill, all standardized swap transactions between dealers and "major swap participants" would have to be cleared and traded on an exchange or electronic platform. The bill defines a major swap participant as anyone that maintains a substantial net position in swaps, exclusive of hedging for commercial risk, or whose positions create such significant exposure to others that it requires monitoring.Hedge Fund, Private Equity and Private Pools of Capital RegistrationFills a regulatory hole that allows hedge funds and their advisors to escape any and all regulation. This bill requires almost all advisers to private pools of capital to register with the SEC, and they will be subject to systemic risk regulation by the Financial Stability regulator.Executive CompensationGives shareholders a "say on pay" – an advisory vote on pay practices including executive compensation and golden parachutes. It also enables regulators to ban inappropriate or imprudently risky compensation practices, and it requires financial firms to disclose any compensation structures that include incentive-based elements.# # #
12.10.2009	Washington, D.C. - The U.S. House of Representatives today approved H.R. 3288, the Fiscal Year 2010 Consolidated Appropriations Act, by a vote of 221-202. Rep. David Price (D-NC) supported the measure, which includes millions of dollars for job creation and training programs in North Carolina's Fourth Congressional District."Creating jobs and rebuilding our economy are my top priorities," Rep. Price said. "These investments will boost the Triangle economy and foster long-term economic growth throughout the state."The consolidated appropriations bill incorporated six annual funding measures covering a wide range of critical domestic programs, including transportation, housing, education, job training, police, scientific and medical research, military construction, veterans, small business, and consumer protection programs.As North Carolina's sole member of the Appropriations Committee, Rep. Price successfully secured more than $10 million in funding for investments that will have a direct economic impact in the Fourth District and around the state, including:• $130,000 for the North Carolina Biotechnology Center's Entrepreneurship and Research and Development Training Initiative. The initiative will provide training and business development to entrepreneurs starting biotechnology companies in North Carolina.• $250,000 for the North Carolina Rural Economic Development Center's Rural Business Finance Program. This program is designed to support small business development in the most economically distressed counties in our state, where many traditional banks and lenders do not operate.• $400,000 for the High Growth and Green Jobs Initiative at Wake Technical Community College. This program will provide targeted job training to address workforce demands locally and nationally. Green jobs are a rapidly growing sector of the economy and this program will help North Carolina lead the way in creating a workforce equipped to fill the next generation of jobs.• $200,000 for Shodor's Computing MATTERS project, which will help Triangle-area high school students master 21st-century work skills as apprentices and interns.• $2,765,000 for the National Textile Center at North Carolina State University to support basic and applied research to enhance the competitiveness of U.S. textile and apparel industry.• $2,000,000 for the State of North Carolina to help fund I-540 improvements. This is one of many infrastructure projects across the nation that are expected to create or sustain 1.5 million jobs.• $750,000 to aid construction of the City of Raleigh's Capital Area Transit System Operations and Maintenance Facility. This project will replace CAT's 30-year old facility, creating construction jobs locally, and improving area transit.At the national level, the consolidated appropriations bill dramatically increased investments in areas that will have a direct impact on economic recovery efforts, including:Infrastructure:Creates an estimated 1.5 million jobs by investing $41.8 billion in highway infrastructure, increases by 10.6% construction funds for new commuter rail systems and invests $2.5 billion in high speed/intercity passenger rail.Worker Training and Placement:Provides increased resources for key training and placement initiatives, including community college programs to help prepare workers for careers in high-demand and emerging industries.Innovation:Invests in an Innovation Agenda to make America more competitive, including a 10% increase in science education, a 7% increase in NSF-funded scientific research, and investments in Manufacturing Extension Partnerships and the Technology Innovation Program.Small Business:Provides a 35% increase in funding for the Small Business Administration, enabling it to support $28 billion in new lending for America's 25 million small businesses in 2010.Improving Education:Invests in proven programs like Head Start and innovative programs like the Teacher Incentive Fund to raise student achievement and makes college more affordable by enabling a maximum Pell Grant in 2010 of $5,550 – which is $1,500 higher than it was in January 2007.Retaining Cops and Other Law Enforcement:Provides funds to hire or retain 1,400 cops in 2010, and helps state and local governments retain other law enforcement personnel with investments in such programs as the Byrne JAG program and Violence Against Women.A complete, agency-specific breakdown of programs funded by the program, as well as the text of the bill, can be found on the House Appropriations Committee's website. Earlier this year, Congress passed, and President Obama signed into law, Rep. Price's $40 billion Homeland Security appropriations bill. Rep. Price is the Chairman of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, which funds the Department of Homeland Security.# # #
12.09.2009	Washington, D.C. - As a part of ongoing efforts to create jobs, the U.S. House of Representatives today passed H.R. 4213, the Tax Extenders Act of 2009 by a 241-181 margin. Rep. David Price (NC-04) voted in favor of the $31 billion tax relief bill, which renews a crucial research and development tax credit, as well as tax credits for middle class families and teachers."Creating jobs is fundamental to economic recovery," Rep. Price said. "This bill includes a series of tax cuts that will give consumers more purchasing power, and free capital for businesses to hire more employees."Approximately $17 billion of the $31 billion in tax cuts authorized by the bill will go to employers and small businesses. The Research and Development tax credit preserved by the legislation will benefit over 11,000 employers. Nearly 70% of the benefits returned to employers by the R&D tax credit go to pay the salaries of workers conducting innovative research based in the United States."Research is a huge sector of our economy here in the Triangle," Rep. Price said. "Triangle companies are currently leading the way on green energy research, biomedical research and telecommunications research. These tax cuts are a critical part of ensuring our local companies have the workers they need to grow and continue to be successful."The bill includes $5 billion in tax cuts for American families, providing homeowners with property tax relief and tuition deductions. Teachers will also receive a tax deduction for the cost of classroom expenses under the legislation.Another $3.4 billion will go to community economic programs, such as providing small businesses with a tax credit for continuing to pay activated military reservists during deployments. More than 550,000 Army Reserve and National Guard members have been deployed since 2001. The bill also extends tax incentives for Empowerment Zones and Renewal Communities that help individuals and small businesses investing in turning around economically depressed areas.The bill, which is deficit neutral, is paid for by closing tax loopholes that allow investment fund managers to pay a lower tax rate than other Americans, and by empowering the Treasury Department with new tools to crack down on tax evasion.# # #
12.02.2009	Washington, D.C. - In preparation for the 2010 Decennial Census, the U.S. Census Bureau is filling hundreds of thousands of positions for good-paying, temporary, part-time positions in local communities across the nation.The Census drives the apportionment process that helps determine the number of congressional districts in a state, and how federal investments in schools, roads, and other projects, are divided among different areas."Paying upwards of $16 an hour, these positions could be a good fit for anyone interested in working part-time, those between jobs, or people interested in helping their local community." Rep. David Price said. "Accurate population numbers are vitally important because they help ensure that constituents get their fair share in the form of federal investments and services."Constituents should call their local census office to inquire about open positions. Contact information for Census Bureau offices in Fourth Congressional District communities is below. Outside of the Fourth Congressional District, North Carolinians can call 1-866-861-2010 to find their local Census Bureau Office.Durham, NC Census Bureau OfficeWest Main StreetDurham, NC 27702Phone: 919-328-1340Census takers start at: $16.25/hourRaleigh, NC Census Bureau OfficeAtlantic AvenueRaleigh, NC 27604Phone: 919-866-3720Census takers start at: $16.25/hourInterested applicants can click here for a list of Frequently Asked Question about Census Jobs, or visit the Census Bureau's website at www.census.gov.# # #
12.02.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price issued the following statement today in response to President Obama's speech outlining his revised strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan:"Tonight, President Obama delivered what the American people have been waiting for: a clear and compelling explanation of our goals in Afghanistan and the strategy we will pursue in order to achieve them. I commend the President for taking the time he needed to consult widely and weigh his choices carefully. Decisions of this magnitude should not be taken lightly, and anybody who listened to the President's words can be confident that the strategy he outlined reflects his reasoned judgment about the best way forward and his profound concern for the wellbeing of our men and women in uniform.As the President made clear, our overriding objective in this conflict is to defeat and deny safe haven to those who perpetrated the worst terrorist attack in our nation's history. But as he also recognized, military force alone will not achieve this goal. Stability in Afghanistan and Pakistan depends ultimately on effective governance, political reconciliation, social and economic development, and regional cooperation.The United States cannot and should not bear full responsibility for these goals, but we can work with our allies to provide the stability and support needed for Afghans and Pakistanis to take ownership of them. The President's strategy calls for a short-term troop increase to accelerate this transition, but it also sets a clear goal of beginning to draw down combat forces within 18 months. Our commitment to Afghanistan and Pakistan is enduring, but our military presence must not be.Over the coming weeks, Congress will hear from Gen. McChrystal, Secretary Clinton, and other senior officials about the details of the President's strategy. Serious questions remain unanswered, particularly regarding the intentions and capabilities of the Afghan government, but we owe it to the country to give the President's decision the same level of careful scrutiny and reasoned debate that he showed in making it. I look forward to participating actively in these discussions."# # #
12.01.2009	Washington, D.C. - After returning from a mid-November trip to Afghanistan, where he met with Afghan President Hamid Karzai, members of the Afghan Parliament and Gens. McChrystal and Eikenbury, Congressman David Price (NC-04) penned the following column for the Charlotte Observer. Published today, the column outlines four major challenges the United States faces as it moves forward in Afghanistan.The Congressman led the trip, which also made stops in Pakistan and Lebanon, in his capacity as Chairman of the House Democracy Partnership, which partners with legislatures in developing democracies on institutional development projects. The Congressman's column is below:Charlotte Observer – Focusing on troop levels obscures the wider issues: In Pakistan and Afghanistan, U.S. must think long-term.By Rep. David PriceDecember 1, 2009As President Barack Obama prepares to unveil his revised strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan, I - like many Americans - have been reflecting on the future of our country's involvement in the two countries. I recently led a bipartisan delegation to Islamabad and Kabul as chairman of the House Democracy Partnership, and returned with four observations that should help guide the coming decisions facing Congress.First, Afghanistan's future is tied inextricably to Pakistan's - and vice-versa. The administration has wisely made this a guiding principle of its strategic review, but public debate has focused on Afghanistan, without considering how instability on either side of the border feeds instability on the other. The Pakistani military has waged a largely successful campaign against the so-called "Pakistani Taliban," but it has yet to take on the "Afghan Taliban" responsible for plotting the cross-border insurgency. Should it do so, the U.S.-NATO effort in Afghanistan would be significantly enhanced. Should it fail to do so, or should political instability undermine its progress, then coalition forces will continue to face steep odds in their attempt to secure southern and eastern Afghanistan - which in turn bodes ill for Pakistan's stability.Second, the underlying challenges facing the two countries are fundamentally nonmilitary in nature. This also has become somewhat of a truism among senior policymakers, including Gen. Stanley McChrystal, but you wouldn't know it from the public debate, which has focused myopically on troop levels. This narrow focus misconstrues the real nature of the problem and sends the wrong signals to our allies in Kabul and Islamabad about our long-term commitment.Third, leaders in both countries worry the U.S. will abandon them once it has achieved its short-term objectives. This reduces their willingness to buy into our long-term strategy. The ghosts of the early 1990s - when U.S. interest in Afghanistan waned after the Soviet withdrawal - loom large in Kabul, while the U.S.-Pakistani relationship has always been one of fits and starts. Our fixation over troop levels only reinforces fears that history will repeat itself. Instead, we should be discussing a transfer of security responsibilities within the broader context of an enduring commitment that will long outlast the last American boots on the ground.Fourth, the basis of this long-term commitment should be support for strong institutions, not strong individuals. The Bush administration's unwavering support for former President Pervez Musharraf still resonates bitterly among many Pakistanis, while many Afghans perceive us to be casting our lot with President Hamid Karzai at the expense of other institutions. In the near term, Karzai's ability to follow words with actions will be critical. But in the long run, stability lies in helping Afghanistan and Pakistan build independent and effective institutions that don't depend on the individuals at their helm. One place to start would be with their national legislatures, which include sizable numbers of credible leaders ready to assume greater responsibility.I returned from Pakistan and Afghanistan struck by the gravity of the moment and the profound importance of getting things right before it is too late. Obama has been wise to take the time to consult widely and weigh the consequences of his decision. Congress owes it to the country to give his proposal the same level of scrutiny and reasoned debate.While much of our focus will be on troop levels, we must remember that peace and security depend ultimately on effective governance, political reconciliation, social and economic development and regional cooperation. The continued presence of U.S. forces makes sense only to the degree it serves these larger objectives.U.S. Rep. David Price chairs the House Democracy Partnership, a commission working to strengthen democratic institutions in 14 countries, including Afghanistan.# # #
11.24.2009	Holly Springs, NC – Congressman David Price spoke at the opening of Novartis' new flu vaccine-producing facility in Holly Springs, North Carolina on Tuesday. The new facility, which has the capacity to create up to 150 million doses of vaccine, will be a crucial part of federal efforts to defeat emerging viral threats like H1N1 and seasonal flu.The facility has already created 190 local jobs and will eventually bring 350 high-paying jobs to the area. The Congressman's remarks are below:Good afternoon. I've been remembering the excitement and promise of the groundbreaking on this spot just over two years ago. But even then we could hardly have anticipated the circumstances under which we dedicate this world-class facility today—circumstances that redouble the significance of what Novartis will do here and of what local, state, and national leaders have done to bring us to this day.First, we understand the economic impact. With 191 fulltime employees already hired and an additional 159 employees to be added by 2011, Novartis is bringing good, well-paying jobs to the Triangle. At this challenging economic time, this is a welcome affirmation of what our people and our communities have to offer. We will recover; we will recapture the promise of a diverse and growing economy. We welcome Novartis as a corporate citizen and we are heartened by what the company's investment here will mean to our community.Second, we are celebrating the Triangle leading the way in domestic advanced vaccine manufacturing, a venture rendered all the more significant by the H1N1 outbreak we face. The science behind what this facility will do has been explained by others, and I remain in awe of it. It uses the first major advancement in vaccine manufacturing technology in more than 50 years. Flu vaccine made from cell cultures – not from eggs – is faster, simpler, more consistent and more reliable.As Congress heard in H1N1 preparedness hearings, the United States needs vaccine production that is more reliable and domestically produced. Since the vast majority of influenza vaccinations are made abroad, Novartis, here in the Triangle, will put the United States in a better position to meet future influenza threats.I was happy to work with Novartis, other North Carolina companies, and colleagues in Congress to secure funding over the last few years for pandemic influenza preparedness. Much of this funding went directly and indirectly into the building of this manufacturing plant, creating and maintaining essential jobs while addressing vital national health need.We appreciate Novartis' commitment to North Carolina and the Triangle and the innovative products they produce to treat patients, ease suffering, and enhance quality of life for citizens around the world. We appreciate the team effort that encouraged and reinforced Novartis' happy choice of Holly Springs. Our celebration is genuine, but as is often the case on such occasions, it is combined with an awareness of the challenges that lie ahead and a determination to take them on together.# # #
11.17.2009	Washington, D.C. - Representative David Price (NC-04) has returned from leading a congressional delegation to Lebanon, Afghanistan and Pakistan. Price led the delegation in his capacity as Chairman of the House Democracy Partnership (HDP), a bipartisan commission that works with 14 partner countries around the world to strengthen and consolidate democratic institutions.In Lebanon, Rep. Price's delegation met with senior officials including President Michel Suleiman, Prime Minister Sa'ad Hariri, and Speaker Nabih Berri to congratulate them on the successful formation of a new government following five months of political stalemate. The delegation also held several workshops with members of parliament as part of HDP's three-year-old partnership with the Lebanese National Assembly.In Pakistan, the delegation conducted a broad range of meetings with members of the Pakistan National Assembly to discuss the current challenges facing Pakistan and reaffirm the U.S. commitment to a constructive bilateral relationship. The delegation also met with Prime Minister Yousaf Gilani and leaders of Pakistan's majority and opposition political parties.In Afghanistan, the delegation met with senior U.S. and Afghan government officials including Ambassador Karl Eikenberry, General Stanley McChrystal, President Hamid Karzai, and Dr. Abdullah Abdullah to discuss the challenges facing Afghanistan and President Obama's ongoing strategic review. The delegation also held several roundtables with members of the Afghan National Assembly as part of HDP's three-year-old partnership, met with U.N. officials about the recent presidential election, and had breakfast with American troops serving in Afghanistan, including several from North Carolina.Rep. Price is available for interviews about his trip by request (Contact: Andrew High, 202-225-1784 or Andrew.High@mail.house.gov).# # #
11.07.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC), who announced his intention to vote in favor of the legislation on November 3, issued the following statement today during floor debate on H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act:Mr. Speaker, as the House of Representatives approaches this historic vote, my mind travels back to the formative years when I first became engaged in politics, and also to hundreds of meetings I have had with constituents since the citizens of North Carolina's Fourth district first sent me to Congress.I came of age as the civil rights movement of the late '50s and early '60s swept across the country. It shaped and transformed my social, religious, and political views. I remember the culminating moment in 1964 when, as a Senate staff member, I crowded into the gallery and witnessed the dramatic passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.That momentous bill marked an expansion of democracy and of access to opportunity for millions of Americans. Today's vote is also momentous, and it also marks an expansion of democracy's promise. Today we resolve that never again will American citizens be denied access to health insurance, and that one of life's most basic needs – health care – will be available to all of our people.As I think back on my years of congressional service, I remember meetings with parents terrified at the prospect that their children with serious illnesses would not be able to obtain coverage when they reach adulthood. I remember maddening stories of families coping with illness while simultaneously fighting with insurance companies. I remember young adults unable to buy affordable insurance, often because of allergies or other minor conditions. I remember retirees not yet eligible for Medicare being quoted rates of thousands per month because of their health history.Mr. Speaker, we have all heard these stories. They are unworthy of our country. And today we have the opportunity to bring such hardship and heartache to an end. The American people deserve a health care system that works for them – one that provides access to stable coverage, quality care, and affordable premiums and copayments. The legislation before us today will correct the failures of the American health care system without compromising its many strengths or adding to the budget deficit.If you have coverage at work, you'll be able to keep it - but the loss of a job will no longer mean the loss of affordable coverage. And your insurance company will no longer be able to impose lifetime benefit limits; discriminate on the basis of age, gender, or pre-existing conditions; or cancel your policy if you get sick.If you have coverage through Medicare, you'll have more benefits and lower out-of-pocket costs, including no more copayments for preventive and many diagnostic services, and a 50% discount on your brand-name prescriptions, and a progressive closing of the gap in coverage known as the "doughnut hole."If you don't have coverage at all, you'll be able to buy it on the National Health Exchange at the same affordable group rates that big companies have always been able to negotiate for their employees. And you'll have more than one choice, so that companies will have to compete for your business instead of the other way around.Landmark reforms—Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid—these things do not come easily. We were sent to Congress this year to do what is difficult. Despite the efforts of some shrill voices, we are on the verge of overcoming the special interests that halted reform more than a decade ago, to deliver on landmark legislation that will make a positive difference in the life of every American. It is an historical moment, an essential investment in our nation's long-term fiscal and economic well-being, and it's long overdue. I urge my colleagues to vote yes on the Affordable Health Care for America Act.# # #
11.06.2009	Washington, D.C. - Earlier this year, Representative David Price distributed a district survey to over 350,000 households as a part of his summer newsletter. The district newsletter, which is distributed annually, updates constituents on Rep. Price's work in Congress, and legislation that will soon come before the body.Constituent responses indicated strong support for health insurance reform and efforts to address global warming. Results are tabulated below.1. What is your general perspective on our health insurance system?56% Major Changes are needed27.1% Changes should be made cautiously and incrementally7.8% Very few changes are advisable8.8% Other2. Do you have personal health insurance coverage and, if so, how do you feel about it?39.4% Have coverage, very satisfied40.1% Have coverage, believe it could be improved10.6 % Have coverage, dissatisfied3.5% Do not have coverage5.8% Other3. Which of the following elements of health insurance reform do you favor (pick all that apply)?75.5% Forbid insurance companies from denying coverage because of an applicant's medical history49.2% Require all individuals to obtain insurance, to lower costs for everyone and achieve universal coverage45.5% Require mid-sized and large businesses to cover their employees or pay into a fund to help cover the uninsured67.3% Provide subsidies and/or tax breaks to small businesses and individuals of modest income to help them afford coverage55.9% Establish a publically-administered insurance plan as an option to increase choice and competition with private plans48.2% Reimburse health care providers for patient health outcomes as well as for specific services, in order to reduce unnecessary procedures, control costs, and improve results4. The Bush tax cuts for people making over $250,000 per year are scheduled to expire next year. What should Congress do?22.2% Make the tax cuts permanent37.9% Allow the cuts to expire on schedule, and use the money for investments like economic development, health care, education and transportation31.5% Allow the cuts to expire on schedule, and use the money to pay down the national debt7.2% Other5. How serious a problem is global warming for our environment and society?59.8% A major threat16.3% A minor threat13.8% No threat9.0% Other6. Which of the following elements of clean energy legislation do you favor (pick all that apply)?66.2% Reduce the use of fossil fuels compared to renewable and other non-polluting sources of energy54.8% Set overall limits on greenhouse gas pollution and use market-based incentives to reduce industry emissions79.5% Increase research and development of alternative energy sources68.8% Provide financial incentives to conserve energy for homeowners, car owners, and businesses# # #
11.03.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement today supporting H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act:Over the past few months, I have attended town halls and roundtable discussions, met with a wide variety of constituent groups, conducted two telephone town halls with hundreds of participants, and read thousands of letters and emails from Triangle residents about the complex issue of health care reform. I have heard a lot of different views on how to improve our health care system, but nearly everybody agrees on one thing: Maintaining the status quo is not an option.In the last ten years, premiums for employer-sponsored health insurance have risen at three times the rate of wages. The United States now spends 50 percent more per person on health care than the next costliest nation in the world. These skyrocketing costs are squeezing family budgets, threatening the viability of businesses, consuming state and local budgets, and exploding the federal deficit. At the same time insurance companies are raising premiums, they are cutting benefits, cancelling policies for those who get sick, and denying coverage whenever they can label something a "pre-existing condition."The American people need a health care system that works for them – one that provides access to stable coverage, quality care, and affordable premiums and copayments. That's what health insurance reform is all about.The bill moving through the House of Representatives (H.R. 3962) would provide a basic assurance to every American: Never again will you be denied health insurance. Under the legislation, insurance companies would be prohibited from discriminating on the basis of pre-existing medical conditions, age, or gender. In addition, the bill would establish a health insurance exchange so that uninsured individuals and small businesses could purchase coverage at the same affordable group rates which have always been negotiated by big businesses. The exchange would include a publically-administered plan as well as an array of private plans. Finally, those who like their present employer-provided coverage could keep it, but they would no longer be subject to lifetime benefit limits imposed by some insurance companies – and the loss of a job would no longer mean the loss of affordable health coverage. In short, the legislation would correct the failures of the American health care system without compromising its many strengths, or adding to the budget deficit.I believe health insurance reform is an essential investment in our nation's long-term fiscal and economic well-being, and I plan to support HR 3962 when it comes before the House. # # #
11.03.2009	ANNUAL VETERANS' BRIEFINGMonday, November 9, 20098:00 am – 10:00 amWake County Commons Building4011 Carya Drive, RaleighRSVP: 919.688.3004 or 919.859.5999Rep. David Price invites Fourth District veterans to join the annual Veterans' Briefing. Price will co-host the briefing along with Reps. Bob Etheridge and Brad Miller.Over the last three years, Congress has been working diligently to honor our country's commitment to veterans, passing legislation to improve GI benefits and increase funding for VA health care, research, and other needs. At the briefing, veterans will hear more about these bills and hear from local VA officials about benefits and services available in our area.This year's briefing is at a new location to accommodate as many participants as possible, but seating is still limited. To RSVP, please call 919.688.3004 or 919.859.5999.
10.29.2009	Washington, D.C. - Representative David Price (D-NC) has secured funding for two local water projects that will help bring clean drinking water to constituents and improve area water and wastewater treatment infrastructure capacity. During House-Senate conference negotiations on the Department of the Interior Appropriations bill, Rep. Price maintained $1.5 million in federal investments in water resource management for the Fourth Congressional District."I am proud to bring these federal investments in clean water back to my constituents," Rep. Price said. "Water supply has become especially important given the severe droughts the area has experienced over the past few years. These funds will help to maintain a safe and adequate drinking water supply for Triangle residents and ensure that the area can meet future water needs. These infrastructure projects are also going to benefit the economy by creating jobs."The federal investments come on the heels of additional water and other infrastructure investments made through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Nearly $3.7 billion dollars in federal investments have been directed to North Carolina thus far, including more than $130 million for clean water and drinking water improvements.Price served as a conferee during the House-Senate negotiations that resolved differences between the two body's bills. The bill is expected to be passed by the House and Senate this week before being signed into law by the President. The bill would invest $3.6 billion in clean drinking water and wastewater infrastructure improvements nationwide, including:• $500,000 for the Dempsey E. Benton Water Treatment Plant Backwash Waste Facility in Raleigh. The wastewater plant is schedule to come online in 2010, allowing the city of Raleigh to meet the area's future water needs by providing additional reliability and system capacity. The federal investment will go to a system to filter sedimentation residuals out of water before it is returned to Lake Benson.• $1,000,000 for the Western Wake Regional Wastewater Management Facility in the Town of Cary. The facility, once completed, will allow Wake County and the towns of Apex, Cary and Morrisville to meet state requirements on returning reclaimed water to the Cape Fear River.# # #
10.21.2009	Washington, D.C. - On Thursday, the House of Representatives is expected to pass the Solar Technology Roadmap Act, which would make a historic investment in solar power research and direct the development of a comprehensive roadmap for solar technology research, development and demonstration (RD&D). The bill, which has bipartisan support, would invest $2.25 billion in solar research programs and demonstration projects from FY 2011 to FY 2015. Congressman David Price (D-NC) plans to support the legislation."The Solar Roadmap is important because it will help ensure research is directed strategically," Rep. Price said. "We have to balance investments in solar power that will offer immediate results with longer-term initiatives that offer the potential for bigger, transformative changes in the way we generate power."The bill calls for a Committee to develop the Solar Technology Roadmap within eighteen months. The Roadmap would identify the RD&D needs of the industry over the next fifteen years and be used to guide federal investments in solar research. By 2015, the bill would require 75% of DOE solar energy research to support activities identified and recommended in the Solar Roadmap.In addition to developing the Solar Roadmap, the bill would authorize significant investments in RD&D activities. Using an innovative public-private partnership, the federal government would conduct at least 10 photovoltaic demonstration projects ranging from one to three megawatts, and three to five demonstration projects greater than 30 megawatts in size."By bringing federal research expertise and commercial interests together, these partnerships will help speed the adoption of solar power," Rep. Price said. "The faster we bring clean energy innovations to market, the faster we'll be able to decrease our dependence on foreign oil and create a new generation of green jobs."The bill was sponsored by Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (D-AZ) and has been endorsed by a broad coalition of business and energy leaders including the National Association of Manufacturers, the Solar Energy Industries Association, IBM, Intel and National Semiconductor.# # #
10.16.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (NC-04) toured a local solar farm in Cary today with North Carolina Senator Kay Hagan, Representative Bob Etheridge (NC-02), Representative G.K. Butterfield (NC-01), Secretary of Energy Steven Chu and Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar. The six toured the farm, owned and operated by Southern Energy Management, while Sec. Salazar and Sec. Chu are in Cary to attend meetings with the Business Council on energy policy options and American competitiveness. Price gave brief remarks before the tour."We must find new, clean-energy solutions to meet our resource needs, reduce our dependence on foreign oil and create a new generation of jobs, providing climate and energy security for us, and generations to come," Rep. Price said.The Business Council is an association of top executives from some of the world's leading businesses. Its members include the CEOs of major American companies like Amazon.com, Goldman Sachs, Caterpillar and Johnson & Johnson. The council's meeting included speakers on addressing global climate change, using technology to meet energy challenges and the economic implications of pending legislation."American companies could reap huge benefits by being early adopters of the clean-energy technologies now coming to market," Rep. Price said. "With our world-class research universities, and innovative businesses, the Triangle can show American businesses the path from research and development to implementation."Southern Energy Management operates the solar farm for SAS Institute's headquarters in Cary. It uses solar panels to capture sunlight and generate electricity for 200 homes. The company also partners with local universities and entities across the state, on clean-energy solar projects.# # #
10.15.2009	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman David Price, the chairman of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, secured final House passage of his bill to fund U.S. homeland security efforts for the next year. The House passed the bill by a 307-114 vote, a strong, bipartisan margin of approval. The legislation appropriates more than $42 billion to fund the operations of all programs administered by the Department of Homeland Security."The security of this nation is priority number one," Rep. Price said. "This bill includes strong investments to keep the American people safe, and I am pleased to count it among my most important accomplishments as a member of Congress."As the chairman of the appropriations subcommittee, Price was responsible for drafting and shepherding the bill through the legislative process. In discussions with fellow House members, and during House-Senate conference negotiations resolving differences between both chambers' bill, Price served as lead negotiator."Passing this bill and giving our homeland security professionals the resources they need is a credit to the hard work done by all the members of my subcommittee," Price said. "We had to navigate some choppy waters to see this through, including on contentious issues like immigration and the handling of detainees at Guantanamo Bay. Fortunately, in the end, a rational approach that preserves American values and national security interests carried the day."Price negotiated a compromise on provisions restricting the movement of Guantanamo Bay detainees in the legislation. The legislation preserves the Obama Administration's flexibility to bring detainees to trial in the United States, with requirements that the Administration provides a risk mitigation plan and advance notice to Congress and the destination state. It also requires greater transparency on the movement to detainees to other countries, and prevents their release in the United States and its territories."The Guantanamo Bay detention facility is a stain on our reputation around the world, and an affront to one of this country's founding beliefs: that those who do wrong, no matter how evil, can be brought to justice under the rule of law," Rep. Price said. "We must close Guantanamo, and this bill will allow the administration to move toward final resolution of the cases of the remaining detainees."The underlying bill boosts efforts to increase the security along our borders. There are additional investments to combat the violence, drug smuggling and weapons smuggling currently occurring on our Southwest Border. In addition, the bill invests in improving aviation security, port security and transit security. Among the many important programs, these funds will be used to purchase and install the latest explosive detection systems at airports nationwide and develop and deploy systems to screen cargo containers for weapons and nuclear materials."This legislation prepares our nation for 21st century security challenges," said Rep. Price. "It allows us to better prevent threats and attacks, prepare and plan for emergencies, and enhance our response capacities within our communities."The legislation provides first responders with the equipment and training they need to maintain public safety. It includes over $3 billion in grants for local municipalities to protect critical infrastructure in high-threat areas, help local fire departments and upgrade central command facilities.# # #
10.08.2009	Washington, D.C. - The U.S. House of Representatives today enacted a series of new measures to rein in the government's use of private security contractors as part of its annual bill to authorize Department of Defense operations. Congressman David Price (D-NC) strongly applauded the measures, several of which closely parallel legislation authored by Price in the 111th Congress."Contractors need to be accountable, and that means more transparency is necessary," Congressman Price said. "We need to ensure that contractors operate within the bounds of the law and that sensitive operations like the interrogation of detainees are conducted by our military."The North Carolina congressman has been at the forefront of congressional efforts to promote greater transparency and accountability in the government's use of private security contractors, which has expanded dramatically in recent years. Federal laws and regulations have failed to keep pace with this expanded use, and the consequences of this legal vacuum have been evident in a series of high-profile incidents involving contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan.In the 111th Congress, Price has sponsored two major contractor reform bills: the Transparency and Accountability in Security Contracting Act (H.R. 2177), which would establish a comprehensive set of rules and procedures governing U.S. contractors throughout the world; and the Transparency and Accountability in Intelligence Contracting Act (H.R. 963), which pertains specifically to the operations of intelligence contractors. He will soon be introducing an updated version of his legislation to extend U.S. legal jurisdiction to contractors overseas, an earlier version of which was approved by the House in 2007 by a large bipartisan majority.The FY 2010 National Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 2647) would build upon these efforts by establishing new safeguards against the outsourcing of governmental functions, enhancing the Pentagon's ability to deny contracts to companies with rogue employees, and prohibiting contractors from performing certain sensitive activities. Specifically, the bill will:• Prohibit the interrogation of detainees by contractors. Both of Price's contractor reform bills, as well as his Interrogation and Detention Reform Act (H.R. 591) contain a similar prohibition.• Require better recordkeeping on contractors. The bill would require the Department of Defense to include information in its annual budget request about the amount being requested for contract services and the number of contractors employed.• Authorize the Department of Defense to deny contracts to companies found to jeopardize the health or safety of government personnel."This is an important next step in this effort," Rep. Price said, "but in the end what is needed is a comprehensive solution that applies to all U.S. contractors overseas, regardless of where or for whom they work. I am committed to moving forward on this issue, and I look forward to advancing my own stand-alone, comprehensive legislation later this Congress."# # #
10.08.2009	Washington, D.C. - North Carolina Congressmen Bob Etheridge (NC-02), David Price (NC-04), and Brad Miller (NC-13) teamed with Senator Kay Hagan today to announce a $3 million grant to North Carolina State University's Mid-Atlantic Joint Excellence in Solar Training Consortia (MAJESTC) project."North Carolina has always been a leader in scientific research, and this investment will help put North Carolina at the forefront of training our future solar technology engineers," said Hagan. "These types of investments will help create jobs in the state and decrease our dependence on foreign oil."The grant is funded through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act passed by Congress earlier this year."I am pleased to see Recovery Act investments are laying the foundation for new green industries that will provide good, high-paying jobs right here in the Triangle," Congressman David Price said. "Clean energy is going to be a big part of the twenty-first century economy, and our world-class research institutions in North Carolina are leading the way."MAJESTC trains community college instructors to incorporate solar energy training in their curriculums for electricians and plumbers, providing the necessary background for graduates to support the quickly developing solar energy field."This grant will be used to support clean energy solutions to create jobs and build a new economy," Etheridge said. "North Carolina will continue to be a leader in this field because we have the technology, the training and the determination to put people to work and reduce our dependence on foreign oil."The grants, which will be administered by the Department of Energy, were awarded as a part of $50 million in Recovery Act funds distributed today to support the development of new solar energy technologies and the rapid deployment of available carbon-free solar energy systems."The MAJESTC program makes North Carolina a leader in technology critical to the future," said Rep. Brad Miller (NC-13). "By training people to install new solar technology we are creating the next generation of jobs, and decreasing our dependence on foreign oil and dirty fuels."More than $4 billion has been invested in North Carolina as a part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Federal investments have gone to a wide range of projects including road construction, clean energy grants, medical and disease research and support for vital state and local government programs.# # #
10.07.2009	Washington, D.C. - House and Senate negotiators today reached agreement on the Fiscal Year 2010 Homeland Security Appropriations bill, paving the way for its final approval and delivery to the President for his signature. As the Chairman of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, Congressman David Price (D-NC) was responsible for drafting and shepherding the bill through the House of Representatives and was one of the lead negotiators at today's conference committee. Today's agreement resolved the remaining differences between the versions of the bill passed in the House and Senate."I am pleased that the Senate and House conferees were able to come to an agreement on this crucial legislation," Rep. Price said. "I am proud of the substantial investments being made in securing our borders, protecting the American people from terrorist threats, and making sure our first responders have the resources they need to keep our communities safe. This agreement also makes substantial progress toward strengthening the still-young Department of Homeland Security while cutting spending on unnecessary programs. I was happy to work with my Republican and Democratic colleagues to produce such a sound agreement, and I look forward to seeing it through to its enactment in law."Complete details can be found in the conference summary below:FY2010 CONFERENCE SUMMARY: HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONSThe Homeland Security Appropriations Bill is focused on securing our nation's borders and preparing for any potential disaster. The conference agreement totals $42.776 billion of discretionary budget authority for fiscal year 2010, $2.648 billion, or 6.6 percent, above fiscal year 2009.Bill Total2009 Enacted: $40.128 billion2010 President's Request: $43.071 billion (includes Coast Guard Overseas Contingencies)House Passed: $42.617 billionSenate Passed: $42.927 billionConference Agreement: $42.776 billionKEY INVESTMENTSCustoms and Border Protection (CBP): $10.1 billion, $306 million above 2009, excluding stimulus funding. Funding within CBP for border security includes:• Border Security Fencing, Infrastructure, and Technology (BSFIT): $800 million for Southwest Border investments, $25 million above 2009, and $22 million above the budget request. Through a mix of fencing, technology, and Border Patrol agents on the ground CBP now has nearly 700 miles of Southwest border under effective control, compared to 241 miles in FY 2005.o BSFIT funding includes $40 million, the same as 2009, for additional investments in Northern Border security technology.• Border Patrol: $3.587 billion, $86 million above 2009, to fully support 20,163 Border Patrol agents – an increase of 6,000 (or more than 50 percent) since 2006.• Southwest Border Counterdrug Initiatives: $72.6 million, including $20 million for additional scanning systems for southbound lanes and checkpoints, and $26 million above the request for 50 additional CBP officers, 100 Border Patrol agents, and 33 support personnel and equipment to stop the outbound flow of weapons and currency used in the drug trade. All inspection equipment is to be competitively procured.• Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative: $145 million, as requested, to continue deploying technology and infrastructure at the 46 busiest border ports of entry and to facilitate travel and security for all travelers.Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE): $5.437 billion, $447.7 million above 2009, including:• Dangerous Criminal Aliens: $1.5 billion for identifying and removing from the United States criminal aliens who are either at-large or already incarcerated in prisons or jails once an immigration judge has ordered them deported.o Secure Communities: Included in the $1.5 billion is $200 million, $50 million above 2009, for a program that allows local law enforcement to check fingerprints of people booked on criminal charges for immigration and criminal records.• Southwest Border Violence: $100 million to combat international trade in illicit drugs, weapons smuggling and crimes associated with violence along the Southwest Border. This is part of an overall $99 million increase over 2009 for ICE investigations. Funding includes:o $70 million, as requested, to expand operations related to Southwest border violence by initiating more ICE investigations, intelligence activities, and international programs;o $10 million above the request for investigations of transnational gangs;o $10 million above the request for expansion of Border Enforcement Security Task Forces (BESTs); ando $10 million above the request for counter-proliferation investigation, including bulk cash and weapons smuggling investigations.• Detention Capacity: Funding for 33,400 detention beds and statutory language requiring that this number of beds be maintained throughout the fiscal year.• Worksite Enforcement: $135 million, $6 million above the request, to hire special agents to perform audits of employers.• Alternatives to Detention: $70 million, $6 million above the request, to expand this program nationwideUnited States Visitor and Immigrant Status Indicator Technology (US-VIST): $373.7 million, $73.7 million above 2009, for the US-VISIT program which uses biometrics to track the entry of visitors to the United States. The bill directs that a total of $50 million be used to implement a biometric air exit capability so that we can determine if individuals have overstayed their visas.United States Citizenship and Immigration Services: $224 million, $122 million above 2009, including $5 million to cover naturalization of immigrants serving in the U.S. armed services, $50 million for processing asylum and refugee applications, and $11 million to expand immigrant integration and outreach efforts that promote legal paths to US citizenship.• E-Verify: Includes a 3-year extension of E-Verify, as requested, and $137 million to operate the system and further improve its accuracy and compliance rates.Transportation Security Administration (TSA): $7.7 billion, $678.7 million above 2009, excluding stimulus funding. Funding includes:• Explosive Detection Systems: $778.3 million in discretionary funding to purchase and install explosives detection systems at airports. An additional $250 million will be provided for this activity through mandatory fees.• Air Cargo Security: $122.8 million, including $3.5 million above the budget request for 50 additional inspectors to ensure compliance with the 100% screening mandate set for August 2010 in the 9/11 Act; $2.2 million above the budget request for inspectors and canine teams to convert 35 legacy teams to proprietary teams; and $9 million above the budget request for testing and deployment of screening technologies.• Surface Transportation Security: $110.5 million, including funds for 15 new Visible Intermodal Protective Response security teams and 100 new surface transportation security inspectors to defend against potential attacks against our subways, trains, and buses.Coast Guard: $8.8 billion (excluding mandatory funding), $275.2 million above 2009, including:• Deepwater: $1.154 billion, $120 million above 2009, including $389 million to complete production of the fourth National Security Cutter (NSC #4) and for long lead time materials for NSC #5.• Maritime patrol aircraft: $138.5 million for adding two patrol aircraft to the service rotation.• Fast Response Cutters: $243 million for four patrol boats.• Response Boat Mediums: $121 million to replace 41 foot Utility Boats in use since the early 1970's.• Interagency Operation Centers: $10 million for centers authorized by the SAFE Port Act.Federal Law Enforcement Training Center: $282.8 million for personnel and construction. The bill includes a general provision expanding the definition of "rural" to help the Rural Policing Institute reach jurisdictions in more rural areas of the United States.Chemical Security: $103.4 million for risk-based chemical facility security including $25 million above 2009 to support the coordination and management of regulating high-risk chemical facilities. The increase, combined with the conversion of contract employees to federal employees, will bring the total DHS chemical facility regulatory staffing to 246, which is 168 above 2009. The bill also includes a one year extension of DHS's regulatory authority to secure chemical facilities.FEMA: $903 million for FEMA Management and Administration. Together with amounts made available for management and administration from other FEMA accounts, these activities are funded at $9 million above fiscal year 2009.Science and Technology: $1.006 billion, $73.9 million above 2009, for research on homeland security priorities, such as counter-improvised explosives devices, cyber security, air cargo security, and first responder technologies.Cyber Security: $397 million, $84 million above 2009, to expedite the continuing effort to combat the cyber security threat by reducing the points of access to the federal computer network to prevent hacking; by coordinating with the private sector who owns 85 percent of the Nation's critical infrastructure; and by increasing security training and management of telecommunications, networks, computer systems, and the Internet.Homeland Security Grants: $4.17 billion, nearly $300 million above the request, for grants to first responders and partners in homeland security, including:• State Grants: $950 million, matching the request and 2009, for grants used to plan, equip and train local first responders to respond to terrorist attacks and catastrophic incidents, including $60 million for Operation Stonegarden.• Urban Area Security Grants: $887 million, matching the request and $50 million above 2009, to help high-risk urban communities prevent, respond to, and recover from terrorist attacks.• Rail/Transit Security Grants: $300 million, $50 million above the request, to protect critical transit infrastructure, including freight rail, Amtrak and ferry systems in high-threat areas.• Port Security Grants: $300 million, $50 million above the request, to assist ports in enhancing maritime domain awareness and enhancing risk management capabilities to prevent, detect, and respond to terrorist attacks.• Emergency Management Performance Grants: $340 million, $25 million above the request and 2009, for all-hazard grants for state and local emergency managers.• Fire Grants (including SAFER): $810 million, $220 million above the request and $35 million above 2009, to help local fire departments address communication, equipment and staffing problems. Of this total, $420 million is for SAFER, as requested, and $390 million is for fire grants.• Metropolitan Medical Response System: $41 million, $1 million above the request, to help high-threat communities respond to mass casualty incidents.• Interoperable Communications: $50 million, matching the request and 2009, for help firefighters and emergency responders talk to each other during a crisis.• Emergency Operations Centers: $60 million, $25 million above 2009, to equip and upgrade central command facilities used by emergency personnel during disasters.REAL ID: $60 million, $40 million below 2009, to help states comply with REAL ID, which requires state driver's licenses to meet new standards in order to be used for federal identification purposes. Of this total, $50 million is for the driver's license security grant program, the same as 2009, and $10 million is for REAL ID hub development.Emergency Food and Shelter: $200 million, matching 2009 and $100 million above the request, to address the increasing needs for food and shelter of our citizens in this time of economic downturn.Strengthening DHS Financial, Procurement, IT Systems, and other Management tools:• Data Center Migration: $150 million above 2009 to continue the migration of 24 DHS data centers located across the country and develop the two secure locations they will be housed in. This funding will enable DHS to effectively monitor all IT systems for compliance while reducing the risk of vulnerabilities in information systems. Migration to two centers will also allow the Department to mitigate disaster recovery deficiencies.• Office of Security: $90.2 million, $29.3 million above 2009, including: $20 million for secure identification cards for DHS employees pursuant to Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12; and $3 million to create a Personnel Security Adjudication Team to reduce the backlog in background investigations for security clearances, which has delayed hiring of critical positions at DHS.• Office of the Chief Procurement Officer: $68.5 million, $29.5 million above 2009, including: $7.5 million to create a new contracting component for classified programs; $8 million to increase capacity in the acquisition program management division (this increase will bolster the Department's efforts to oversee major Departmental procurements); and $7 million for 100 additional acquisition professionals across the Department to fill a shortage of qualified contracting professionals.Domestic Nuclear Detection Office (DNDO): $383 million, $131.2 million below 2009. The reduction reflects the Department's delay in developing next-generation radiation portal monitors. DNDO is encouraged to focus on deterrence to alternative pathways for bringing nuclear devices or radiological materials into the country, such as general aviation or small maritime vessels. A total of $20 million is provided for the Securing the Cities program.United States Secret Service: $1.5 billion, $70 million above 2009. Additional funds are for Secret Service personnel costs, a new overseas field office in Tallinn, Estonia, and to secure the Service's mission-critical computer applications.SIGNIFICANT CUTS:Advanced Spectroscopic Portal Monitors: Language is included prohibiting the Department from full-scale procurement of Advanced Spectroscopic Portal Monitors (ASP) monitors until the Secretary submits a report to the Committees on Appropriations certifying that a significant increase in operational effectiveness will be achieved.Program Eliminations: Cuts $319 million by eliminating funding for programs such as: advanced spectroscopic portal monitors, trucking industry security grants, and commercial equipment direct assistance program.OTHER IMPORTANT POLICY ITEMS:Guantanamo Bay Detention Facility: 1) Prohibits current detainees from being released into the continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, DC, or any U.S. territory. 2) Prohibits current detainees from being transferred to the continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, DC, or any U.S. territory, except to be prosecuted and only after Congress receives a plan detailing: risks involved and a plan for mitigating such risk; cost of the transfer; legal rationale and court demands; and a copy of the notification provided to the Governor of the receiving state 14 days before a transfer with a certification by the Attorney General that the individual poses little or no security risk. 3) Current detainees cannot be transferred or released to another country (including freely associated states) unless the President submits to Congress 15 days prior to such transfer: the name of the individual and the country the individual will be transferred to; an assessment of risks posed and actions taken to mitigate such risks; and the terms of the transfer agreement with the other country, including any financial assistance. 4) Requires the President to submit a report to Congress describing the disposition of each current detainee before the facility can be closed. 5) Bars the use of funds to provide any immigration benefits to GTMO detainees other than to allow them to be brought to the U.S. for prosecution. 6) Mandates the inclusion of all GTMO detainees on the TSA No Fly List.Detainee Photos: Codifies the President's decision to allow the Secretary of Defense to bar the release of detainee photos.National Bio and Agro-defense Facility (NBAF): Prohibits the obligation of construction funds until DHS undertakes a bio-safety and bio-security mitigation risk assessment to determine requirements for the safe operation of NBAF in Manhattan, Kansas. Once DHS completes the risk assessment, the National Academy of Sciences shall provide an independent evaluation of the DHS study to ensure that risk has been adequately identified and mitigated for in planning for NBAF. In addition, the Secretary of DHS, in coordination with the Secretary of Agriculture, shall report to the Committees on the procedures used to issue a permit for foot-and-mouth disease live virus research and an emergency response plan in the event of an accidental release of a hazardous pathogen originating from NBAF.Federal Protective Service (FPS): Transfers FPS from ICE to the National Protection and Programs Directorate and requires DHS to maintain a FPS in-service field staff of at least 900 FPS officers to protect Federal buildings.LORAN-C: Allows for termination of the LORAN-C signal on January 4, 2010, after certification from the Commandant of the Coast Guard that it is not needed for navigation and from the Secretary of DHS that it is not needed as a backup for GPS.Oversight: Expenditure plans, important to ensure that DHS is appropriately planning, are required for many programs, including: Deepwater; the Secure Border Initiative; the Automated Commercial Environment; US-VISIT; National Cyber Security Initiative; BioWatch; Office of Policy; CIO IT acquisition projects; TSA air cargo security, checkpoint support, and explosive detection systems; USCIS REAL-ID Hub; DNDO portal radiation monitors; ICE Alternatives to Detention; and Next Generation Networks.Visa Extensions: Provides three year authorization extensions for the religious worker (R visa), rural-serving doctors (Conrad 30-J visa), and investor (EB-5 visa) programs.Humanitarian Treatment for Surviving Spouses and Other Relatives of Deceased Immigrant Sponsors: Provides statutory authority for USCIS to complete processing of permanent residence applications for surviving spouses and other relatives of immigration sponsors who die during the adjudication process.Program Extensions: Extends the authorization for Pre-Disaster Mitigation and Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards for a year.# # #
10.06.2009	Washington, D.C. - Representative David Price (D-Chapel Hill) today hailed the passage of H.Res. 167, a resolution supporting the goals and ideals of Campus Fire Safety Month. The resolution was agreed to by a unanimous voice vote. Rep. Price co-sponsored the bipartisan resolution."Those who have experienced the tragedy of a fatal campus fire, as the UNC Chapel Hill campus did in 1996, know how devastating it can be," Rep. Price said. "This resolution will give support to students around the country advocating for fire safety programs. Universities and students understand that the danger posed by fire in a college setting can be mitigated with preparation and awareness."Each year, students from across the nation visit Washington, D.C. to raise awareness and advocate for legislation addressing fire safety issues. A group of UNC students visited Rep. Price in September to lobby for the passage of H.R. 1194, the Fire Sprinkler Incentive Act of 2009. The bill would provide a tax incentive to business owners for retrofitting existing buildings with life-saving sprinkler systems. Rep. Price is a cosponsor of this bill.Rep. Price is also a co-sponsor of H.R. 2136, the Honorable Stephanie Tubbs Jones College Fire Prevention Act, which would establish a demonstration grant program to distribute funds covering up to half of the cost of installing fire sprinkler systems, or other fire suppression technologies in student housing.Recognizing September as Campus Fire Safety Month will help to raise the awareness of students, parents, and administrators about the importance of campus fire safety and the steps they can take to prevent loss of life due to fires.# # #
10.06.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today applauded Secretary Janet Napolitano's efforts to overhaul the nation's immigration detention system. The Secretary of Homeland Security announced a series of changes to existing immigration detention practices today, following a review of the immigration detention system spearheaded by Dora Schriro, the former advisor to the Secretary on immigration enforcement policy. Many of the proposed improvements, such as expanding the Alternatives to Detention program and strengthening the oversight and management of detainee health care, are measures Price and fellow Homeland Security appropriations subcommittee members had been seeking for years."I have been concerned about detention conditions and health services for detainees since taking over as Chairman of the subcommittee, and we have held multiple hearings into the topic," said Rep. Price. "It is important to realize that the population brought under the custody of ICE includes families, women, children, and asylum seekers – in addition to serious criminals and felons. It only makes sense that immigration authorities should handle each individual in a way that is consistent with the flight risk they pose or threatening behavior they have shown in the past. I am pleased the Department has decided to address this issue, and look forward to receiving more information about how the improvements announced today will be implemented."Earlier this year, Price held a hearing on the health services for individuals in immigration custody, where he highlighted the deficiencies in the current system and called for the administration to address the problems in the system. His opening statement for that hearing can be found here.Price also worked with fellow subcommittee member Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA) to include strong language on the handling of detention operations and the treatment of special populations detained in the Homeland Security Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2010 (H.R. 2892), which passed the House in June. Excerpts from the bill's report language can be found below."I join Chairman Price in commending the administration's determination to reform America's broken detention system," Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-34) said. "For too long our unjust detention policies have permitted ongoing abuse and neglect of detainees across this sprawling network of facilities. By strengthening standards and expanding alternatives to incarceration for immigrants who don't pose a threat to their communities, as Chairman Price and I have proposed, Secretary Napolitano is adopting a more humane framework to guide the treatment of the detainees in our custody. I welcome her thoughtful approach to this complex issue and I look forward to the Department's continuing efforts to reshape our detention system to better reflect America's commitment to due process and equal justice under the law for everyone."From the House Report Accompanying H.R. 2892,The Homeland Security Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010ICE CUSTODY OPERATIONSThe Committee provides $1,771,168,000 for ICE custody operations, as requested, which is $49,900,000 over the 2009 appropriations level. This increase will allow ICE to maintain an aggregate annual detention capacity for 33,400 individuals, and funds the full-year salaries and benefits for staff added to Detention and Removals Operations over the past several years. At this point, ICE detention capacity is at the highest level in the agency's history, having grown more than 67 percent since 2002. While there will always be need for ICE to detain individuals who are apprehended while in the country illegally, the Committee believes that further expansion of ICE detention must be based on a rigorous analysis illustrating what compelling need will be met by placing yet more individuals in Federal custody. Furthermore, given that ICE has been unable to implement a nation-wide Alternatives to Detention program despite strong interest and increased funding from the Congress, the Committee questions whether ICE is adequately and equitably evaluating the need to detain every individual the agency apprehends, particularly those without criminal histories and who do not pose a flight risk. At a minimum, until ICE can prove that its low-risk detainees have nation-wide access to supervision programs or bonded parole, the Committee will remain skeptical of expanding detention capacity further.MEDICAL CARE FOR ICE DETAINEESA recent GAO report (GAO 09-308R) highlighted differences in the structure and quality of care provided across ICE detention facilities. In particular, the GAO analysis revealed varying degrees of ICE oversight of contract agreements with non-Federal detention providers, and highlighted the potential for inadequate or inconsistent medical care across the ICE detention system. Further, GAO noted the absence of almost any performance data about ICE detainees' medical conditions or treatments. The Committee believes that if ICE must detain individuals in government custody, it should do so in a manner that provides all detainees equal access to necessary medical care, regardless of the location at which they are held. In addition, ICE detention staff should maintain detailed medical information about the health of their detained populations, not only to better inform management and investment decisions by ICE executives, but also to guard against the outbreak of epidemics and to identify emerging medical needs. The Committee directs ICE to report within 30 days of the end of each quarter of the fiscal year on actions it has taken to address inadequacies in its medical services to detainees.The Committee is especially concerned about cases of detainee death where it appears detainees did not receive appropriate emergency medical treatment or continuing medical care. The Committee directs the Department to review its medical care standards for all detention facilities, specifically evaluating the enforceability of current standards. Additionally, the Department should revise any standards that do not ensure appropriate medical treatment, the ability to access counsel and family, effective medical grievance procedures, or any other standards necessary for humane treatment of detainees. The Committee also directs the Department to notify the Congress and the DHS IG within 48 hours of any death that occurs in ICE custody.DETENTION STANDARDS OVERSIGHT AND COMPLIANCEThe Committee supports ICE's proposal to expand the Office of Professional Responsibility (OPR) and Detention Facilities Inspection Group (DFIG), and provides an additional $12,400,000 for these programs in 2010, as requested. These funds will support deployment of DFIG personnel to ICE field offices throughout the country, growth of the OPR Management Investigations Unit, and associated mission support costs. As a means improve compliance with ICE performance standards, the Committee continues a provision prohibiting ICE expenditure of funds for any contracted detention facilities that receive two consecutive evaluations of less than 'acceptable' or the equivalent median score of any subsequent evaluation system, a requirement established by the fiscal year 2009 Homeland Security Appropriations Act.The Committee understands that ICE is considering restructuring and possibly renaming the DFIG and other detention oversight programs. The Comittee directs ICE to work with the Department's Chief Financial Officer to ensure this restructuring complies with all applicable provisions in the fiscal year 2009 Homeland Security Appropriations Act.DEPORTATION OF PARENTS OF U.S.-BORN CHILDRENIn February 2009, the DHS IG estimated that more than 100,000 parents of U.S.-born children were deported from the country between 1998 and 2007. The IG also reported that ICE does not consistently track information about the U.S.-born children of those it deports. As a result, the Committee directs ICE to begin collecting data to track: the number of instances in which both parents of a particular child were removed; the length of time a parent lived in the United States before removal; and whether the U.S. citizen children remained in the United States after the parents' removal. ICE should provide this data annually to the Office of Immigration Statistics, as well as to Congress with the annual budget submission.ALTERNATIVES TO DETENTIONThe Committee provides $73,913,000 for ICE Alternatives to Detention programs, which is $10,000,000 more than requested. The Committee continues to recognize the value of Alternatives to Detention programs which have yielded a 98-percent appearance rate at immigration proceedings. When properly implemented and managed, Alternatives to Detention programs augment ICE's regular detention capacity and provide a cost effective means of accounting for individuals accused of being in the country illegally but who do not require administrative custody during their immigration proceedings. The Committee is very concerned that ICE has not complied with the 2009 Appropriations Act, which required the agency to submit a plan for nation-wide deployment of the Alternatives to Detention program by January 5, 2009. The Committee directs ICE to submit this plan immediately.As a matter of principle, DHS should use the least restrictive and least costly means required to supervise individuals in removal proceedings. Whenever practical and appropriate, individuals who cannot be paroled without supervision or on bond should be enrolled in Alternatives to Detention programs, particularly those that are community-based and which emphasize the personal responsibility of the individual. These programs, which cost less per day than detention, are a more humane method for monitoring individuals who may have legitimate immigration claims but for whom detention is unreasonably burdensome, such as asylum seekers, families, and the elderly.The Committee has heard significant concerns from immigrant advocates about how ICE is using electronic monitoring programs for individuals who would otherwise be eligible for release on parole or bond, or would be eligible to enroll in intensive supervision programs that are not based on technology. The Committee directs ICE to develop a benefit-cost analysis of its various Alternatives to Detention approaches, and include this information in the 2011 budget submission for the program.CHILD AND FAMILY DETENTIONThe Committee believes that detention is not generally appropriate for families and is concerned that the Department does not routinely make Alternatives to Detention available to families it takes into custody. In addition, while the Committee is pleased that ICE developed and implemented detention standards for families held in its custody, it remains concerned that ICE family detention standards are based on adult prison standards. The Committee directs the Department to prioritize the use of Alternatives to Detention program for families who do not need to be held in immigration detention. The Committee further directs the Office of Professional Responsibility to conduct a review of families detained in ICE custody since 2007 and determine whether ICE complied with its own internal guidance for when to hold families in custody and when to release them to Alternatives to Detention programs. The Committee directs ICE to report on the results of this review no later than the submission of the 2011 budget.In addition, the Committee has heard reports of ICE prosecutors inappropriately using personal information about children when presenting cases in immigration court, such as medical records and psychological reviews. The Committee directs ICE to respect the privacy and confidentiality of detained children's case information, including privileged medical, psychological and social worker reports, and only to request access to those files when relevant to the case.INAPPROPRIATE TREATMENT OF CHILDREN IN ICE CUSTODYIn last year's appropriation report, the Committee directed ICE to report quarterly on any incidents involving strip searches of children, placement of children in restraints, or use of disciplinary weapons against children. ICE has not provided the Committee any report on these techniques, indicating that they have not been used to date in fiscal year 2009. As a result, the Committee directs ICE to review the necessity of retaining these practices within its child detention standards, and update the Committee on any changes to the policies by November 2, 2009. In addition, ICE is directed to continue to provide reports 30 days after the end of each quarter of the fiscal year on any incidents involving strip searches of children, placement of children in restraints, or use of disciplinary weapons against children.As in past years, the Committee provides no funding for ICE bone and dental forensic examinations to determine the age of children in ICE custody. This questionable methodology is not based on credible scientific principles, and puts children at risk of erroneous classification as adults and transfer to adult detention centers. The Committee directs the IG to continue to review ICE practices for determining the age of those in its custody, and to report to the Committees on Appropriations on any cases where ICE uses bone or dental forensic examinations.TRANSPORTATION OF UNACCOMPANIED ALIEN CHILDRENIn the 2009 Appropriations Act, the Committee directed ICE, the Office of Management and Budget, and the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to determine the appropriate agency for managing child transportation between DHS and HHS custody. To date, the Committee has not received this report, which has apparently been under review at the Department of Health and Human Services for several months. As a result, the Committee expects ICE will continue to pay for the cost of child transportation between DHS and HHS custody until the agencies determine the appropriate method for funding this activity.HUMANITARIAN REVIEW OF IMMIGRATION ARRESTSThe Committee continues to support ICE's policies that allow for humanitarian review of those arrested in worksite enforcement actions affecting 150 or more individuals. Many who have been arrested in past worksite enforcement actions were primary care givers to infant children or elderly parents, meaning their detention would have harmed those unable to care for themselves. The Committee continues to believe ICE should expand this policy to cover all worksite enforcement activities. If ICE is unable to expand this policy, it must brief the Committee no later than November 2, 2009, about the impediments to doing so.# # #
09.22.2009	Raleigh, NC – Representative David Price (D-NC) joined officials from Environment North Carolina today to give remarks at a press conference announcing the results of the organization's new report. The report, "Getting on Track with Modern Public Transportation: Record Transit Ridership Increases Energy Independence," shows public transit ridership was up 16 percent in 2008 in North Carolina, outpacing all but one other state—thanks in part to a 20 percent surge in ridership in the Triangle.The report shows North Carolinians also drove less in 2008, with 2,780,000 fewer miles driven than in the year before. This decrease saved more than 20 million gallons of gasoline, which is the equivalent of removing 35,000 cars from the roads. Many of these car trips were replaced by public transit."As this report illustrates, demand for public transportation alternatives in high-growth areas such as the Triangle is far outpacing supply," Representative David Price said. "Given the potential that transit projects have to help us address transportation needs and broader challenges such as climate change and energy independence, federal investments in public transit are no longer just a matter of dollars and cents—they are a matter of our core national interest."The report did not calculate other benefits of increased transit ridership such as reduced congestion, fewer hours stuck in traffic, reductions in smog and soot pollution, or money saved by households that use transit regularly."Every dollar we spend on public transit makes us less dependent on foreign oil and reduces global warming pollution and smog," Environment North Carolina's Margaret Hartzell said.Rep. Price has long been a supporter of local transportation projects as a part of efforts to decrease our dependence on foreign oil and reduce pollution and harmful emissions that contribute to global warming. Earlier this year, Rep. Price voted in favor of H.R. 2454, the American Clean Energy and Security Act, which includes several provisions designed to encourage the use of public transit alternatives. # # #
09.18.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement today on his vote against a Republican amendment, which was intended to bar all funding for ACORN, a national community organizing and housing advocacy group:"The actions of these ACORN employees were egregious. They should have been and were fired, and ACORN needs to take other steps to clean this kind of activity up. This should be fully investigated by the appropriate authorities and if ACORN is found guilty of infractions, they should be punished."This amendment, however, was a sloppy rush to judgment, without regard for due process or even a serious examination of evidence. Issuing a blanket ban based on the day's news, when the performance of an organization has not been systematically evaluated is not the way Congress should be legislating. Several sections of the amendment are so broadly written as to force Congress to immediately terminate all sorts of government contracts. It arguably could include, for example, American Airlines, Goodyear Tires, and Greyhound Bus Lines."This amendment was an attempt to play "gotcha" politics to hi-jack the passage of the historic student loan bill and change the subject. Amendments like this get offered by representatives who are more interested in scoring political points than their responsibility to craft thoughtful legislation. I refuse to play that game with Congress' time and the American people's money, and I refuse to insert Congress into the middle of the judicial process."# # #
09.17.2009	Washington, D.C. - Today, the House of Representatives passed the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act, the largest investment in federal student aid programs in history. Reps. Bob Etheridge (D-NC-02) and David Price (D-NC-04) voted for the legislation and joined together to sponsor an amendment supporting the work of non-profit agencies that offer borrower services to students.H.R. 3221 makes major reforms to the system of federal student loans, which has increasingly failed to meet the needs of students in today's economic environment. By switching to a system of direct lending, the bill is expected to save taxpayers $87 billion. H.R. 3221 uses these savings to make historic investments in our education system to make college more accessible and affordable. It also devotes $10 billion to reducing the federal deficit. The bill will make it easier for families to apply for financial aid, keep interest rates low on subsidized federal student loans, strengthen the Perkins loan program, and boost the maximum Pell Grant by over $1,500 per year over the next decade."Now more than ever, Americans need affordable, quality educational opportunities to help make our economy strong and competitive, today and in the future," Rep. Price said. "These reforms will allow more students to graduate and ensure that those who do will have less debt."During debate on the bill, the House adopted by voice vote an amendment – sponsored by Rep. Bob Etheridge and co-sponsored by Rep. David Price and other Members – which would allow the Department of Education to contract with agencies like the North Carolina State Education Assistance Authority (NCSEAA) and the College Foundation of North Carolina (CFNC) to provide loan delinquency and default prevention services.Outreach efforts like those provided by the NCSEAA and CFNC inform borrowers of their education financing options before college, helping them to better understand their loans before college and better manage their debt afterward. Borrower service programs like these have proven very successful, helping avoid default on $52 billion in loans in 2007 according to the National Council of Higher Education Loan Programs."This will expand federal access for students to pursue higher education," said Etheridge. "It also preserves access to valuable loan counseling services and other tools that have helped millions of North Carolina students. Higher education is still the key to the American Dream for the next generation. This bill makes important investments to make that dream a reality for all Americans."Other provisions of H.R. 3221 will:• Invest $3 billion to bolster college access and completion support programs for students, by increasing funding for the College Access Challenge Grant program and funding innovative programs at states and institutions that focus on increasing financial literacy and helping retain and graduate students.• Invest $2.55 billion in Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Minority-Serving Institutions to provide students with the support they need to stay in school and graduate.• Build a 21st century workforce by encouraging historic partnerships between community colleges, states, businesses, job training and adult education programs. The bill will create a new competitive grant program for community colleges to improve instruction, work with local employers, improve their student support services, and implement other innovative reforms that will lead to a college degree, certificate or industry recognized credential to help fulfill local workforce needs.• Ensure every child has access to a world-class learning environment by providing school districts with funds for school modernization, renovation, and repair projects that will create healthier, safer, and more energy-efficient teaching and learning climates.• Increase the number of low-income children entering kindergarten prepared to succeed by reforming state standards and practices for early learning. The bill will invest $10 billion over 10 years in competitive grants to challenge states to build a comprehensive, high quality early learning system for children birth to age 5.• Reduce entitlement spending by $10 billion.The passage of the student aid bill builds on successful congressional efforts to secure the student loan system in the wake of the financial crisis. In 2008, Rep. Price worked to pass an emergency federal lending program. The Department of Education oversees the loan participation program, which is responsible for all of the $800 million in student loans issued in North Carolina for the 2009-2010 school year. As a result of this program, the number of students in North Carolina securing federally backed college loans is expected to increase this year.# # #
09.11.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price, Chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee and co-chair of the National Service Caucus, released the following statement on the anniversary of 9/11.Eight years after the terrorist attacks on September 11th, we remember the thousands of innocent people who lost their lives on that dreadful day.The tragic events of that Tuesday morning inspired Americans to come together in a remarkable display of unity and compassion. In that same spirit, Congress has designated September 11th as a National Day of Service and Remembrance, and we call on all Americans to join in service today in honor of the 9/11 victims and their families, the first responders and recovery workers who sacrificed so selflessly in the wake of the attacks, the soldiers who have taken up arms to defend our country, and the many volunteers who spontaneously contributed their time and resources in the months and years since.As a co-chair of the congressional National Service Caucus, I have joined President Obama in championing service and volunteerism throughout the country. Service projects marking the eight year anniversary of 9/11 will take place in all 50 states, ranging from food drives and home repairs to neighborhood cleanups and disaster preparation activities. I am pleased to participate today in a service project with North Carolina AmeriCorps members as part of the Little Heroes Family Connection, a statewide initiative that assembles "Connection Packages" to help children of service members connect with parents or family members who are deployed overseas.There isn't a more fitting way to remember 9/11 than for Americans to voluntarily set aside time on the anniversary of the attacks to help others in need. But our commitment to service should not be limited to this somber anniversary – there are always opportunities to get involved and give back to our communities. For a list of service opportunities near you, I encourage you to visit Serve.gov.# # #
09.09.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Price was interviewed today by CBS News about a case before the U.S. Supreme Court (Citizens United v. FEC) regarding restrictions on corporate influence of campaigns and elections. Price joined three other Members of Congress in filing a brief with the court in support of strong campaign finance laws.Price said he was concerned with indications that the Roberts Court could use this opportunity to overturn century-long restrictions on the corrupting influence of corporate money in federal campaigns."The last thing we need in this country is to go back a century and once again have loads of unaccounted-for cash dumped into campaigns by corporations," Price said. "How on earth could we even consider such a thing?"Watch the interview on CBS News' website.The case involves a political group funded by corporate donors, Citizens United, which produced a documentary critical of then-candidate Hillary Clinton. The Federal Election Commission (FEC) determined that since this communication was designed to influence the outcome of an election that was to occur within 60 days, it violated the legal restrictions on the influence of corporate money in elections. These restrictions have also applied to labor union money since 1947. The Supreme Court appears to be using the case to consider the constitutionality of campaign finance laws enacted by Congress over decades.# # #
09.03.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price is continuing the discussion on health insurance reform with Triangle residents by holding telephone town hall meetings. In addition to last week's telephone town hall event, he will hold another meeting tonight. Audio from the town hall meetings will soon be available on this website."The current debate on health insurance reform has led North Carolinians on all sides of the issue to express their views – including more than 1,000 Triangle residents who turned out to a town hall meeting in which I participated last month," Price said. "The telephone town hall meeting will allow an even larger audience to participate in the discussion, and they won't have to leave home to do it."As Congress has been working on legislation to reform the country's health insurance system, Rep. Price has engaged North Carolinians on all sides of the issue – discussing the major proposals and soliciting feedback. In addition to the aforementioned town hall meetings, he has held dozens of meetings and open discussions with North Carolinians on health insurance reform over the past three months.# # #
09.02.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) will join UNC students tonight for a forum on health insurance reform, why it's important, and how it impacts students. The event will take place at 7pm in Wilson Library.# # #
08.26.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. Price joined other North Carolina leaders in paying tribute to the late Sen. Edward Kennedy. In an interview with NBC-17, Price said Kennedy and his brothers inspired him and many others of his generation to devote themselves to public service."President Kennedy, Robert Kennedy, Ted Kennedy – they exemplified a certain idealism, a certain energy and vigor, and a commitment to public service that inspired a whole country. And it especially inspired my generation," Price said. "Teddy was a steadfast champion for the 'least of these,' fighting throughout his career to improve the lives of the less fortunate among us. He was indispensable in the efforts to raise the minimum wage for working families, expand healthcare to all Americans, and advance civil rights. His record of legislative accomplishment is unparalleled. He will be greatly missed."# # #
08.24.2009	Washington, D.C. - Rep. Price participated in a live discussion on health insurance reform on UNC-TV today. He was joined by Sen. Richard Burr and Reps. Mel Watt, Bob Etheridge and Brad Miller. You can watch the 90-minute program online at UNC-TV's website. The participants took questions from North Carolinians via telephone, email, and Facebook.
08.15.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price was the guest on the latest edition of WRAL's Headline Saturday, the CBS affiliate's political affairs show. Along with The News & Observer's executive editor John Drescher and political reporter/columnist Rob Christensen, he discussed proposals in Congress to reform the health insurance system. The program was hosted by WRAL anchor David Crabtree.Video of the program can be found on the station's website at http://www.wral.com/news/local/asset_gallery/1283597/.Price has held dozens of meetings on health insurance reform over the last few months, including a public town hall meeting in Durham last night, which attracted over a thousand participants. He will continue to hold discussions with his constituents as the House debates health insurance reform, including by holding two telephone town hall meetings over the next month. Information on these and other events will be posted here on the website.# # #
08.13.2009	Washington, D.C. - The State Employees Association of North Carolina (SEANC) has invited Congressman David Price to participate in a town hall meeting on health insurance reform in Durham tonight. The event will provide an opportunity for Rep. Price to discuss the details of the reform proposal before the House of Representatives with Triangle residents.The meeting begins at 6:45 p.m. at NCCU's Miller Morgan Building, 528 Nelson St. in Durham. For more information, view the SEANC press release.# # #
07.31.2009	New Roosevelt Scholars Program Would Fill "Mission Critical" Federal JobsWashington, D.C. - U.S. Reps. David Price (D-NC) and Mike Castle (R-DE) today introduced legislation to create a graduate-level scholarship program for students who commit themselves to public service. The Roosevelt Scholars Act, would provide a much needed pipeline of professional talent for the federal government, which faces an unprecedented workforce crisis.The federal government's ability to effectively perform essential functions depends on a well-trained and highly engaged federal workforce. But in the next five years, approximately one third of the government's top scientists, engineers, physicians, mathematicians, economists, and other highly specialized professionals will be retiring, according to the Government Accountability Office (GAO). Unfortunately, the flow of talent stepping forward to replace these valuable federal employees continues to dwindle.Named after President Theodore Roosevelt, the father of the modern civil service, the Price-Castle bill would initiate a major recruitment effort that utilizes our nation's expansive network of colleges to meet vital government staffing needs and serve the American public. The Roosevelt Scholars Act will (1) create a new, elite scholarship program to fund graduate-level study in exchange for a civil service commitment in targeted, mission-critical occupational areas across the federal government; and (2) establish a Foundation to administer the application process, selection of scholars, and ongoing support activities associated with these scholarships."We face a crisis of capacity to continue providing the services that Americans depend upon," said Rep. Price, who co-chairs the Congressional Service Caucus. "By investing in personnel with advanced degrees, we can create a high performing workforce and rededicate government to exceptional professional standards in the service of the American people. Roosevelt Scholars would reaffirm to our nation's college and university students that there is no higher calling than public service.""As the cost of higher education steadily increases, public service positions remain a viable option for students," said Rep. Castle, a senior member on the U.S. House Education and Labor Committee. "To encourage young people to serve our community, incentives like tuition assistance can help government jobs compete with the higher salaries in the private sector. The Roosevelt Scholars program will do just that by creating a new scholarship to fund graduate-level study in exchange for a service commitment in targeted occupational areas across the federal government."The Roosevelt Scholars program would provide full tuition, support for room and board, and a stipend for graduate study. In exchange for this support, Roosevelt Scholars would complete an internship with a federal agency and, upon graduation, complete a minimum of three years of civil service.# # #
07.29.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) today saluted President Obama for bringing his health care reform message to North Carolina."Fixing America's health care system is not just about the uninsured," said Rep. Price. "It's also about assuring those who are covered that their health care can't be taken away or its costs spiral out of control. Middle class Americans face increasing premiums and eroding benefits as increased costs threaten family, business, and government budgets. We must fix it, but overcoming the forces of the status quo will not be easy. Some in Washington care more about scoring political points than achieving pragmatic progress, and they will do anything to kill reform. The President made the case for action, and he was particularly effective in laying out the importance of reform to family budgets and to our national economic wellbeing."The President held a town hall attended by more than 2,000 Triangle residents at Broughton High School in Raleigh. He spoke on the economy and health care reform efforts before taking questions from the audience.Rep. Price's full statement on health care reform is copied below:Our nation is the home of the world's premiere medical research and development enterprise and its most advanced medical technology. The Research Triangle is at the forefront of much of this work—to cure cancer, treat chronic diseases, and train world-class health care providers. But our best efforts to prevent disease and improve treatment are not translating into more affordable and accessible health care. Today, tens of millions of Americans go without basic health insurance, and even those who do have insurance face rising costs and cannot be certain that their current coverage will meet their future needs. Since the uninsured drive up costs for everyone, our country is paying a steep price for our failure to address this crisis—an estimated $100 billion every year. That translates into an average annual surcharge of $1,017 that each insured family is currently paying to subsidize the care of the uninsured. These costs will only increase as the number of uninsured Americans continues to grow. North Carolina fares even worse than the national average, with 17.2 percent of our state's population going without health insurance.And costs generated by our large uninsured population are only one example of our unsustainable status quo. We spend nearly 50 percent more per person on health care than any other country, with far worse outcomes than all other developed nations. Inefficiencies in the system will cost us as much as $248 billion in lost productivity this year alone. Costs of employer-sponsored insurance plans are projected to increase by 84 percent in the next seven years, meaning most American households would spend nearly half of their annual income on health insurance. Twenty percent of employers are expected to stop offering health benefits in the next three to five years due to rising costs. And as individuals lose their coverage and are added to strained government programs, spending on Medicare and Medicaid will double over the next decade and our federal government will go broke.We must change our current course before it worsens for families, businesses, the federal budget, and our national economy. Although taking action will not be easy, we simply cannot afford the cost of inaction. Our challenge is to fix what's broken without breaking what's already working well.Congress is working diligently to complete health care reform legislation, and there is a good deal of debate about how to structure reform. Some want a single payer system, and some believe we should let the marketplace work on its own. I believe stability for American families is essential, and that means coverage that cannot be taken away, costs that will not threaten family finances or put insurance out of reach, and quality care that lets people choose their own doctors. As legislation is developed, I believe it must adhere to the following principles:ChoiceFamilies and individuals deserve choice. If you like your current plan, you should be able to keep it. If you are not insured or want to change your current plan, you ought to have access to a health care exchange that offers a menu of affordable, quality health care options: either private insurance plans or the fallback of a publicly-administered health insurance plan. A publicly-administered plan will not come between patients and their doctors as many private insurance companies do now by denying coverage, and it will help keep rates low, so fewer have to rely on the fallback option. The American people should have similar choices to what is currently available for all federal employees, including members of Congress.AccessibilityAmericans must have access to portable, secure health care plans and should no longer have to worry about losing coverage for themselves and their families if their employer drops their plan or they lose their job. Insurance companies should no longer be able to deny Americans coverage based on pre-existing medical conditions, age, race, or gender.Fiscal ResponsibilityAny health care reform bill must be fiscally-responsible in both the short and long terms. I am committed to making this bill budget-neutral.We must pass health care reform that invests in our nation's future by providing families with high-quality care, giving businesses access to affordable plans for their employees, and reining in government spending. I will read and analyze the bill and propose modifications to the bill carefully, and will continue to participate actively in discussions shaping efforts to reform our broken health care system. I welcome your comments as this process moves forward.# # #
07.27.2009	Research Triangle Park, N.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today attended the grand opening of the Clinical Research Unit at the National Institute of Environmental Health Services (NIEHS), located in RTP. Price gave the following remarks:Thanks to Joe Graedon. It is a pleasure to be here today with Dr. Birnbaum, Dr. Gottesman, Dr. Califf, Senator Hagan, Congressman Etheridge, Congressman Miller, Lieutenant Governor Dalton, DHHS Secretary Cansler, Commissioner Page, Mayor Bell, and Dr. Zeldin.Now we all no doubt like to look in on NIEHS as often as we can, but I must say I feel like a very frequent visitor this year. That's because NIEHS is making some really important steps forward.I am thrilled with the appointment of your new director, Linda Birnbaum, a friend, neighbor and world-renowned scientist, and it was very satisfying to see her honored by the National Society of Toxicology last month in Washington. Now it's my pleasure to help you celebrate the Grand Opening of your new Clinical Research Unit.The Clinical Research Unit will serve as a key point of partnership and research collaboration among the many fine universities and health and science organizations throughout the Research Triangle Park.Our presence here today bears witness to the pride North Carolina takes, not only in the presence of NIEHS, but in the life-saving and live-enhancing research you do, now more important than ever, as our country takes on – in some cases belatedly – the environmental energy, and public health challenges that are likely to define the 21st century.I am proud to have the NIEHS located in my congressional district, and it is my pleasure to represent its efforts on Capitol Hill and to share its stories of success with my colleagues.NIEHS was a major player in studying lead and the related health problems with learning, memory and behavior. Thanks to your research and public health education, lead levels in children have dramatically decreased in the past 20 years.As we all know, NIEHS researchers discovered the breast cancer gene.This year, the NIEHS Sister Study exceeded its goal of recruiting 50,000 women to research the environmental causes of breast cancer.My colleagues and I are keeping up with the NIEHS research on Bisphenol A (BPA) and other endocrine disrupting chemicals, which is of great interest to the public and to public health officials.This list of accomplishments goes on and on, and I'm sure it will only get longer as the new Clinical Research Unit gets underway.# # #
07.27.2009	Raleigh, N.C. - This morning, Congressman David Price (D-NC) delivered the following remarks to the North Carolina Sheriffs' Association 87th annual training session, held in Raleigh:Thank you for welcoming me to join your Annual Training Conference. I especially want to thank Sheriff Donnie Harrison and Eddie Caldwell for your kind invitation. I appreciate the relationship we have and the consultation you have provided me and my staff as we deal with issues related to local law enforcement in the Congress.I also want to express my support and appreciation to all of you for the efforts that you and your agencies make every day to protect communities in our state. As I have often done at these events, I am here to re-affirm my pledge to be your partner in Washington to make sure you have the resources you need to accomplish your difficult missions.Many of you know that I serve as Chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee in the House. It is the job of my Subcommittee to set annual funding levels, subject to the approval of the entire Congress, for the diverse array of the programs and activities at the Department of Homeland Security. My door is always open and I welcome your input as we consider the DHS budget each year.Since I assumed the Chairmanship in 2007, I am happy to report increased support to law enforcement above what had been proposed by the previous administration. Rather than Congress having to find money to restore funding cuts to programs like Byrne JAG, COPS, and State Homeland Security grants that the last President put on the chopping block, we are now able to work collaboratively with President Obama to provide the resources that local law enforcement, fire departments, and emergency managers have come to depend on.For example, from 2001 to 2006 President Bush and the Republican Congress cut State and Local Law Enforcement and Crime Prevention Grants by $1.9 billion to a low point of $2.7 billion. Since 2006, I have worked with my colleagues in Congress to reverse that trend. Next year's Justice funding bill, which was recently passed by the House, includes $3.4 billion for these programs in 2010. The bill would also increase COPS funding by 46% over 2009 and increase the Office of Justice Programs budget, which includes Byrne JAG grants, by 10%. Our 2010 appropriations bill for DHS provides nearly $4 billion for state and local grants, including $950 million for the State Homeland Security Grant Program.Additionally, I've been working with the House leadership to make sure Congress recognizes the pressure the economic downturn has placed on your local law enforcement budgets. As I'm sure you know, Congress provided significant funding to protect public safety jobs in the Recovery Act, including $2 billion for Byrne JAG grants and $1 billion for COPS hiring grants. For the first time in the history of the programs, Congress has temporarily waived the local cost share requirement for COPS grants, and has authorized use of the grants for personnel hiring and retention. I am working to enact similar provisions for firefighter staffing grants under DHS.There is another Department of Homeland Security responsibility that has ramifications for your county law enforcement agencies: illegal immigration. As public officials, we are all engaged in a significant debate about how we should address illegal immigration. I have worked with the rest of Congress to greatly enhance border and immigration enforcement efforts over the past few years. My subcommittee has increased resources for immigration detention by more than 60% since 2006; we have grown the overall budget for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) by over 57% since 2006; and during that same period we have grown the U.S. Border Patrol by 6,000 new officers. Since 2006, we have also invested $4.3 billion on security infrastructure and technology along the Southwest border.Despite these huge investments, we simply cannot spend our way out of the enforcement challenges we face. We first need comprehensive reform of our immigration system so that people with legitimate reason to be in the US can come out of the shadows, so that we can match our legal immigration allowances with our labor market needs, and so that our Border Patrol is freed up to focus on the real threats along our borders. In the absence of this kind of holistic reform, I have made it clear that ICE needs to prioritize its resources toward identifying and deporting criminal aliens, especially those who have shown themselves to be a danger to our communities. My subcommittee has directed the funding and provided the oversight to move ICE's enforcement efforts in that direction; one result is the so-called Secure Communities program, launched late in the Bush Administration.I have talked with many of you about this challenge and about the need to define very carefully the role of local law enforcement in immigration enforcement. As you know far better than I, strained relationships with any group can run counter to local law enforcement's goal of keeping your communities safe for those who want to live peacefully. The concern is that immigrants -- whether they are in the United States legally or illegally -- might become less inclined to report serious crimes or to provide you information about criminal activity if they fear being reported to ICE. So I want to stress how careful we need to be in distinguishing the federal role of immigration enforcement from the local role of community policing.The Secure Communities program maintains such a distinction, and our subcommittee is concerned that the 287(g) program do so as well. The Government Accountability Office has expressed some concern with the way 287(g) has been implemented in some places -- uneven application of the program in different jurisdictions, the lack of ICE supervision of local results, limited complaint resolution mechanisms, and a lack of clear objectives that ensure the program operates consistently with federal immigration priorities. That is why I was pleased that DHS recently announced a retooled standardized agreement for the 287(g) program, which I believe addresses these concerns in a significant way without undermining the program's mission of empowering local officials with additional authorities to keep their communities safe.As with ICE itself, our intention is that local law enforcement agencies that choose to partner with ICE should target their efforts to identify undocumented aliens involved in serious criminal activities. That priority is clearly articulated in the new 287(g) agreement, just as Secure Communities more explicitly distinguishes the traditional Federal role of enforcing immigration law from the local role of prosecuting criminal violations. Secure Communities, with its interoperability fingerprinting system, provides local law enforcement with identity information and criminal history that you need in order to know who is in your jails; meanwhile, it alerts ICE when a high-priority illegal alien gets remanded to local custody. The advantage to this system is that the decision to initiate deportation procedures remains squarely in the hands of federal immigration authorities, while local officers can remain focused on their jobs and not have to deal with the complicated ins- and outs- of Federal immigration law.I hope this brief overview of my work in Congress on both Justice and Homeland Security programs helps you understand the context of some of the recent political debates surrounding these issues, and encourages you to suggest better ways we can address these challenges. I am hoping for a day when the immigration problem gets fixed through a comprehensive and pragmatic reform effort. And, with these Homeland Security programs, as well as your interaction the traditional DOJ programs, I want to continue our good working relationship to ensure Federal policies help you keep our communities safe. Thank you again for inviting me, and enjoy the rest of your conference.# # #
07.25.2009	Raleigh, N.C. - Today, Congressman David Price (D-NC) offered the following remarks at the open house of the new Islamic Center in Raleigh:I want to congratulate the Islamic Association on this impressive new facility and commend you for the vital work you have done, and continue to do, in the Triangle. Thank you for this open house – for inviting the entire community to join together and to rejoice with you at what the Triangle Muslim Community has achieved.This gathering comes at an important time in our nation's history – a time of challenge in meeting economic needs and achieving social justice in our own country, and a time of great challenge internationally, in the Muslim world and beyond. We have elected a president whom we need to work with to confront these challenges, a president who recently stood on a stage at Cairo University – a place some of you know well– and affirmed for all the world that "Islam has always been a part of America's story."Of course, this isn't news to you: ever since you first started organizing prayer meetings and other gatherings in student centers and parking lots back in 1981, the Islamic Association has been telling this story in our schools, our places of worship, and our public squares. You continue to do so today at this open house, through your presentations on Islam and films about the American Muslim family.You have also put your words and values into action, and in meeting the needs of Triangle families – Muslim as well as non-Muslim – the Association has established itself as an valuable member of our community. Through its schools, its mosque, its youth camps, and its charitable activities, it has shown our region the true face of Islam as it was revealed: peaceful, tolerant, and striving always toward greater justice.It has been a pleasure for me to work with many in this community on a wide range of constituent services and issues. Many of you have expressed particular interest in the House Democracy Assistance Commission which I chair and which has partnerships with the parliaments of four majority-Moslem countries: Indonesia, Lebanon, Afghanistan, and Kosovo. You've taken a special and constructive interest in peace with justice in the Middle East and in United States policy toward Pakistan, Iran, and other key countries. As Homeland Security Appropriations Chairman, I have worked with you to make certain that discrimination and profiling have no place in our security policies; as we protect America, we must make certain we don't violate the very values for which America stands. And like many Americans, many of you have weighed in on the economy, energy, health care, and other issues of the day.We surely have a lot to work on! I count it a privilege to represent you in Washington. So today, as we celebrate and thank you for your hospitality, we also look forward to working together in the months and years to come on behalf of the Triangle's Muslims and the entire community.# # #
07.17.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC), today issued the following statement on H.R. 3200, America's Health Choices Act, which was introduced this week by key committees in the House of Representatives:Our nation is the home of the world's premiere medical research and development enterprise and its most advanced medical technology. The Research Triangle is at the forefront of much of this work—to cure cancer, treat chronic diseases, and train world-class health care providers. But our best efforts to prevent disease and improve treatment are not translating into more affordable and accessible health care. Today, there are nearly 50 million Americans who don't have basic health insurance, and even those who do often face rising costs and cannot be certain that their current coverage will meet their future needs.Since the uninsured drive up costs for everyone, our country is paying a steep price for our failure to address this crisis—an estimated $100 billion every year. That translates into an average annual surcharge of $1017 that insured families are currently paying to subsidize the care of the uninsured. Rising health care costs are crushing the budgets of families and businesses, making us less competitive in the global economy, putting Medicare in jeopardy, and hurting our nation's long-term fiscal sustainability. Although taking action will not be easy, we simply cannot afford the cost of inaction.It's time we fix what's broken—but we've got to do it without breaking what's already working well. This week, key committees in the House of Representatives released their draft of legislation to do just that. H.R. 3200, America's Affordable Health Choices Act, would reform our nation's health care system to provide stability for American families: coverage that cannot be taken away, costs that will not threaten family finances or put insurance out of reach, and quality care that lets people choose their own doctors.H.R. 3200 will provide:More Choices:• If you like your current plan, you can keep it.• If you are not insured or want to change your current plan, the bill would establish a health care exchange where consumers can select from a menu of affordable, quality health care options: either a private insurance plan or a new public health insurance plan.• People will have similar choices to what federal employees, including members of Congress, have.Better Quality:• The bill will ensure that Americans of all ages have access to greater quality of care by providing better preventative and wellness care, and strengthening existing programs.• Every child in America will have health care coverage that includes dental and vision benefits, and the legislation will ensure that more doctors and nurses are available to provide quality care as more Americans get coverage.• Critically, the bill also will close the Medicare prescription "doughnut hole" that causes so many of our seniors to have to choose between food and their medications.Stable, Affordable Coverage:• Americans will have portable, secure health care plans and will no longer have to worry about losing coverage for themselves and their families if their employer drops their plan or they lose their job.• Insurance companies will no longer be able to deny Americans based on pre-existing conditions, age, race, or gender.• The bill will also eliminate copays for preventative care, cap patients' out-of-pocket expenses, and guarantee catastrophic coverage that protects every American from bankruptcy.The legislation marks the first step of a commitment made by President Obama and Congress to provide stable, sustainable health care for Americans now and for the next generation. In the weeks ahead, the bill will go through many more refinements and alterations as the debate proceeds. I will continue to monitor committee deliberations and to participate actively in the discussions shaping the bill. I welcome your comments as this process moves forward.# # #
07.11.2009	Washington, D.C. - Today, Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi and Minority Leader John Boehner announced the appointment of twenty Members of Congress to the House Democracy Assistance Commission (HDAC) for the 111th Congress. Congressman David Price (D-NC) was reappointed HDAC Chairman, and Congressman David Dreier (R-CA) was reappointed Ranking Minority Member. Price and Dreier led the initiative that established the Commission in 2005.HDAC is charged with promoting responsive, effective government and strengthening democratic institutions in emerging democracies. Central to the Commission's work is peer-to-peer cooperation to build technical expertise that enhances accountability, transparency, legislative independence, and government oversight in partner foreign legislatures.HDAC currently partners with the legislatures of Afghanistan, Colombia, East Timor, Georgia, Haiti, Indonesia, Kenya, Lebanon, Liberia, Macedonia, Mongolia, and Ukraine. The Commission is expected to approve new partnerships with the Kosovo Assembly and Peruvian Congress soon. Over just the past year, HDAC has sponsored outbound congressional delegations to Liberia, Kenya, Georgia, and Haiti; opened a parliamentary library in East Timor; discussed committee investigations and oversight with the Georgian parliament in the aftermath of the Russian invasion of that country; and hosted inbound delegations, including seminars for members of parliament from eight countries and staff institutes for parliamentary staffers from eleven foreign legislatures.The Commission's leadership praised the announcement and the new and returning HDAC Members."Elections might be the most high-profile aspect of democracy promotion, but we know that what happens between elections is often even more important," said Chairman Price. "I thank the Speaker for recognizing this important work, and all the distinguished Members serving on the Commission this Congress for joining our efforts to build up our partner parliaments' capacity for self-governance.""This is a pivotal time for the cause of democracy, and the House of Representatives is as committed as ever to working with those willing partners who have chosen liberty over tyranny and who have asked for our assistance in building the institutions that make democracy sustainable," said Ranking Member Dreier. "David Price has shown great leadership as the chairman of our commission, and I look forward to continuing our bipartisan work in the 111th Congress."The following Democratic Members were appointed by Speaker Pelosi:Rep. David Price (North Carolina), ChairmanRep. Lois Capps (California)Rep. Rush Holt (New Jersey)Rep. Adam Schiff (California)Rep. Allyson Schwartz (Pennsylvania)Rep. Donald Payne (New Jersey)Rep. Earl Pomeroy (North Dakota)Rep. Sam Farr (California)Rep. Keith Ellison (Minnesota)Rep. Mazie Hirono (Hawaii)Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (California)The following Republican Members were appointed by Minority Leader Boehner:Rep. David Dreier (California), Ranking MemberRep. John Boozman (Arkansas)Rep. Jeff Fortenberry (Nebraska)Rep. Judy Biggert (Illinois)Rep. Bill Shuster (Pennsylvania)Rep. Kay Granger (Texas)Rep. Charles Boustany (Louisiana)Rep. Michael Conaway (Texas)Rep. Vern Buchanan (Florida)More information about HDAC is available on the Commission's website at http://hdac.house.gov.# # #
06.27.2009	BUDAPEST, Hungary - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) today led a House Democracy Assistance Commission (HDAC) delegation in representing the United States during official programs commemorating the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Iron Curtain. In remarks at the commemoration, Rep. Price presented greetings from President Obama celebrating the anniversary and Hungary's role in changing European and world history.The Hungarian commemoration marks the first stop of a week-long HDAC delegation to Mongolia, Indonesia, and Timor-Leste over the House of Representatives' July 4th recess. Joining Rep. Price, who chairs the Commission, are Reps. Vern Buchanan (R-FL), Jim Cooper (D-TN), Bob Etheridge (D-NC), Phil Gingrey (R-GA), and Jim McDermott (D-WA).HDAC is charged with promoting responsive, effective government and strengthening democratic institutions in emerging democracies. Central to the Commission's work is peer-to-peer cooperation to build technical expertise that enhances accountability, transparency, legislative independence, and government oversight in partner foreign legislatures. More information about HDAC is available on the Commission's website at http://hdac.house.gov.Rep. Price's full remarks are copied below.Remarks by U.S. Representative David Price (D-North Carolina)Head of the United States DelegationCommemoration of the 20th Anniversary of the Fall of the Iron CurtainBudapest, June 27, 2009Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Madam Speaker, Ministers, Ambassadors, Fellow Parliamentarians, Distinguished Guests:I am pleased to represent the United States of America at this ceremony to mark the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Iron Curtain. Our new President, Barack Obama, is unable to attend today's ceremony; however, he has asked me to read the following statement to the people of Hungary:It is with great pleasure that I join you in commemorating the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Iron Curtain.June 27, 1989, was a turning point in history. Few dates have shown the world so vividly the power of the human spirit over adversity and the power of hope and freedom over tyranny and despair. The peaceful destruction of the barbed-wire fence separating Austria and Hungary --- and the brave decision of the Hungarian and Austrian governments to open their borders --- set the stage for the spread of freedom to surrounding nations, the end of communist control in the region, and forever changed the political landscape of Europe. In just a fraction of an ordinary lifetime, Hungary swept aside the Iron Curtain and remade itself as part of a Europe peaceful, united, and free. Today, an entire generation of children has come of age in a free Hungary that is a steadfast friend of the United States, a valued NATO ally and a citizen of Europe.We salute all those who found the courage to stand up for this change and set in motion the progress that very much continues to this day. On behalf of the people of the United States, I offer my congratulations on this most important celebration, and my warmest wishes for continued friendship between our two great nations.Sincerely, Barack ObamaI am honored to join you today as an official representative, but for my wife Lisa and me this visit also has personal significance. We first visited Hungary on our wedding trip 41 years ago. We ventured to Budapest and Prague for several memorable days – made all the more so when Soviet tanks brought an end to the Prague Spring only one week later. We have felt a special kinship with central and eastern Europe ever since, and along with millions of American we marveled and rejoiced twenty years ago as the Hungarian and Austrian foreign ministers severed that barbed wire fence and the Iron Curtain fell.In the meantime, I had been elected to the U.S. House of Representatives. Many of our Members sought to engage with the parliamentarians, most of them newly elected, of Hungary and the other transformed democracies of central Europe. We created a task force in 1990 to work cooperatively with these parliaments. We hope that we made a significant contribution – for example, helping establish parliamentary research services in the Hungarian parliament and elsewhere in the region. But I assure you that we received far more than we gave, in inspiration and in the reminder you provided of the calling we share: to make what Lincoln called government "of the people, by the people, and for the people" a reality.Today our Congress is represented here by six members of the bipartisan House Democracy Assistance Commission, the successor to that earlier task force. Through our partnerships, we work to strengthen the role of parliaments in fourteen democracies around the world, including Macedonia, Kosovo, Georgia, and Ukraine in this region. From Hungary, we depart tomorrow to meet with our counterparts in Mongolia, Indonesia, and Timor-Leste, emerging democracies that hope to emulate your success.We often say that, while elections are a critical democratic institution, what happens between elections is equally important, as we attempt to build responsive and effective representative institutions. The true triumph of the people of central Europe is not merely how you cast off the tyranny of communism through the course of 1989, nor merely the free and transforming elections that you held, but also how you have built free democratic societies in the ensuing two decades.Our country is proud to stand with you in these ongoing efforts, understanding that we have much to learn from one another and much to gain from mutual collaboration and support. The challenges we face are as difficult as they have ever been in this twenty-year period. The global economic downturn confronts all of our countries, and we must continue to coordinate multilateral responses that go beyond what any of us can achieve alone. Our alliance is at a critical point in the confrontation with violent extremism in Afghanistan and Pakistan.Our agenda for the future, indeed, is long and daunting. But it is appropriate, even essential, that we pause to look back at a time such as this. We are instructed and we draw strength from what the free nations of central and eastern Europe have accomplished and what we have been through together.We salute you, and we pledge continuing cooperation and friendship as we face the many challenges of a new day. # # #
06.26.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement upon tonight's passage of H.R. 2454, the American Clean Energy and Security Act, by a vote of 219 to 212:For far too long, our nation has been dependent on fossil fuels, primarily from foreign sources, to meet its energy needs. This oil-driven energy policy has had negative repercussions for the environment, the economy, and national security.Today, on June 26, 2009, the House passed H.R. 2454, the American Clean Energy and Security Act, with my support. This legislation would establish a market-based incentive system to reduce carbon emissions. The bill would enable the U.S. to achieve the 80 percent reduction that scientists say we must reach by mid-century to avoid a dangerous climate tipping point.I believe we need to open the door to a clean energy economy by providing incentives for the production of energy that is clean, domestic and affordable. Our nation must be a leader in finding clean energy solutions that reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and foreign oil, create a new generation of jobs, and provide climate and energy security for us and the generations to come. H.R. 2454 would do that by investing in energy efficiency and renewable energy, carbon capture and sequestration, electric and other advanced technology vehicles, and basic scientific research and development.We certainly must take into account the impact of emission reduction initiatives, as proposed by H.R. 2454, on individual taxpayers and the U.S. economy overall, and I am pleased that significant changes were made to address concerns raised by rural electric providers, agricultural producers, and others. I would note, however, that the cost estimates offered by opponents of change are wildly exaggerated. According to the Congressional Budget Office and the Environmental Protection Agency, the reductions in carbon pollution required by the legislation would cost American families less than a postage stamp per day. Moreover, investments in clean energy offer us an important opportunity to spur economic growth and create entirely new industries, with millions of new American-based jobs. Every indication is that the Research Triangle area of North Carolina is poised to be a major winner in this new economy.For the health of our planet, the economic competiveness of our country, and the benefit of future generations, I supported HR 2454 to get America running on clean energy, increase efficiency, improve air quality, and reduce our dependence on foreign oil.# # #
06.25.2009	Washington, D.C. - Last night, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2892, the fiscal year 2010 Homeland Security Appropriations Act. As Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) authored the bill following six months of oversight hearings and intensive discussions with the administration, outside experts, and other Members of Congress. The bill, which would fund all operations of the Department of Homeland Security for the next fiscal year, was passed by an overwhelming bipartisan majority of 389 to 37."This bill will enable our government to better protect the American people against all major threats," said Chairman Price. "The key investments made here will assist first responders and enhance security on our borders, at our ports, and in aviation and transit. And this legislation makes these investments in a fiscally responsible manner, coming in under the President's budget request and saving $1.8 billion through elimination of 16 programs and reduced funding for another 37 programs."Price's full comments describing the legislation that opened yesterday's floor debate are copied below. CHAIRMAN PRICE FLOOR STATEMENTMr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to present the fiscal year 2010 Homeland Security Appropriations bill, as reported by the Committee. It is the product of extensive information-gathering and analysis, with 15 hearings touching every Department of Homeland Security component. The bill provides the resources and direction the Department needs for the coming fiscal year.This bill also reflects our Subcommittee's tradition of bipartisan cooperation, initiated by its first Chairman and now Ranking Member, Hal Rogers. I want to thank the distinguished Ranking Member for his advice and help in making this a better bill, and his staff for working so closely and constructively with us. We agree on most of the bill, if not every item, and I believe this is a bill every Member should get behind.In total, the bill contains $42.625 billion in discretionary appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security. This is $2.6 billion, or 6.5 percent, above the comparable fiscal year 2009 amount, and about one percent below the Administration request, excluding Coast Guard overseas contingency operations. This level reflects our share of the $10 billion cut made in the budget resolution to the Administration's overall request.Homeland Security requires identification of and response to all threats, whether manmade or natural. This "all-hazards" approach is a hallmark of our Subcommittee, an approach we are happy to see President Obama and Secretary Napolitano embrace. The persistent threat of pandemic flu is an unmistakable reminder of why we must prepare for "all hazards", as is the annual and predictable onslaught of natural disasters – from hurricanes and floods to wildfires and ice storms. Accordingly, this bill will enable our government to better protect the American people against ALL major threats.Appropriately -- for the start of hurricane season -- the bill maintains a robust $844 million for FEMA Management and Administration and $2 billion for disaster relief. In addition, the bill and report specifically place FEMA at the forefront of disaster response management, thereby avoiding confusion when working with our state and local partners.State and local emergency managers and first responders are equal partners in disaster preparedness and response, and I am pleased that the Administration's budget request recognizes this important partnership. This bill strengthens our commitment to our State and local partners by providing $3.96 billion for grant and training programs, including: $330 million for Emergency Management Performance Grants, our one true all-hazards grant program; $950 million for State Homeland Security Grants; $887 million for the Urban Area Security Initiative, which targets the highest risks of terrorism; and $800 million for Firefighter Assistance Grants.Within the $800 million for firefighter assistance grants, $420 million is for SAFER staffing grants and $380 million is for basic equipment and training grants. The additional funding for SAFER is part of a targeted and temporary effort to stem the tide of layoffs and ensure our communities are protected by an adequate number of firefighters. In addition to the increased funding, the supplemental appropriations bill just passed allows the waiver of certain restrictions and broadens the use of SAFER to allow the grants to be used for the hiring, rehiring, and retention of firefighters for fiscal years 2009 and 2010.One could make an argument for increasing nearly any account in this bill; but since we can't spend the whole Federal Treasury on homeland security, we must base our priorities on risk. The Subcommittee has done this with regard to the identification and removal of illegal aliens who have committed crimes – in other words, illegal aliens who have proven their capacity to do harm in our communities. This bill continues the tradition of recent bills by targeting $1.5 billion of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) appropriations for this priority – an effort the President and Secretary Napolitano wholeheartedly support. Part of this funding furthers development of the Secure Communities program, which offers a productive approach for Federal immigration agents to work closely with State and local law enforcement while distinguishing the traditional Federal role of enforcing immigration law from the local role of prosecuting criminal violations. We have heard from many law enforcement and community groups about the importance of keeping a bright line between immigration enforcement and local community policing, and the Secure Communities program does just that.Taking on the international drug cartels along our Southwest border is another major priority we support in this bill. The bill enhances funding for CBP and ICE to combat illegal narcotics smuggling from Mexico and the cartels' trafficking in weapons and bulk currency. The bill supports a realistic and strategic approach to Southwest Border infrastructure and maintains a historically robust Border Patrol force.Other specific priorities we have funded include:•$800 million for explosive detection systems at the airports and $122.8 million for air cargo security (to meet the 100-percent screening mandate for air cargo in the hold of passenger planes by August 2010);•$804 million to continue developing systems to screen inbound land and sea-based cargo for weapons or nuclear materials, which includes $162 million to strengthen overseas operations to monitor and target cargo;•$241.5 million for the Coast Guard to support overseas contingencies in the Persian Gulf and off the coast of Somalia;•$382 million for cyber security, to help protect vulnerable computer infrastructure from the escalating sophistication and intensity of cyber attacks; and•$10 million above the Administration's request to expand the Alternatives to Detention program nation-wide, which is a cost-effective alternative for low-risk individuals, such as asylum seekers, families, and the elderly.The bill includes several policy items requested by the Administration: it clarifies fee authorities for Temporary Protected Status petitions and visa fraud investigations; extends E-Verify for 2 years; and continues a longstanding provision related to imported prescription drugs.As it did last year, the bill contains Member-requested and Presidential earmarks. Each Member's project has been vetted by DHS and deemed eligible, if part of a grant program, or consistent with the Department's mission. We had to reduce Member earmarks 5% below last year's level.This is a good bill, one I hope that every Member will support.Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.# # #
06.19.2009	Washington, D.C. - The House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence last night passed an amendment authored by U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) to H.R. 2701, the fiscal year 2010 Intelligence Authorization bill. The amendment was offered during the committee mark up of H.R. 2701 by Rep. Mike Thompson (D-CA), chair of the House Intelligence Subcommittee on Terrorism/HUMINT, Analysis, and Counterintelligence.Rep. Price has taken a leading role in Congress to reform and improve our human intelligence capabilities and to prohibit the conduct of interrogations from being contracted out to private firms. The Thompson-Price amendment would require the Director of Intelligence to conduct a comprehensive assessment of the state of interrogation training, analysis, and research and report to Congress on any shortcomings. The amendment stems from comprehensive reform legislation introduced in February by Rep. Price, Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), and other cosponsors."The current debate over what constitutes torture is obviously of great moral importance, but there are significant practical questions as well," said Rep. Price. "We must determine what interrogation practices are effective, how best to train our interrogators, and how to avoid any tactics that do not represent the fundamental values of America."Intended to be an annual reauthorization, H.R. 2701 would specifically authorize all intelligence activities by the Department of Defense and other intelligence agencies for the upcoming year. It is hoped that the new administration of President Obama and larger Democratic majority in the Senate will allow H.R. 2701 to be the first annual intelligence reauthorization actually signed into law since fiscal year 2005.The full text of the amendment is copied below.REPORT ON INTERROGATION RESEARCH AND TRAINING.(a) Requirement for Report- Not later than December 31, 2009, the Director of National Intelligence, in coordination with the heads of the relevant elements of the intelligence community, shall submit to the congressional intelligence and appropriations committees a report on the state of research, analysis, and training regarding interrogation and debriefing practices.(b) Content- The report required by subsection (a) shall address—(1) the quality and value of scientific and technical research into interrogation and debriefing practices that has been conducted by institutions or individuals both independently and in affiliation with the U.S. Government, and the identification of areas in which additional research could potentially improve interrogation practices;(2) the state of interrogation and debriefing training in the intelligence community, including the character and adequacy of the ethical component of such training, and the identification of any gaps in training;(3) the adequacy of efforts to enhance career path options for intelligence community interrogators and debriefers, including efforts to recruit and retain career personnel; and(4) the effectiveness of existing processes for studying and implementing lessons learned and best practices regarding interrogation and debriefing; and(5) recommendations for improving the intelligence community's performance regarding the issues described in paragraphs (1) through (4).
06.02.2009	Raleigh, N.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today delivered welcoming remarks to the International Association of Science Parks as the organization gathered at the Raleigh Convention Center for the World Conference on Science and Technology Parks. Price's remarks are copied below.As the member of the United States Congress who represents Research Triangle Park, I am extremely proud to welcome you to the 26th International Association of Science Parks (IASP) World Conference on Science and Technology Parks. We are delighted to host a conference of this international distinction and to showcase one of the premier assets of our state.With over 770 delegates from 52 countries in attendance, your conference represents a major highlight of RTP's 50th anniversary year! Research Triangle Park was founded in 1959 by a visionary group of leaders representing government, business and higher education. The Park was designed to be a campus-like setting for high-tech industry right in the midst of the area's internationally-recognized research universities. Duke University, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and North Carolina State University served as cornerstones of knowledge and innovation in the new "Research Triangle."In 1959, North Carolina' economy was largely driven by the furniture, textile and tobacco industries. The state was only beginning to confront the social upheavals that would sweep the South during the civil rights movements of the 1950s and 1960s. At the time, the idea to build a research park on a tract of undeveloped pine forest and worn-out farmland in the heart of North Carolina's piedmont was truly visionary. Few would have predicted that our state – referred to earlier in its history as "a vale of humility between two mountains of conceit" (namely South Carolina and Virginia) – would chart the economic course for the New South.By bringing together business acumen, research capacity, and a pragmatic view of the role of government, North Carolina's leaders hoped to facilitate public-private partnerships that would yield unprecedented advances in scientific innovation and commercialization. They envisioned a research park that would diversify and strengthen the state's economy through knowledge- and technology-based development. Their pioneering work created new vistas of opportunity for citizens of North Carolina and for the thousands of others, like myself, who would be drawn to the state.Today RTP is a key driver of economic development in North Carolina and has been instrumental in integrating the state into the globalized economy of the 21st century. In the last 50 years, RTP has literally changed the face of America and the world. Innovations ranging from the UPC bar code to live-saving medications like Taxol and AZT got their start in the Research Triangle; and researchers are awarded hundreds of new patents every year. Today, Research Triangle Park is one of the largest research parks in the nation, and it has served as a model for hundreds of other similar endeavors across the globe. This 7,000 acre development is now home to more than 170 companies employing over 40,000 full-time knowledge workers and an estimated 10,000 contract employees.It is particularly fitting that North Carolina host this year's IASP conference – aptly themed "Future Knowledge Ecosystems" – as North Carolina was one of the earliest leaders in the research park movement. Over the past 50 years, Research Triangle Park has become the vibrant, knowledge-based ecosystem envisioned by the Park's founders.And we're assured that RTP is celebrating its 50th anniversary in the most appropriate way possible, namely by looking ahead and planning for what the next 50 years will look like. We are confident that microtechnology, biotechnology, and green technology, as well as continuing innovations in our long-established lines of research and development, lie in our future and that they will keep our region's economy relevant and strong in the years ahead.And now, with the permission of the IASP international president, Mr. Joan Bellavista, I declare the 26th IASP World Conference officially "Open."# # #
05.26.2009	Raleigh, N.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today joined Governor Bev Perdue and Major General William Ingram, adjutant general of the North Carolina National Guard, at the groundbreaking ceremony for the new North Carolina National Guard Joint Forces Headquarters. Price, who has worked for years to bring a new facility to North Carolina, was instrumental in boosting the funding for the Army National Guard account in the federal recovery package passed earlier this year. Construction of the new North Carolina headquarters will be primarily funded through a merit-based award process as part of the recovery package. Price's remarks at the groundbreaking are copied below.Good morning! Occasions like this are one of the genuine pleasures of the office I am privileged to hold, and I cannot remember many, if any, groundbreakings that I have looked forward to more than this one. This is partly because the North Carolina National Guard Joint Forces Headquarters is such an important project, so much needed, so long overdue. But the satisfaction also comes from the fact that the construction we officially launch today is the culmination of so much effort over so many years by so many people.Who would have thought when we first began that the funding would finally come from something known as the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act? Believe me, none of us would have objected to more conventional funding. But as a matter of fact, the fit with the stimulus bill is almost perfect: the project is most certainly "shovel-ready," and it is expected to create or sustain as many as 4,000 jobs.I will single out only a few people here today, but one surely must be Rep. Chet Edwards, Chairman of the House Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee. We knew that if the category of Army National Guard Construction funding was preserved in the stimulus bill, the North Carolina project was at the top of the National Guard's list. It was Rep. Edwards who made sure the category was there in the House bill, and that it was restored in conference after the Senate dropped it. We would not be here today if not for his efforts.We also benefitted from bipartisan support from the North Carolina congressional delegation, including Senator Kay Hagan, who urged her leaders to accept the House position on National Guard construction funding. I want to thank Tommy Ross of my staff, who worked skillfully to thread this particular needle.And then there is General Bill Ingram. General Ingram has many skills, but this project demanded all the political savvy and persistence he could muster. It is not a simple matter to understand or break through the National Guard bureaucracy, but he has spent countless hours doing so, with the results you see here today. General Ingram and his staff have been an indispensible resource for congressional efforts to move this project forward.I also want to acknowledge and thank Governor Beverly Perdue. Both as Lieutenant Governor and as Governor, she has been a champion of North Carolina's National Guard and a leading force in making North Carolina, as we like to say, the most military-friendly state in the nation. The outcome of the BRAC process is a testament to that leadership, and today's groundbreaking represents the latest chapter. Governor Perdue has been a tireless advocate.Our National Guard will not be the sole beneficiary of this new headquarters building, for the facility will also serve as the nerve center for the Guard's partners in providing our state's disaster response and homeland security capabilities.The North Carolina National Guard has been called upon more than their fair share over the last few years, and they have answered that call every time – with dignity, honor, and an enduring commitment to excellence. Since the September 11, 2001 attacks, the North Carolina Guard has deployed over 15,000 members to serve in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other missions around the world.On this Memorial Day week, we honor this service and sacrifice. In particular, we mourn 1st Lieutenant Leevi Barnard of Mount Airy, killed in action in Baghdad last week, the eleventh North Carolina Guardsman killed in action since 2001.The Guard is constantly called upon to respond to disasters like hurricanes, floods, ice storms, and wildfires. North Carolina has suffered from more major hurricanes in the last fifteen years than any other state. The Guard has not only helped respond to disasters here at home; they have generously helped other states respond to disasters such as Hurricane Katrina and California forest fires. And on top of all this work, they continue to make time to train counterparts and undertake projects internationally through the State Partnership Program, building capacity and friendships in a struggling post-Soviet state, Moldova, and in one of Africa's most promising democracies, Botswana.As demand for the Guard has spiked, there has been an increasing need for a new headquarters to house the Guard's leadership operations. The Joint Forces Headquarters will replace an outdated, undersized, underequipped building with a state-of-the-art new facility, allowing the Guard to mobilize the people and resources it needs to meet new and demanding challenges.But the Joint Forces Headquarters will be more than a home for the Guard. It will also house the State Emergency Operations Center, the Department of Transportation Operations Center, the Highway Patrol Communications Center, and the N.C. Turnpike Authority. The presence of all five entities under one roof will ensure seamless coordination and response in the event of a natural disaster or other emergency, improving security and saving lives.In my role as Chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, I have particularly worked to ensure that the State Emergency Operations Center will have unsurpassed situational awareness, fully integrated communications capabilities, and the ability to mobilize a rapid and targeted response to emergencies.Effective, proactive response to both the national security challenges we face and the challenges of a natural or man-made disaster requires cooperation and coordination among a variety of officials and agencies. The North Carolina Joint Forces Headquarters will serve as a model for such cooperation, and there is no question it will make our state more secure.I am overjoyed to see the shovel hit the dirt, and I am grateful to all those who worked to make this event possible. Thanks and congratulations to all who have brought us to this happy day!# # #
05.25.2009	Cary, N.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) delivered the following remarks as part of a ceremony at Hillcrest Cemetery in Cary commemorating Memorial Day and honoring those who gave their lives in service to our country:Once again we gather among these memorial stones to pay tribute to the 1.1 million patriots who have given their lives so that our country and its ideals might endure. American Legion Post 67 and the Auxiliary have for 18 years done Cary and surrounding communities a great service by organizing this observance and bringing us all together.Never underestimate how important it is to do this. An ancient Sioux saying states that "a people without history is like the wind on buffalo grass." We need to pause and remember amid the busy crosscurrents of life, to anchor ourselves, to remember who we are and what had been done for us. This annual observance helps us to remember our history and to reflect on the challenges and obligations it places upon us.Today I want to reach further back and recall the General Orders that in 1868 inaugurated the first Memorial Day observance:We should guard the graves (of the "heroic dead") with sacred vigilance. All that the nation can add to their adornment and security is but a fitting tribute to the memory of her slain defenders...If other eyes grow dull and other hands slack, and other hearts cold in this solemn trust, ours shall keep it well as long as the light and warmth of life remain in us.So let us resolve today that our eyes shall not grow dull, nor our hands slack, nor our hearts cold. We will remember—as individuals, as families, and as a community. We will remember and we will act on those memories in the ways, large and small, that are open to us: To fulfill our country's obligation to those who have served and sacrificed, and to carry their work forward, giving back to our communities and doing our part to redeem our country's promise.# # #
05.21.2009	Research Triangle Park - Congressmen David Price (NC-04), Bob Etheridge (NC-02), and Brad Miller (NC-13) will host Marketplace 2009 next week on Wednesday, May 27.Marketplace is a small business contracting conference designed to bring small business sellers together with buyers from the federal government and large prime contractors. It features a trade show, a series of seminars, one-on-one meetings with select agency and prime contractor representatives, and the opportunity to bid on contracts. The conference is hosted by the three Triangle-area U.S. Representatives in cooperation with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS), the North Carolina Procurement Technical Assistance Center (PTAC), and the North Carolina Small Business and Technology Development Center (SBTDC).Wednesday's luncheon topic is "Federal and State Recovery Plan (ARRA) Opportunities." Congressmen Price, Etheridge, and Miller will provide a federal report and be joined by Dempsey Benton, Director of the North Carolina Office of Recovery and Investment. Director Benton will discuss recovery opportunities within the state.More information is available on the web at www.sbtdc.org/events/marketplace.LOGISTICS:8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.Wednesday, May 27, 2009Sheraton ImperialResearch Triangle Park, NC
05.20.2009	Washington, D.C. - Today the House of Representatives agreed to Senate changes and passed the Credit Cardholders' Bill of Rights (H.R. 627), legislation that will reform the credit card industry and provide additional consumer protections. H.R. 627 passed the House and Senate with overwhelming bipartisan majorities of 361 to 64 and 90 to 5, respectively. With today's action, the legislation now moves to President Obama's desk, where he is expected to sign the measure into law.The final version of H.R. 627 passed by both chambers retained measures originally introduced by Congressman David Price (D-NC) that will help consumers avoid crippling credit card debt by providing additional information on the pitfalls of making only the minimum payment. The measures were included in an amendment sponsored by Price and Rep. Brad Miller (D-NC) that was attached to the bill during earlier House consideration. Price and Miller based their amendment on stand-alone legislation introduced by Price since 2005.Provisions from both the Price-Miller Amendment included in the final bill would ensure that consumers will receive personalized disclosures that show the total cost, including interest payments, of paying only monthly minimum payments on their credit card balance. The disclosures will also include assessments of the monthly payment they must make to pay off their balance in 36 months. The bill and amendment also require that consumers receive a general warning that making only the minimum payment will increase the total amount of interest they pay and have access to information on credit counseling and debt management services via a toll-free telephone number."Minimum payment practices are at best deceptive and at worst abusive," said Price. "These personalized, timely disclosures will provide a wake-up call for over-extended consumers, helping them avoid falling into the trap of perpetual debt. I look forward to working with the Federal Reserve and Treasury Department to carry out these protections after President Obama signs this important legislation into law."The full text of the relevant bill section is copied below.SEC. 201. PAYOFF TIMING DISCLOSURES.(a) In General- Section 127(b)(11) of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1637(b)(11)) is amended to read as follows:'(11)(A) A written statement in the following form: 'Minimum Payment Warning: Making only the minimum payment will increase the amount of interest you pay and the time it takes to repay your balance.', or such similar statement as is established by the Board pursuant to consumer testing.'(B) Repayment information that would apply to the outstanding balance of the consumer under the credit plan, including--'(i) the number of months (rounded to the nearest month) that it would take to pay the entire amount of that balance, if the consumer pays only the required minimum monthly payments and if no further advances are made;'(ii) the total cost to the consumer, including interest and principal payments, of paying that balance in full, if the consumer pays only the required minimum monthly payments and if no further advances are made;'(iii) the monthly payment amount that would be required for the consumer to eliminate the outstanding balance in 36 months, if no further advances are made, and the total cost to the consumer, including interest and principal payments, of paying that balance in full if the consumer pays the balance over 36 months; and'(iv) a toll-free telephone number at which the consumer may receive information about accessing credit counseling and debt management services.'(C)(i) Subject to clause (ii), in making the disclosures under subparagraph (B), the creditor shall apply the interest rate or rates in effect on the date on which the disclosure is made until the date on which the balance would be paid in full.'(ii) If the interest rate in effect on the date on which the disclosure is made is a temporary rate that will change under a contractual provision applying an index or formula for subsequent interest rate adjustment, the creditor shall apply the interest rate in effect on the date on which the disclosure is made for as long as that interest rate will apply under that contractual provision, and then apply an interest rate based on the index or formula in effect on the applicable billing date.'(D) All of the information described in subparagraph (B) shall--'(i) be disclosed in the form and manner which the Board shall prescribe, by regulation, and in a manner that avoids duplication; and'(ii) be placed in a conspicuous and prominent location on the billing statement.'(E) In the regulations prescribed under subparagraph (D), the Board shall require that the disclosure of such information shall be in the form of a table that--'(i) contains clear and concise headings for each item of such information; and'(ii) provides a clear and concise form stating each item of information required to be disclosed under each such heading.'(F) In prescribing the form of the table under subparagraph (E), the Board shall require that--'(i) all of the information in the table, and not just a reference to the table, be placed on the billing statement, as required by this paragraph; and'(ii) the items required to be included in the table shall be listed in the order in which such items are set forth in subparagraph (B).'(G) In prescribing the form of the table under subparagraph (D), the Board shall employ terminology which is different than the terminology which is employed in subparagraph (B), if such terminology is more easily understood and conveys substantially the same meaning.'.(b) Civil Liability- Section 130(a) of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1640(a)) is amended, in the undesignated paragraph following paragraph (4), by striking the second sentence and inserting the following: 'In connection with the disclosures referred to in subsections (a) and (b) of section 127, a creditor shall have a liability determined under paragraph (2) only for failing to comply with the requirements of section 125, 127(a), or any of paragraphs (4) through (13) of section 127(b), or for failing to comply with disclosure requirements under State law for any term or item that the Board has determined to be substantially the same in meaning under section 111(a)(2) as any of the terms or items referred to in section 127(a), or any of paragraphs (4) through (13) of section 127(b).'.(c) Guidelines Required-(1) IN GENERAL- Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Board shall issue guidelines, by rule, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, for the establishment and maintenance by creditors of a toll-free telephone number for purposes of providing information about accessing credit counseling and debt management services, as required under section 127(b)(11)(B)(iv) of the Truth in Lending Act, as added by this section.(2) APPROVED AGENCIES- Guidelines issued under this subsection shall ensure that referrals provided by the toll-free number referred to in paragraph (1) include only those nonprofit budget and credit counseling agencies approved by a United States bankruptcy trustee pursuant to section 111(a) of title 11, United States Code.
05.06.2009	Washington, D.C. - Today the House of Representatives passed H. Res. 348, a resolution introduced by Congressman David Price (D-NC) congratulating the University of North Carolina for winning the 2009 NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Championship. The resolution, which was cosponsored by all other members of the state's House delegation, passed the House by a vote of 423 to 0.Representatives Mike Castle (R-DE), Bob Etheridge (D-NC), Mike McIntyre (D-NC), Brad Miller (D-NC), Harold Rogers (R-KY), and others joined Price in celebrating UNC and its championship on the floor yesterday, when the measure was debated. The vote was rolled until today due to the lack of a quorum yesterday afternoon.Price's full remarks on the floor are copied below.CONGRESSMAN DAVID PRICEFLOOR STATEMENT ON H. RES. 348MAY 5, 2009MADAM SPEAKER, I rise in support of House Resolution 348, congratulating the University of North Carolina Men's Basketball team for winning the 2009 NCAA Division I National Championship. I am pleased to have the support of the entire North Carolina delegation as original cosponsors.The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill is a special place to the entire state of North Carolina and, as the nation's first public university, has long been a beacon of light and liberty in the South. The academic tradition of excellence and unyielding commitment to public service is what drew me across the mountains from Tennessee to Chapel Hill 50 years ago and largely shaped my life's further course.This year's success builds on an extraordinary history. UNC has played in a record 18 "Final Fours" and won the NCAA National Championship in 1957, 1982, 1993, 2005 and 2009.While Head Coach Roy Williams inherited a first-class program, he deserves special credit for the exceptional success and character of his teams. Coach Williams, who is a native of the mountains of North Carolina, has the highest winning percentage of any active coach in men's basketball and unquestionably sits at the top of his profession. Since he came to Carolina as head coach in 2003, the Tar Heels have won two NCAA championships, four Atlantic Coast Conference regular season championships, and two ACC tournament championships. The 2008-2009 season marks their third consecutive 30-win season.Like the whole community of Carolina basketball fans, I am exceedingly proud of this entire team – the players, coaches and staff – for their outstanding performance in the nation's most competitive and most-watched college athletics tournament. In addition to their on-court success, the team has consistently shown academic commitment, appreciation to their fans, good sportsmanship toward their opponents, and respect for the game of basketball. I am particularly proud that Inside Higher Ed also crowned UNC its national champion in its annual academic NCAA tournament, signifying that UNC has the single best Academic Performance Rate of any NCAA tournament team. These coaches and players have ably upheld the tradition of excellence, both on the court and in the classroom, established by legendary coaches Dean Smith and Bill Guthridge and now continued by Roy Williams.As an alumnus and Chapel Hill resident, this program and most recent championship make me particularly proud. They are my friends and neighbors – Joan Ewing, my dear friend and former district director, is Dean Smith's sister – and it's my honor to represent all of them in Congress.But this year other alumni and I were not the only fans in Washington cheering the Tar Heels from afar. President Obama himself picked Carolina to bring home the title, and played a pick-up game with the team last spring before the North Carolina primary election. It is important to note that he did so while employing a former Duke basketball player as his closest personal aide. As the Member of this body representing both institutions and a Carolina alumnus who teaches at Duke, I can only salute such feats of athletic bipartisanship with great admiration!I urge the House to join President Obama and the North Carolina delegation in celebrating the Tar Heels. This is an institution and team who are worthy of our praise; not only because they found success, but also because they did it the right way, the Carolina Way. Hark the sound, and go Heels!# # #
05.06.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) participated this morning in a roundtable discussion on United States foreign aid and the challenges of global urbanization at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. His prepared introductory remarks are copied below.Good morning. First, let me thank the Woodrow Wilson Center for organizing this panel on what I think it a critical and neglected topic. I also want to thank my colleague and friend, Brad Miller, for his leadership in this area, as well as Peter Kimm and Chris Williams, who have done remarkable work in addressing this issue.My consciousness about the challenges of global slums was raised in the summer of 2006, when I traveled to Kibera with a handful of my colleagues.We were working in Nairobi through the House Democracy Assistance Commission, a body that I chair which partners with legislatures in developing democracies around the world. While we were in Nairobi, I wanted to look in on the work of Carolina for Kibera, a non-profit based in my district that is working on public health, conflict resolution, sanitation, and other issues in Kibera, and I persuaded a few of my congressional colleagues to come along.It's fair to say that we were stunned by what we witnessed. We trudged through the mud of Kibera's streets, stepping over open sewers that followed paths only feet from where children played. We visited an eight-foot-by-eight foot mud-brick home where a mother lived with her school-age son. And we visited a health clinic serving thousands of residents without a stable source of water or electricity.Kibera is home to an estimated 1 million inhabitants, so the scope of the problem there is overwhelming to us. But its complexity is equally daunting. The Kibera slum – like other slums around the world – presents an intricate set of dynamics in which problems and root causes are inseparable. Sanitation, public health, access to transportation, employment, secure tenure, adequate housing, environmental degradation, ethnic conflict – all are both cause and consequence in the Kiberan slum.Although nonprofits – including one run by a constituent of mine – are working to address the devastating poverty there, we were shocked to learn that USAID then had not one single program working in Kibera. Surely there could be no justification for USAID not being present in Africa's largest slum.As it turned out, the justification was, at least in part, a lack of funds. USAID's urban programs have been decimated in recent years. Moreover, our current array of foreign aid programs is ill-suited to confront the challenges of urban slums. These programs often take on the challenges piecemeal, targeting water access or public health alone. Make no mistake – such efforts are critical. But slums demand a robust and integrated approach.The SLUM Act introduced by Congressman Miller, with my strong support, is an important first step in enhancing U.S. tools to address the challenges of slums and urbanization. This legislation would help us develop a long-term strategy for taking on these challenges and would kick-start efforts in the short-term by authorizing additional aid.As we work for passage of the SLUM Act, we are mindful that more far-reaching changes are also needed. Certainly, President Obama's promise to double U.S. foreign assistance is one such necessary change.In addition, as Congressman Miller mentioned, Congress is beginning to examine the prospect of a full-scale reform of our foreign aid programs. As we undertake this effort, it is absolutely critical that we recalibrate these programs to more effectively address cross-cutting challenges like global slums. Reforms are needed not only to enhance major donor agencies like USAID and the Millennium Challenge Account, but also to reinvigorate international programs operated by other agencies that have the potential to do more, such as the Department of Housing and Urban Development's Office of International Affairs. Equally important is a coherent strategy to guide our assistance, so that aid funding is allocated in a way that mirrors our national priorities.My work with the House Democracy Assistance Commission has taken me to a number of countries wrestling with large, impoverished slums, including Haiti, Afghanistan, Indonesia, and so on. In every place, the context and contours of the slums are different. But the challenges and needs are often quite similar.Based on my experience with the House Democracy Assistance Commission, let me offer a few thoughts on some lessons I hope to contribute to the emerging debate on foreign assistance reform, as it relates to the challenge of slums.First, as I mentioned before, the complex and interwoven challenges of global slums demand integrated and holistic solutions. USAID and other foreign aid agencies already address many of the problems slum-dwellers face, including poverty reduction, water access, adequate sanitation, and education. But these programs would be far more effective if they were planned, funded, and implemented in an integrated fashion.In some ways, the President's Emergency Program for AIDS Relief, or PEPFAR, might serve as a good example to an integrated approach to a critical challenge. I recently convened a panel of leading experts and practitioners in my district to discuss foreign aid reform, and there was a strong consensus that the PEPFAR model has much to offer. PEPFAR coordinates the efforts of numerous government agencies targeting several aspects of the problem, including preventing transmission, treating infected patients, improving foreign health infrastructure, and attending to orphans of the pandemic. The PEPFAR model certainly has its flaws, such as some ideological constraints, imperfect inter-agency coordination, and an arguably unnecessary separation from traditional foreign aid programs. Yet, it may offer some important lessons for carrying out holistic, multi-sector programming in an integrated fashion.Second, while they present similar challenges and needs, each slum has its own unique character. Effectively addressing the challenges of slums requires the flexibility to facilitate local solutions.Our Commission saw a good example of this principle when we traveled to Medellin, Colombia. The former Mayor of Medellin oversaw the construction of the MetroCable, a cable car servicing some of the poorest slum neighborhoods ringing the city. The MetroCable links with the ground-based public transportation system in the valley, providing residents with access to jobs and opportunities in the city center. The result has been a staggering 300 percent increase in commerce, the creation of significant new green space, and a total makeover of the neighborhood. In what was once one of the most dangerous neighborhoods in the world's most dangerous city, I recently had the opportunity to walk around in broad daylight, without fear.We need to find ways to encourage such local solutions, even when they don't fall neatly into existing program categories. And we need to improve our ability to incorporate local input into our program planning and development.Finally, we must rebuild our in-house technical capacity at USAID. In the past several years, USAID's technical expertise, especially in the area of urban programs but also throughout other key areas, has been decimated. Much of the loss is being mitigated by contractors, who have often done admirable work in implementing U.S. programs. However, without in-house expertise, we lack institutional memory and we lose the capacity to steer foreign aid programs down sound technical paths. As we examine foreign aid reform, we must reexamine the balance of in-house versus contracted expertise, and ensure that we retain sufficient government capacity to maintain the technical integrity of our programming.Let me stop there and turn it over to Peter and Chris. Once again, I appreciate the opportunity to be with you here today, and I look forward to our further discussion.# # #
05.03.2009	Raleigh, N.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today offered the following remarks on the campus of Meredith College, as part of the North Carolina Holocaust Commemoration."Take care and watch yourselves closely," the writer of Deuteronomy admonishes, "so as neither to forget the things that our eyes have seen nor to let them slip from your mind all the days of your life; make them known to your children and your children's children..." (4:9).Once again we gather for the Days of Remembrance. The theme for 2009 designated by the Holocaust Museum – "Never Again: What You Do Matters" – reminds us that authentic remembrance must include an assumption of personal responsibility. As we vow "never again," we must find ways to give that vow force as individuals and as a community.Few stories illustrate more powerfully the difference an individual can make in creating a more just and humane world than that of Raphael Lemkin. This year marks 50 years since the death of this Polish-Jewish lawyer who watched from the shores of the United States as the Nazis persecuted and murdered members of his family along with millions of other Jews, solely on the basis of their identity. Winston Churchill described this mass murder as a "crime without a name."Lemkin was a prominent attorney and an expert in international law working in Warsaw when Germany invaded Poland in September 1939. He answered his country's call for able-bodied men to go eastward in the hopes of forming a new defensive line against Germany, but all hope collapsed when the Soviet Union suddenly occupied eastern Poland. Lemkin escaped to Sweden by way of Lithuania. There he completed arrangements to immigrate to the United States, coming to North Carolina. He began work at Duke University in April 1941, shortly before the United States entered World War II.In 1944, Lemkin became increasingly alarmed as the extent of the destruction of Europe's Jewish communities became apparent. He was determined to name the crime that had killed his family. He coined the word "genocide" as a first step in his relentless personal drive to help prevent its repetition. Lemkin next conceived the Genocide Convention and wrote its first draft. In the shadow of the Holocaust and in no small part due to his tireless efforts, the United Nations approved the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide in 1948. Lemkin did not celebrate, but called it "an epitaph on his mother's grave." He continued his efforts to prevent genocide until his death in 1959.*It is vital to our humanity to face evil and to name it. The Days of Remembrance compel that, and often prompt despairing thoughts about the depravity of which human beings are capable, demonstrated anew in our own day. But that is not and must not be the last word. We know that even in the depths of the Holocaust there were courageous acts of defiance and rescue, and we face the unsettling fact that thousands more could have acted but did not. Remembrance obligates us not only to memorialize those who were killed but also to reflect on what could have been done to save them. And the same applies as the Days of Remembrance open our eyes to the cruelty and hatred and suffering still around us: we must face our responsibility not only for naming evil but for finding ways large and small to overcome it, for affirming the spark of humanity we share with all people over all the earth.*See "Days of Remembrance" from the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum website, www.ushmm.org, April 2009.# # #
04.30.2009	Washington, D.C. - Today the House of Representatives approved an amendment offered by Congressmen David Price (D-NC) and Brad Miller (D-NC) to H.R. 627, the Credit Cardholder's Bill of Rights. The overall bill subsequently passed the House by a vote of 357 to 70. Price's amendment is designed to help consumers avoid crippling credit card debt by providing additional information on the pitfalls of making only the minimum payment.American families are carrying record levels of debt. Revolving credit – most of which is credit card debt – has quadrupled since 1990. In far too many cases, this debt becomes unmanageable, and the resulting impacts are detrimental to both individual consumers and our society at large. As debt increases, interest and penalty fees eat up more and more of the household budget. Families have to dip into their savings, and their dreams of homeownership, college education for their children, and a secure retirement dissolve. When consumers find that they cannot pay back their debts at all, credit card companies pass the costs on to other cardholders in the form of higher interest rates."Minimum payment practices are at best deceptive and at worst abusive," said Price. "The personalized, timely disclosures required by the Price-Miller amendment will provide a wake-up call for over-extended consumers, helping them avoid falling into the trap of perpetual debt.""We want to make sure that credit card users are well-informed, in order to make the best possible financial decisions for themselves and their families," said Miller.Consumers can break the destructive debt cycle by making informed decisions about managing their credit, and the Price-Miller amendment would provide the tools to do so. The amendment would ensure that consumers will receive personalized disclosures at least once per quarter that show the total cost, including interest payments, of paying only monthly minimum payments on their credit card balance. The quarterly disclosures would also include assessments of the monthly payment they must make to pay off their balance in 12, 24, and 36 months. The amendment also requires that consumers receive a general warning that making only the minimum payment will increase the total amount of interest they pay and have access to information on credit counseling and debt management services via a toll-free telephone number.The Price-Miller amendment is based on stand-alone legislation Price has introduced since 2005 and reflects key elements of President Obama's recently announced plan to help protect credit cardholders. Reps. Jim Moran (D-VA), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Nita Lowey (D-NY), Bart Stupak (D-MI), and Betty Sutton (D-OH) joined Price and Miller as cosponsors.The full text of the amendment is copied below.AMENDMENT TO H.R. 627, AS REPORTEDOFFERED BY MR. PRICE OF NORTH CAROLINA, ET ALAfter section 8, insert the following new section (and redesignate subsequent sections accordingly):SEC. 9. ENHANCED MINIMUM PAYMENT DISCLOSURES.Paragraph (11) of section 127(b) of the Truth inLending Act (15 U.S.C. 1637(b)(11)) is amended to readas follows:''(11) MINIMUM PAYMENT DISCLOSURES.—''(A) MINIMUM PAYMENT WARNING.—A written statement in the following form: 'Minimum Payment Warning: Making only the minimum payment will increase the interest you pay and the time it takes to repay your balance.'.''(B) INFORMATION ON OUTSTANDING BALANCE.—Not less than once per calendar quarter, such billing statement shall also include repayment information that would apply to the outstanding balance of the consumer under the credit plan, including—''(i) the number of months (rounded to the nearest month) that it would take to pay the entire amount of that balance, if the consumer pays only the required minimum monthly payments and if no further advances are made;''(ii) the total cost to the consumer, including interest payments, of paying that balance in full, if the consumer pays only the required minimum monthly payments and if no further advances are made;''(iii) the monthly payment amount that would be required for the consumer to eliminate the outstanding balance in 12 months, 24 months, and 36 months, if no further advances are made, and the total cost to the consumer, including interest and principal payments, of paying that balance in full if the consumer pays the balance over 12, 24, or 36 months, respectively; and''(iv) a toll-free telephone number at which the consumer may receive information about accessing credit counseling and debt management services.''(C) EXCEPTION TO REQUIREMENTS OF SUBSECTION (B).—The quarterly disclosure requirements in subsection (B) shall not apply with respect to—''(i) a calendar quarter if, in the consecutive billing cycles preceding the end of such quarter, a consumer has paid the entire balance of the bill in full;''(ii) a calendar quarter if, at the end of the calendar quarter, a consumer has an outstanding credit balance of zero or has a positive credit; or''(iii) any class of consumers for which the Board has determined will not benefit substantially from additional disclosures.''(D) APPLICABLE RATES TO BE USED IN DISCLOSURES.—''(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to clause (ii), in making the disclosures under subparagraph (B), the creditor shall apply the interest rate or rates in effect on the date on which the disclosure is made until the date on which the balance would be paid in full.''(ii) SPECIAL RULE IN CASE OF TEMPORARY RATE.—If the interest rate in effect on the date on which the disclosure is made is a temporary rate that will change under a contractual provision applying an index or formula for subsequent interest rate adjustment, the creditor shall apply the interest rate in effect on the date on which the disclosure is made for as long as that interest rate will apply under that contractual provision, and then apply an interest rate based on the index or formula in effect on the applicable billing date.''(E) FORM AND PROMINENCE OF DISCLOSURE.—All of the information described in subparagraph (B) shall—''(i) be disclosed in the form and manner which the Board shall prescribe, by regulation, and in a manner that avoids duplication; and''(ii) be placed in a conspicuous and prominent location on the billing statement in conspicuous typeface.''(F) TABULAR FORMAT.—In the regulations prescribed under subparagraph (D), the Board shall require that the disclosure of such information shall be in the form of a table that—''(i) contains clear and concise headings for each item of such information; and''(ii) provides a clear and concise form stating each item of information required to be disclosed under each such heading.''(G) LOCATION AND ORDER OF TABLE.— In prescribing the form of the table under subparagraph (E), the Board shall require that—''(i) all of the information in the table, and not just a reference to the table, be placed on the billing statement, as required by this paragraph; and''(ii) the items required to be included in the table shall be listed in the order in which such items are described in subparagraph (B).''(H) SUBSTITUTION OF TERMINOLOGY.— In prescribing the form of the table under subparagraph (D), the Board may employ terminology which is different than the terminology used in subparagraph (B), if such terminology is more easily understood and conveys substan tially the same meaning.''(I) 'ROUNDING' REGULATIONS.—For purposes of determining whether an error in the disclosures required by subparagraph (B) constitutes a legal cause of action against a creditor or any other party, the standard referred to under the heading 'Rounding assumed payments, current balance and interest charges to the nearest cent' in the publication by the Board in the Federal Register (74 F.R. 5385) on January 29, 2009, of the final regulation revising part 226 of title 12 of the Code of Federal Regulations (Regulation Z), or a standard that affords substantially similar protections as determined by the Board, shall apply for purposes of the determination with regard to such disclosures.''# # #
04.29.2009	Legislation Would Enhance Transparency and Accountability for Battlefield ContractingWashington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today introduced legislation to improve oversight of private security contractors operating in war zones and enhance coordination between contractors and the military.Thousands of armed private security contractors are operating in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other conflict zones around the globe on behalf of the United States. They have provided needed protection for diplomats, supply convoys, and sensitive facilities, but they also have been implicated in detainee abuse at Abu Ghraib prison, numerous incidents in which civilian bystanders were killed and wounded, and fraudulent misappropriation of taxpayer dollars.Contractors, government officials, and outside observers acknowledge the regulatory and logistical gray area in which important security operations are carried out through contracting, and the potential complications that can be caused without adequate coordination and oversight. The Government Accountability Office (GAO) has repeatedly raised flags about the lack of coordination and communication between American troops and armed contractors, reporting that "private security contractors continue to enter the battle space without coordinating with the U.S. military, putting both the military and security providers at a greater risk." Last week, Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction issued a report calling oversight of private security contractors inadequate and vulnerable to waste, fraud, and abuse."Congress has a responsibility to take the lessons we've learned from contractor abuses in Iraq and Afghanistan and prevent the same mistakes in future conflicts," Price said. "No U.S. mission should be put at risk because of the actions of a few rogue contractors who operate with limited oversight and regulation. More accountable and transparent security contracting can save both lives and taxpayer money, keeping our troops and nation safer in the process."Price's legislation, the Transparency and Accountability in Security Contracting Act, seeks to address contractor abuses through a combination of transparency, oversight, accountability, and regulation. First, the bill would ensure that both Congress and the federal government have complete information about the scope of contractor activities so that they can conduct robust oversight and hold contractors accountable for their actions. It would require contractors to provide detailed reports on their operations and would require the Secretaries of Defense and State to create a database of that information which could track all security contracts, including costs and casualties. In addition, the database would be used to identify contractors who violate U.S. and international law or regulations, and bar them from future security contracting.The bill also would limit the scope of contracts and ensure that the activities of contractors are coordinated by the military. It would require all federal agencies who use security contractors to develop minimum standards for hiring and training them, and make military commanders on the ground responsible for issuing rules on contractor use of force. The bill would expressly prohibit contractors from participating directly in battle or interrogating detainees.Finally, the bill would seek a broader international framework governing the use of security contractors globally. The measure would build on initial efforts, such as the 2008 Montreux Document, by urging the Secretary of State to seek binding international commitments to regulate, oversee, and hold accountable security contractors operating under the authority of foreign governments. The need for enhanced global attention to the regulation and oversight of security contractors has been recently underscored by the spike in usage of private contractors to guard vessels against piracy in the Indian Ocean. Many leading private security firms, including Aegis and Xe (formerly Blackwater), have already begun or are preparing maritime security operations in international waters off the coast of Somalia.The bill represents the latest evolution of Price's efforts to enhance management and oversight of security contractors, following similar legislation in the 109th and 110th Congresses. Many provisions of his previous bill were incorporated into the Fiscal Year 2008 Defense Authorization Act, passed during the 110th Congress. Price also plans to soon reintroduce his legislation expanding the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act (MEJA) to ensure that contractors who commit crimes in war zones are subject to prosecution. Price's previous MEJA Expansion and Enhancement bill in the 110th Congress overwhelmingly passed the House by a vote of 389 to 30 in October 2007; then-Senator Barack Obama's companion bill stalled in the Senate due to Republican opposition.Original cosponsors of the Price bill include Rep. John Conyers, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Armed Services Committee members Reps. John Spratt and Jim Cooper, Intelligence Committee member Rep. Jan Schakowsky, and Reps. Robert Brady, Earl Blumenauer, Lois Capps, John Dingell, Keith Ellison, Bob Etheridge, Sam Farr, Bob Filner, John Hall, Mazie Hirono, Carolyn Maloney, Jim McGovern, Brad Miller, and Henry Waxman.Transparency and Accountability in Security Contracting ActSection by Section AnalysisSection 1. Title. "Transparency and Accountability in Security Contracting Act."Section 2(a). Improved Information-Sharing and Oversight.• Establishes a mechanism for contract officers to receive information from contractors on costs, number of personnel, training, activities performed, and compensation information for each covered contract. Ensures that contracting agencies have information necessary to conduct oversight of contracts awarded.• Establishes a mechanism for contracting agencies to provide Congress with a regularly-updated broad picture of private security contracting operations for any given contingency.• Includes protections to prevent requirements from revealing trade secrets or otherwise disadvantaging contractors.Section 2(b). Security Contracting Database• Requires the Secretaries of Defense and State to establish and maintain a database to include information on all active security contracts, including a description of the contract, the contract's value, and the number of personnel working on the contract.• Requires the database to track total contract activity, including number and value of contracts awarded and number of contractor casualties, in connection with specific contingency operations.• Requires the database to include a list of individuals found guilty of violating U.S. and international law or regulations and (in Section 3(c) of the bill) bars such individuals from employment under U.S. security contracts.Section 3. Enhanced Coordination Between Contractors and the Military• Prohibits the use of contractors for direct participation in hostilities or interrogation of detainees.• Requires combatant commanders to issue rules for the use of force for contractors operating in their area of responsibility, thereby clarifying appropriate uses of force for contractors, and requires covered contracts to specify that contract personnel adhere to rules for the use of force as issued.• Requires contracting agencies to develop guidance and minimum standards on hiring, training, and screening of contract personnel and equipment required for contract personnel.• Requires the issuance of regulations that require training of contractors in international human rights law, rules for the use of force, and other key topics.• Requires combatant commanders to designate, for each contingency, a Theater Security Contract Coordinating Officer to serve as a communications liaison between the U.S. Armed Forces and private security contractors in the contingency theater, and to maintain data on contractors operating in the theater.• Expresses the sense of Congress that the Secretaries of State and Defense should work with contractors, industry associations, and NGOs to develop a system of independent, third-party accreditation for contractors.Section 4. International Framework for Security Contracting.• Directs the Secretary of State to work through existing or new international fora to achieve an international framework regulating the use of private contractors for security functions.Section 5. Definitions. Restricts the bill to covering only private security contractors and contract personnel carrying out contracts in a theater where the U.S. is conducting contingency operations.Section 6. Effective date. Applies the provisions of the bill to all current and future contingencies.# # #
04.22.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) submitted the following statement for the record in the House of Representatives regarding today's celebration of Earth Day.Earth Day 2009 marks the 39th year in which we've set aside a day to reflect upon our solemn responsibility to protect the environment from the adverse effects of human activity and preserve it for future generations. Earth Day reminds us of our nation's obligation to be good stewards of the planet – a responsibility both moral and practical, personal and collective.As individuals, we are learning to assess our "footprint" and to recognize that the decisions we make on a daily basis – the cars we drive, the foods we eat, the energy we consume – must be measured against not only our own comfort, but also the sustainability of our planet and its limited resources. It is a personal obligation that cannot be taken lightly; an ethos that firmly commits each of us to passing the great inheritance we have been given to our children in a better form than it was given to us.As communities, we must reconcile the competing demands of economic development with those of responsible stewardship. It's a particular challenge in high growth areas like the one I represent. My district, the Research Triangle area of North Carolina, has been widely recognized as one of the best areas in the country to live, work, raise a family, and start a business. It is the fastest growing metro region in the country, on track to double in population over the next 20 years, and the dramatic population expansion will bring significant environmental challenges in tow.We know that we must grow, and we embrace the economic opportunities that such growth presents. But how will we grow? To maintain and improve our quality of life in the midst of robust expansion and development, we need to undertake a coordinated regional planning effort that meets our infrastructure needs while preserving livability and sustainability. We must promote not just growth, but smart growth.That is why I brought our colleague, Rep. Earl Blumenauer, to the Triangle this week to help me host a summit on Smart Growth Development. He stands as an expert in our body on sustainable development, and the summit brought together elected officials, business leaders, environmentalists, and community activists for panel discussions on smart growth principles and transportation infrastructure. I look forward to working with Rep. Blumenauer and my other colleagues to develop tools that will encourage smarter growth, more responsible development, and greater livability in communities across the country.And as a nation, we need to pursue policies that promote responsible stewardship of the earth here at home while providing responsible leadership in the global arena. This Congress has already begun working with the Obama Administration to forge a new direction for energy policy that will emphasize renewable fuels and energy efficiency.Through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, we've made an unprecedented investment in public transportation and renewable energy production that will spur energy savings. This legislation will accelerate deployment of a new, smart power grid to make the electricity grid more efficient and reliable. They will advance scientific research into battery technology and energy efficiency measures, expand the national effort to weatherize homes, and make a sizeable investment in alternative energy research.The recovery package addresses critical transit needs as well, investing in buses, commuter and light rail, and intercity passenger rail, including Amtrak and high speed rail. Public transportation, beyond saving individual Americans both time and money, can also help our nation save as much as 4.2 billion gallons of gasoline and reduce carbon emissions by 37 million metric tons each year.This spending is not simply driven by our commitment to a cleaner and healthier planet; rather, it represents a down-payment on investments to meet our country's economic and infrastructure needs and a blueprint for the direction in which our country's energy and transportation policies will go. They are investments that can fuel our future economy and make our country more prosperous and competitive than ever before.We must think globally as well, and continue to work towards a comprehensive solution to dramatically curb our greenhouse gas emissions and address the threats of climate change – a threat that our government ignored for far too long. I am pleased that House and committee leadership have recently released draft legislation that would establish a market-based cap and trade policy to serve as a basis for discussion of comprehensive clean energy legislation. This is no idle threat we now face: scientists tell us that we must reduce emissions by roughly 80 percent by mid-century to avoid a dangerous climate tipping point. As the world's largest per capita emitter of greenhouse gases, our nation must be a leader in finding clean energy solutions that reduce our dependence on fossil fuels, create a new generation of jobs, and provide climate and energy security for us and the generations to come.On Earth Day 2009, I urge President Obama to continue working with Congress to develop climate change legislation that will set us on a path that is science-based and adequately aggressive. I also urge the President and my colleagues to foster smart growth in American communities by developing policies that promote accessible transit, affordable and sustainable housing, and responsible management of water and other resources. And I urge us all to take actions in our individual lives that reflect our commitment to preserving this wondrous planet and all the diverse forms of life that thrive upon it.# # #
04.22.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) has introduced a resolution (H.Res.348) congratulating the University of North Carolina for winning the 2009 NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Championship. Price was joined yesterday, the first day the House was in session since the Final Four games, by all other members of the North Carolina congressional delegation."This Carolina team started and ended the 2008-2009 season at the undisputed peak of college basketball," said Price. "These players and coaches represent the very best of college athletics and Carolina basketball tradition – a great athletic achievement for one of the nation's finest institutions of higher education, earned through hard work on both on the court and in the classroom. Roy Williams deserves special acknowledgement for his tremendous success in maintaining the Carolina Way established by coaching greats Dean Smith and Bill Guthridge."This team is a source of pride for the entire state of North Carolina, and this alumnus and Chapel Hillian in particular. I look forward to welcoming them to Washington when they visit the White House and meet President Obama – who might just be their most famous fan."The championship holds special meaning for nearly half of the state's House delegation. Representatives Price, Howard Coble (R-NC), Mel Watt (D-NC), Mike McIntyre (D-NC), Brad Miller (D-NC), and Virginia Foxx (R-NC) are all alumni of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) plans to introduce an equivalent resolution in the Senate.The full text of the resolution is copied below.111th CONGRESS1st SessionH. RES. 348Congratulating the University of North Carolina men's basketball team for winning the 2009 NCAA Division I Men's Basketball National Championship.IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESApril 21, 2009Mr. PRICE of North Carolina (for himself, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr. ETHERIDGE, Mr. JONES, Ms. FOXX, Mr. COBLE, Mr. MCINTYRE, Mr. KISSELL, Mrs. MYRICK, Mr. MCHENRY, Mr. SHULER, Mr. WATT, and Mr. MILLER of North Carolina) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Education and LaborRESOLUTIONCongratulating the University of North Carolina men's basketball team for winning the 2009 NCAA Division I Men's Basketball National Championship.Whereas, on April 6, 2009, the University of North Carolina Tar Heels defeated the Michigan State University Spartans 89-72 in the finals of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I Men's Basketball Tournament in Detroit, Michigan;Whereas the Tar Heels now hold 6 men's basketball national titles, including 5 NCAA tournament titles, tied for the third most in NCAA history;Whereas the Tar Heels have won men's basketball national championships in 1924, 1957, 1982, 1993, 2005, and 2009 and have played in a record 18 'Final Fours';Whereas Tar Heels head coach and Asheville, North Carolina, native Roy Williams won his second NCAA title in his sixth year coaching the team, improving to 594-138 in 21 seasons as a head coach, and has the highest winning percentage of any active coach in men's basketball;Whereas Coach Williams and his coaching staff, including Assistant Coaches Joe Holladay, Steve Robinson, and C.B. McGrath, as well as each trainer, manager, and staff member, deserve praise and credit for their outstanding dedication to helping the North Carolina Tar Heels reach the summit of college basketball;Whereas Tar Heel seniors Tyler Hansbrough, Danny Green, Mike Copeland, Bobby Frasor, Marcus Ginyard, Patrick Moody, J.B. Tanner, and Jack Wooten celebrated 4 years at North Carolina with a National Championship, and became the winningest class in the 99-year history of the University of North Carolina men's basketball program;Whereas Tar Heel junior Wayne Ellington was named Most Outstanding Player of the tournament, averaging 19.2 points per game;Whereas Tar Heel junior Ty Lawson and senior Tyler Hansbrough joined Wayne Ellington on the all-tournament team, along with Spartans players Kalin Lucas and Goran Suton;Whereas the roster of the North Carolina Tar Heels also included juniors Marc Campbell and Deon Thompson; sophomore Will Graves; and freshmen Ed Davis, Larry Drew II, Justin Watts, and Tyler Zeller;Whereas the Tar Heels set a record for the most points in one half of a Championship game with 55, and Tar Heel point guard Ty Lawson set a record for the most steals in a Championship game with 8;Whereas the North Carolina Tar Heels finished the 2008-2009 season with 34 wins and 4 losses, completing their third consecutive 30 win season;Whereas the Tar Heels won their second National Championship in 5 years;Whereas the Tar Heel players, coaches, and staff are outstanding representatives of the University of North Carolina, the oldest public university in the country and a distinguished leader in higher education that is consistently ranked among the Nation's top universities in academic performance;Whereas the Tar Heels showed tremendous dedication to their team, appreciation to their fans, sportsmanship toward their opponents, and respect for the game of basketball throughout the 2009 season, maintaining the tradition of excellence established by legendary coach Dean Smith; andWhereas residents of the Old North State and North Carolina fans worldwide are to be congratulated for their long-standing support, perseverance, and pride in the team: Now, therefore, be itResolved, That the House of Representatives--(1) congratulates the national champion North Carolina Tar Heels for their historic win in the 2009 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I Men's Basketball Championship;(2) recognizes the achievements of the players, coaches, students, and support staff who were instrumental in helping the University of North Carolina Tar Heels win the tournament; and(3) directs the Clerk of the House of Representatives to make available enrolled copies of this resolution to University of North Carolina Chancellor Holden Thorp, Athletic Director Dick Baddour, and Head Coach Roy Williams for appropriate display.# # #
04.16.2009	Durham, N.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) delivered the following remarks today at a conference entitled "National Security Under a New Administration." The conference was sponsored by the Center on Law, Ethics, and National Security at the Duke University School of Law, and held on campus in Durham. More information on the conference and Center can be found at http://www.law.duke.edu/lens/conferences/2009/.IntroductionIt is a pleasure to be here with you to discuss the recalibration of our national security policy under this new Administration. I want to begin by thanking Professor Scott Silliman, who has assembled an outstanding series of panels and panelists. I also want to extend my thanks to the members of Duke's faculty and other distinguished guests participating in this conference.I have been asked to deliver remarks that give a broad overview of the opportunities and challenges that accompany U.S. national security strategy at the outset of the Obama Administration, and to tie together the themes you are examining in panels throughout this conference. We should acknowledge at this beginning that this is a tall order.Consider the breadth of the challenges the Obama Administration now faces across the globe. The United States is currently heavily engaged in two wars that, for much different reasons, are both immensely complicated and do not track with the great preponderance of our nation's war-fighting experience. Winding down the first and recalibrating the second are both high-stakes, high-risk ventures.Meanwhile, Pakistan – a nation of extreme strategic concern because of its relevance to terrorism, nuclear proliferation, and Central Asian security – is, by all accounts, on the verge of collapse. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict, which many believe to be the key driver of instability throughout the entire Middle Eastern region, has seemingly reached a nadir. The United States remains locked in high-stakes confrontations with two aspiring nuclear powers, Iran and North Korea. There is genocide in Darfur, disintegration in Zimbabwe, and tyranny in Burma. And relationships with Russia, China, Venezuela, Syria, and international organizations like the United Nations are in dire need of wholesale redefinition.If that were not enough, it took the Obama Administration only 79 days to experience, when a U.S. Navy Captain was captured by Somali pirates, what every President ultimately learns: that the most difficult moments in our national security come, not in facing the challenges we fear the most, but in confronting those we never expected.The litany of challenges is long, but the Obama Administration faces easily the greatest window of opportunity for U.S. leadership on the world stage since the community of nations united behind us following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001.The reception the President and First Lady received at every stop during their recent European trip amply demonstrates how Obama's election has immediately and fundamentally altered the world's perception of the United States and its willingness to follow American leadership.The world is not putty in our hands – President Obama will not simply be able to snap his fingers for our allies to line up behind us. As we saw during the President's trip, we are clearly not on the same page with European countries on counter-cyclical measures relating to the financial crisis; we still have work to do to convince our NATO allies to increase their engagement in Afghanistan. But there is no doubt that, once again, the United States is at the center of the world's stage. Once again, all eyes are looking across the Atlantic for strategic direction.President Obama will have unprecedented opportunities to lead, and to lead on issues that matter. Mitigating global climate change. Preventing financial collapse. Seeking peace in Iran, Israel, and elsewhere. And ridding the world of nuclear weapons, a campaign Obama somewhat surprisingly launched during his first European visit.These are issues that matter immensely to citizens across the world. They are issues that require sustained global cooperation and significant resources. There is no question that the Obama Administration recognizes these needs as opportunities, and is eager to reclaim America's global leadership mantle.At the same time, there are important opportunities to redefine our national security agenda here at home. Here, the new Administration has already signaled its intentions to undertake radical revisions in a few key areas: defense budgeting, interrogation and detention policies, and immigration.While it is hard to make "defense budgeting," much less "acquisition reform," into an engaging headline, Secretary Gates' efforts to reform the procurement of products and services in the Department of Defense will have far-ranging implications for our national security, from the types of weapons we use to the way we use and oversee private security contractors in the field.Likewise, Secretary Gates has indicated his budget proposals under the Obama Administration will give the Department of Defense a much-needed makeover. If Gates has his way, the DoD will no longer pour billions into underperforming, over-budget weapons systems better suited for the Cold War than the new security environment. It will no longer outsource thousands of jobs to contractors instead of developing in-house expertise. And it will redefine the relationship between the different types of power in our national security toolbox, more effectively balancing military might, smart diplomacy, targeted development, and economic power.Meanwhile, the Administration has undertaken a nearly wholesale rewriting of our policies on interrogation and detention policy. It has outlawed torture, announced the closure of Guantanamo Bay, and taken measures to reduce reliance on contractors for sensitive activities like interrogation. Even further changes are on the way.I have worked intensively on this issue, and have come to believe these changes are absolutely critical to our national security policy. They are not only crucial to restoring our moral leadership in the eyes of the world; they are also necessary to ensure success in our fight against terrorism. The particular insanity of the policies the Obama Administration inherited was not that they challenged the credibility of our democracy or alienated our allies – it was that they were adhered to in the face of these costs despite the fact that they didn't work.Another key area of reform in which I have been involved is the security of U.S. borders. The illicit movement of products and people across our borders must be addressed effectively by our government, and as Chairman of the House subcommittee that funds our border protection and immigration enforcement agencies, I have worked toward that end.Through increased Congressional appropriations over the past two years, we will have increased the number of Border Patrol agents by more than a third by the end of 2009. In addition, through mandates and funding decisions, we have sought to steer the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement to focus its enforcement efforts on illegal aliens who have committed serious crimes. We have seen some initial movement in that direction, and have been reassured by Sec. Napolitano's stated commitment to that priority. Nevertheless, a sustained effort in this area is both necessary and prudent, given the limited resources of the Department.Meanwhile, we have invested significant resources in border infrastructure and technology. President Obama and Homeland Security Secretary Napolitano have signaled their intent to continue pursuing a strong border strategy, which will be enhanced by the administration's new emphasis on pursuing the outbound smugglers of weapons and cash that fuel the Mexican drug wars.No border strategy, however, can succeed in isolation, nor is it a substitute for comprehensive immigration reform. Ultimately, we must bring our official immigration policies into congruence with the demands of our labor market. Until we do that, the never-ending pursuit of individuals crossing our borders to seek work will continue to divert our border patrol and immigration enforcement agents from dealing with the greatest threats to the homeland.Indications are that President Obama plans to pursue immigration reform in the near future. On such a controversial hot-button issue, the President is bound to encounter heavy resistance, but the Obama Administration has a tremendous opportunity to forge a bipartisan consensus for reform over the next couple of years. This is an area of federal policy that demands the type of leadership that only a president can provide.Restoring Morality to Our National Security PolicySo there is a fairly detailed overview of the landscape of U.S. national security policy at the outset of the Obama Administration. The challenges and opportunities confronting the Obama Administration are stunning in their scope and complexity. While each item on the President's agenda will require a unique solution, Obama's greatest challenge, perhaps, will be to develop a unified and integrated strategic approach through which he can take these items on.What stands out as the critical imperative in this moment is the need to re-imbue U.S. security policy with two essential characteristics: morality and coherence.Much has been made of the Bush Administration's departure from traditional American moral norms in formulating its national security strategy. The most oft-cited examples were its discardings of individual protections and judicial rights for detainees. But the uncoupling of national security strategy from its roots in traditional strains of moral theory was far more complete.For example, every previous Administration during my political lifetime has clearly spelled out a moral framework for the entry into and conduct of military conflict. In a 1984 speech, President Reagan's Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger famously announced six criteria for entering into war: a conflict must be vital to our national security interests, we must have clearly defined objectives, we must commit ourselves wholeheartedly to victory, we must constantly reassess our strategy and objectives, and we must have the support of the American people. Sixth – and this is a principle that has grounded America's national security policy for decades – we must enter into a conflict only as a last resort.Subsequent leaders have revisited Weinberger's six principles and have announced their own frameworks. There have been some variations, but rarely any major departures. Throughout the post-Vietnam era, American leaders – both Republican and Democratic – have largely agreed on the moral terms of entering war, rooted in the tradition of "Just War Theory." They have also respected the reciprocity required by America's key alliances and, with some variations, have understood the advantages of contributing to and working through multilateral institutions.President George W. Bush's Administration was the first presidency that did not lay out a framework for making decisions about war since Secretary Weinberger's 1984 speech. The lack of a clear moral framework was reflected throughout the Administration: while rushing into wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, the Administration never comfortably determined a policy for addressing Darfur, and its discomfort with decisions on sending troops to Liberia and Haiti was easily visible.Beyond indecision, the Administration put forth doctrine that began to cut the American ship of state's moorings to just war theory. Its doctrine of preemptive war placed it far outside the moral boundaries of the last several Administrations, and introduced significant confusion into efforts to navigate and debate use-of-force decisions.It may seem odd to say this about perhaps the most openly ideological Administration in modern history, but its approach to use-of-force decisions was hardly the only spot in which the Bush Administration broke the link between U.S. national security strategy and its traditional moral underpinnings. While the Millennium Challenge Initiative sought to tighten the link between foreign assistance and democracy promotion, in other instances geopolitical calculations overrode all else in determining levels of aid support. The Administration denied the relevance of internationally-recognized human rights and humanitarian principles to security-sensitive U.S. operations. And the Administration's rejection of the long-standing U.S. commitment to collective security and shared global obligations in favor of unilateralism represented a fundamental moral and strategic shift. These departures from America's post-World War II bipartisan foreign policy consensus came to define the Bush Administration and to ordain the successes and failures of its national security policies.The first challenge of the Obama Administration will be to situate U.S. national security policy on clear and firm moral grounds. In this post-9-11 era, simply returning to the pre-Bush moral consensus may not be easy nor necessarily desirable.On one hand, the Administration must reaffirm the traditions of just war theory, human rights, and collective security. These traditions are fundamental to the American story, and have formed the basis of a developing international consensus. On the other hand, the new Administration's national security strategy must wrestle with questions unique to our current context.It must, for example, wrestle with the morality of use-of-force decisions in relation to non-state actors. Israel's war with Hezbollah in 2006 has become the subject of intense debate in the halls of the Pentagon, precisely for this reason. How will the U.S. respond to an attack from a non-state actor? How can the military clearly define objectives when neither peace treaty nor surrender is a likely outcome? Should non-state combatants be treated as soldiers or criminals? Recent events in Somalia pose these questions even more starkly.The new Administration must address the long-lingering moral question of how we confront genocide, along with similar questions relating to interventions in failed states, brutal tyrannies, and humanitarian catastrophes. And it must determine moral responsibility in questions that know no international boundaries, such as climate change and avian influenza.Restoring morality to our national security policy is not a matter of simply deducing our obligations from the U.N. Declaration of Human Rights or similar statements of principle. It does not require that we ignore self-interest or strategic alliances as we develop our global security posture.In fact, a conscientious approach to national security requires that we acknowledge the complexity of competing moral and strategic demands. It also requires the kind of sensibility President Obama recently displayed in Europe, a humility that acknowledges the biases of our own viewpoint and the flaws of our past. It seems he has learned from Reinhold Niebuhr and Abraham Lincoln, and as far as I am concerned, that is a very auspicious sign!We have seen uncomprehending accounts of this sensibility in the wake of the Europe trip, accounts which may be an example of what Obama will face from some quarters throughout his presidency. Charles Krauthammer, for example, wrote, "It is passing strange for a world leader to celebrate his own country's decline."I would argue, however, that such humility is not a sign of weakness, and acknowledgements of past mistakes, such as those in President Obama's speech during the NATO summit, are no sign of our nation's decline. In fact, what is the ability and the confidence to identify, acknowledge, and correct past errors if not a strength? Such an approach can only strengthen our policy and strategy judgments, and our respect in the eyes of the world.Restoring morality to national security requires that we develop our strategy and policies with a clear rooting in the ethical values and traditions that have defined our country for the last 225 years. Further, it requires that we filter our own self-interests, our international commitments and alliances, and our capabilities and limitations through this moral lens. And it requires that we undertake the entire enterprise with a humble circumspection that allows us to identify, correct, and move beyond the errors of the past.Restoring CoherenceThe second great challenge for the Obama Administration will be restoring coherence to our national security policy.Earlier, I offered a brief survey of the tremendous array of high-level, high-risk challenges that face the United States around the globe. It is tempting to say that the scope of these challenges is unprecedented. At the very least, one might think back to the presidency of Dwight Eisenhower, who inherited a war in Korea, an unstable and conflict-prone Middle East, an ascendant Soviet Union, the prospect of Mutually Assured Destruction, and a rapidly escalating U.S.-Soviet competition for supremacy across the globe, from Congo to Guatemala.Coherence was easy for Eisenhower, and for every president through Reagan that followed. Our national security strategy was formed in the context of the Cold War, and we turned every tool within our national security toolbox toward victory in this existential contest. We formed alliances and measured trade against the backdrop of our competition with the Soviet Union. Our military intervention policy was aimed at stopping Soviet advances, most famously as articulated in the so-called Domino Theory. Our nuclear policy was designed to simultaneously deter Soviet aggression and reduce the Soviet arsenal.The end of the Cold War obviously left the United States in a strategic vacuum. The story of the last two decades has been, at least in part, a story of our efforts to regain strategic coherence in this vacuum.President Bush sought to fill the vacuum by organizing U.S. national security strategy around the so-named "War on Terror." Once again, alliances were formed and trade was directed against the backdrop of our effort to root out terrorism. Our military intervention policy sought to take the fight to the terrorists, to destroy terrorist havens. Even our nuclear policy underwent a significant revision, with new initiatives designed to develop nuclear weapons that would destroy underground targets. Even our programs and agencies dealing with natural disasters were subordinated to anticipating terrorist threats, with disastrous consequences in the Gulf Coast and elsewhere.But the past eight years have proven terrorism to be an insufficient concept for organizing our national security strategy. That is not to say that the United States should not be concerned about terrorism; however, terrorism should only be viewed as one of the threats – not THE threat – against which the U.S. must be defended. Thus, after seven years of the Global War on Terror, the United States once again faces a strategic vacuum.Putting aside American propensities over the last 60 years, there is no need to define our national security vis-à-vis a singular threat. In fact, not just the last seven years but much of our Cold War experience points to the perils of doing so. But strategic coherence is imperative.We must seek strategic coherence on several levels. First, there must be coherence between U.S. policies around the globe. A good example of the former can be found in the Middle East. The Administration cannot afford to take on key challenges in the region – the war in Iraq, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, Iran, Syria, and Lebanon – as if they were each independent of the others. It must recognize the deep linkages between each situation and form a coherent approach to addressing all of them. Moreover, that approach must be integrated with related policies, such as our Afghanistan-Pakistan strategy or our democracy promotion efforts.Second, there must be coherence between the efforts of the U.S. and the efforts of the rest of the world. The current financial crisis is an important example of this necessity, as the Obama Administration is quickly learning. U.S. leadership with regard to the global financial crisis will not amount to much if it is working against the efforts of European or Asian leaders. Likewise, we must synchronize our efforts to address issues like climate change, HIV/AIDS, and international terrorism.Finally, there must be coherence between our strategy and the resources we devote its implementation. This may be the largest challenge of all. The Obama Administration will need to rebalance the allocation of resources among diplomacy, development, defense, and homeland security, ensuring that none of these key elements is shortchanged. And it must do so at a time when the federal budget is under enormous – historic – pressure. Moreover, the Administration must make decisions about the size, organization, and deployment of our military forces, law enforcement, and border patrol that will have profound impacts on our national security. Without coherence between these decisions and our broader national security strategy, the Obama Administration will be at best ineffective and at worst disastrous.ConclusionMoral undergirding and strategic coherence go hand-in-hand. The moral traditions that have guided U.S. policy over the past 225 years point our national security strategy toward common and sustained objectives: justice, peace, democracy, liberty, and basic human rights. Such traditions offer a guiding purpose, constantly pulling U.S. national security strategy away from self-interest too narrowly conceived, and refocusing us toward collective security, coexistence, and shared prosperity.At the same time, coherent security strategy, clearly articulated, helps marshal the talents and resources of the American public, uniting us in pursuit of common goals. This coherence fosters public service, motivating America's most promising individuals to take part in the collective formation and implementation of security policies. And it facilitates effective American leadership in the world.Unfortunately, the collapse of one has meant the collapse of both in the last few years. This breakdown – more than any individual policy misstep – will be most important for the Obama Administration to overcome. Restoring morality and coherence to American national security policy will be the Obama Administration's greatest legacy – or greatest failure.With that, let me once again thank my hosts. I am grateful for this opportunity and look forward to a few questions.# # #
03.26.2009	Washington, D.C. - Senator Kay R. Hagan (D-NC) and Representative David Price (NC-4) today announced similar resolutions in their respective chambers honoring North Carolina historian John Hope Franklin, who passed away yesterday, at the age of 94. Senator Hagan introduced the Senate Resolution today, and Rep. Price will introduce a House version when the chamber reconvenes on Monday. The resolutions have strong support from the North Carolina congressional delegation."John Hope Franklin was an iconic historian who achieved the pinnacle of success in his professional life and whose work will live on for many years to come. His distinguished career as a public servant and scholar are an inspiration to so many," said Senator Hagan. "Dr. Franklin shattered barriers that seem unimaginable in today's world, and he did so with elegance and perseverance. North Carolina was fortunate to count this fine individual among its residents. Our nation lost one of the most brilliant minds of a generation in Dr. Franklin, and my thoughts and prayers go out to his family at this difficult time.""Dr. Franklin's scholarship, from St. Augustine's and North Carolina College in the 1930s and 40s to his distinguished careers at Chicago and Duke, showed that African-American history is inseparable from any telling of the American story," said Rep. Price. "We honor his tremendous contributions to American history, but his legacy is not only the study of the past. The greater understanding he fostered lights a path for present and future citizens to live together in a more unified nation. Lisa and I join North Carolina and the nation in grieving his loss. From his beloved orchids to his wise counsel, he shared his friendship generously and will be greatly missed."Other members of the North Carolina congressional delegation joined Hagan and Price in praising Dr. Franklin's life and accomplishments."John Hope Franklin was not only a historian, he was a history maker," said Senator Richard Burr (R-NC). "John spent his life fighting injustice, promoting equality, and fostering understanding across racial lines. His work in the field of promoting African-American history has forever changed the way our nation will look at our collective past.""As a premiere historian, John Hope Franklin made immeasurable contributions by educating us on the integral role that Africans and African-Americans played in American history," said Rep. Mel Watt (NC-12). "As an activist, John Hope Franklin was an active mentor and educator of the leaders of the civil rights movement as well as an unapologetic advocate for full and equal citizenship. As a friend, he was a mentor and truly wonderful spirit and inspiration to me and my wife. I am deeply saddened by the loss of such a monumental figure. But I am also consoled by the fact that he lived and used every minute of his life for the most outstanding, decent and noble purposes.""John Hope Franklin was a great educator, historian and humanitarian. He dedicated his entire life to trying to bring people together to make the world a better place," said Rep. Bob Etheridge (NC-2)."John Hope Franklin changed the way we look at our history," said Representative Brad Miller (NC-13). "American history is not just the story of European settlers and their descendents. Franklin made sure that the story of American history included the contributions and experiences of all Americans.""John Hope Franklin's lifetime of work was crucial to America coming to the understanding that history would be incomplete without African Americans, and that America could only become whole by confronting the lingering ghosts of slavery and segregation," Rep. G.K. Butterfield (NC-1) said."I am saddened by the death of Dr. John Hope Franklin, yet I know future generations will celebrate the accomplishments of his life," said Rep. Larry Kissell (NC-8). "He was an American treasure."John Hope Franklin was born on January 2, 1915 in Rentiesville, Oklahoma, the grandson of a slave and the son of Buck Colbert Franklin, one of the first black lawyers in the Oklahoma Indian territory, and Mollie Parker Franklin, a schoolteacher and community leader. Franklin broke numerous racial barriers as the first African-American department chair at a predominantly white institution, Brooklyn College; the first African-American professor to hold an endowed chair at Duke University; and the first African-American President of the American Historical Association. Franklin's 1947 book, "From Slavery to Freedom: A History of African-Americans," is still considered the definitive account of the African-American experience in the United States. His research contributed to the success of Thurgood Marshall and the NAACP's legal victory in the landmark Supreme Court case, Brown v. Board of Education, which ended the "separate but equal" doctrine in America's public schools.Franklin inspired the John Hope Franklin Center for Interdisciplinary & International Studies at Duke University, a consortium of academic programs that encourages creative scholarship, the exchange of ideas, and a variety of perspectives and methodologies to revitalize notions of how knowledge is gained and shared.Duke University has created a website that chronicles John Hope Franklin's life and accomplishments. Please visit http://www.duke.edu/johnhopefranklin/ for more information.# # #
03.25.2009	Raleigh, N.C. - The following press release was issued today by the office of North Carolina Governor Bev Perdue. Congressman Price has worked for several years in support of a new N.C. National Guard Joint Force Headquarters. The project offers a local example of significant job creation through the economic recovery package. The funding was awarded through a merit-based process.GOV. PERDUE ANNOUNCES $56 MILLION FOR NATIONAL GUARD FACILITYRaleigh Project Gets $41.5 Million In Federal Funds; Will Provide Up To 4,200 JobsRALEIGH – Gov. Bev Perdue announced today that work will begin shortly on a $56 million new North Carolina National Guard Joint Force Headquarters facility that will also house offices of the state Division of Emergency Management, the State Highway Patrol and the Department of Transportation in Raleigh. The project, which is expected to create up to 4,200 jobs, will be open to bids next week with work to start as soon as early summer and to be finished within two years.In addition to the National Guard, the facility will provide the main offices for North Carolina's Emergency Management division, communications for the state Department of Transportation and the triangle area communications center of the Highway Patrol. About $41.5 million in federal funding for the facility was included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The remaining money comes from state general and highway trust funds that had previously been set aside for the project."This project is big a win for North Carolina. It provides a state of the art facility that will better coordinate key state services and is ready to put people to work in much needed jobs," Gov. Perdue said.Securing money for this project was a top priority for Gov. Perdue, who personally discussed it with President Barack Obama and with North Carolina's congressional delegation. Fourth Congressional District Rep. David Price was instrumental in boosting the funding for the Army National Guard account in the federal recovery legislation. Congressman Price also included language urging the National Guard to accelerate construction of the critical facility in reports accompanying the 2004, 2005, and 2007 Military Construction Appropriations bills."Today's announcement comes at the end of a long and sometimes difficult process," Price said. "As the highest priority new construction project in the country for the National Guard, the Joint Force Headquarters is undisputedly deserving of this significant funding. I thank Gov. Perdue and other members of our congressional delegation for their work and focus in bringing this important project to North Carolina."The new 237,000 square-foot facility will be located on an 18-acre site off of District Drive in Raleigh. The existing facility will continue to be used by current National Guard offices now housed in temporary trailers. Since September 2001, units of the N.C. National Guard have been continuously mobilized throughout the world.The transition of the National Guard from a strategic reserve to an operational reserve requires more facilities to meet the increased service demands. Also, bringing agencies that consistently work together under one roof, will streamline coordination and provide for more effective response in emergency situations.# # #
03.17.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today encouraged high school students throughout North Carolina's 4th Congressional District (see map) to participate in the annual Congressional Arts Competition. The winning artist for each congressional district will receive a $5,000 per year scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design, and their artwork will be hung in the U.S. Capitol Building."Appreciation of the arts is a crucial piece of a well-rounded education that can also enhance the cultural legacy of our nation," Price said. "I'm glad Congress can offer this opportunity to encourage the development of artistic talent among our youth, and I hope all aspiring artists in the area will participate."There are three ways to qualify for the competition:1. High School Contests or School SelectionPublic and private high schools in the Fourth Congressional District are invited to select artwork to represent their school in this competition. The selection process for that artwork is completely at the discretion of school officials. Congressman Price's office has mailed a packet to the schools with the complete rules, deadlines, and an entry form.2. Art Center ContestsHigh school students who place first, second, third, or honorable mention in appropriate categories at art center contests are eligible to submit their winning entries.3. Home School ParticipationHome school students are encouraged to enter their artwork at regional art center competitions. However, if a student is not able to submit their work for some reason (inaccessible location, did not know about the contests, etc.), he/she may still be considered for the Artistic Discovery contest.The winner will be invited to attend the opening exhibit in Washington, D.C. with other winners from across the country. The second place winner's art will be displayed in Congressman Price's Washington office, and the third place piece will be displayed in his Raleigh office. Special recognition will also be given to the teacher whose student is awarded first place.The students' artwork will be judged by representatives from the local arts councils of Chatham, Durham, Orange and Wake Counties. Judging will take place on April 23, 2009. Price will hold a District reception on May 11 co-hosted by United Arts of Raleigh and Wake County to announce the winners and recognize participants.The deadline to submit entries is Thursday, April 16, 2009 for Wake County, and Friday, April 17 for Chatham, Durham, and Orange Counties. For information on how to submit an entry, contact Nadia Alston in Congressman Price's Raleigh district office at (919) 859-5999 by this Monday, March 23.# # #
03.13.2009	Research Triangle Park, N.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) delivered the following congratulatory remarks at the installation of Linda Birnbaum as Director of the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS). NIEHS, one of the 27 institutes and centers that comprise the National Institutes of Health (NIH), is located in Research Triangle Park.It's a pleasure to be here and to follow Linda's remarks. She has reminded us of the important work ahead and has demonstrated once again the commitment and vision that have brought her to this leadership role.I also want to bring greetings and convey best wishes from my colleagues in representing the Triangle, Bob Etheridge and Brad Miller. We welcome Acting NIH Director Raymond Kington to North Carolina. And it is good to be on the program with George Lucier, who has distinguished himself as director of the National Toxicology Program and as a leader in the local community as well.I want to recognize my wife Lisa, who especially wanted to join us today because of our association with Linda and David as neighbors and parents of sons about the same age during our early years in Chapel Hill.Being here at this time of transition also reminds me of my early years of congressional service, when I got a crash course in the good works of NIEHS from the venerable Director David Rall and quickly understood my assignment in Washington: to make sure the final increments of funding for NIEHS's multi-year construction project came through without a hitch! Fortunately, that didn't prove very difficult, for NIEHS had developed a sterling reputation, and the project had support in all the right places.Now pronouncing the acronym NIEHS has not gotten any easier, but the agency and its mission have seen their reach extended and their profile raised as our awareness of what causes illness, and of the connection of environment to health, has expanded. The National Toxicology Program has had a similar evolution. I am particularly glad to hear the new Director stress the importance of interpretation and outreach to the broader public; she has always been good at that. NIEHS has a powerful story to tell, but it does not tell itself. All of us who are stewards of taxpayer dollars have an obligation to give an account of what we are doing and how it affects the community around us.I associate Ken Olden, the director who followed Dr. Rall, with another kind of endeavor: the effort, year after year, to do right by the NIH budget and -- equally important -- the NIEHS budget within NIH! Fortunately, there is some good news on that score: the combination of the Fiscal 2009 omnibus appropriations bill, just shaken loose in the Senate last week, and the funding for ready-to-go projects in the Recovery Bill will take NIEHS funding well beyond last year's level. And we hope to continue this progress in the 2010 appropriations, on which we're just getting started.We all know that funding is critically important, but today's ceremony reminds us that even more important is human capital, the quality of the people who embody the mission of this agency and who do its life-saving and life-enhancing work. Linda has exemplified this throughout her career, both at NIEHS and at EPA, continuing active research even as she took on more administrative and leadership responsibilities. But all of you who comprise the NIEHS community are due the gratitude of the wider community, for the scientific advances to which you contribute and the skill and dedication you demonstrate every day on behalf of the common good. You will now have a new and inspiring leader, and we eagerly anticipate the paths you will break together in the years ahead.# # #
03.11.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) today announced a $5 million grant to support the state of North Carolina's efforts to identify potential hazards throughout the state and to mitigate the impacts of natural disasters like hurricanes, flooding, coastal erosion, landslides, tornados, and wildfires. The improved risk assessment techniques will be implemented as a pilot program in Durham, Edgecombe, Macon, and New Hanover Counties and put North Carolina on the cutting edge of natural disaster preparedness.The grant is administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), under the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. Price secured the grant through the fiscal year 2008 Homeland Security Appropriations bill. As Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, he authored the House version of the annual funding bill."The federal government has a vital role in not only stepping in after disasters strike, but also helping states and localities prepare for those events beforehand and thus mitigate their tragic impact," said Price. "From floods along the coast to landslides in the mountains, North Carolina has experienced more than our fair share of natural disasters. The variety of potential hazards and exemplary emergency management within state government make North Carolina an ideal leader for the rest of the country in preparing for all risks."The notification released by FEMA is copied below.STATEWIDE HAZARD MITIGATION PILOT PROGRAM ROLLS OUT IN NORTH CAROLINAInitiative sets the stage for other jurisdictions across the countryATLANTA—The North Carolina Division of Emergency Management can incorporate new ways of doing risk assessment for natural disasters thanks to a $5 million grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Starting with four pilot counties, they will expand on ways to identify risk and add it to county and state mitigation planning.Another $925,000 in FEMA funding, through its Map Modernization program, was already designated for the project. The state will kick in the balance for the $9,364,300 project."This project gives us a chance to improve how we evaluate risk in a community because we are looking beyond flooding to a number of hazards," said Phil May, FEMA Region IV Regional Administrator. "It will provide a road map for other counties in North Carolina and perhaps across the country to gather this level of detail about homes, businesses and other structures in the community—and how they may be affected by various natural disasters."The demonstration project will expand the state's floodplain mapping database to include additional natural hazards such as coastal erosion, landslides, tornados, and wildfires. Project staff will gather information such as a building's footprint, its first-floor elevation, and the kind of construction materials used. The data will help identify the extent and probability of damage to buildings in a community should a natural disaster of any kind occur.The grant includes the development of tools that automatically generate risk assessment information that can be included in state and local hazard mitigation plans. Local emergency managers also can use these tools to communicate information about the probability and the potential consequences of natural disasters that might occur in their area. Risk assessments are an integral part of hazard mitigation planning and disaster preparedness activities.The tools will be used in four pilot counties (Durham, Edgecombe, Macon and New Hanover) to update the risk assessment portions of their local multi-hazard mitigation plans.FEMA's Pre-Disaster Mitigation (PDM) program, through which the $5 million grant was awarded, provides funds to states, territories, Indian tribal governments, communities, and universities for hazard mitigation planning and the implementation of mitigation projects prior to a disaster event.Funding is intended to reduce the risk to the population, while also reducing reliance on funding from actual disaster declarations. PDM grants are awarded on a competitive basis and without reference to state allocations, quotas, or other formula-based allocation of funds.FEMA leads and supports the nation in a risk-based, comprehensive emergency management system of preparedness, protection, response, recovery, and mitigation, to reduce the loss of life and property and protect the nation from all hazards including natural disasters, acts of terrorism, and other man-made disasters.# # #
03.09.2009	Raleigh, N.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) delivered the following remarks this morning at the annual Farmers' Briefing he hosts with fellow Triangle-area Congressmen Bob Etheridge and Brad Miller. Also speaking at the State Fairgrounds event was House Agriculture Committee Chairman Collin Peterson (D-MN). I look forward to this event every year because it gives us the opportunity to thank you for the work you do and recognize the critical importance of agriculture to our state and our nation. This is always one of the busiest times of the year in Washington, and given the current economic crisis and the budgetary hole that has opened up over the past 8 years, our work is even more important. The economic crisis we face now has left us with an unhappy but unavoidable short-term fiscal choice – temporarily increase the deficit with countercyclical spending to help create jobs, or do nothing and watch the deficit grown even worse as revenues plunge and safety net obligations soar. Inaction is not a credible option, and the bold and necessary recovery package recently signed into law is a vital first step in putting the economy back on sound footing. President Obama's budget proposal for fiscal year 2010 is another important step towards economic recovery. The detailed budget will be released in April, but hearings are underway already in my Homeland Security appropriations subcommittee and most of the others as well. There certainly isn't any shortage of people and organizations in D.C. these days telling us of their needs and priorities – and I imagine we'll be hearing from some of you as well. My most direct involvement on agriculture issues is accomplished through this assignment on the Appropriations Committee. With Bob, Brad, and the rest of the delegation, I've worked to secure federal funding for a series of agriculture priorities for our community and state. A great deal of our appropriations work is focused on N.C. State University, our great land-grant institution. State is a national leader in agricultural research, and the federal government has recognized this by continuing to fund several important research initiatives on campus. The FY 2009 appropriations bill, which will most likely pass in the Senate early this week, includes over 3 million dollars for nine different Agricultural Research Service (ARS) and Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service (CSREES) programs at N.C. State, conducting research on topics ranging from crop pathogens to food fermentation to forest biotechnology. Researchers at the Animal and Poultry Waste Management Center are leading their field in developing technology for alternative waste management by swine producers. Eventually this research can give us a cleaner environment, meet some of our energy demands, and make money for our state's hog farming industry. The Plant Science Department is exploring ways to make soybeans, corn, and other crops better suited for our region's climate. Some of their work is genetically identifying and hopefully preventing high-impact diseases that could wreck havoc on crops across a multitude of states. Other appropriations assistance has gone directly to our state. The North Carolina Department of Agriculture has demonstrated national leadership in protecting our state's agriculture industry from the threat of natural disasters, disease outbreaks, or even terrorist attack. The Multi-Hazard Threat Database in North Carolina is one of the best agriculture security systems in the nation, and I'm glad we've been able to contribute some federal funding to it over the past several years. Another high-priority funding request for the state builds upon the waste management research being conducted at N.C. State. I'm particularly pleased that we were able to secure a federal contribution to the state fund that will provide technical assistance to producers replacing their lagoons with cleaner, safer, and more environmentally-friendly technology. Lew Fetterman has been a pioneer in demonstrating that such technology is feasible – and it's certainly great to see him here this morning, feeling better and looking well! And the appropriations process has helped bring locally produced agriculture right to the hearts of many of our cities and towns. Farmers Markets have popped up all around our region of the state, often constructed with federal Economic Development Initiative funds. These EDIs have done exactly what they're designed for: helping to stimulate economic development through actual sales of fresh goods while encouraging visitors to buy from other nearby retailers in the towns. Now, your may have noticed that Senator John McCain had some fun last week with one of our NC agricultural projects, $208,000 I put in the appropriations bill at the request of the Farm Bureau for the federal share of our state's beaver management program. "How does one manage a beaver?" Senator McCain asked – a fairly ignorant question, if I may say so. This reminds me of the politically turbulent time in 1994, when Rush Limbaugh was regularly mocking funny-sounding agriculture research projects as examples of government waste. I read one of his lists to a group of N.C. State veterinary students when I was speaking to their Senior dinner. No one in the room even cracked a smile! They knew, of course, what the research was about. There's no indication that Sen. McCain knows anything about the needs for beaver management or how the program is carried out – or that he really wants to know. He merely took a cheap shot at something he thought sounded funny. If he had cared to ask, we could have told him about the $5 million this program saved last year in potential flood damage to farms, timber lands, roadways, and other infrastructure. We could have told him about the impressive partnership that funds and oversees this program – with federal, state, county, and private landowner participation. So – there's never a dull moment. Let's continue to work and hope for the day when spending and policy proposals in agriculture – or in any economic sector – are evaluated on their merits and don't become fodder for politicians seeking a laugh or a headline. We have some examples of federal investment we can be proud of in NC, that demonstrate that Washington in its saner moments recognizes the good work you do in our state. I thank you for that work, I ask for your thoughts and advice as Congress considers issues of concern, and I pledge to you my commitment to North Carolina agriculture when helping formulate our national budgetary priorities. # # #
02.26.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement today in response to President Obama's Fiscal Year 2010 preliminary budget proposal:"Today's initial proposal illustrates both the severity of the fiscal situation President Obama has inherited and the long-overdue honesty he is bringing to the budget process. The President has shown himself willing to make the hard choices necessary to return our fiscal house to order."The current economic crisis and the budgetary hole dug by the previous Administration left us with an unhappy but ultimately obvious short-term fiscal choice – temporarily increase the deficit with countercyclical spending to help create jobs, or do nothing and watch the deficit grow even worse as revenues plunge and safety net obligations soar. Inaction was not a credible option, and the bold and necessary recovery package recently signed into law is a vital first step in putting the economy back on sound footing."But this short-term action does not mean we can ignore the growing deficits and debt that will become unsustainable in the long-term. Congress must now work with President Obama to achieve his goal of cutting the deficit in half by 2012 while making targeted investments in education, energy, and health care to ensure our future economic competitiveness. And following the President's example, we will approach this goal honestly, rejecting the accounting gimmicks that have effectively hidden the true costs of two wars and massive tax cuts."Getting back on the road to balanced budgets will not be easy or painless – especially when we're in this deep a ditch. But the experience I was proud to take part in during the 1990s shows us that it is possible. As Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, I look forward to working with President Obama and his administration throughout this year's appropriations process and am committed to the longer-term effort to free our children of debilitating debt."# # #
02.24.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement on the President's first address to Congress:"President Obama's speech shows a firm grasp of our economic situation. The current crisis demands government action in the short term to create jobs, stem the tide of foreclosures, and get credit flowing again. Our long-term fiscal health also demands that we make a sustained effort to reduce annual deficits while making targeted investments in health care, energy, and education to ensure our future economic competiveness. Like the President, I am committed to this goal, and look forward to working with him to address the current crisis while eventually bringing our budget back into balance."# # #
02.24.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) today praised the White House for recognizing the service and achievements of Sergeant John Rice (USMC), a wounded young veteran from Chapel Hill. Sgt. Rice will be one of the extraordinary Americans sitting as a guest of First Lady Michelle Obama during President Obama's first address to Congress."As someone who has the honor of knowing John personally, I can attest to his worthiness of this prestigious recognition," said Price. "John has sacrificed much for the service of his country, both on the battlefield and throughout his long road to recovery. He and the many other injured young veterans deserve our constant gratitude and respect."Sgt. Rice graduated East Chapel Hill High School in 2003. He suffered injuries from a landmine explosion in Iraq last July, earning him a Purple Heart.The brief biography of Sgt. Rice distributed by the White House is copied below.Sergeant John E. Rice, USMCSgt Rice was born in Bethesda, MD and graduated from East Chapel Hill High School in Chapel Hill, NC. He attended the University of Maryland from 2003 to 2005. Sgt Rice arrived at recruit training on the February 14, 2006 at MCRD Parris Island. Upon completion of recruit training, he reported to Jacksonville, NC for infantry training. Upon completion of infantry training, Rice reported to Recon Training Platoon, 2nd Recon Bn, Camp Lejeune, NC. On January 9, 2006 Rice reported to Amphibious Reconnaissance School (ARS) in Virginia Beach, VA. Following ARS, he attended Army Airborne School in Ft Benning, GA and Navy SERE School in San Diego, CA and reported to 3rd Recon Bn, 3 MARDIV in Okinawa, Japan on July 1, 2007. Rice's Company deployed to Iraq in April 2008. He was injured when a landmine exploded while on a foot patrol on July 10, 2008. While receiving treatment at NNMC, Bethesda Cpl Rice was promoted to Sgt. His personal decorations consist of Letter of Appreciation, National Defense, Global War on Terror, Sea Service Deployment, Iraq Campaign, Navy Achievement and Purple Heart.# # #
02.24.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) today announced a $5 million grant for the state of North Carolina to study sea level rise and develop methods to recognize and prevent some of the harmful effects caused by it. Expected sea level rise could make hurricanes more damaging, expose more families to flooding, and degrade fisheries and agriculture in coastal areas. The grant is administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), under the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.Price secured the grant through the fiscal year 2009 Homeland Security Appropriations bill. As Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, he authored the House version of the annual funding bill."With the threat of global climate change, coastal states like North Carolina face increased risk of natural disasters and sea level rise," said Price. "Our state is leading efforts to meet this challenge and can serve as a model for other states in addressing this important national priority. This grant represents a worthwhile investment that in the future will save North Carolina and the nation both money and lives.""We're pleased that the Department of Crime Control and Public Safety could take the lead in analyzing the risks posed by the rising sea level," said state Emergency Management Director Doug Hoell. "Not only will these study results be precedent setting for our state, but this has national implications for future growth in our states and others along the coast."The notification released by FEMA is copied below.Later this week, FEMA is expected to announce an additional grant to North Carolina that Price secured to support the state's efforts to identify hazards throughout the state and to mitigate the impacts of potential disasters. The $5 million project was included in the fiscal year 2008 funding bill for the Department of Homeland Security. Specifically, the grant will focus on hazard identification, risk assessment, and risk communication and improved integration of these activities into mitigation planning.FEMA GRANTS $5 MILLION FOR SEA LEVEL RISE STUDY IN NORTH CAROLINAATLANTA – The state of North Carolina will receive $5 million for a statewide risk assessment and mitigation strategy demonstration of the potential impacts of climate change-induced sea level rise.The U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will use the results of this study to assess the long-term fiscal implications of climate change as it affects the frequency and effects of natural disasters. Information from the study will be shared with other states to inform their climate change mitigation efforts.According to FEMA Regional Administrator Phil May, the information and results from this study may help formulate strategies to deal with potential effects of sea level rise on the nation's coast. "North Carolina has been very proactive in implementing and improving upon coastal zone management activities and policies," May said. "Although the study is focused on just the state of North Carolina, the results of the study should be applicable to other coastal states as well. In addition, the study will compliment an existing study currently being performed by FEMA which focuses on the effect of climate change on the National Flood Insurance Program."FEMA's Mitigation Directorate administers the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). The NFIP is an insurance, mapping, and land use program that provides the availability of federally backed flood insurance to home and business owners located in communities that participate in the NFIP.North Carolina's Office of Geospatial and Technology Management (GTM), part of the North Carolina Division of Emergency Management, will be managing the study. GTM oversees the state's floodplain mapping and management programs. The study will last approximately three years.# # #
02.24.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) re-introduced legislation today to address one of the biggest challenges facing school districts throughout the country – the retention of qualified public school teachers. This legislation is part of Price's ongoing efforts to improve the quality of public education throughout the nation by bringing teachers of the highest caliber into the profession and then keeping them in the classroom."Teacher retention is just as important a goal – and perhaps a more difficult challenge – as teacher recruitment," Rep. Price said. "We can provide federal scholarships to encourage individuals to go into teaching. But we need to combine that financial encouragement with preparation and enrichment programs to make it easier and more rewarding for teachers to stay in the profession and make teaching their career."Approximately one-third of teachers leave the profession within five years of being hired, according to the non-partisan Congressional Research Service (CRS). In some schools, the five-year attrition rate reaches 50 percent. This comes at a time when schools are hard-pressed to recruit enough teachers to fill the demand of the coming years. The National Education Association recently released an assessment revealing that American schools would need to hire an additional 2 million teachers over the next decade to keep pace with student growth.Price's bill, the Keep Teachers Teaching Act, would help schools cope with these pressures by providing federal grants directly to states or school districts to develop innovative teacher retention programs. The Department of Education would identify the most promising teacher retention approaches, drawing from fully-operational programs as well as those in the pilot test phase, and share information about the success of the various approaches to states and school districts around the country."This problem won't be solved by a cookie-cutter approach mandated by the federal government from above," Price said. "Federal support, however, can be a useful tool in promoting the most innovative and effective ideas at the state and local level. My legislation seeks to identify and support the best programs, while encouraging other states to draw upon their counterparts' experience."Effective programs to address this problem are already at work in school districts around the country, and many more innovative programs could be advanced if the right kind of resources were available. Price highlighted the Kenan Fellows Program, administered by North Carolina State University, as an example of a model program that is already working and could be replicated in other states. Kenan Fellows are public school teachers who partner with scientists and university faculty for two years to develop innovative math, science and technology curricula for use in classrooms all across North Carolina.Price has been a leader in Congress on legislation to address the impending teacher shortage. He has been working for years to build on North Carolina's success at recruiting qualified teachers through the Teaching Fellows program by proposing legislation to expand access to similar programs throughout the country.Last year, Price lauded passage of legislation to reauthorize federal higher education programs and help college students who want to become teachers. The bill included a provision, based on Price's legislation, that would establish a new Teacher Quality Partnership grant program to help develop a high-quality teaching workforce for America's public schools. Under the legislation, education partnerships could use the grants for scholarships and professional development activities to help graduate and develop top notch teachers.Price has introduced his teacher retention legislation as the House Committee on Education and Labor prepares to draft the upcoming reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (also known as No Child Left Behind). Last year, similar legislation introduced by Price was included in the Committee's draft reauthorization, but the larger bill was not introduced before the end of the 110th Congress. In May 2007, Price testified before the committee on his ideas for teacher recruitment and retention.# # #
02.23.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) today participated in President Obama's Fiscal Responsibility Summit, a bipartisan discussion on the nation's long-term budgetary health. Price joined leadership and other Members of Congress from both Houses and both parties, Administration officials, and outside experts in sessions that focused on Social Security, healthcare, tax reform, the budget process, and procurement."While the bold and necessary recovery package we recently passed to help boost our struggling economy focused on countercyclical spending, we cannot ignore the growing deficits and debt that will eventually become unsustainable," said Price. "Getting back on the road to balanced budgets will not be easy or painless – especially when you're in as deep a ditch as our current situation. But the experience of the 1990s shows us that it is possible. I look forward to working with President Obama and his administration as we return to fiscal responsibility, particularly on the lasting structural challenges that drew much of today's attention – getting healthcare costs under control and finding equitable reform for our entitlement systems."Price has long worked for greater fiscal responsibility. A current member of the Appropriations Committee and former member of the Budget Committee, he is the longtime co-chair of the Democratic Budget Group, a weekly forum that explores in depth policy alternatives for pressing economic and other issues. As Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, he oversees the budget of a large federal department. A hallmark of his chairmanship has been his work to promote budget discipline and improve financial management at the Department of Homeland Security.A full list of summit attendees follows.ADMINISTRATIONSecretary of the Treasury, Tim GeithnerSecretary of Transportation, Ray LaHoodSecretary of Homeland Security, Janet NapolitanoDeputy Secretary of State, Jack LewTreasury Department, Gene SperlingWhite House Chief of Staff, Rahm EmanuelOMB Director, Peter OrszagNational Economic Council, Larry SummersDomestic Policy Council, Melody BarnesCouncil on Economic Advisors, Christina RomerDeputy OMB Director, Rob NaborsSENATELeadershipSenator Mitch McConnell (R), Minority LeaderSenator Dick Durbin (D), Assistant Majority LeaderSenator Jon Kyl (R), Assistant Minority LeaderSenator Lamar Alexander (R), Republican Conference ChairmanSenator John Cornyn (R), Chairman, National Republican Senatorial CommitteeOther Senators (in alphabetical order with Chairs and Ranking Members noted)Senator Evan Bayh (D)Senator Max Baucus (D), Chairman of Committee on FinanceSenator Tom Carper (D)Senator Thad Cochran (R), Ranking Member of Committee on AppropriationsSenator Susan Collins (R), Ranking Member of Committee on Homeland SecuritySenator Kent Conrad (D), Chairman of Committee on the BudgetSenator Chris Dodd (D), Chairman of Committee on Banking, Ranking Democrat on HELPSenator Mike Enzi (R), Ranking Member of Committee on HELPSenator Lindsey Graham (R)Senator Judd Gregg (R), Ranking Member of Committee on BudgetSenator Daniel Inouye (D), Chairman of Committee on AppropriationsSenator Amy Klobuchar (D)Senator Carl Levin (D), Chairman of Committee on Armed ServicesSenator Joseph Lieberman (D), Chairman of Committee on Homeland SecuritySenator John McCain (R), Ranking Member of Committee on Armed ServicesSenator Claire McCaskill (D)Senator Ben Nelson (D)Senator Olympia Snowe (R), Ranking Member of Small Business CommitteeSenator Arlen Specter (R), Ranking Member of Judiciary CommitteeHOUSELeadershipThe Honorable Nancy Pelosi (D), Speaker of the House of RepresentativesThe Honorable Steny H. Hoyer (D), Majority LeaderThe Honorable John A. Boehner (R), Minority LeaderThe Honorable James E. Clyburn (D), Majority WhipThe Honorable Eric Cantor (R), Minority WhipThe Honorable Thaddeus G. McCotter (R), Chairman of the Republican Policy CommitteeThe Honorable Chris Van Hollen (D), Chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign CommitteeOther Members (in alphabetical order with Chairs and Ranking Members noted)The Honorable Joe Barton (R), Ranking Member of the Committee on Energy and CommerceThe Honorable Allen Boyd (D)The Honorable Dave Camp (R), Ranking Member of the Committee on Ways and MeansThe Honorable Michael N. Castle (R)The Honorable Raúl M. Grijalva (D)The Honorable Darrell E. Issa (R), Ranking Member the Committee on Oversight and Government ReformThe Honorable Ron Kind (D)The Honorable Barbara Lee (D), Chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus,The Honorable Jim Matheson (D)The Honorable George Miller (D), Chairman of the Committee on Education and LaborThe Honorable David R. Obey (D), Chairman of the Committee on AppropriationsThe Honorable David E. Price (D)The Honorable Tom Price (R), Chairman of the Republican Study CommitteeThe Honorable Charles B. Rangel (D), Chairman of the Committee on Ways and MeansThe Honorable Paul Ryan (R), Ranking Member of the Committee on the BudgetThe Honorable Stephanie Herseth Sandlin (D), Chairwoman of the Blue Dog CoalitionThe Honorable John M. Spratt (D), Chairman of Committee on the BudgetThe Honorable John S. Tanner (D)The Honorable Ellen O. Tauscher (D)The Honorable Edolphus Towns (D), Chairman of the Committee on Oversight and Government ReformThe Honorable Nydia M. Velazquez (D), Chairwoman of the Committee on Small BusinessThe Honorable Henry A. Waxman (D), Chairman of the Committee on Energy and CommerceCommunity Leaders and Stakeholders Also Attending(in alphabetical order by organization name)Bill Novelli, AARPJohn Gage, AFGEJohn Sweeney, AFL-CIOGerry McEntee, AFSCMERandi Weingarten, AFTEd Coyle, Alliance for Retired AmericansKevin Hassitt, American Enterprise InstituteRichard Umbdenstock, American Hospital AssociationNancy Neilson , American Medical AssociationBecky Patton, American Nurses AssociationKaren Narasaki, Asian American Justice Center (AAJC)Dr. Ho Tran, Asian Pacific Islanders American Health Forum (APIAHF)Gary Flowers, Black Leadership ForumEleanor Hinton Hoytt, Black Women's Health ImperativeAlice Rivlin, Brookings InstitutionJohn Castellani, Business RoundtableRoger Hickey, Campaign for America's FutureJohn Podesta, Center for American ProgressLarry Korb, Center for American ProgressDean Baker, Center for Economic and Policy ResearchJoe Minarek, Center for Economic DevelopmentRobert Greenstein, Center on Budget and Policy PrioritiesAnna Burger, Change to WinMaya MacGuinneas, Committee for a Responsible Federal BudgetKaren Davis, Common Wealth FundBob Bixby, Concord CoalitionMaya Rockeymoore, Congressional Black Caucus FoundationDoug Elmendorf, Congressional Budget OfficeMarty Ford, Consortium for Citizens with DisabilitiesLawrence Mishel, Economic Policy InstituteRon Pollack, Families USAEllie Smeal, Feminist MajorityStewart Butler, Heritage FoundationBill Spriggs, Howard UniversityJoe Salomonese, Human Rights CampaignJohn Cavanagh, Institue for Policy StudiesHeidi Hartmann, Institute for Women's PolicyDrew Altman, Kaiser Family FoundationDouglas Holtz-Eakin, McCain Economic AdvisorHilary Shelton, NAACPTodd Stottlemyer, National Association of Independent BusinessesBarbara B. Kennelly, National Committee to Preserve Social Security and MedicareJackie Johnson Pata, National Congress of American IndiansJanet Murguia, National Council of La RazaMarc Morial, National Urban League (NY)Dennis Van Roekel, NEADavid Walker, Peter G. Peterson FoundationPeter Peterson, Peter G. Peterson FoundationAl From, Progressive Policy InstituteAndy Stern, SEIUFred Goldberg, SkaddenRoger Ferguson, TIAA-CREF CEOMartin Regalia, U.S. Chamber of CommerceFernando Torres-Gil, UCLARobert Reischauer, Urban InstituteMichael Graetz, Yale# # #
02.23.2009	Durham, N.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) delivered the following remarks this morning at the official opening of the new Durham Transportation Center.Thank you for inviting me to join you on this important occasion. I remember the high hopes that accompanied the groundbreaking ceremony in 2007, and it is satisfying to see the results today of the vision and persistence of so many partners devoted to Durham's future. We've been in a particularly good position to watch this facility go up in our congressional office, for we are located in this neighborhood, a few hundred feet away. We are well aware of what this facility will mean to the western part of downtown in particular.This spacious and well-designed facility is going to encourage and accommodate intermodal transportation including local, regional, and intercity bus service, as well as taxi service, cyclists, and pedestrians. The transportation center will also be closely linked to the expanded and improved Durham Amtrak station, and, we hope and believe someday, to Triangle Transit's proposed downtown commuter rail station.I am pleased that the federal government has been a partner in this project – with $1.5 million for the multimodal Durham Station project in our Fiscal Year 2007 Transportation Appropriations bill and another $6.5 million from the Federal Transit Administration through grants distributed by the state for statewide bus and bus facilities.What this federal investment signifies is that Durham Station is the wave of the future – an American future that includes revitalized downtowns, increased mobility for people wherever they live and work, reduced traffic congestion and cleaner air, and balanced public policy that brings all levels of government together in support of diverse modes of transportation. We will look back on this project and this day as a landmark, and I thank and congratulate all of you whose vision and hard work have made it a reality.# # #
02.19.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) released the following statement for constituents interested in the recovery legislation passed by Congress last week and signed into law by President Obama on Tuesday:I understand concerns about increased federal spending and national debt. It is crucial for the future of our country that we work our way back to the fiscal progress we made in the 1990s, when we balanced the budget and paid off $400 billion of the national debt. Our fiscal situation has deteriorated dangerously in the last eight years, however, and now we are faced with a choice between increasing our debt temporarily in order to turn the economy around or going even more deeply into debt by failing to act, watching revenues plummet and safety net expenditures soar.It is not a happy choice, but I have little doubt that our situation requires a major effort to stimulate our fragile and faltering economy. The recession is expected to be one of the longest and most severe downturns in decades and the most serious economic situation our nation has faced since the Great Depression. North Carolina has been hit hard. Our state is experiencing 8.7 percent unemployment, the highest in a generation, and economists anticipate that the jobless rate will continue to increase. It will require a monumental effort to stop the downward spiral and move the national economy in the right direction.I am proud of my record of pushing for greater fiscal responsibility, balanced budgets, and pay-as-you-go. However, as we face this crisis, economists from both the left and right agree that significant countercyclical spending will be necessary to reverse course and reawaken the economy, and I agree with that consensus. A severely underperforming economy can increase government debt as much or more than a recovery package. Inaction simply is not a credible fiscal or economic option.H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, is a critical first step toward economic recovery. It is designed to create and save 3.5 million jobs, give 95 percent of working Americans an immediate tax cut, help those who have been hurt by the downturn, and transform our economy for the long haul. The package includes targeted investments to improve energy efficiency, modernize our crumbling infrastructure, promote scientific research, and expand broadband access. It also contains funding that would prevent cutbacks in education, boost unemployment and food stamp benefits, and help states in fiscal crisis meet their budget shortfalls.In addition, H.R. 1 includes tax cuts designed to help middle income working families make ends meet in these challenging times and help businesses stay afloat. The bill will reduce income taxes for Americans making $75,000 annually ($150,000 for joint filers), expand the child and earned income tax credits, and provide tax cuts and incentives for both large and small businesses for capital expenditures and new hiring. The legislation includes no earmarks, and it provides unprecedented accountability through built-in oversight and public transparency requirements. Every American will be able to track how federal funds are being spent by visiting www.recovery.gov.I supported H.R. 1 when the final version passed the House on February 13, 2009, by a vote of 246 to 183. The bill is not perfect; indeed, there are some aspects I might boost and others I might reduce in an ideal scenario. In this perilous time, however, I am convinced that bold action is necessary to create and save jobs in North Carolina and across the nation, and that is what this recovery package will do.# # #
02.13.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) today voted with a majority of the House of Representatives for final passage of desperately needed legislation to address our national economic crisis. H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan, is designed to create and save 3.5 million jobs across the country, give 95 percent of workers a tax cut, and make investments that will foster long-term economic growth and competiveness. H.R. 1 passed the House by a vote of 246 to 183 and is scheduled for a vote in the Senate later today."There is no more vital issue before our country and this Congress than the economy, and I am proud to join President Obama in this recovery effort," said Rep. Price."As we face our most significant economic challenge since the Great Depression, economists from both the left and right believe that significant countercyclical spending is necessary to reverse course and reawaken the economy, and I agree with that consensus," said Price. "While I share concerns about increasing the deficit and national debt, it is important to note that a severely underperforming economy – and the significant reduction in tax revenue and explosion of social safety net costs it causes – can increase government debt as much or more than a recovery package. Inaction is not a fiscal or moral option.""H.R. 1 may not be perfect; indeed, no bill ever is," said Price. "But it is the first crucial step in saving our country and the American people from a much more painful and perilous future. I will continue working with the President and rest of Congress on the next steps toward recovery – stemming the tide of foreclosures, reforming the regulatory structure that polices our financial system, and restoring the flow of credit for individuals and businesses large and small."North Carolina currently suffers from 8.7 percent unemployment, one of the worst rates in the nation. H.R. 1 provides relief to the state through several targeted efforts:• Creating or saving 105,000 jobs in North Carolina over the next two years, including 9,100 jobs in the Fourth Congressional District;• Giving 3,230,000 North Carolina workers a Making Work Pay tax cut of $400 for individuals and $800 for joint filers;• Rebuilding roads and bridges with an extra $735,526,684 of funding for North Carolina (the state will receive an extra $909,397,136 in total infrastructure funding);• Keeping students in school and making college more affordable with improved Pell Grants for the 185,383 recipients in North Carolina and a higher education tax credit for 118,000 students in the state;• Increasing competitive research funding for entities like the National Science Foundation and National Institutes of Health, important funding streams for major research institutions like the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, N.C. State, and Duke.# # #
02.13.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Price will hold town hall meetings throughout the Fourth District during the week of February 16. As the nation faces economic challenges unseen since the Great Depression, Congressman Price will share an overview of recovery efforts and then open the meetings to constituent questions on issues before the Congress.If constituents require special accommodations, they can contact Congressman Price's Raleigh office at (919) 859-5999.Durham, February 16thDurham Main Library300 N. Roxboro Street 7-8:30 pm Cary, February 17thCary Town Hall Council Chambers316 N. Academy Street 7-8:30 pm Chapel Hill, February 19thSouthern Human Services Center2501 Homestead Road 7-8:30 pm# # #
02.10.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) today introduced a bill to enhance oversight of intelligence community contractors and prohibit the use of such contractors in prisoner detention operations, including such sensitive and controversial areas as interrogation and international prisoner transport. This is the latest effort by Price and lead cosponsor U.S. Rep. Jan Schakowsky to restrict the use of private contractors for sensitive national security-related activities.Specifically, the Price-Schakowsky bill would prohibit the intelligence agencies from outsourcing activities relating to arrest, interrogation, detention, transfer, and rendition. The bill would also require the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) to furnish Congress with an annual census of the number of contractors involved in intelligence work, the activities they are asked to perform, the cost associated with their work, and an account of Administration efforts to hold contractors accountable for possible misconduct, including violations of the law. And the contractor companies themselves would have to provide the government with more detailed information on their hiring and training processes, for example, in order for the agencies to exercise stronger oversight."The contracting of sensitive intelligence operations to private companies proliferated under the Bush Administration, with a glaring lack of oversight to ensure effective management and accountability," Price said. "These intelligence functions are vitally important for our national security and, in many cases, how America is viewed in hostile areas of the world – making sure they are done correctly is not optional, and they shouldn't be left in the hands of for-profit contractors."Similar legislation authored by Reps. Price and Schakowsky was passed by the House in July 2008 as part of a larger bill to authorize the functions of the intelligence community. The Senate did not complete work on an intelligence authorization last year. The Representatives hope to attach the new bill to the intelligence authorization legislation expected later this year.The House passed a similar prohibition on interrogation for Defense Department contractors as part of the Defense Authorization bill in May 2008. Price offered that amendment as well.The North Carolina congressman has been at the forefront of efforts to rein in the use of contractors for sensitive national security functions. He is the author of legislation that passed the House in October 2007, which would enhance the government's prosecution of abusive actions by rogue security contractors in the war zone. Price warns that lawless and unaccountable behavior by contractors endangers U.S. troops and their overall mission.The legislation introduced today would also require an annual census of the number of contractors involved in intelligence work, the activities they are asked to perform, the cost associated with their work, and an account of Administration efforts to hold contractors accountable for possible misconduct, including violations of the law.Additionally, it would require the Director of National Intelligence to assess the appropriateness of using contractors for especially sensitive activities, including intelligence collection, intelligence analysis, and the interrogation, detention, and rendition of detainees.# # #
01.26.2009	Washington, D.C. - The U.S. House of Representatives today approved a resolution sponsored by Congressman David Price (D-NC) to raise awareness of the importance of data privacy protection. In an age of increased electronic communications and the popularity of social networking sites like Facebook and MySpace, Price believes it is extremely important for Americans to know how to protect their personal information."The way we communicate with one another has been revolutionized by advances in networking technologies," Price said. "At the same time, we must recognize that as it becomes much easier to communicate, we must be vigilant in protecting our personal information. And specifically, young people who are participating in social networking sites should be made aware of the dangers of failing to protect their personal data. They need to know that not everyone on Facebook and MySpace is a friend."The resolution, H. Res. 31, would designate this Wednesday, January 28, 2009, as "National Data Privacy Day." A number of states, including North Carolina, Washington, Oregon, Massachusetts, and California, will also recognize Data Privacy Day on Wednesday.Educators and privacy professionals across the country will be leading discussions with pre-teens, teens and young adults about privacy and data protection, focusing on social networking websites like Facebook and MySpace. The vast majority of American teens use the Internet, and over half of those between 12 and 17 who are online use social networks. While pre-teens, teenagers and young adults are often the most sophisticated and skilled Internet users, many too often neglect their personal safety online, Price said.Privacy experts encourage teens to remember the following tips when using social networking websites:Be aware that anyone – including advertisers, potential employers, and even dangerous people – can access, use and forward information you share online.Use privacy settings to control access to your information online, and do not share phone numbers, home address, date of birth, school or team name, travel plans, identification numbers and financial information. Don't share your password with anyone.Don't accept "friends" whom you do not know, and never agree to meet anyone in person you have only "met" online.Do not post any information, photos or video that you would not share with your college, prospective employer or your parents. Ask friends to take down content that you would not post yourself.This week, the Carolina Privacy Officials Network will host panels on consent policy options in health care, information security breaches and off-shoring of data. At the Sanford Institute of Public Policy at Duke University, representatives from Intel, the Institute for Homeland Security Solutions, the Triangle Center on Terrorism and Homeland Security, the Office of the Provost of Duke University, the Duke Center for European Studies, the Center for International Studies, and the Triangle Institute for Security Studies will gather with officials from the United States Departments of State, Justice and Homeland Security as well as the European Commission to discuss issues surrounding the protection of national security and privacy.# # #
01.22.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC), chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement on President Obama's actions last night and today to overhaul the practice of detention, interrogation, and prosecution of terrorism suspects by the United States.Price recently reintroduced the Interrogation and Detention Reform Act (H.R. 591), his bill to close Guantanamo Bay Detention Center, establish uniform standards for interrogation that prohibit torture, and repeal the Military Commissions Act."President Obama is sending a clear message that the U.S. government will not sacrifice America's historic commitment to the rule of law for the sake of expediency, and that he will wage the fight against terrorism effectively and with integrity. The use of the Guantanamo Bay facility, along with reports of torture and the use of extralegal military commissions, have severely tarnished our nation's moral authority in the world, resulting in an increase in anti-American radicalism and serious damage to our relationships with our allies."I applaud the President for exhibiting such bold, principled leadership, and I pledge to work with him to continue reforming our system for detaining, interrogating, and prosecuting terrorism suspects."# # #
01.19.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) cosponsored a resolution in the lead up to today's holiday, commemorating the Martin Luther King Day of Service. As co-chair of the National Service Caucus, he spoke on the House floor last Tuesday on the importance of service to one's country, and challenged Americans to participate in President-elect Obama's call to serve on the King Holiday.His remarks can be found below, followed by the text of the resolution, which passed the House unanimously on January 13, 2009.Rep. David PriceRemarks on H.Res.43 – Honoring Service on MLK DayTuesday January 13, 2009As a co-chair of the National Service Caucus, I am pleased to be a cosponsor of H. Res. 43, recognizing the importance of national service, supporting the efforts of those who serve their communities on Martin Luther King Day, and promoting the Martin Luther King Day holiday as a day of national service.During the 1950s and '60s, civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr. recognized the power of service to strengthen communities and achieve common goals. King's ideas of unity and purpose highlighted the great things that can happen when we work together toward a common goal, and these ideas are as important today as they were 50 years ago.In 1994, Congress passed the King Holiday and Service Act to transform the King Holiday into a national day of service to meet community needs. Since that time, millions of Americans have participated in community-building activities on King Day, treating the holiday as "a day on, not a day off."The day before President-elect Obama's inauguration is the Martin Luther King holiday. With thousands of projects planned across the country, in addition to a call to serve from President-elect Obama, the 2009 King Day of Service on January 19 promises to be the most successful national service effort to date.Both President-elect Obama and Vice-President-elect Biden, along with their families, will be participating in service events to honor Martin Luther King and commemorate the holiday. I encourage my colleagues and their staff to share in the spirit of volunteerism and unity by participating in a service opportunity here in Washington, DC, or back home with their constituents on January 19.I am pleased that the president-elect has been part of the call to ensure that this day be a day devoted to service. However, I know, as President-elect Obama knows, that one day of good deeds is not enough. Throughout the presidential campaign, the President-elect spoke about a new era of civic engagement, and I hope that the passage of H. Res. 43 will build on Martin Luther King day and the Inauguration and reaffirm our ongoing commitment to service.*******111th CONGRESS1st SessionH. RES. 43Recognizing the efforts of those who serve their communities on Martin Luther King Day and promoting the holiday as a day of national service.IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESJanuary 9, 2009Mr. PLATTS (for himself, Ms. MATSUI, and Mr. PRICE of North Carolina) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Education and LaborRESOLUTIONRecognizing the efforts of those who serve their communities on Martin Luther King Day and promoting the holiday as a day of national service.Whereas the King Holiday and Service Act, a law designating Martin Luther King Day as a national day of volunteer service, was signed into law in 1994;Whereas millions of Americans have been inspired by the life and work of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. to serve their neighbors and communities every third Monday of January;Whereas serving one's community for the betterment of every individual speaks to the high character, transformative world view, and everyday practice of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.;Whereas the efforts of national service volunteers have been a steadfast foundation of our Nation's infrastructure, supporting not only individuals and families in need, but acting in response to national catastrophes and natural disasters;Whereas citizens have the opportunity to participate in thousands of already scheduled events all across the country, as well as create and implement a community service project where they identify the need;Whereas the Corporation for National and Community Service, is working with the Martin Luther King, Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change, and thousands of other nonprofit, community, national service, and education organizations across the country to encourage Americans to serve on this holiday and throughout the year; andWhereas leaders at the Federal, State and local level are planning to use the Martin Luther King Day and Inauguration Day to rally our Nation to commit to serve and to make an ongoing commitment to service: Now, therefore, be itResolved, That the House of Representatives--(1) encourages all Americans to pay tribute to the life and works of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. through participation in community service projects on Martin Luther King Day;(2) recognizes the inherent value of community service and volunteerism in the creation of civil society and as a means of non-violent community progress consistent with the works of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.;(3) recognizes the benefits of the collaborative work by the many organizations that promote, facilitate, and carry out needed service projects nationwide;(4) encourages its members and colleagues to urge their constituents, both in congressional districts and those visiting the District of Columbia on Inauguration Day, to participate in community service projects; and(5) acknowledges that by serving one's country, one's community and one's neighbor our Nation makes progress in civility, equality, and unity consistent with the values and life's work of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.# # #
01.19.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Price has called for an end to the recent surge in violence in the Middle East, and has worked to promote greater U.S. leadership in retuning the Israelis and Palestinians to a path toward negotiation and long-term peace.Please see his latest efforts below.An op-ed in the Charlotte Observer and Miami Herald highlighting the need for urgent diplomatic action to salvage any hopes of a negotiated settlement in the region.A letter to President Bush signed by 24 House members expressing their deep concern for the humanitarian crisis in the Gaza Strip and demanding several immediate steps to ease the humanitarian situation in Gaza.Remarks by Congressman Price during debate of House Resolution 34 expressing that while he agrees with certain elements of the resolution, he was disappointed that the resolution failed to reflect the humanitarian disaster in Gaza or to emphasize the steps required to achieve a long-term solution for the Israeli and Palestinian people.# # #
01.15.2009	Comprehensive Legislation Aims to Fix a Broken SystemWashington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC), chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, today introduced a proposal to initiate broad reforms in the practice of detention, interrogation, and prosecution of terrorism suspects by the United States.His bill, the Interrogation and Detention Reform Act (H.R. 591), would seek to end the abusive and ineffective policies of the past while presenting a way forward with a sound, law-abiding approach, which the Congressman says will improve the capacity of human intelligence collection efforts. He hopes the proposal will serve as a platform for collaboration between the incoming Obama Administration and the new Congress to address the deficiencies of the current system, and anticipates that the new Administration may act on some of his proposed measures early in its tenure through executive action."Our government's approach to the interrogation, detention, and prosecution of terrorist suspects is badly broken," Price said, as he explained the urgency of reform. "The Obama Administration should not waste a single day in reforming this system and putting our country back on firm moral ground."Price added, "Experts with the Intelligence Science Board have concluded that commonly used interrogation techniques are not rooted in science and may not be effective in obtaining accurate information. The Bush Administration's system for prosecuting terrorism suspects is bogged down in procedural hurdles and court challenges. Worst of all, our ongoing use of the Guantanamo Bay Detention Center, along with reports of detainee abuse, have severely tarnished our government's moral authority, which is crucial to our leadership in the global fight against terrorism."The Interrogation and Detention Reform Act would repeal the Military Commissions Act and endorse the existing civilian and military justice systems as the most appropriate venues for prosecuting terrorism. The Military Commissions system has achieved only three convictions in terrorism cases since 9-11, while civilian courts have convicted over 145 terrorists in the same span. The legislation would close Guantanamo Bay Detention Center, and it would establish uniform, government-wide standards for interrogation that prohibit torture.The bill would also stop the practice of contracting out interrogations. Price was the author of amendments to the Defense and Intelligence Authorization bills last year that would bar private contractors from performing interrogations.In addition to breaking from the damaging practices of the past, Price stressed the importance of plotting a new way forward for the country's policies toward terrorism suspects."We cannot simply decry the abuses of the past; we must offer new approaches that both improve our effectiveness in fighting terrorism and restore our moral grounding."To that end his bill would enact forward-looking proposals designed to strengthen intelligence collection, including the creation of a center of excellence for interrogation training and research, as recommended by the Intelligence Science Board, and the development of an expert cadre of career military interrogators.(View a section-by-section summary of the legislation)"If our nation is to win our critical fight against terrorism, we must ensure that our tools for obtaining timely, accurate intelligence and for bringing terrorist suspects to justice are finely honed and do not violate human rights or the rule of law," Price concluded. "We simply cannot afford to maintain the current broken system."Other House members who are cosponsoring Price's legislation include Democratic Caucus Chairman John Larson (D-CT), Intelligence Oversight Panel Chairman Rush Holt (D-NJ), Intelligence Committee member Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Judiciary Committee member Mel Watt (D-NC), Foreign Relations Committee member Brad Miller (D-NC), Jim McGovern (D-MA), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), John Olver (D-MA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), and Maurice Hinchey (D-NY).# # #
01.14.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today voted to provide health insurance to 11 million children in the United States. The State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Reauthorization bill (H.R. 2) passed the House with a strong, bipartisan vote and will now move to the Senate for consideration."Today's vote will go a long way toward reducing the number of children who go without health coverage in America," Price said. "I strongly support SCHIP and understand the important role it has played in providing health care to low-income children in North Carolina and around the country."Pictured:Congressman Price met today with Governor Beverly Perdue, Congressman Bob Etheridge and other members of the North Carolina Congressional Delegation to discuss children's health insurance and the need for an economic stimulus bill.The bill would renew and improve SCHIP by preserving healthcare coverage for the 7 million children currently covered by SCHIP and extending coverage to 4 million uninsured children who are currently eligible for, but not enrolled in, SCHIP and Medicaid.Additionally, the bill would provide quality dental coverage to all children enrolled in SCHIP and would ensure that states offer mental health services on par with medical and surgical coverage under SCHIP. The bill is fully paid-for with offsets in the budget, so it will not contribute to the deficit.Price joined many of his House colleagues in voting for a similar expansion of children's health coverage in the last Congress. But despite bipartisan majorities in the House and Senate, President Bush vetoed the bill twice."This vote was a long time coming, and when our new President is sworn in next Tuesday, we can be sure that this bill will be enacted into law. That will be a great day for these 11 million children and their families, and it will represent a significant down payment on our goal of ensuring that all Americans have access to affordable health insurance."# # #
01.09.2009	House Bills Seek to End Pay Discrimination Based on GenderWashington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today voted with the majority of his House colleagues to seek an end to pay discrimination in the workplace based on gender. The North Carolina Democrat voted in favor of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act (H.R. 11) and the Paycheck Fairness Act (H.R. 12), both of which passed the House and will now move to the Senate for consideration."Women deserve equal pay for equal work," Price said, "and these two measures will make it easier for women who face discrimination to seek justice and restitution through the courts."Although women's wages and educational attainment have been rising over recent decades, research shows that pay discrimination continues to result in lower earnings for women than their male counterparts performing the exact same job. In 2005, women earned only about 77 percent as much as men did. According to the National Committee on Pay Equity, working women stand to lose $250,000 over the course of their careers because of unequal pay practices.The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act seeks to reverse the impact of a June 2007 Supreme Court ruling that held that the plaintiff, Lilly Ledbetter, could not sue her employer for pay discrimination because she learned of the violation too long after the fact. The Court ruled that each paycheck did not constitute a new act of discrimination and, therefore, Ms. Ledbetter had not claimed discrimination in a timely manner – within 180 days of her first paycheck. The bill would clarify that the timeframe for suing employers for pay discrimination begins each time a paycheck is issued, and does not solely apply to the original act of discrimination.The Paycheck Fairness Act would improve enforcement of the Equal Pay Act by providing more effective remedies to women who are not being paid equal wages for doing equal work, including increased penalties for violators and increased opportunities for training for women and girls."These two bills will help address a simple matter of fairness in our society, and I'm pleased that we have chosen to take on this important issue as one of the first acts of the new Congress."# # #
12.19.2008	Price's Subcommittee Protected Critical Services during an Economic RecessionWashington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today announced $6.2 million in total funding for North Carolina to help prevent homelessness, and feed and shelter the nation's hungry and homeless. As Chairman of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, Price worked to reject the Bush Administration's proposed cut to FEMA's Emergency Food and Shelter Program (EFSP) and bolster funding for this essential program.Recognizing the importance of supporting emergency food and shelter programs during a recession, Price's subcommittee increased the allocation to the states by 31% for the current fiscal year. Funding for local services in North Carolina increased by $1.4 million from last year. Federal funds are used to supplement food, shelter, rent, mortgage and utility assistance programs for people experiencing non-disaster related emergencies."Many families in our communities are in dire straights during this economic recession," Price said. "In times of crisis, they turn to emergency food and shelter services, which puts a strain on our local providers, many of whom are already making do with fewer private donations. It is vital for the government to help maintain a safety net for the most vulnerable among us.""The ESFP has an extraordinary history of providing food and shelter for families over the past twenty-five years," said FEMA Administrator David Paulison, "but there is now an unprecedented demand on our shelters from the newest population in need – the working poor. I am grateful a program like this exists for families struggling to make ends meet even after the paycheck runs out."The President proposed only $100 million for the program (a 35% cut) in the budget proposal he introduced in February, but Price and his subcommittee insisted that a cut to these services was exactly the opposite of what our troubled economy required. The final allocation for FEMA's Emergency Food and Shelter Program this year was $200 million, up from last year's $153 million.Locally, Wake County is receiving $469,095 from the program. Durham County is allocated $155,927, and Orange County will receive $64,864.In each funded jurisdiction, a Local Board advertises the availability of the funds, establishes local priorities, selects local non-profit and government agencies to receive supplemental funding, and monitors program compliance. The Local Boards generally include representatives from local governments and service groups such as the Red Cross, Catholic Charities, the Salvation Army, and United Way.Program funds are used to provide the following services:• Food, in the form of served meals or groceries• Lodging in a mass shelter or hotel• One month's rent, mortgage, and/or utility bill payment• Transportation costs associated with the provision of food or shelter• Minimal repairs to mass feeding or sheltering facilities for building code violations or for handicapped accessibility• Supplies and equipment necessary to feed or shelter people, up to a $300 limit per item# # #
12.17.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price shares his perspective on U.S. efforts to promote democracy throughout the world in an article for the current edition of The Washington Quarterly.Drawing on his experience leading the House Democracy Assistance Commission (HDAC), Price writes that democracy promotion must remain a central plank of U.S. foreign policy, an expression of U.S. values, and a tool that can be used to pursue the strategic interests of the United States. He also explains how the Obama Administration should learn from the mistakes of the past eight years and rethink and refine the theory and practice of democracy promotion.In plotting out a "new way forward," Price lays out the most important lessons to draw from our country's recent experience in this area.The article is available at the following web address: http://www.twq.com/09winter/index.cfm?id=334.# # #
12.12.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price released the following statement to constituents who have contacted him regarding legislation to offer federal assistance for U.S. automakers, which failed in the Senate on December 11.Thank you for contacting me regarding emergency federal assistance for the U.S. automobile industry.As you know, the top executives of the "Big Three" testified before the House Financial Services Committee on November 19 to make their case for federal assistance to the industry. At that time, I believe they failed to justify an infusion of federal funds and that any future decision on assistance should depend on whether a rescue plan would be 1) necessary to prevent significant damage to the broader economy, and 2) composed in a way that forced the companies to restructure and achieve sustainability. However, because of the dire economic consequences of inaction and the strict conditions required of participating auto companies, I supported a bipartisan compromise to provide bridge loans to the industry when Congress reconvened to consider assistance to automakers on December 10.I agree with many of the criticisms of the long-term management of General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler, and have no interest in rewarding poor business decisions. Because of the auto industry's unique role and enormous footprint within the national economy, however, allowing it to collapse would be highly irresponsible and costly for all Americans. A typical Chapter 11 bankruptcy, as imposed on several airlines, would almost certainly lead to complete failure of any auto company, with consumers unlikely to purchase vehicles with no future guarantee of honored warranties, resale values, parts, or service. A new analysis by the Economic Policy Institute (EPI) concludes that the bankruptcy of one or more U.S. automakers would shut down a significant portion of the industry, leading to a wave of bankruptcies and plant closures throughout the manufacturing and service sectors of the economy. EPI estimates that the first wave would eliminate 3.3 million jobs nationally and 95,600 jobs in North Carolina. This option would also hit taxpayers heavily, with increased government obligations for unemployment benefits and the assumption of pension payments. Those expenses plus tax losses are estimated to cost more than $150 billion for the just the first three years following the bankruptcy of the Big Three.The compromise legislation passed by the House (H.R. 7321) had many of the positive aspects of a structured, or prepackaged, bankruptcy while avoiding some of the dangerous consequences of a Chapter 11 filing. Like a structured bankruptcy, it would have required a far-reaching restructuring and an equitable distribution of concessions among management, workers, creditors, and other stakeholders. In exchange for bridge loans, H.R. 7321 would have required auto companies to submit long-term restructuring plans by March 31 to demonstrate how they could achieve a net positive value, reorganize their debts, repay the loans, and comply with fuel efficiency and emissions standards. The administrator of the program, commonly referred to as the "car czar," would have been authorized to recall any loans made to companies who did not provide satisfactory restructuring plans. It is important to note that the $14 billion in bridge loans which the bill would have authorized would have come from an existing fund within the Department of Energy, meaning that it did not represent any new spending. I voted for H.R. 7321, and it passed the House by a vote of 237 to 170.On December 11, the Senate failed to pass its version of legislation to assist automakers, effectively shutting down congressional action on the issue. However, the White House has indicated that Administration may use funds from the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) enacted in October to provide bridge loans to the industry and avert the expected collapse. I hope the Administration attaches strict requirements to any loan that force restructuring of the auto companies, as would have been accomplished under H.R. 7321, and will push for vigorous oversight of any federal assistance program in the new Congress.The economic well-being of the American people will continue to be my top priority in Congress. Thank you again for contacting me, and please continue to keep in touch on this and other issues of concern.# # #
12.01.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) is leading a bipartisan delegation of House members to Southeast Asia this week to monitor the work of the Department of Homeland Security in the region.The trip will help the leaders gain a greater understanding of the department's coordination with foreign governments to enhance the security of US-bound cargo, international cooperation on anti-terrorism, and issues related to international adoptions.The itinerary includes meetings and tours with DHS and State Department officials in the region, as well as with foreign leaders. The delegation will make stops in the Philippines, Hong Kong, and Vietnam. Price is joined by Reps. John Carter (R-TX), Sam Farr (D-CA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Mike Honda (D-CA), and Mazie Hirono (D-HI). Most of these members sit on the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, which Price chairs.# # #
11.24.2008	
11.20.2008	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price today called upon the Bush Administration and the incoming Obama Administration to give top priority to the oversight of contracting and procurement at the Department of Homeland Security. His call comes in response to a Government Accountability Office (GAO) study of the Department's investment practices which he requested as chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security.The report, which was released today, finds that DHS has not provided adequate oversight for its investments, which include billions of dollars every year for programs ranging from Coast Guard vessels to border security infrastructure.[A copy of the GAO report can be found here.]"Reforming the Department of Homeland Security's (DHS) acquisition practices has been at the top of my subcommittee's agenda," said Chairman Price. "This relatively new department is handling billions in taxpayer dollars every year. And with all of its new programs and major purchases, it is absolutely critical that rigorous systems are in place to ensure accountability for how those dollars are spent."One of Price's first initiatives as Chairman was to mandate improved acquisition practices by the Coast Guard for the next generation of ships, planes and helicopters purchased through the Deepwater program, which had experienced significant program delays, cost overruns and systems failures. Price included provisions in the fiscal year 2007 Supplemental Appropriations bill that called for more rigorous Coast Guard oversight, independent third-party reviews of major procurements, a comprehensive expenditure plan, and linkage of award fees and contractor performance.Price noted, however, that the Department of Homeland Security's acquisition problems did not begin and end with the Coast Guard. The Transportation Security Administration has repeatedly awarded contracts that were too broadly defined, resulting in exponential cost growth. Recently, similar problems have been found with U.S. Customs and Border Protection's Secure Border Initiative contract. And in its response to Hurricane Katrina, the Federal Emergency Management Agency was found to lack appropriate contracting controls.Because of this problematic history, Price directed the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to review the overall DHS investment review process and to evaluate how this process informs the Department's budget planning. The report found that DHS' investment review process has not provided the oversight needed to identify and address cost, schedule and performance problems. DHS did not comply with its own investment review requirements in 45 of the 48 major investments (93 percent) that GAO reviewed. GAO found that DHS failed to ensure that departmental oversight bodies – the Investment Review Board (IRB) and the Joint Requirements Council (JRC) – were effectively carrying out their oversight responsibilities, and that they had sufficient staffing and other resources. In addition, according to GAO, DHS failed to develop an accountability system to ensure that IRB and JRC decisions were implemented."I am deeply concerned, but not surprised, by the findings," Price said. "My subcommittee has been raising the alarm for years, on a bipartisan basis, about the importance of rigorous investment reviews in guiding the Department's programming and budgeting decisions. The GAO report clearly lays out the steps DHS needs to take to improve the investment review process, and I urge the Bush Administration and the incoming Obama Administration to make this a top priority. Major procurements should not move forward unless they have been thoroughly vetted and approved by the IRB or JRC."Since fiscal year 2007, the Appropriations Committee directed additional resources to beef up the Department's procurement oversight capabilities, increasing funding for the DHS Procurement Office by 130%, from $16.9 million in fiscal year 2007 to $39 million in fiscal year 2009.# # #
11.12.2008	WASHINGTON, October 15, 2008 – Agriculture Deputy Under Secretary for Rural Development Douglas L. Faulkner today announced the selection of eight recipients in five states and the Territory of Guam to receive $1.3 million through the Small Minority Producer Grant program. “The grants awarded today will help farmers, cooperative members and business owners better market their products and services and that will ultimately add profit and efficiency to their operations,” Faulkner said. In Hagatna, Guam, the Farmers Cooperative Association of Guam has been selected to receive $175,000 to provide training and technical assistance to its members on farming practices and facilities management. Hawaii Rural Development State Director Lorraine P. Shin said “The Farmers Cooperative Association of Farmers was also assisted in its formation through the efforts of USDA’s cooperative development technical assistance program. In September 2005. we held a week-long training session in Guam for potential cooperative projects. Several of the initial incorporators of the Farmers Cooperative Association of Guam were in attendance where the idea of the cooperative was discussed with Agency staff. It is good to see the results of this planning effort pay off in helping Guam farmers with additional resources” The Winston County Self Help Cooperative in Louisville, Miss., will receive $145,000 to provide business planning services, feasibility analysis, and marketing and business formation assistance to its members. In Barry, Texas, the Navarro County Black Farmers & Ranchers League, Inc. will receive $174,600 to provide technical assistance for product improvement, marketing and customer service training. Small Minority Producer Grants are provided to cooperatives or associations of cooperatives to provide technical assistance to small, minority agriculture producers. Funding of individual recipients is contingent upon meeting the conditions of the grant agreement. Below is the complete list of recipients.Small Minority Producer Grant Recipients Recipient State Grant Amount Rio Culebra Lucero CO $174,922 Farmers Cooperative Association of Guam Territory of Guam $175,000 Mississippi Association of Cooperatives MS $175,000 Winston County Self Help Cooperative MS $145,000 Native American People Cooperative ND $175,000 InterTribal Bison Cooperative SD $175,000 Southwest Texas Goat Producers, Inc. TX $118,372 Navarro County Black Farmers and Ranchers League, Inc. TX $174,600 USDA Rural Development’s mission is to increase economic opportunity and improve the quality of life for rural residents. Rural Development has invested more than $90 billion since 2001 for equity and technical assistance to finance and foster growth in homeownership, business development, and critical community and technology infrastructure. More than 1.7 million jobs have been created or saved through these investments. Further information on rural programs is available at a local USDA Rural Development office or by visiting USDA’s web site at http://www.rurdev.usda.govUSDA Rural Development is an Equal Opportunity Lender, Provider, and Employer. Complaints of discrimination should be sent to: USDA, Director, Office of Civil Rights, Washington, D.C. 20250.
11.10.2008	The Department of Defense POW/Missing Personnel Office (DPMO) announced today that the remains of a U.S. serviceman, missing in action from the Vietnam War, have been identified and will be returned to his family for burial with full military honors. He is Capt. Lorenza Conner, U.S. Air Force, of Cartersville, Ga. He will be buried Oct. 25 in Cartersville. On Oct. 27, 1967, Conner and his copilot flew an F-4D Phantom II fighter jet in a flight of four on a combat air patrol mission over North Vietnam where the plane was hit by anti-aircraft fire over Tuyen Quang Province, North Vietnam. The copilot ejected safely, was captured and later released by Vietnamese forces, but Conner could not eject from the aircraft before it crashed. In 1992, Vietnamese citizens told U.S. officials that they had information concerning the remains of missing U.S. servicemen and they turned over Conner’s identification tag. Between 1992 and 2003, several joint U.S./Socialist Republic of Vietnam (S.R.V.) teams, led by the Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command (JPAC), investigated this incident, interviewed witnesses and surveyed the crash site. At the crash site, teams found aircrew-related equipment and aircraft wreckage consistent with an F-4 Phantom II. In 2007, another joint team excavated the site and recovered human remains. Among other forensic identification tools and circumstantial evidence, scientists from JPAC also used dental comparisons in the identification of Conner’s remains. For additional information on the Defense Department’s mission to account for missing Americans, visit the DPMO Web site at http://www.dtic.mil/dpmo or call (703) 699-1169
11.04.2008	The Department of Defense announced today its recruiting and retention statistics for the active and reserve components for fiscal 2008. Active Duty Recruiting Fiscal 2008. All services met or exceeded their recruiting goals for fiscal 2008. - The Army had 80,517 accessions, making 101 percent of its 80,000 goal - The Navy had 38,485 accessions, making 100 percent of its 38,419 goal. -The Marine Corps had 37,991 accessions, making 100 percent of its 37,967 goal. - The Air Force had 27,848 accessions, making 100 percent of its 27,800 goal. Active Duty Retention. Army and Navy exceeded their fiscal 2008 targets. Although the Marine Corps retained far more first term personnel than last year, it did not meet its ambitious first term reenlistment goals and it achieved 95 percent total retention. Air Force missed its end-of-year mission in each reenlistment zone. We expect to see Air Force retention rates improve gradually through fiscal 2009, and we anticipate that Air Force will meet its fiscal 2009 end strength mission. Reserve Forces Accessions Fiscal 2007. All six reserve components met or exceeded their accession goals for fiscal 2008. - The Army National Guard brought in 65,192 accessions, 103 percent of its 63,000 goal; the Army Reserve brought in 39,870 accessions, 106 percent of its 37,500 goal. - The Navy Reserve brought in 9,134 accessions, 100 percent of its 9,122 goal.The Marine Corps Reserve brought in 7,628 accessions, 100 percent of its 7,628 goal. - The Air National Guard brought in 10,749 accessions, 126 percent of its 8,548 goal, while the Air Force Reserve brought in 7,323 accessions, 105 percent of its 6,963 goal. Reserve Attrition. Losses in all reserve components remain within acceptable limits. (Note: This indicator lags by one month) Detailed information on specific recruiting data can be obtained by contacting the individual military recruiting commands at (502) 626-0164 for Army, (210) 565-4678 for Air Force, (703) 784-9454 for Marine Corps and (703) 697-8761 for Navy. The reserve components can be reached at the following numbers: National Guard Bureau (703) 607-2586; Army Reserve (404) 464-8490; Air Force Reserve (703) 697-1761; Navy Reserve (504) 678-6055; and Marine Corps Reserve (504) 678-6535.
11.04.2008	Washington, D.C. - The Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA) today praised Congressman David Price (D-NC) for his efforts in Congress to support veterans and their families.In a letter to Congressman Price, the group specifically lauded his vote for the 21st Century GI Bill, which represents the single largest increase in veterans' education funding in 60 years. IAVA also hailed the 110th Congress for significantly increasing resources for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to address the added demand for health care and rehabilitation services from service members returning from two ongoing wars. Price is a member of the House Appropriations Committee, which initiated the funding increase in the Congress.The letter concludes: "Over the last two years you have demonstrated that you are a great friend to Iraq and Afghanistan veterans and their families. IAVA Action is proud to list you on our 'A Team.' We thank you for your leadership on these critical issues."The entire letter can be viewed here.# # #
10.22.2008	NEW YORK (CNNMoney.com) -- Stocks tumbled Wednesday afternoon as weak corporate results and forecasts - and slumping commodity prices - amplified fears of a broad recession.Global markets slid, with Asian and European stocks ending lower. Treasury prices rose, lowering the corresponding yields. The dollar was mixed versus other major currencies. Oil, gas and gold prices fell.With roughly an hour left in the session, the Dow Jones industrial average (INDU) had lost 373 points, or 4.1%, after having lost as much as 430 points earlier.The Standard & Poor's 500 (SPX) index lost 4.9% and the Nasdaq composite (COMP) lost 3.7%.Lending rates improved, helping to reassure investors that the efforts of world governments to stabilize financial markets are starting to work. But any relief about the improvement in the credit market was overshadowed by recession fears.In economic news, the number of layoffs impacting 50 workers or more rose to the highest level in September since the month of the 9/11 terrorist attacks.Stocks fell Tuesday as weak quarterly results and forecasts underscored the depth of what many think is a recession. Wednesday's reports, including a big, surprise quarterly loss from bank Wachovia, added to those worries.There is an increased focus on results this week because 140 of the S&P 500 companies are reporting, giving investors the best sense yet of the health of corporate America.With 21% of S&P 500 companies already having reported results, third-quarter profits are currently on track to have fallen almost 10% from a year ago, according to the latest estimates from Thomson Reuters.
10.12.2008	Washington, DC--The Governments of the United States of America and the Republic of Peru have announced an agreement to reduce Peru's debt payments to the United States by more than $25 million over the next seven years. In return, the Government of Peru has committed these funds to support grants to protect the country's tropical forests. Secretary Paulson welcomed the agreement with the Government of Peru under the U.S. Tropical Forest Conservation Act. "This agreement will build on the success of previous U.S. Government debt swaps with Peru and will further the cause of environmental conservation in a country with one of the highest levels of biodiversity on the planet. Such debt-for-nature agreements are a successful model of government and citizen cooperation to improve and expand conservation efforts," he said.Peru is one of the most biologically rich countries on earth. Funds generated by the debt-for-nature program will help Peru protect tropical rain forests of the southwestern Amazon Basin and dry forests of the Central Andes. These areas are home to dense concentrations of endemic birds such as the Andean Condor and Parakeet; primates including the Peruvian Yellow-tailed Woolly Monkey and Howler Monkey; other mammals such as the Jaguar, Amazonian Manatee, Giant Otter, Spectacled Bear and Amazon River Dolphin; as well as unique plants. Rivers supplying water to downstream settlements originate in many of these forests, and people living in and around the forests depend on them for their livelihood and survival.This agreement with Peru was made possible by the innovative Tropical Forest Conservation Act of 1998. It will complement an existing TFCA debt-for-nature program in Peru dating from 2002, a 1997 debt swap under the Enterprise for the Americas Initiative, and the United States-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement, which includes a number of forest protection provisions. With this agreement, Peru will be the largest beneficiary under the Tropical Forest Conservation Act, with more than $35 million generated for conservation. The new Peru agreement marks the 14th Tropical Forest Conservation Act pact, following agreements with Bangladesh, Belize, Botswana, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Jamaica, Panama (two agreements), Paraguay and the Philippines, as well as an earlier agreement with Peru. Over time, these debt-for-nature programs will together generate more than $188 million to protect tropical forests.
10.03.2008	Congress recently passed legislation to help stabilize the economy and avert the collapse of our financial system. I voted for this legislation because the harmful effects of the credit crisis on all North Carolinians were too great for the federal government to sit on the sidelines.Following the failure of Lehman Brothers, the federal takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and the rescue of AIG in September, Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson came to Congress to warn of an impending, wholesale financial meltdown and to seek congressional action to stave it off. He requested what amounted to a blank check for $700 billion to purchase mortgage backed securities and stabilize the markets.I had no interest in "bailing out" Wall Street firms and business leaders who speculated recklessly, endangered our country's consumers and homebuyers, and resisted regulation that would protect the public interest. My concern was and is for Main Street - for the people depending on a sound economy and the availability of credit to buy a house or car, to run their business and meet payroll, and to save for college and retirement. Like it or not, we are all in this together, and the financial crisis threatened the entire economy, including the individual financial well-being of every American.Based on events on the ground – including the collapse of Wachovia Bank, a North Carolina mainstay for generations, and Wake County's decision to cancel a $472 million school construction bond issue because of high servicing costs – I was compelled to take the dire warnings of economic analysts very seriously. I could not, however, support the Bush Administration's request for a blank check. I thus became part of the intensive discussions to rewrite the Treasury plan in several critical respects. The final package initially failed in the House, but after some additional modifications in the Senate and further turmoil in the stock market, it garnered the votes needed to pass the House as well. The final package:Increases the federal depository insurance limit on individual accounts to $250,000;Provides strict independent oversight and accountability for all activities undertaken by the US Treasury;Releases the $700 billion in installments, with multiple reviews along the way;Makes certain that the entire $700 billion is recaptured by the Treasury and thus by the American taxpayer, by requiring that taxpayers share in any profits resulting from the government's help and providing for assessment of the financial industry for any remaining losses;Forbids "golden parachutes" and limits other compensation for executives of participating financial institutions;Requires the government to work with participating institutions and loan servicers to help deserving homeowners negotiate reasonable repayment terms and stay in their homes.Since passage of the law, and the Treasury's move to invest directly in banks to revive lending, there are some promising signs that liquidity is returning to the markets. But we are not out of the woods by any means. If anything, the impact of the financial meltdown on the broader economy is becoming more and more clear, with continued losses and volatility in the stock market and rising unemployment. In our own state, for example, the jobless rate stands at 7%, up nearly 2.5% from one year ago. The financial market recovery legislation must be the first step in addressing a broader economic crisis.Having put out the fire, we need to expose and punish the arsonists. The next Congress will need to monitor administration of the rescue plan and develop the kind of oversight mechanisms and regulatory architecture needed to ensure this type of financial crisis is never repeated.In addition, we must not equate rescue with recovery. At a minimum, we must extend the eligibility period for unemployment benefits so that Americans who have lost their jobs have a safety net. We also need a second stimulus package and concerted attention to a long-term economic strategy which promotes infrastructure development, education and training, research, and green jobs.The economic well-being of the American people will continue to be my top priority in Congress. The steps that have been taken are a start, but Congress and the Administration will need to continue to work together to revitalize the economy and provide relief to Americans who are struggling in this economic downturn.###
09.23.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (NC-04) today introduced legislation that would enact broad reforms to U.S. policies governing the interrogation, detention, and prosecution of terrorist suspects.Since the September 11 attacks, the Bush Administration has implemented a number of controversial counterterrorism measures, including the Military Commissions Act, the indefinite detention of hundreds of inmates at Guantanamo Bay Detention Center, and the authorization of torture and abusive practices during interrogations. These policies have proven ineffective in the war on terror and have undermined U.S. leadership abroad. Price's legislation would reverse these flawed policies while enacting initiatives to modernize and improve U.S. human intelligence collection capabilities consistent with international law."A deep re-examination of our nation's approach to fighting the war on terrorism must be an urgent priority for the next Administration," Price said. "My goal is to offer a constructive proposal for how we might improve our ability to bring terrorists to justice and obtain accurate, timely intelligence."Price noted that the urgent need for reform was not just a moral priority, but a practical one as well. The military tribunal system established by the Bush Administration has yielded only two convictions in terrorism cases in the last seven years. Civilian courts have obtained convictions in over 145 terrorism cases during the same period."If we are to prevail against those who would do us harm, we must have the means to identify threats and bring terrorist suspects to justice. What we've been doing for the last seven years simply hasn't worked," Price said. "We need an approach that combines principled leadership with results, and that's what this bill offers."Price's legislation, the Interrogation and Detention Reform Act, would combine measures to roll back the most flawed policies of the Bush Administration with proposals to enhance U.S. capacity for human intelligence collection. Specifically, it would repeal the Military Commissions Act and endorse the existing civilian and military justice systems as the most appropriate venues for prosecuting terrorist suspects. The bill also would close Guantanamo Bay Detention Center. In addition, it would establish uniform, government-wide standards for interrogation that explicitly prohibit torture, and ban contractors from conducting interrogations.At the same time, the Interrogation and Detention Reform Act would enact forward-looking proposals designed to strengthen intelligence collection, including the creation of a center of excellence for interrogation training and research, as recommended by the Intelligence Science Board, and the development of an expert cadre of career military interrogators. It would also require a strategy to prevent radicalization of inmates at both domestic and overseas detention facilities.Original cosponsors of the bill include Rep. Rush Holt (NJ), Chairman of the House Select Intelligence Oversight Panel; and Rep. John Larson (CT), Democratic Caucus Vice Chairman; as well as Reps. Mel Watt (NC), Brad Miller (NC) James McGovern (MA), Rosa DeLauro (CT), Earl Blumenauer (OR), John Olver (MA), and Maurice Hinchey (NY).Price chairs the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee and the House Democracy Assistance Commission. He is also the author of a House-passed bill (H.R. 2740) to ensure that war contractors are held accountable for criminal acts.###
09.09.2008	ATLANTA, Georgia (CNN) -- For Olympic swimmer Eric Shanteau, the last two months have been a whirlwind. "Full of the best moments and the scariest moments of my life," says the 24-year-old Olympic swimmer.Eric Shanteau said he felt angry when he found out he had testicular cancer.Eric Shanteau said he felt angry when he found out he had testicular cancer. Eric Shanteau said he felt angry when he found out he had testicular cancer. "Getting to the Olympics was, has always been, my swimming dream since I was 8 or 9 years old. You know, right after I started swimming it was, 'I want to make an Olympic team. That's where I want to be'."In June, a week before the qualifying round of the Olympics he was told he had testicular cancer. "My initial reaction was probably anger more than anything else," he says. "I'm used to being in control of everything. I'm in control of how I train, how I race and then to all of a sudden have that control ripped away from me was tough."After weeks of tests to determine the "stage" or spread of the cancer, Shanteau's team of doctors cleared him to compete in the Beijing Olympics, which meant carefully monitoring his tumor but delaying treatment. Though putting off the surgery was controversial to some, Eric says it was an educated choice based on numerous doctor evaluations. "I hope people understand that if I was in a different position with my test results, then I wouldn't have put off having surgery." Video Dr. Sanjay Gupta reports from Eric Shanteau's surgery »He swam a personal best in the 200 meter breaststroke. He did not qualify for the finals.Cancer was a motivator, he says, because he knew it meant he could be facing his last competition. He put everything he had into that heat. "Leave it all in the pool, and I don't look back and regret anything as far as how I raced."Once back from Beijing, Shanteau invited CNN to spend time with him the night before his surgery in Atlanta, Georgia. Though admittedly a little scared, he spent the evening relaxing with his family, cooking dinner, walking the dog.Don't Miss * Olympic swimmer battles testicular cancerA source of inspiration, he says, were fans who shared their stories of beating cancer."They send me their story and it helps me to learn that people are going through the same thing I am all over the world," says Shanteau. "They all affect me in a different way and it's been really encouraging to share in this experience with other people."Testicular cancer is diagnosed in about 1 in 300 men in their lifetime. It is the most common form of cancer for 15- to 34-year-olds. It is also one of the most curable if discovered early. Nearly 140,000 men in the United States are testicular cancer survivors.Shanteau says he experienced no symptoms of cancer and came across the tumor by chance. "I've been in a Speedo half my life," he says. "So I am really comfortable with my body. One day I just felt something that wasn't suppose to be there. I decided to go and get it checked out."He adds that although he had the "greatest excuse in the world" -- an Olympic dream -- to ignore the lump, he understood the importance of early detection. Shanteau's father Rick, is battling lung cancer and responding well to treatment."A lot of guys, if they hear a rattle in their car, they're at the mechanic the next day," he says. "But if they feel something [physically] that they don't think should be there, it takes them a year to get to their doctor and that just is not smart. There's really no excuse, because it can save your life."Fast forward to Shanteau's recent operation at Emory University Hospital. CNN Chief Medical Correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta was with Shanteau during the surgery and spoke with the lead surgeon, Dr. Jeff Carney, moments afterward."I think the operation went very well," Carney said. "Eric's a very healthy young man, very thin, in excellent shape. That makes my job easy."
07.31.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today lauded House passage of legislation to reauthorize federal higher education programs and help college students who want to become teachers. Inspired by North Carolina's successful Teaching Fellows Program, Price began working over 7 years ago to establish a federal scholarship program that would reward students who commit to serve as teachers. He is the author of H.R. 1828, the Teaching Fellows Act.The higher education bill would establish a new Teacher Quality Partnership grant program to help develop a high-quality teaching workforce for America's public schools. Under the legislation, education partnerships could use the grants for scholarships and professional development activities to help graduate and develop top notch teachers."New schools and the best textbooks mean very little if there is no one standing at the blackboard. Teachers turn classrooms into places of learning - they are the backbone of public education. That's why the impending national shortage of 2.5 million teachers – 80,000 in North Carolina alone – is so threatening."The teacher recruitment program is part of the College Opportunity and Affordability Act (H.R. 4137), which is also known as the Higher Education Act Reauthorization bill. It reauthorizes the range of federal programs that provide financial assistance to students attending college, including the Pell Grants, Perkins Loans, and college readiness programs like TRIO and GEAR UP. The House passed its version of the bill in February; today's vote was on the House-Senate compromise bill. The Senate is expected to pass the measure before adjourning for the August recess.Price said the bill builds upon the already strong education record of the 110th Congress. Last August, the America COMPETES Act was signed into law, which established additional scholarships and professional development activities to boost the number of science and math teachers in the country. One month later, the College Cost Reduction and Access Act became law. Between cutting the interest rates on subsidized student loans in half and greatly increasing the Pell Grant award, that legislation represented the single largest investment in higher education since the GI bill."America's children are her greatest resource," Price said, "and robust support of public education is essential to ensure that our young people can fulfill their potential and our country can maintain its competitive edge. Today we are taking steps to make college more affordable and bolster our K-12 teaching force with highly qualified educators."# # #
07.16.2008	Washington, D.C.- The U.S. House of Representatives today passed legislation originally offered by Rep. David Price (D-NC) to prohibit private contractors for the intelligence community from interrogating detainees. The provisions were included in a larger bill (H.R. 5959), which authorizes the functions of the intelligence community."We need to take a hard look at the contracting of sensitive intelligence operations to private companies, and make sure that we are not outsourcing activities that are inherently governmental and critically important to our national security," Price said. "At a minimum, the interrogation of detainees should be carried out by individuals who are well-trained, fall within a clear chain of command, and have a sworn loyalty to the United States – not by corporate, for-profit contractors."The House passed a similar prohibition for Defense Department contractors as part of the Defense Authorization bill in May. Price offered that amendment as well.The North Carolina congressman has been at the forefront of efforts to rein in the Bush Administration's unprecedented use of contractors for sensitive national security functions. He is the author of legislation that passed the House last October, which would enhance the government's prosecution of abusive actions by rogue security contractors in the war zone. Price warns that lawless and unaccountable behavior by contractors endangers U.S. troops and their overall mission.The legislation the House passed today would also require an annual census of the number of contractors involved in intelligence work, the activities they are asked to perform, the cost associated with their work, and an account of Administration efforts to hold contractors accountable for possible misconduct, including violations of the law.Additionally, it would require the Director of National Intelligence to assess the appropriateness of using contractors for especially sensitive activities, including intelligence collection, intelligence analysis, and the interrogation, detention, and rendition of detainees."Contractors may very well have a place in the intelligence community, but their role must be carefully considered, thoroughly managed, and strenuously overseen – something this Administration has so far failed to do appropriately," Price said. "This legislation will help put contracting in the Intelligence Community back on a rational and stable footing."# # #
07.16.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today joined local officials and Durham residents for the grand opening of Franklin Village, a Hope VI neighborhood revitalization project on the location of the former Few Gardens community.Left to Right: Durham Mayor Bill Bell, executive director of the Durham Housing Authority Harrison Shannon, senior vice president of Community Builders Willie Jones, and Congressman Price.In his remarks, Price noted that the federal Hope VI program is unique and important because it is not just concerned with providing shelter to those in need, but it seeks to build entire communities where residents feel safe and comfortable at home."Once again, the HOPE VI program has proven its ability to transform a whole neighborhood – to provide 'hope', just as the name suggests, to the families that will call this community their home," Price said. "Franklin Village will give hundreds of Durham families a chance to live with peace of mind, to raise their children and to achieve their goals."Price is a longtime supporter of the federal Hope VI housing program, and he has worked to protect the program from Bush budget cuts as a member of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee.# # #
06.23.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today delivered a major, comprehensive address on the homeland security challenges facing our country. From his vantage point as chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, he discussed the shortcomings of the current administration's approach to homeland security and national defense, described efforts underway in Congress to address some of those shortcomings, and made specific recommendations for the next administration. He delivered the speech at the Center for American Progress Action Fund in Washington, DC.The full text of his remarks follows below. View the speech here. Caption: Price said the selection of a Homeland Security secretary will be among the most important nominations the next president will make. He also called for a fundamental reorientation of our foreign and domestic policies to make the nation truly secure. (Credit: Ralph Alswang)"Thank you for inviting me to be with you this morning. I am always happy to participate in forums hosted by the Center for American Progress because I, and many others in Congress, have come to know the Center as a beacon of enlightened thought and analysis on the major policy issues – both domestic and foreign – that we face as a nation. No one should underestimate the importance of what John Podesta and Scott Lilly and many others are doing here, and the way it generates good ideas and positive debate, focused on the challenges our country faces.Homeland Security in Perspective"I have been asked today to focus specifically on the homeland security policy priorities I would put at the top of the list for the next administration. I will also indicate how our Committee, under Democratic leadership, has addressed these priorities, although my ability to be specific about our fiscal year 2009 bill is hampered by the fact that we are still a day away from full Committee markup."I want to begin, however, by reflecting for a moment on a question I am often asked as Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security: are we safer and more secure than we were before 9/11, or before the Department of Homeland Security was formed in the wake of 9/11? If we look at efforts to detect, deter, and respond to specific threats, the answer is a qualified yes, as I will elaborate in a moment. But if we look at the broader context of security, both internationally and domestically, the answer is almost certainly no."The security of our country fundamentally depends on the degree of friendship and respect we enjoy around the world. We have implacable adversaries with whom we must deal firmly, sometimes harshly. But we also have a long history of moral leadership in the world and a bipartisan foreign policy tradition predicated on mutually supportive alliances and cooperation through international organizations. The Bush Administration has abandoned much of that legacy and has squandered the tremendous outpouring of worldwide public support for the United States that followed 9/11."The President never devoted sufficient troops and resources to the war in Afghanistan, which had almost universal support; he instead initiated a war of choice in Iraq that has made the threat of terrorism worse, not better. He disengaged, and announced he was disengaging, from Middle East peacemaking, with disastrous results for Israelis, Palestinians, Lebanese and others across the region. He labeled North Korea, Iraq, Iran and, in effect, Syria as an "axis of evil," and pursued policies that helped make that label a self-fulfilling prophecy."America's moral leadership has also been gravely damaged by the way we have pursued what the Administration conceived as a "Global War on Terrorism." Stopping active terrorists is a critical challenge, but preventing the development of new generations of terrorists is, in the long run, equally important. Winning "hearts and minds" is no exercise in sentimentality; it is absolutely central to protecting our nation from another 9/11. But when we fight terrorism with arbitrary detention without recourse, the torture of detainees, and the failure to restrain or bring to justice hired guns under our employ, the effect is the opposite of what we intend. Such policies and practices make our nation less secure."Homeland security also has a domestic context, one that goes beyond the conventional understanding of that label. Let me express the point in budgetary terms. The Congress has rightly provided greatly increased resources – now approaching $40 billion annually – for Homeland Security programs and agencies. I argue strongly for our Subcommittee's share of the federal budget – but only up to a point."We could spend ever-increasing portions of the budget on countering one threat or another, real or imagined. But an outsized Department of Homeland Security budget, if it came at the expense of crumbling infrastructure, diminished public health, reduced economic competitiveness, and depleted human capital, would hardly add up to a more secure or confident nation. The Bush years have seen a dangerous erosion of security in this broader sense. The same is true of our fiscal security and soundness, as the hard-won budget surpluses of the 1990s have given way to mountains of debt and an unprecedented dependence on foreign creditors."So our investments in the Department of Homeland Security are not made in a vacuum. Thinking about security requires us to think about America's role in the world and about the full range of domestic needs we face after years of neglect. The agenda for repair, renewal, and reform is vast and urgent, and it is within that broader agenda that the program of the still-new, still-consolidating Department of Homeland Security should take a proportionate place.Immigration Reform"Today I will suggest five principal homeland security priorities on which I would advise the next administration to focus. The first is comprehensive immigration reform. This might, at first glance, seem an odd choice as a top priority for the Department of Homeland Security, which – after all – was formed in response to the terrorist threat. But the historic missions of the departmental components did not go away when the Department was formed, and subsuming them under the rubric of combating terrorism is apt to confuse as much as it clarifies. Homeland Security encompasses critical areas of national policy that would demand attention even if 9/11 had not occurred. Immigration, I believe, leads that list."That is not to say that immigration policy is unrelated to terrorism; control of our borders and knowing who has entered our country – legally or illegally – are directly related to our defense against terrorist threats. Moreover, the intense focus on the broader illegal immigration problem – consisting primarily of an effort to intercept, detain, and deport individuals who illegally cross our borders in search of work and a better life – is distracting the Department's attention and diverting the Department's resources away from the truly dangerous threats and challenges we face."I want to be clear on that point. The illegal presence of foreign nationals in the United States is a problem, and calls into question our commitment to the integrity of our immigration laws. But we need to put that problem into perspective on two counts: First, the integrity of our immigration laws is compromised primarily by the fact that those laws are grossly unrealistic in relation to our labor market demands. And second, there can be no credible argument that deporting illegal workers should take precedence over efforts to combat smuggling, prevent terrorism, and deport criminal aliens."As comprehensive reform has floundered, our Subcommittee has used the power of the purse to take on the Administration's skewed priorities in immigration enforcement. In 2007, the number of individuals ICE deported because they crossed the border illegally or overstayed their visas was 91 percent higher than in 2003, while the number of criminal aliens identified for deportation by the agency rose by only 16 percent. In other words, while we have been using scarce resources to detain and deport laborers at meatpacking plants, we have allowed tens of thousands of dangerous criminal aliens to be released back into our communities after serving their sentences, with no awareness on our part of their immigration status."At our Committee's direction, ICE has now developed a plan for identifying all those criminal aliens now serving time in our Federal, state, and local prisons and jails, and for deporting them upon the completion of their sentences. This plan will require dogged dedication and significant additional resources to fully implement. We have provided such resources in the FY 2009 bill. No matter what one's opinion about the broader illegal immigration problem and how to address it, we should all be able to agree that ICE's highest priority should be to identify and deport unlawfully present aliens who have already shown themselves to be a danger to our communities and have been convicted of serious crimes."Our Subcommittee has also taken on the challenge of border security – through what will be a one third increase in the number of Border Patrol officers from the beginning of FY 2008 to the end of FY 2009; by compelling attention to the vast Northern border (which is more significant as a potential entry point for terrorists than the Southern border); and by requiring some accountability as DHS spends hundreds of millions of dollars to build fencing along the Southwest border. We are insisting that cost-benefit estimates be provided and that alternative means of border protection be seriously compared before funds are spent on expensive fence construction."The illegal immigration problem cannot be solved by border security and law enforcement actions alone – I have yet to meet an experienced Border Patrol agent who believes that it can. We are fooling ourselves if we believe that fences and worksite raids will do the trick. Our illegal immigration is more about demand than about supply, so as long as our immigration policies are not responsive to the realities of our labor market, illegal immigration will drain our resources and distract attention from the apprehension of criminal and terrorist aliens crossing our borders and living among us."The current Administration made some effort last year to promote comprehensive immigration reform, but it now seems to have turned 180 degrees toward an enforcement-only approach. This might be interpreted as an attempt to appeal to the most hard-line anti-immigrant segment of the population, but some have painted it as an effort to drive home the need for immigration reform by inflicting pain on businesses and communities who depend on these workers. If it really is some sort of perverse "tough medicine" policy, I find it doubly hard to understand, given the negative impacts on hardworking immigrants and their children, and because it has tradeoffs with other activities that could be helping to make our country safer."Whatever the rationale, the next Administration must make immigration reform a higher priority and pursue it more effectively. Such reform will strengthen our economy, reaffirm the rule of law, and enhance homeland security, allowing DHS to focus more effectively on that small percentage of illegal immigrants that has the capacity and the intent to commit crimes and do us harm.Disaster and Emergency Response"The second priority for the new administration should be to make disaster and emergency response effective and reliable – to get the Federal Emergency Management agency (FEMA) in good working order; to strengthen the DHS partnership with state and local emergency responders, to make of DHS a department that does not merely pay lip service to an all-hazards approach, but actually executes it in protecting our communities. Here too, as in the case of immigration, we are talking about not just the new, post-9/11 capacities the Department must develop, but about the historic missions of the Department's constituent agencies. In fact, FEMA and its partnerships with state emergency management agencies were much stronger before 9/11 and the Bush Administration than they are now."One of the significant downsides of subsuming FEMA under the Department was that it contributed to the deterioration of the agency's capacity to focus on the kinds of large scale natural disasters – such as hurricanes and earthquakes – that we are certain to face on a regular basis. While Hurricane Katrina might have threatened the response capacity of FEMA at even the peak of its prowess in the 1990s, the breakdown was significantly exacerbated by a failure of leadership at FEMA's top layers – and of the Administration more broadly – that was directly related to the downgrading of its status when it became a component of DHS. There is simply no substitute for having the FEMA director at the table with the President's cabinet when a disaster strikes, and the next President should ensure that he or she is there."Unfortunately, major obstacles to recovery in the Gulf Coast continue, particularly with regard to replenishing the stock of affordable rental housing. FEMA should not be in the business of long-term housing, and three years after the fact is simply too long. We have tried to help transition the responsibility for long-term housing from FEMA to HUD, where it belongs, but little progress has been made. The next President needs to tell somebody in his Administration that they will be held responsible for this – right now, nobody appears to be in charge."The FY 2009 bill requires the Office of the Federal Coordinator for Gulf Coast Rebuilding to quickly convene a panel of experts to develop solutions for restoring affordable rental housing stock to communities in the Gulf Coast. The next President should implement those solutions, if they are workable, or come up with alternatives that will work, now and in future disasters."FEMA has made some strides under Administrator Paulison and his team, but there is much more to do. I fear that we would again have people stranded at the New Orleans convention center if Katrina recurred tomorrow. The National Response Framework was a first step in delineating roles and responsibilities across levels of government, but the agency still needs to put flesh on those bones. The gaps in the framework were made clear by the most recent TOP OFFICIALS exercise, which revealed many of the same coordination problems that plagued the response to Katrina."And there is still ground to be settled relative to FEMA's place in the broader Department. I believe the next Secretary will need to look to FEMA more comprehensively as the front line of response to disasters of every kind."We also need to give more emphasis than we do now to the all-hazards preparedness and response capabilities for first responders. Although there are a few first responder grant programs, such as Emergency Management Performance Grants and Fire Grants, that are focused on all hazards, most of FEMA's first responder funds are allocated based on terrorism risk. The 9/11 Act authorization enacted last year will continue to make terrorism risk the focus of most grant allocations for the next several years, but I will continue to argue for a balanced allocation method based on broader, all-hazards determinations of risk, particularly in distributing multipurpose State Grants. After all, there is a possibility of a terrorist attack somewhere in the United States in the next five or ten years, but I guarantee that first responders in states like mine will continue to face threats from hurricanes or other natural disasters on a regular basis.Better Management"The third priority on my list is to accelerate the work of making the Department a more cohesive and well functioning institution. Earlier this year, we reached the five year anniversary of the formation of the Department of Homeland Security – a very short time as the lives of departments go. It has been said many times that the formation of the Department of Homeland Security represents the most ambitious reorganization in the Federal government in our lifetimes."The only comparable reorganization was the formation of the Department of Defense in 1947, but in that case, it was a matter of integrating a small number of relatively similar entities with the related mission of defending the country during armed conflict. The Department of Homeland Security, on the other hand, involved the combination of some 22 different entities, many with distinct organizational structures and cultures, and with historic missions that ranged beyond the domain of homeland security per se. Integrating these various entities into a unified department has been a challenge, and it will continue to be a challenge for the next President and the next Secretary. There have been several reorganizations within the Department, some imposed by Congress and some by the Department itself, with mixed results in terms of improving the functioning of the Department and its components."The next Secretary must find a better balance between providing overall policy guidance and leaving departmental components free to do the fine tuning, between nurturing the new homeland security missions of component agencies and maintaining their historic mission capabilities."The next Secretary will need to significantly improve the management of the Department and its components, including financial system management and procurement management and oversight. Many of the agencies that were inserted into the Department brought with them financial, procurement, and other management challenges. Agencies newly created after 9/11 had difficulty staffing up, and often relied on contractors for critical management functions. Some 72 percent of the career executives at DHS left the Department between 2003 and 2007, compared to an average of 46 percent among all other Federal Departments. Related to that is a problem with morale at a Department that, according to a survey last year, ranks the lowest in the Federal government."Overall, the departmental components are continuing to struggle with management challenges. The DHS Inspector General questioned a total of $112,700,000 in DHS expenses in the first six months of fiscal year 2008 alone, more than double the amount questioned for the first six months of 2007 and approximately six times the amount questioned for the first six months of 2006. This is a trend in the wrong direction. Perhaps the most serious example is Coast Guard, which determined last year that it could not certify its own financial statements, and therefore had no confidence that what it reported to the Congress was accurate."For large programs and procurements, our Committee has on numerous occasions found that Department plans lack specificity, both in terms of defining the expected outcomes to be measured and in estimating costs and timelines. The Department's procurement review mechanism – the Investment Review Board – is simply not succeeding. This process was set up to oversee and review the need for large, critical procurements, but it is unclear which investments the IRB will review, how decisions will be overseen and monitored, and how follow-up action will be tracked."A crucial test of the Department's progress in overall management will come during the transition from the current administration to the next one, early next year. The Department has been beefing up its senior career staffing levels, including the placement of career deputies at all of the departmental components. Nowhere will a smooth transition be more critical than at the Department of Homeland Security. We cannot afford to let our security posture slip, and we cannot allow the transition to be a vulnerability that terrorists might exploit. The next President will need to have identified his nominee for Secretary and most of the top component heads well before inauguration day.Technology and Privacy"A fourth priority area is to be smarter about the way we invest in new technologies. The Science and Technology Directorate has made some progress in aligning its activities more closely with the needs of the departmental components, and in opening up better channels to the private sector to ensure that we are taking advantage of the technological solutions that are out there. But there is still more the Department must do to ensure that we consider a wider array of technologies to solve homeland security challenges."The other side of the coin is that we must not blindly rush into investing in new technologies. New technologies may be the key to our homeland security future, but they can also be a threat. This is true not just because our enemies have increasingly gained access to technologies that threaten us, but also because our own security solutions have a real and significant impact on how we live our daily lives, both in terms of privacy and relative to the way they can interrupt the flow of commerce. In its zeal to develop and implement technologies that will make us safer, the Department has too often considered privacy concerns to be an afterthought. The Secure Flight initiative and its precursors are a good example of how this can result in significant delays and wasted dollars. A privacy analysis must be an integral component of any technology or database development program from the beginning, and privacy protections must be fully integrated into their implementation."New technologies are not something we should naively bank on. Too often they just don't work as advertised, as we have seen at our Southern border, or they may be premature or have costs that exceed their benefits. Biowatch is a good example of a program where we need to proceed carefully; our Committee has commissioned a study to make certain we do just that. If the Department can develop cost effective air sampling systems that can quickly and accurately detect and give warning of biological attacks, it would go a long way toward foiling the threat of anthrax and other biological threats, but we are not there yet."SBINet is another example. If the Department can cost-effectively integrate off-the-shelf sensors, cameras, radar and other technologies through a common operating picture for the Border Patrol as part of SBINet, we can make significant advances toward operational control of the border without simply relying on fencing that can be breached or crossed over. But the results of the last year have shown that the deployment of an effective solution in this area is still months or years away. We must resist the impulse to invest huge sums based on a contractor's promise of a solution. Technologies must be fully developed in the lab with input from end users, and arduously field tested and piloted in real world environments to determine effectiveness and uncover unanticipated costs and operational challenges."The new President must ensure that leaders at DHS are sufficiently skeptical of new technology solutions being sold to them and sufficiently savvy to understand where technology solutions can play an integral role in operations while minimizing impacts on privacy and the flow of commerce.Grants and Risk Analysis"The final priority area I want to talk about is the way we invest in preparedness at the state and local level. Most, although not all, of the Department's grants are allocated using risk formulas, but the Department has struggled both to develop credible formulas with measurable components and to apply the formulas objectively and consistently. As a result, we are unable to measure how or whether many of our grant investments are actually buying down risk."The consequences of that inability are twofold: at times, the justification for targeting resources in a particular area is that we cannot afford not to spend more money because the consequences of inaction, in the event of a terrorist attack, would be too great; at other times, there is a hesitation to invest more funds in things like first responder grants because, while the needs of first responders remain vast, we cannot be certain that the funding is having the desired affect. I am convinced that we must continue robust investments in first responder equipment and training, port security upgrades, and transit security precautions, but I am not necessarily satisfied that we are targeting those investments in the right way."If there were a terrorist attack tomorrow somewhere in the United States, there would be recriminations for the failure to invest more in the technology or policy solution that might have prevented it. There would also likely be calls for significant new investments in those things in the future, with little regard for the likelihood of a repeat of that particular method of attack. In fact, I think we could expect to see calls for significant new investments in homeland security across the board, just to cover our bases. That would be an understandable reaction, but it is not an adequate basis for a homeland security investment policy."Do we have the right level and mix of homeland security investments at present? I am not as confident of the answer to that question as I would like to be, and it must be confronted by the new administration. In the FY 2008 appropriations bill, we tasked the National Academies of Science with assessing the Department's risk analysis methodology and applications, including crucial questions regarding the congruence and complementarity of assessments focused on terrorism and on natural disasters. We have also invested more funding in the Department's own efforts to refine its risk analysis methods. The next Secretary must use these analyses to guide the Department's investment decisions."I raised the question earlier as to the extent multipurpose State Grants should have a singular focus on terrorism. Here I want simply to note that the Bush Administration's efforts to eliminate or radically cut the Justice Department's state and local grant programs have greatly complicated the job of targeted grant-making at Homeland Security. With money drying up at Justice, it is hardly surprising that pressures increase to use Homeland Security grant funds to help fill the gap. Therefore, in addressing the appropriate level of funding and targeting for DHS grants, the new administration will need not only to revitalize the Justice programs, but also to ensure that Justice and DHS grant programs are harmonized and complementary.The FY 2009 Bill and the Future"The fiscal year 2009 bill will be the first appropriation for the next Secretary of the Department, and we hope to use that legislation to continue moving the Department in the right direction under its new leadership. The bill approved by the Subcommittee a few weeks ago provides $39.9 billion for the Department, which is $2.2 billion, or almost 6 percent, above the comparable fiscal year 2008 amount (including border funding with an emergency designation) and $2.3 billion above the Bush Administration's requested funding level."The bill imposes requirements on DHS to manage its programs efficiently and to ensure that programs comply with all laws before they begin operations. The bill makes a total of $1.4 billion from several accounts conditioned on the submission of expenditure plans or the completion of tests, to ensure that taxpayer dollars are spent in the intended way. Programs for which funding is conditioned include the Secure Border Initiative, the Coast Guard's Deepwater program, the Cyber Security Initiative, and the air exit component of US-VISIT. The bill seeks to push the Department toward better financial and program management; clarified priorities and goals in immigration enforcement, border protection, transportation security, and other areas; and strengthened partnerships with states, localities, and the private sector."The selection of the next Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security will be among the most important nominations the next President will make. That Secretary will be an essential player in formulating and implementing comprehensive immigration reform and in bringing our disaster and emergency response capability to full strength. He or she must continue the work of forming the Department into a cohesive and efficient whole, must develop core internal competencies in financial management and gather better in-house procurement and contract management expertise, must focus on technology solutions that reduce vulnerabilities to terrorist attacks and natural disasters while minimizing the negative impacts on our economy and on the civil liberties of Americans, and must accelerate progress on quantifying risk across geographical areas and economic sectors and tying risk assessments to investments. This is by no means an exhaustive list of priorities, but it represents many of the fundamentals the Department will need to master over the next four years."I will conclude where I began, with reference to the broader security context. Risks to the homeland are a function of three factors: threat, vulnerability, and consequences. The Department can work on addressing the last two variables through better preparedness, the hardening of infrastructure and nurturing of resilience, and improved detection and response capabilities. But the threats we face are another matter."The next President must fundamentally reorient our foreign and domestic policies, and a touchstone of that effort must be the question: what makes a nation truly secure? He must develop and artfully employ a comprehensive strategy for U.S. action in the world that makes more effective use of our national power, capitalizes on the moral authority of our free and open society, and draws friends and allies to our cause."Against those who would do us harm, we must be vigilant and ready to mount an effective defense. But the number of such adversaries, the support they gain, and the threat they pose will depend not only on the defense we mount, at home or abroad, but on the values we project and the role our nation plays in the world."Thank you, and I would be happy to respond to your questions and comments."# # #
06.20.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today issued the following statement on his opposition to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) Amendments Act of 2008 (H.R. 6304)."By circumventing the FISA court and authorizing warrantless wiretaps on Americans, President Bush made an end run around the judicial checks on the power of the executive branch that are necessary to protect the rights of Americans. The bill before the House today to amend the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act goes a long way toward addressing the serious flaws in the President's warrantless wiretapping program and ensuring that no president can ever again assert unaccountable authority to conduct surveillance."The FISA compromise will require that surveillance on Americans be conducted under a court-issued warrant, that there be stringent guidelines for the targeting of foreign subjects to prevent unjustified surveillance of law abiding Americans, and that the executive branch provide extensive and detailed reports to Congress on previous and ongoing surveillance activities. Importantly, it stipulates that FISA and specific chapters of Title 18 are the exclusive means by which electronic surveillance and certain criminal law interceptions may be conducted, thereby preventing the executive branch from claiming an unchecked power to conduct surveillance on any other basis."Unfortunately, the bill also contains a provision that will make it nearly impossible for Americans who were the victims of warrantless wiretapping to have their day in court. Instead, this bill directs a federal judge to dismiss such lawsuits if the Attorney General can produce documents showing that the Administration asked the companies to participate and claimed in writing that such cooperation was lawful. Because of this significant flaw in the bill, I voted against it.""I supported an earlier House bill (H.R. 3773) that, while establishing the same protections against future wiretapping abuses as today's bill, would not have granted retroactive immunity to telecommunications companies facing lawsuits from their customers. H.R. 3773 would have permitted federal courts to hear classified evidence in the context of civil lawsuits to ensure that the companies were able to mount a defense. This would have given both aggrieved customers and the companies their day in court, while the bill approved by the House today sets the unfortunate precedent of preempting the authority of the courts."# # #
06.19.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today issued the following statement in response to mounting calls from President Bush and oil industry supporters in Congress to open more coastal waters to oil and gas drilling, including those off the coast of North Carolina and neighboring states."The President, Senator McCain and their Republican allies are offering false hopes when they claim that allowing drilling off the Atlantic coast will provide relief at the pump. It's simply not true. We cannot drill our way to energy independence or lower gas prices."Economists estimate is that opening up federally protected waters to oil companies would merely shave the price of gas by a few cents per gallon. And even the oil industry admits that any price benefits wouldn't reach the market for seven to ten years. By that time, the pressure on the price of oil from growing demands in China and India will make the impact of the Bush-McCain drilling policy meaningless."The fact is that 80 percent of the oil available off our coastline is in regions that are already open to leasing, according to the government's Mineral Management Service. But the oil companies have so far declined to take advantage of those existing resources. The notion that opening more coastal waters to drilling will flush the global market with oil and drive down the price of gas is a canard. And it is worth noting that allowing a neighboring state like Virginia to drill off its coastline does not protect our state's coast from potential environmental hazards."Given the risks to coastal North Carolina and the lack of any economic benefit for hardworking Americans, it would be a grave error to allow drilling off our coast. Instead, we must encourage serious conservation and the development of alternative fuel sources. I encourage the President and all my colleagues to support legislation the House passed last August, which would put us on a true path to an energy solution by reversing tax cuts for oil companies in order to invest in renewable and alternative energy, without increasing the budget deficit. That's the real way to make a dent in rising gas prices."# # #
06.12.2008	Washington, D.C. - An editorial in today's New York Times commends Congressman David Price's amendment to prohibit private contractors from performing prisoner interrogations for the Defense Department. The amendment was included in the FY2009 Defense Authorization bill (H.R. 5658), which passed the House last month. The defense bill is now being considered by the Senate.From the editorial:"In leading the House to passage of the ban, Representative David Price, Democrat of North Carolina, laid bare the folly of using for-profit gunslingers to undertake the highly sensitive task of handling and questioning detainees."Anyone interested in protecting America, Mr. Price pointed out, must see the wisdom of using interrogators 'who are well trained, who fall within a clear chain of command and who have a sworn loyalty to the United States' — not to some corporate bottom line."The article also calls for action on another Price bill (H.R. 2740), which would ensure that all contractors working for the US government in a war zone can be brought to justice for criminal misconduct. That bill would also place Justice Department investigators in theater to immediately collect evidence and initiate prosecutions where warranted.In an environment where American troops have to play by the rules and face prosecution for wrongdoing, Price believes it is unacceptable for private contractors to operate outside the law.# # #
06.11.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today supported a bill in the U.S. House to expand passenger rail service as an alternative to automobile travel. Household budgets are being strained by the rising price of gas, and Price says more cost effective options, such as rail travel, should be available to North Carolina families.The Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008 (H.R. 6003) would reauthorize federal support to modernize Amtrak, and authorize an expansion of intercity passenger rail service, providing $14.4 billion over the next five years. The legislation passed with a bipartisan vote of 311 to 104.The average price of gasoline in the U.S. is over $4 a gallon, which is putting tremendous strain on the many commuters and businesses in the Triangle and making public transportation a more attractive option. Price has long advocated expanding transportation options available to consumers, including bus and commuter rail transit and intercity passenger rail. He says the price of gas makes it more important than ever to improve upon our transit infrastructure."Too many Triangle families have few or no alternatives to automobile travel," Price said. "And with the price of gas shooting through the roof, this is an increasingly painful predicament. We've got to give people alternatives through bus, transit, and rail. This bill will put us on that path."According to the North Carolina Department of Transportation, the state is experiencing unprecedented growth in ridership for its Piedmont and Carolinian passenger trains. In the month of May, ridership on the Piedmont was up 26.9% and ridership on the Carolinian was up 40.3%. Nationwide, Amtrak ridership was up 11% for the first seven months of the 2008 fiscal year (beginning October 2007), compared with the same period a year earlier."Our state is in a good position to take advantage of the funding authorized in this bill," Price added. "The federal government has designated the route between Washington, DC and Charlotte, which passes through Raleigh and Durham, as the Southeast High Speed Rail Corridor, and funding in this bill would help move along the development of this important resource for our region."The High Speed Rail Corridor designation means trains on the route will travel at speeds up to 110 mph, utilize multi-modal connections to improve interconnectivity across the region, and improve Amtrak's reliability and on-time performance in the area.By providing $7.2 billion in capital and operating grants, the bill will help improve existing rail service across the entire Amtrak network. The bill would create a State Capital Grant program ($500 million per year), which would help states like North Carolina to pay for the capital costs of facilities and equipment necessary to provide new or improved intercity passenger rail.H.R. 6003 would also authorize $1.75 billion ($350 million per year) for grants to states and/or Amtrak to finance the construction and equipment for 11 authorized high-speed rail corridors. The Federal share of the grants is up to 80 percent. The Secretary of Transportation would award these grants on a competitive basis for projects based on economic performance, expected ridership, and other factors.# # #
05.29.2008	Martin Luther King Jr.'s Civil Rights Dream at 40When we allow freedom to ring, when we let it ring from every village and every hamlet, from every state and every city, we will be able to speed up that day when all God's children—black men and white men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics—will be able to join hands and sing in the words of that old Negro spiritual: 'Free at last! Free at last! Thank God Almighty, we are free at last!"King, the son of an Atlanta pastor, was born in 1929. He became an ordained Baptist minister at the age of 19. In 1955, shortly after civil rights activist Rosa Parks refused to obey Montgomery, Alabama rules mandating segregation on buses, King led black residents in a bus boycott.King soon gained national fame for his extraordinary oratorical skills, and for his courage. In the spring of 1963, he led mass demonstrations in Birmingham, Alabama, where local white police officials opposed integration. Violent clashes between unarmed black demonstrators and police armed with dogs and fire hoses generated newspaper headlines throughout the world.His message, however, was not confrontational, but instead emphasized racial reconciliation through non-violent means. This theme was at the core of his "I have a dream" speech.King was speaking directly to the 250,000 people, black and white, gathered on the Washington Mall that sweltering day 40 years ago. Perhaps more importantly, however, he knew he was also addressing the millions of people, most of them white, who were watching the speech live on television."He created a reasonable argument that [white] Americans could embrace," said Haynes. "He appealed to those Americans who didn't see segregation as a major problem, but still thought it was unfair," said Haynes.Ulysses Jenkins, another UC Irvine professor, who teaches African-American studies, says King had to convince white people of the benefits of racial reconciliation."Whites feared that they had something to lose from racial equality," said Jenkins. "King had to show them they would gain something from it."The strong religious underpinning of King's message, with its references to redemption and forgiveness, resonated with white Christians. King's speech also tapped into America's political soul. He said the ideals of American democracy had not been realized until there was racial reconciliation."His message was larger than civil rights," said Clayborne Carson, director of the Martin Luther King, Jr. Papers Project at Stanford University in Palo Alto. "King was fighting for justice."But the speech also served as a warning."King wanted people to act," said Carson, who was 19 years old when he attended the march. "The underlying message was clear: As long as there was no change, the demonstrations would continue." Launch in external player
05.27.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) was applauded today for his leadership on clean energy solutions in Congress by advocates for the environment.The Southern Alliance for Clean Energy Action Fund, which strives to make global warming solutions a top priority for our region's elected leaders, released its first Congressional Scorecard today. Price, along with four of his North Carolina colleagues, earned a perfect score for his leadership on clean energy in 2007.SACE Action Fund's 2007 Clean Energy and Global Warming Scorecard is available online at http://www.cleanenergyactionfund.org/scorecard.# # #
05.23.2008	Can your cell phone tell if you're happy or overworked?Researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology think it can do that and more--separate the rich from the poor, the sick from the healthy, even the outgoing from the introverted. Sandy Pentland, director of MIT's Human Dynamics Research program, has focused his work on that unlikely task: using gadgets as simple as a cell phone to better understand the quirks and patterns of human behavior. Sandy Pentland Pentland's experiments began with what he calls a "sociometer," a simple badge-like device that hangs from a subject's neck and records his or her movements, tone of voice, and location. With just those signals collected from large groups of subjects, Pentland says he was able to perform a kind of data analysis he calls "reality mining," finding patterns that reveal a surprising range of information--from how a population breaks down into groups, to which groups are most social and productive, to the personality traits of single individuals, all based on measuring tone of voice and body language.In his most recent experiments, however, the sociometer hasn't been necessary. Instead, Pentland has tracked his subjects through their cell phones, which are carried by around four out of five Americans. Pentland spoke with Forbes.com about the benefits his tracking experiments could offer to society, the privacy problems they pose and how he hopes to strike a balance between the two.Forbes.com: What is "reality mining?"Sandy Pentland: Reality mining is about using sensors to understand human beings. The sensors could be security cameras, they could be devices that you wear on yourself, they could be cell phones. The point is it's about people. Data mining is about finding patterns in digital stuff. I'm more interested specifically in finding patterns in humans. I'm taking data mining out into the real world.What kind of reality-mining experiments have you actually performed?We developed this thing called a sociometer, a little badge that you wear around your neck that records your body language, your motion and your tone of voice--the tone, not the words. It gives us a nice little package for reality mining.We've done all sorts of interesting things with this. Just listening to peoples' tones of voice and how they move, we can measure interest level and attention, factors that account for 40% of the variation in the outcomes of things like salary negotiation, dating scenarios, closing a sale, pitching a business plan.
05.23.2008	Washington, D.C. - Durham Rabbi John Friedman praised an effort by Congressmen David Price (D-NC) and Ray LaHood (R-IL) to encourage President Bush to work toward the stabilization of Gaza as the best way to move the Middle East peace process forward.The congressmen circulated a letter last week, signed by 50 of their colleagues, which expresses their "deep concern over the ongoing crisis in southern Israel and Gaza," and they argue that the status quo of terror and violence promises to derail progress toward a negotiated settlement between the Israelis and Palestinians in the near future.Friedman, who is the rabbi of Judea Reform Congregation in Durham and the national chair of the Rabbinic Cabinet of Brit Tzedek v'Shalom, called the Price-Lahood letter "the first truly constructive initiative to emerge from Congress in response to the recent upsurge in violence in southern Israel and the Gaza Strip."# # #
05.22.2008	Washington, D.C. - The federal government faces an unprecedented workforce crisis that threatens to undermine its ability to meet the needs of the country, warned two senior congressmen today. U.S. Reps. David Price (D-NC) and Christopher Shays (R-CT) will introduce legislation today to address this impending shortage of talented professionals by awarding graduate-level scholarships for students who commit to public service.Approximately one third of the government's top scientists, engineers, physicians, mathematicians, economists, and other highly specialized professionals will be retiring in the next five years, according to the federal Office of Personnel Management. And a recent study by the Partnership for Public Service shows that federal agencies will need to fill 193,000 mission-critical positions by 2009. (Mission-critical positions are those a federal agency identifies as essential to achieving its core functions). Unfortunately, the flow of talent stepping forward to replace these valuable federal employees continues to dwindle.The Price-Shays bill would initiate a major recruitment effort to fill the needs of the services that Americans depend upon. The Roosevelt Scholars Act, named after the father of the modern civil service, Theodore Roosevelt, will (1) create an elite new scholarship program to fund graduate-level study in exchange for a civil service commitment in targeted, mission-critical occupational areas across the federal government; and (2) establish a Foundation to administer the application process, selection of scholars, and ongoing support activities associated with these scholarships."What we're dealing with is a crisis of capacity – the government's capacity to continue providing the services that Americans depend upon," said Rep. Price, who is co-chair of the Congressional Service Caucus. "In the face of a dwindling professional workforce, we must act now to recruit the scientists, engineers, and other high-level experts who make our government work. Our initiative would mobilize the country's colleges and universities to address this very acute challenge.""As the cost of college and graduate studies escalate, we need to ensure public sector positions remain a viable option for our nation's best and brightest students," said Rep. Shays. "To attract tomorrow's leaders to public sector positions, we need to provide resources, like tuition assistance, in order for these jobs to compete with the salaries available to top-notch employees in the private sector. The Roosevelt Scholars program will create a new scholarship to fund graduate-level study in exchange for a federal service commitment in targeted, 'mission critical' occupational areas across the federal government. I can't think of a better investment the federal government can make than in training and invigorating its future leaders."The Roosevelt Scholars program would provide full tuition, support for room and board, and a stipend for graduate study. In exchange for this support, Roosevelt Scholars would complete an internship with a federal agency and, upon graduation, complete a minimum of three years of civil service.Price and Shays added that the foundation and scholarship program would help restore prestige to civil service and turn the federal government into a place where the best and brightest go to make a difference.>> Read the legislation# # #
05.16.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today announced $9.3 million in federal grants to protect critical infrastructure in North Carolina, including ports and transit facilities. As Chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, Price has worked to enhance federal support for infrastructure protection and has successfully rejected attempts by the President to cut port and transit security grants."The federal government must work with the states and local communities to identify and protect critical infrastructure, such as port and transit facilities," Price said. "My subcommittee has made a bipartisan commitment to holding up the federal end of this partnership by providing the resources to meet infrastructure security needs."Price announced the following grants for protecting North Carolina's infrastructure, which are administered and designated by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS):• Charlotte Transit: $1,224,537 for the Charlotte Area Transit System (CATS).• NC Port Facilities: $5,679,154 for Wilmington's port; $1,770,401 for Morehead City's port.• Buffer Zone Protection: $597,000 to provide security to various facilities throughout North Carolina that are considered critical infrastructure (facility designations are classified).For the current fiscal year, President Bush requested $175 million for transit, despite warnings from experts that America's public and private transit facilities were inadequately protected from a potential attack. Recognizing the threat to transit that was apparent in the terrorist bombings in London, Madrid and Mumbai, Price's subcommittee recommended, and Congress approved, $400 million for transit (included in the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2008, enacted in December).Similarly, while President Bush requested only $210 million for port security grants, Price's subcommittee recommended, and Congress approved, $400 million to protect American ports (included in the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2008, enacted in December). In 2003, the Coast Guard estimated port security needs at $7 billion. Including this $400 million, Congress has now provided resources to address 23% of the needs the Coast Guard identified.# # #
05.15.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today supported legislation to force the Bush administration to change direction in Iraq. The measure, which was attached to a supplemental appropriations bill, also includes Price's legislation to bring all war contractors under U.S. legal jurisdiction."We have supported our troops as they have performed their military mission with remarkable success," Price said. "But limited tactical military gains will not translate into long-term stability without progress toward political reconciliation and coherent governance, and that progress clearly has not occurred. We simply cannot be held hostage – indefinitely – to Iraq's political stalemate. This amendment will signal to Iraqi leaders that our involvement is coming to an end, which is perhaps the only way to motivate them to overcome sectarian differences and unite as a nation."The withdrawal amendment to the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill (H.R. 2642) passed by a vote of 227 to 196.Price also applauded the House for once again taking action to rein in war contractors who have operated in an environment of impunity, thereby compromising the safety and mission of our troops. The House first passed his bill, H.R. 2740, in October, but Senate Republicans and the Bush Administration have stalled efforts to pass the bill in the Senate."Since the war in Iraq began, private contractor personnel have committed numerous criminal acts," Price said. "Yet, many of these individuals have operated in a legal gray zone, immune from both Iraqi and U.S. law. As a result, accountability has been undercut and the credibility of our operations in Iraq has been seriously damaged. This measure will give us the tools we need to ensure that those who run afoul of the law are brought to justice."With Price's support, the House also passed an amendment to expand the GI Bill to provide a full, four-year college education for war veterans. The amendment also would provide a 13-week extension of unemployment benefits for those workers who are unable to find a job in today's troubled economy.# # #
05.14.2008	Washington, D.C. - During President Bush's trip to the Middle East, Congressmen David Price (D-NC) and Ray LaHood (R-IL) were joined by 50 of their colleagues in calling on the President to work toward the stabilization of Gaza as the best way to move the peace process forward.In a letter sent to the President today, Price and LaHood express their "deep concern over the ongoing crisis in southern Israel and Gaza," and they argue that the status quo of terror and violence promises to derail progress toward a negotiated settlement between the Israelis and Palestinians in the near future. The congressmen recognize that if violence continues and negotiations stall, popular support for the peace process will be undermined, along with any hope of substantial progress on this critical international challenge.The letter condemns ongoing rocket fire from Gaza into southern Israel, which is terrorizing Israeli residents, and it calls attention to retaliation by the Israeli military, which is also claiming innocent civilians and inflaming passions among the Palestinians. Israel's economic blockade of Gaza, which is ruled by Hamas, has also "exacerbated an already grave humanitarian situation," the letter states. "In this climate, popular support for Hamas remains strong while the credibility of the current Israeli-Palestinian peace talks is weakened."In addition to condemning rocket attacks against Israel, the congressmen call for an end to the blockade of Gaza "in a secure and timely manner," in order to "create a climate more conducive to a successful peace process." Although they do not encourage direct negotiation with Hamas, which is a U.S.-designated terrorist organization, Price and LaHood call on the President to explore the possibility of a ceasefire between Gaza and Israel to keep peace negotiations on track. The letter suggests that Palestinian President Abbas or another third party engage the leaders of Hamas toward this end.The Price-LaHood letter is signed by Reps. Brian Baird, Tammy Baldwin, Earl Blumenauer, Madeleine Bordallo, Leonard Boswell, Charles Boustany, Steve Buyer, Lois Capps, Michael Capuano, Christopher Carney, Howard Coble, John Conyers, Susan Davis, Peter DeFazio, Lloyd Doggett, Mike Doyle, Keith Ellison, Sam Farr, Eni Faleomavaega, Chaka Fattah, Wayne Gilchrest, Charlie Gonzales, Maurice Hinchey, Rush Holt, Darrell Issa, Marcy Kaptur, Dennis Kucinich, Barbara Lee, Stephen Lynch, Ed Markey, Betty McCollum, Jim McDermott, Jim McGovern, Michael Michaud, Brad Miller, Gwen Moore, Jim Moran, James Oberstar, John Olver, Donald Payne, Nick Rahall, Charles Rangel, Ciro Rodriguez, Adam Smith, Pete Stark, John Tierney, Stephanie Tubbs Jones, Zach Wamp, Mel Watt and Peter Welch.The letter is supported by Brit Tzedek v'Shalom, Churches for Middle East Peace, Americans for Peace Now, the Arab American Institute, Israel Policy Forum, and the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops.Click here for a copy of the letter.# # #
05.06.2008	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Reps. David Price (D-NC) and Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) today introduced a bill to enhance oversight of intelligence community contractors and prohibit the use of such contractors in prisoner detention operations, including such sensitive and controversial areas as interrogation and international prisoner transport. This is the latest effort by Price and Schakowsky to rein in the Bush Administration's wanton use of private contractors for sensitive national security-related activities.Specifically, the bill would prohibit the intelligence agencies from outsourcing the following detention-related functions: arrest, interrogation, detention, transfer, and rendition. The bill would also require the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) to furnish Congress with an annual census of the number of contractors involved in intelligence work, the activities they are asked to perform, the cost associated with their work, and an account of Administration efforts to hold contractors accountable for possible misconduct, including violations of the law. And the contractor companies themselves would have to provide the government with more detailed information on their hiring and training processes, for example, in order for the agencies to exercise stronger oversight."Contracting in the intelligence community has more than doubled in scope in the last decade, and it's clear that effective management and oversight is lacking," Rep. Price said. "We've got to get a handle on it. That means demanding more complete information, establishing more effective management practices and, in some cases, drawing a red line to prevent the privatization of especially sensitive activities."Rep. Price has been on the forefront of efforts in Congress to rein in the Bush Administration's unprecedented use of contractors for sensitive national security functions. He is the author of legislation that passed the House last October, which would enhance the government's prosecution of abusive actions by rogue security contractors. That bill was passed shortly after the infamous shootout in Baghdad's Nisour Square, in which contractors for Blackwater USA fired on unarmed civilians, killing 17.Rep. Schakowsky has also led the charge on contractor accountability as a member of the House Intelligence Committee. Last year, Schakowsky worked closely with Rep. Price to amend the National Defense Authorization Act to create a database to track contracts and to make them available, for the first time, to members of Congress. In November 2007, Schakowsky introduced the Stop Outsourcing Security (S.O.S.) Act, which would phase out the use of private military contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan."Our bill will take detention-related activities out of the hands of private contractors and put the responsibility back where it belongs, in the hands of authorized government personnel," said Rep. Schakowsky. "Outsourcing our most critical intelligence functions to unaccountable private contractors undermines the integrity of our intelligence and jeopardizes the safety of our troops. Simply put, private contractors should not be trusted with such mission critical activities."The two members hope to include these reforms in the Intelligence Authorization bill, which is scheduled to be considered by the House Intelligence Committee later this week. During its consideration of that bill last week, the Senate Intelligence Committee adopted a prohibition on the participation of CIA contractors in prisoner interrogation.# # #
04.27.2008	(IDG) -- A sword embedded in a smoldering metal sphere rises from primordial mist. The comic-book-style illustration appears at the center of a stark black Web page as hand-lettered words fade in: "They are born in an inferno that tests both mind and body. Those who complete the challenge become beacons of honor, courage and commitment. What does it take to be one of the few? The answer lies within."If you enter, you reach the "processing" page: "Tell us a little about yourself and we'll tell you what it takes to become one of us." This is no superhero adventure. It's a recruiting site for the U.S. Marine Corps.The armed forces are in a recruiting crisis; even the popular Air Force may miss its enlistment goals for the first time in 20 years. And the Defense Department says the conflict in Kosovo has done nothing to inspire – or discourage – enlistment at the national level.All four branches of the U.S. military are turning to the Web for help. "We know our site is working because we had 2,000 visitors per day a year and a half ago and we're up to 5,000 visitors per day now," says Maj. Mike Shepherd, U.S. Army Recruiting Command chief of marketing communications. Growth in Web-generated leads has increased over the past 18 months "to the tune of about 200 percent," Shepherd says. URLs are now incorporated into broadcast ads, posters, CD-ROMs and printed brochures for the four branches of service.Launched in August 1998, www.navy.com has a patriotic feel. The homepage features a sailor saluting, the Blue Angels flying in formation and the waving Stars and Stripes. "It says honor, courage and commitment," says Paul Krygowski, creative director at Organic Online, the company that built the site with the Navy's ad agency, BBDO.The site aims to increase awareness of the Navy's extensive technical training and career opportunities, something that usually makes kids think "Air Force." One section features an interactive game, in which the player helps a Navy pilot complete his mission while learning about a variety of Naval careers. A redesign will place even heavier emphasis on education, training and travel opportunities, which are what interest potential recruits the most, focus groups show.In May, the Army will debut a redesign of its own. Originally launched in 1995 with the help of ad agency Young & Rubicam, the current site suffers from its own success. Each group within the Army wanted a piece of the homepage, and as a result, www.goarmy.com is an unfocused portal that channels visitors into separate sites for openings as diverse as the Army Chaplains and the Special Forces. The new site will maintain the breadth of job offerings but will have a more consistent look and more interactivity. "We want to show everyone pictures of people in action so that they can look at it and say, 'Hey, that could be me,'" says Shepherd.
04.21.2008	Washington, D.C. - In honor of Earth Day, which takes place tomorrow, Congressman David Price (D-NC) released the following statement regarding the need for strong, comprehensive action to address one of the defining challenges of our time: climate change."Tomorrow, as on Earth Days for the past 38 years, many in our country will reflect upon our solemn responsibility to protect the natural environment from the adverse consequences of human activity, and to preserve it for future generations. On this Earth Day in 2008, there is no greater challenge to our responsible stewardship of the Earth and its resources than the threat of global climate change."Our government has ignored this threat for far too long. As the world's largest per capita emitter of greenhouse gases, our nation must be a leader in finding clean energy solutions that will reduce harmful greenhouse gas emissions, reduce our dependence on fossil fuels, create a new generation of jobs, and provide energy security for us and the generations to come."This Congress took a good step forward by passing long overdue enhancements to fuel economy standards for vehicles, which by itself will make a reduction in greenhouse gases equivalent to taking 28 million cars and trucks off the road by 2020. But this is still only a first step toward the comprehensive solution we need to dramatically curb greenhouse gas emissions."The President recently announced a climate change proposal that would allow U.S. emissions to continue increasing for 17 years, until 2025, with no clear path for making the emission reductions thereafter that will be necessary to avert disaster. The vast majority of experts in the climate change field have made it clear that the world must reduce its emissions by roughly 80 percent by mid-century to avoid a dangerous climate tipping point."So on Earth Day 2008, I call on the President to work with Congress on real climate change solutions. He can start by supporting the Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act, which would repeal a number of tax subsidies that currently benefit the oil and gas industry and use the savings to invest in renewable energy and mass transit to curb fuel consumption. And the President can also join me and hundreds of lawmakers from both parties who support legislation to establish a market driven cap-and-trade system that will lead to consistent and cumulative reductions in our annual greenhouse gas emissions over the next 40 years."It is unfortunate that the President has so far given us no reason to believe we can count on his help in this effort. I am convinced that our nation can work with the international community to halt the most devastating effects of climate change, and I and many others in Congress are ready to begin that work now."# # #
04.16.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. April 16, 2008 The golf industry is the sports and entertainment worlds' largest contributor to the U.S. economy, generating $76 billion in direct economic impact according to a recent study discussed today by some of the nation's leading golf association executives.In a press conference at the National Press Club to commemorate the first National Golf Day, the golf leaders also discussed the industry's environmental stewardship and its multi-billion dollar annual contributions to charitable activities."We are here as a very strong industry coalition to present data that demonstrates golf's extremely positive contributions to the economic health of our nation," said David B. Fay, Chairman, World Golf Foundation, and Executive Director of the USGA. "In addition, we want to highlight golf's environmental stewardship and the game's very positive charitable and human impact on our society. Our message is built around the fact that golf is a vital contributor to our nation's health on a number of significant levels."leadersofgolf.jpgClick Here for transcript of today's press conference at The National Press ClubJoining Mr. Fay at the press conference were Tim Finchem, Commissioner of the PGA TOUR; Joe Steranka, Chief Executive Officer of the PGA of America; Steve Mona, Chief Executive Officer of World Golf Foundation; Joe Louis Barrow, Jr., Chief Executive Officer of The First Tee; and Libba Galloway, Deputy Commissioner of the LPGA. Representatives of the Golf Course Superintendents Association of America, National Golf Course Owners Association, Club Managers Association of America, Golf Course Builders Association of America and American Society of Golf Course Architects were also in Washington in recognition of National Golf Day. Each organization is a supporting member of World Golf Foundation.According to U.S. Census data, the $76 billion U.S. golf economy is larger than the motion picture and video industries and that golf facility operations generated $28 billion in revenue, exceeding revenues from all other professional and semi-professional spectator sports combined. The study, which was completed earlier this year, also found that golf generates more than $3.5 billion annually for charities across the country.A bipartisan Congressional resolution sponsored by U.S. Representatives Ron Klein (D-FL) and John Mica (R-FL) declared April 16, 2008 as National Golf Day.The golf leaders stressed that the game's impact on society could best be viewed through three perspectives: economic, environmental and human.Economic ImpactA comprehensive study, the 2005 Golf Economy Report, commissioned by World Golf Foundation's GOLF 20/20 initiative and recently completed, determined that golf in the United States generated $76 billion in direct economic impact in 2005, up significantly from $62 billion five years ago. The five-year growth of approximately $14 billion represents an average annual growth rate of 4.1 percent, well ahead of the average annual inflation rate of 2.5 percent during the years 2000-2005. The study was conducted by SRI International.
04.16.2008	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) today called for federal regulations to better prepare local communities and first responders in the event of a hazmat fire like the one at Apex's EQ facility in 2006.The U.S. Chemical Safety Board (CSB) released its final recommendations this morning, concluding that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) should require hazardous waste facilities to provide up-to-date information to state and local emergency response officials on the materials stored at each facility.In a letter to EPA Administrator Stephen Johnson, Price wrote, "I strongly urge you to adopt the CSB recommendation to ensure that emergency response personnel are better prepared to respond to the next...incident."Price noted that the North Carolina General Assembly has already adopted enhanced safety requirements for hazardous waste facilities in the state, but he says there should be nationwide standards to protect all communities.Price is also concerned that there are other safety issues related to the 2006 EQ fire that he wants to further examine and discuss with federal regulators. These include whether there are clear federal regulations on the transport of unspent oxygen canisters and whether further federal action should be taken to improve fire safety standards for the storage and monitoring of hazardous materials.The text of Price's letter follows below.*******April 16, 2008The Honorable Stephen JohnsonAdministratorU.S. Environmental Protection AgencyAriel Rios Building1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.Washington, DC 20460Dear Mr. Administrator:I am writing in regard to the U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board's (CSB) April 16, 2008, case study on a 2006 fire at a waste storage facility in Apex, North Carolina.On October 5, 2006, a fire broke out at the Environmental Quality Company's (EQ) hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal facility in Apex, which is located in my congressional district. The fire resulted in the evacuation of thousands of town residents and the complete destruction of the hazardous waste building at the facility.During the course of its investigation, CSB discovered that EQ had not informed the Local Emergency Planning Committee or emergency response personnel in Apex of the types, quantities, and locations of hazardous materials being stored in the facility. Not only did this prevent emergency responders from being able to pre-plan for emergency events at the EQ facility, it also limited them to a defensive response to the fire.The CSB has formally recommended that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) require permitted hazardous waste treatment, storage, and disposal facilities (TSDF) to provide written information to state and local emergency response officials on the types, approximate quantities, and locations of materials within a facility, and to periodically update that information. As you know, current EPA regulations require that permitted companies familiarize local authorities with their facilities, but do not specify the information that must be shared or how frequently that information must be updated. I strongly urge you to adopt the CSB recommendation to ensure that emergency response personnel are better prepared to respond to the next TSDF incident.Although the North Carolina General Assembly approved legislation in 2007 to increase the inspection and notification requirements for hazardous waste storage facilities in the state, EPA action is needed to ensure that TSDF facilities around the nation are required to provide basic information to local communities about their toxic waste inventories.Thank you in advance for your time and attention. I look forward to your response.Sincerely,DAVID PRICEMember of Congress# # #
04.11.2008	View Larger Map CINCINNATI — Tim Harrington sits aboard the express bus from Mason, Ohio, to Cincinnati, his computer propped in his lap. He logs on, picks through his e-mail and begins his workday during the 30-to-40-minute rush-hour trip.His commuter bus and buses in more than 20 other cities now offer wireless Internet, according to an informal survey by the American Public Transportation Association (APTA).The service surfaced about four years ago. Mountain Metropolitan Transit in Colorado Springs first offered WiFi on buses in 2004, the APTA says. It is now available across the USA in cities such as San Francisco, Reno, Austin and Seattle.Not everyone's on board. A spokesman for the Washington (D.C.) Metropolitan Area Transit Authority said there are no plans to initiate wireless service.Wireless service is also on some commuter trains. The Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority added it to its 45-mile rail line between Worchester and Boston in January. Deputy Chief of Staff Kris Erickson said it's "probably the most well-received enhancement that we've ever done."FIND MORE STORIES IN: Washington | Internet | Boston | San Francisco | Seattle | Austin | Salt Lake City | Dayton | Colorado Springs | Wi-Fi | Reno | Department of Transportation | Mason | King County | Public Transportation Association | WiFi | Enquirer | Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority | Utah Transit Authority | WorchesterNew York City's Metropolitan Transportation Authority announced an agreement last September to wire the city's 277 subway stations in the next six years. The first should be wired in two years.The Utah Transit Authority began offering Internet service on 60 of its buses in January. In February, San Francisco unveiled the "Connected Bus." Cincinnati started its three-month wireless pilot program in March on a single route.APTA President William Miller predicts wireless Internet will become a service riders expect. "When I was a kid, you never thought of having an air-conditioned bus," he said.Outfitting a bus with wireless capability costs about $1,000 to $2,000, transportation officials said.In Cincinnati, Southwest Ohio Regional Transit Authority's Metro bus system, working with Dayton, Ohio-based HarborLink, paid $1,500 per bus for installation and nothing for the monthly service. In King County, Wash., wiring and installation on each bus cost $1,000, said Mike Berman of the county Department of Transportation's Metro Transit Division.The Utah Transit Authority reports the number of unique wireless users on its buses increased from about 500 in January's start-up to 2,500 by the end of March.David Parra, a computer engineer, uses the service on his 55-minute daily commute to and from Salt Lake City."Having the WiFi has made a huge difference for me," he said.
04.08.2008	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) today issued a statement on the testimony of General David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker before Senate committee hearings on the war in Iraq."Today's testimony from General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker provides little hope to Americans who want our government to end the War in Iraq soon. It is now clear that the Bush Administration intends to maintain 140,000 troops in Iraq for an indefinite period after the surge troops have been withdrawn this summer. However, it is not clear how our tremendous, ongoing commitment of U.S. lives and treasure is serving our strategic interests."As it stands, there is no indication that the tactical gains of the surge have been translated into lasting, strategic gains. The Administration's stated purpose in escalating U.S. troop levels last year was to reduce violence so that Iraq's leaders could reach the political accommodation necessary to govern themselves independently. Yet we have seen no real measurable progress in this area. If the escalation had served its purpose, we would be discussing a further drawdown of troops, but the Administration has determined that such a drawdown cannot be carried out."In the absence of political progress, we risk institutionalizing an indefinite dependency on the U.S. military to maintain security. The United States must send a clear signal to Iraq's political leaders that our occupation is coming to an end, forcing them to make the compromises necessary to govern and secure their own country. We must adopt an exit strategy, in consultation with the government of Iraq, which sets a timetable for withdrawal of U.S. forces from Iraq."In order to address the overarching strategic objective in Iraq, we must simultaneously initiate a surge of diplomacy to spur political progress and reconciliation within Iraq, engage Iraq's neighbors in working for stability in Iraq, and solicit more involvement by the international community. My legislation, H.R. 3797, would mandate such a diplomatic surge, and it enjoys strong bipartisan support."The only way to make the surge strategy successful is to take advantage of the reduction in violence to pressure the Iraqi government to make clear political progress and to accelerate the assumption by Iraqis of responsibility for their own defense. Otherwise, we will have committed as grave and momentous a strategic failure as the decision to invade itself."# # #
03.31.2008	A genetic trade-off between type 2 diabetes and prostate cancer has been identified by scientists, with the discovery of genes that can raise the risk of one condition while protecting against the other.The research suggests that the two very different diseases may be influenced by the same biological pathway, with people's risk rising or falling according to particular genetic variants they inherit. Picture of Chromosomes These insights will improve understanding of both the adult-onset form of diabetes and prostate tumours, and perhaps other cancers as well. This promises the development of new therapies, and should help scientists to avoid designing drugs aimed at one disorder that inadvertently trigger the other.The genetic trade-off has emerged from a major international search for genetic influences on type 2 diabetes, which has linked six new genes to the condition.One of these is a gene called JAZF1: people who carry one copy of a particular variant are about 15 per cent more likely than usual to develop diabetes, while those with two copies have a 30 per cent increased risk.A different variant of JAZF1, however, is also known to raise the risk of prostate cancer in men who have it. Research indicates that a raised risk of one disorder is probably balanced by a lower risk of the other.The findings are especially significant because another gene that has opposing effects on the two diseases, called TCF2, was identified last year by an Icelandic team. A third gene, CDKN2A, appears to raise the risk of type 2 diabetes when over-active, while raising the risk of cancer, particularly malignant melanoma, when under-active.Mark McCarthy, Professor of Diabetes at the University of Oxford and a leader of the JAZF1 study, said that while one “see-saw” gene could be a fluke, the discovery of three makes it more probable that there is a genuine interaction.“If you have one version of a gene, you have an elevated risk of diabetes, if you have another, you have an increased risk of prostate cancer,” he said. “It was an entirely unexpected finding when the link first emerged last year, and now we have found it again in a completely different gene.“It is interesting from a biological point of view, but it might also be important for drug design. It might tell you something about the collateral damage you might do with a drug that targets one condition or the other.”
03.28.2008	Research Triangle Park, NC - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) today participated in a forum with foreign policy experts on ways to improve America's standing in the world.Price shared his experiences serving as chairman of both the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee and the House Democracy Assistance Commission to argue for a more effective policy that promotes stability and is consistent with our democratic values. A copy his speech can be found here.The forum, which was organized by the Research Triangle Institute, featured the findings of the Smart Power Commission – a national initiative led by the Center for Strategic and International Studies to revitalize America's image and influence in the world by promoting greater awareness and understanding of the factors that influence our international relations and reputation.# # #
03.17.2008	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) is leading the first U.S. Congressional delegation to the Balkan region since Kosovo declared its independence last month. He is also visiting with North Carolina soldiers who are stationed at Camp Bondsteel and working to dismantle landmines in the war-torn nation.Kosovo, which has been under the interim protection of NATO troops since the 1999 war with Slobodan Milosevic's Serbian army, declared its independence from Serbia on February 17th. The United States is one of 26 foreign countries who have recognized Kosovo's independence.Price is Chairman of the House Democracy Assistance Commission, which works with the legislatures of emerging democracies throughout the world to help them build and strengthen their governmental institutions. He met with leaders of Kosovo on Saturday morning, reiterating U.S. support for the newly independent nation. He then spent the afternoon greeting members of the 430th Explosives and Ordnance Disposal (EOD) unit out of Greenville, NC.Price has since departed for neighboring Macedonia, where he is leading a program with six other U.S. House Members and Congressional staff to provide guidance to the Macedonia Parliament. On Wednesday, the delegation will travel to Ukraine for a similar democracy-building mission. The delegation is engaging in discussions in both countries about their possible accession to NATO, with key decisions on both countries now pending. NATO membership is seen to be a critical step toward future stability and prosperity in both nations.Price hopes his Commission's work will support the development of stable, responsive legislative branches in all three countries. An effective legislative branch is critical to building a lasting democracy in any country, Price said.Traveling with Price are Reps. David Dreier (R-CA), Earl Pomeroy (D-ND), Lois Capps (D-CA), Judy Biggert (R-IL), Adam Schiff (D-CA), and Wayne Gilchrest (R-MD). They are joined by five Congressional staff members and military escorts. The delegation returns on Saturday.# # #
03.13.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today voted for a House plan to balance the federal budget by 2012 while also strengthening the economy with investments in scientific innovation and infrastructure improvements. It also provides robust funding for homeland security."This budget is a clear reflection of our priorities to build a stronger economy, keep our communities safe, and to do both in a fiscally responsible way," Price said. "After President Bush and the Republican Congress turned projected surpluses into record deficits, this Congress is committed to reversing the damage. Complying with pay-as-you-go budget rules is not an easy task, and it requires some tough choices. But this is the type of leadership the public expects from its representatives."The budget also rejects the President's proposal for harmful cuts to first responders, health care for the poor and elderly, and critical crime-fighting initiatives. The House bill passed by a vote of 212 to 207."In the midst of this economic downturn, the House is responding with a budget plan that invests in growth and job creation," Price added. "And for those who are being squeezed by rising costs for everything from gas to groceries, we are strengthening the safety net and rejecting the President's draconian cuts to programs upon which our communities depend."During debate of the Budget resolution, Price also voted for an alternative budget offered by the Congressional Black Caucus which would require the orderly redeployment of U.S. forces from Iraq. The alternative budget would also make stronger investments in health care, veterans and education, including funding to cover all children eligible for the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). However, that initiative failed on a 126 to 292 vote.Highlights of the Fiscal Year 2009 Budget Resolution (H.Con.Res. 312):Strengthens the Economy — This budget provides crucial funding for the Democratic innovation agenda, increasing funding for math and science education and research. It provides $7.1 billion more than the President for vital education, job training, and social services programs. It also increases investments in new energy and vehicle technologies, funds training for "green jobs", and provides robust funding for highways, water and other infrastructure. And to address the housing crisis, it proposes a reserve fund to reverse the decline in affordable housing.Makes America Safer — This budget funds high defense priorities such as reducing "loose nukes" and making quality of life improvements for our troops and their families. It also provides the funding for the VA to treat 5.8 million patients in 2009, including 333,275 Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans. And it preserves critical homeland security grant funds that our first responders rely on to keep our communities safe.Invests in Health Care — This budget accommodates up to a $50 billion increase to expand children's health insurance to cover millions of uninsured children.Provides Middle Class Tax Relief — This budget provides Alternative Minimum Tax relief for more than 20 million households without adding to the deficit.# # #
03.12.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) was honored today by the National Emergency Managers Association (NEMA) with the Congressional Recognition Award. Price is one of five Members of Congress who received this prestigious award today.Caption: Price, who is pictured with NEMA President Ken Murphy (left) and North Carolina Emergency Management Director Doug Hoell, issued the following statement on the award:"I am deeply honored by this recognition from the National Emergency Managers Association. I have the utmost respect for the thousands of emergency managers across the country who work day in and day out to prepare for and respond to disasters in our communities."As Chairman of the House Homeland Security Appropriation's Subcommittee, I know that state and local emergency managers need federal support to meet our country's national preparedness goals. I firmly believe that a robust partnership among our federal, state and local authorities is one of our best defenses against disaster of all kinds, at all levels."# # #
03.12.2008	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) applauded last night's vote establishing an independent Office of Congressional Ethics, which will ensure that Members of Congress are held accountable for misconduct. Price served on the Ethics Task Force that formulated the landmark proposal.The new office will include six independent panelists who are jointly appointed by the Speaker of the House and the Minority Leader. Professional staff members will help the appointees investigate allegations of misconduct and will refer appropriate matters to the House Ethics Committee along with recommendations on whether further action is warranted."The malfeasance of a handful of representatives has shaken the public's faith in its representative government," Price said. "We took a major step toward restoring that faith last year when we passed stricter rules on lobbying, private travel, earmarks, and pay-as-you-go budgeting. With the establishment of this independent ethics office, we hope to beef up enforcement of the House's rules so that there should be no confusion: if you break the rules, you will be held accountable."Previously, the House Ethics Committee retained sole responsibility for investigating unethical behavior, which some had criticized as an ineffective system of accountability because it relied upon Members of Congress to investigate their colleagues. The Ethics Committee has also been subject to partisan gridlock, which has prevented timely consideration of complaints.In order to prevent politically-motivated "witch hunts", investigations by the new panel can only be initiated if supported by a Democratic and Republican appointee. Current members of Congress and lobbyists are also ineligible to serve on the panel.The Ethics Task Force, on which Price served, was appointed last year and undertook extensive bipartisan deliberations to arrive at the proposal, including a series of meetings and public hearings. After receiving input from other House Members, amendments were made to strengthen the proposal and address concerns."Our Task Force took a long, serious look at the current ethics enforcement process, and under the leadership of my friend Rep. Mike Capuano (D-MA), we determined that reform was the right way to restore public confidence," Price added. "I'm proud that the majority of the House agreed."Nationally respected, independent, non-partisan organizations including Common Cause, Democracy 21, and U.S. PIRG urged passage of the House initiative. Since the measure (H.Res. 895) alters the House's own rules, it does not require Senate or Presidential action and is now enacted. The vote, which occurred late last night, was 229 to 182.# # #
03.07.2008	Washington, D.C. - In a Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee hearing chaired by Congressman David Price (D-NC) yesterday, the head of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) praised a provision in last year's Homeland Security funding law that designated U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers work at ports of entry as "law enforcement officers." Price, who is chairman of the Subcommittee, was responsible for including the provision in the law.By designating these CBP officers as law enforcement officers, they will now be eligible for enhanced retirement benefits, which will help with recruiting and retaining personnel. Prior to enactment of the law, CBP officers working at ports of entry did not have access to benefits enjoyed by other federal law enforcement personnel, such as FBI agents, U.S. Border Patrol agents, and Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents."I cannot think of one thing in 35 years of law enforcement that has been more positive . . . than what you have done," said CBP Commissioner Ralph Basham. He added, "We believe over the years that our officers have been doing law enforcement work and this is the recognition they deserve."The President's budget proposal for Fiscal Year 2009 proposes to reverse this gain by repealing and defunding the conversion to law enforcement officer status. Price criticized that proposal at yesterday's hearing and asserted that such a reversal of policy would not happen on his watch."When we visited ports of entry on the border last year, we heard about CBP's problems in recruiting and retaining officers, and we decided to do something about it," Price said of his decision to include the provision in the funding bill. "These officers are stationed at our ports of entry to protect our country and they have been serving as law enforcement officers for as long as they've been on duty. It's long past time to appropriately recognize them for their service, and the White House shouldn't try to block us from doing that."Below is the language from the Consolidate Appropriations Act (Public Law 110-161) that explains the provision designating CBP officers as law enforcement officers.Law Enforcement Officer Status for CBP OfficersThe Committees on Appropriations include $50,000,000, as proposed by the House, to fund the implementation of new section 535, which will convert CBP Officers to Law Enforcement Officer status, and fund the fiscal year 2008 costs of retirement and compensation adjustments required of CBP beginning July 1, 2008.This change in status will aid in retention of experienced CBP Officers and recruitment of new Officers needed to help CBP meet its expanding inspection, enforcement, and regulatory workload. It will also align compensation and benefits of these Officers with the law enforcement character of their work. The Committees on Appropriations recognize such conversion will require additional agency funding in fiscal year 2009, and request the Department and OMB to include adequate resources for this purpose in the fiscal year 2009 budget submission.
03.06.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (NC-04) submitted a statement for the Congressional Record today on the tragic loss of Eve Marie Carson, UNC-Chapel Hill's Student Body President.MADAM SPEAKER, I received news today of a horrific event that has shocked and deeply saddened the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill community, which I represent.The Chapel Hill police informed us today that UNC's Student Body President, Eve Carson, had been shot to death a short distance from campus yesterday morning. This senseless act of violence ended the life of a promising young leader and left a community of family, friends and admirers mourning in disbelief. The police department is sparing no effort to find the person who committed this heinous act and to bring them to justice.Eve was originally from Athens, Georgia. Since the time she arrived in Chapel Hill in 2004, she excelled in her college career. In addition to being elected student body president, she was a Morehead Scholar, a North Carolina Fellow, a member of the Phi Beta Kappa honor society, and was double majoring in political science and biology.Eve put a high priority on service to her community. During her college career, she mentored middle school students, taught science to elementary school students, and served as a running coach for young girls.To Eve, service knew no borders. She spent her summers volunteering in Ecuador, Egypt and Ghana, and she co-chaired a student organization devoted to alleviating hunger around the world.I recently met Eve at a reception hosted by UNC's Chancellor James Moeser. My wife and I were impressed with this lovely young woman who – it was clear to see – had so much potential to make a difference in the world. She expressed to me her interest in working abroad after graduating in May, perhaps in Africa. At the time of her death, my office was working to help her find a way to realize her goal.Unfortunately, Eve will not be able to realize that goal.Our community is deeply sad at the loss of this special person. We also regret the loss for all those who would have been touched by Eve's big heart in the future. This is truly a loss for us all.Our thoughts and prayers are with Eve's family and friends and with the UNC community as they gather on Polk Place this afternoon to remember Eve and to grieve together.# # #
03.03.2008	Washington, D.C. - North Carolina Congressmen David Price (NC-04) and Brad Miller (NC-13) today joined Raleigh Mayor Charles Meeker to announce a decision that will significantly extend Raleigh's dwindling water supply.The Army Corps of Engineers, which manages Falls Lake, approved Raleigh's request to reduce the outflow of water from the lake by nearly 50%. Beginning today, the amount of water released through Falls Dam will be reduced by 17 million gallons per day, and the lower flow level is authorized for up to a year. The reduced outflow will keep the lake level from falling as rapidly during the exceptional drought the state is experiencing.Price and Miller have spent the past week pressing the Army Corps and the Fish and Wildlife Service to give priority consideration to the City of Raleigh in their efforts to conserve its water supply.The following are Price's remarks from this morning's press conference.*******Thank you, Mayor Meeker, for bringing us together this morning and for your leadership on this critical issue.As the Mayor has indicated, late Friday afternoon, my office spoke with Colonel John Pulliam, head of the Army Corps of Engineers' Wilmington district, and learned that the Corps had just approved a deviation request for Falls Lake that will increase the City's supply of drinking water.This bit of good news couldn't have come soon enough for Raleigh residents. Our region's water supply is being stretched to the brink by a drought of historic proportions.When Mayor Meeker identified the option of reducing the outflow of water through Falls Dam, Brad [Miller] and I were anxious to help press for immediate consideration by the Army Corps.As most of you in this room know, the federal bureaucracy does not always lend itself to quick action. In this case, the Corps had to assess the effects of reduced flows on numerous downstream users, on water quality, and on the environment. This required getting input and sign off from a variety of state and federal stakeholders, any one of whom could have derailed the process.But thanks to Colonel Pulliam, that did not happen.I met with Colonel Pulliam in Washington last week, and it was abundantly clear that he recognized the historic nature of the drought, the dire situation Raleigh is in, and the need for an expedited decision. We are indebted to him for being willing to hear us out and for making our request a top priority. And we are deeply grateful for the decision itself, which will extend Raleigh's dwindling drinking water supply.For all of these things, we thank Col. Pulliam, and I also want to thank Terry Brown, who is the Army Corps' officer who oversees Falls Lake, for meeting with the Council and working so closely with our civic leaders.There's a lesson to be learned from today's announcement.We need all hands of deck to ensure that our communities' water needs are fulfilled – that includes everyone from federal regulators who control the release levels from Falls Dam, on down to the average citizen who must do his or her part to reduce consumption at home.Today's announcement will help our immediate supply issues, but it will not make the drought go away. So I would remind everyone at home and in their businesses to help your community by choosing to conserve.# # #
02.28.2008	Washington, D.C. - The Children's Defense Fund Action Council today recognized Congressman David Price (D-NC) as one of its "Best Representatives for Children." According to the group's 2007 legislative scorecard, Price voted 100 percent in favor of improving the lives of America's children."Whether it involves the effort to extend health coverage to children who lack it, making college more affordable, or helping to reduce the debt burden on future generations, this Congress is standing up for our most vulnerable citizens – our children," Price said. "I am honored by this recognition from the Children's Defense Fund because I consider supporting the well-being of our children as one of my most important obligations as a Member of Congress."The 2007 scorecard is based upon votes on the following issues: pay-as-you-go budgeting, increasing the minimum wage, expanding the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), bolstering the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) drug safety efforts and cutting the interest rates on student loans. Also included were votes to adequately fund health and education programs in the federal budget, to extend the child tax credit and limit the impact of the Alternative Minimum Tax, and to improve the Head Start program.The entire report can be accessed here.# # #
02.27.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today announced $4.7 million in funding for local efforts in North Carolina counties to provide shelter, food and supportive services for the nation's hungry, homeless, and people in economic crisis. As Chairman of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, Price worked to reject a Bush Administration cut to the program, which is administered by FEMA."At a time when many families are facing economic hardship from rising costs for food and fuel and, for some, the threat of losing their homes, we rejected the Administration's proposed cut to this vital program to help the most vulnerable among us," Price said. "The economic downturn is already putting a strain on local service agencies that provide relief to the poor. A cut to this FEMA program would have strained them even further in this time of need."The President had proposed a 7% cut to the program last year, but Price and his subcommittee rejected the cut and provided for a slight increase in their Homeland Security funding bill. Congress provided a total of $153 million this year for FEMA's Emergency Food and Shelter Program. The President's recently-released budget for next year seeks an even bigger cut to this program – 35%, or $53 million from the funding level provided for this year.Locally, Wake County is receiving $355,854 from the program. Durham County is allocated $121,858, and Orange County will get $52,142.In each funded jurisdiction, a Local Board advertises the availability of the funds, establishes local priorities, selects local non-profit and government agencies to receive supplemental funding, and monitors program compliance. The Local Boards generally include representatives from local governments and service groups such as the Red Cross, Catholic Charities, the Salvation Army, and United Way.Program funds are used to provide the following services:• Food, in the form of served meals or groceries• Lodging in a mass shelter or hotel• One month's rent, mortgage, and/or utility bill payment• Transportation costs associated with the provision of food or shelter• Minimal repairs to mass feeding or sheltering facilities for building code violations or for handicapped accessibility• Supplies and equipment necessary to feed or shelter people, up to a $300 limit per item# # #
02.26.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, today questioned the head of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) on what he argues is the nation's top priority for immigration enforcement: the identification and deportation of illegal immigrants who have been convicted of crimes.In 2006, the DHS Inspector General reported there were over 600,000 criminal aliens held in US custody but largely unknown to ICE, many of whom are simply being released in the United States after completing their sentences.. In the fiscal year 2008 Homeland Security funding legislation, Congress provided $200 million to carry out a nationwide effort to identify and remove all illegal aliens serving time in prison upon completion of their sentences.Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security Julie Myers described how her agency was responding to this mandate from Price's subcommittee. She is expected to deliver a final plan for implementing the mandate to the subcommittee by March 25, 2008.(You can download the 13 MB exchange between Rep. Price and Assistant Secretary Myers: MP3 Audio>>)# # #
02.21.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today encouraged high school students throughout North Carolina's 4th Congressional District to participate in the annual Congressional Arts Competition.The winning artist for each congressional district will receive a $5,000 per year scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design, and their artwork will be hung in the U.S. Capitol Building."After viewing the many entries that have come from the Triangle over the years, I am proud of the depth of artistic talent among our youth," Price said. "I hope that all aspiring artists in this district will take this opportunity to showcase their work."There are three ways to qualify for the competition:1. High School Contests or School SelectionPublic and private high schools in the Fourth Congressional District are invited to select up to three pieces of artwork to represent their school in this competition. The selection process for that artwork is completely at the discretion of school officials. Congressman Price's office has mailed a packet to the schools with the complete rules, deadlines, and an entry form.2. Art Center ContestsHigh school students who place first, second, third, or honorable mention in appropriate categories at art center contests are eligible to submit their winning entries.3. Home School ParticipationHome school students are encouraged to enter their artwork at regional art center competitions. However, if a student is not able to submit their work for some reason (inaccessible location, did not know about the contests, etc.), he/she may still be considered for the Artistic Discovery contest.The winner will be invited to attend the opening exhibit in Washington, D.C. with other winners from across the country. The second place winner's art will be displayed in Congressman Price's Washington office, and the third place piece will be displayed in his Raleigh office. Special recognition will also be given to the teacher whose student is awarded first place.The students' artwork will be judged by representatives from the local arts councils of Chatham, Durham, Orange and Wake Counties. Judging will take place on April 1, 2008. Price will hold a District reception on April 28 co-hosted by United Arts of Raleigh and Wake County to announce the winners and recognize participants.The deadline to submit entries is March 31, 2008. For information on how to submit an entry, contact Nadia Alston in Congressman Price's Raleigh district office at (919) 859-5999 as soon as possible.# # #
02.15.2008	Washington, D.C. - On Thursday, House Republicans, led by President Bush, blocked a temporary extension of the Protect America Act (PAA), which Congress passed last year to provide exceptions to certain provisions of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). The 21-day extension was intended to allow time for House-Senate negotiations on proposed reforms to the law that would ensure the protection of Americans' civil liberties. Since the extension failed, the Protect America Act will expire on February 16.The President has asserted that the expiration of the PAA will threaten our national security, but this assertion is not true. All existing surveillance orders provided pursuant to the Protect America Act will continue to be in effect, and the intelligence community still has multiple tools which can be utilized to seek authorization for surveillance and to conduct warrantless surveillance. # # #
02.13.2008	ScienceDaily (Feb. 13, 2008) — A new report refutes claims that portable music players, such as Apple's iPod, interfere with cardiac pacemakers.Howard Bassen, a researcher with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in Rockville, Md., led a research team that measured the magnetic fields produced by four different iPod models: a fourth-generation iPod and an iPod with video, and an iPod nano and iPod shuffle. They also measured the voltages delivered inside the pacemaker by the magnetic fields from the iPods. All measurements indicated there would be no effects on users with cardiac pacemakers.Over the past year, a spate of media reports speculated on iPod interference with cardiac pacemakers. These reports, however, were based on a single incident where a patient with a cardiac pacemaker suffered dizziness while using an iPod. Cardiologists operated an iPod during the patient's examination, and noted interference with the pacemaker.The cardiologists published their results in the medical journal, Heart Rhythm. After publication, there was talk of warning labels for portable music and video players, although a subsequent clinical study failed to show any dangerous connection between the music devices and patients with pacemakers.Now, Bassen's more detailed study demonstrates that iPods are not capable of producing electromagnetic interference in implanted pacemakers.Using a 3-coil sensor, the team measured the magnetic field produced by the iPod at a distance of around 5 to 10 millimeters. They obtained readings for the magnetic field at various specific and small regions 10 mm from an iPod. The peak magnetic field strength was 0.2 millionths of a Tesla, a value hundreds of times lower than the levels capable of interfering with a pacemaker.In addition, Bassen's team attempted to detect any voltages these fields might produce within the protective "can" of a pacemaker. The can was placed inside a simulated human torso used by pacemaker manufacturers for interference testing. Bassen and his team found that the voltage levels within the pacemaker can were well below the detection limits of their highly sensitive equipment."Based on the observations of our in-vitro study we conclude that no interference effects can occur in pacemakers exposed to the iPods we tested," Bassen concluded.Journal reference: Low frequency magnetic emissions and resulting induced voltages in a pacemaker by iPod portable music players. Howard Bassen. BioMedical Engineering OnLine (in press)
02.07.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today lauded House passage of legislation to help college students who want to become teachers. Inspired by North Carolina's successful Teaching Fellows Program, Price began working over 7 years ago to establish a federal scholarship program that would reward students who commit to serve as teachers.The House bill would establish a new Teacher Quality Partnership grant program to recruit students into the field of teaching. The grants would be used for scholarships and professional development activities to help produce highly qualified teachers who are committed to their profession. In return for the support they receive, the teachers would pledge to serve at least 3 years in high-need public schools after completing a 1-year teaching residency program. Community colleges that partner with 4-year institutions for teacher development would also be eligible to administer scholarships to prospective teachers. Separately, the bill would also authorize up to $10,000 in loan forgiveness for educators and others who enter vital public service jobs."We have been plowing this field for years with congressional leaders who were not altogether receptive to the demands of teacher recruitment in this country. But today, under new leadership, we have the opportunity to make real progress on this critical issue," Price said. "When I first introduced my Teaching Fellows Act in February 2001, I spoke of an impending national shortage of 2.5 million teachers over the next decade, with a shortage of 80,000 in North Carolina alone. The shortage is now upon us and our communities are already feeling the pinch. We can't wait any longer to enact this bill."The new financial aid initiative forms part of the College Opportunity and Affordability Act (H.R. 4137), which is also known as the Higher Education Act Reauthorization bill. It would reauthorize the range of federal programs that provide financial assistance to students attending college, including the Pell Grants, Perkins Loans, and college readiness programs like TRIO and GEAR UP. (For more information on the bill, click here).Price said the bill on the House floor today builds upon the already strong education record of the 110th Congress. Last August, the America COMPETES Act was signed into law, which established additional scholarships and professional development activities to boost the number of science and math teachers in the country. One month later, the College Cost Reduction and Access Act became law. Between cutting the interest rates on subsidized student loans in half and greatly increasing the Pell Grant award, that legislation represented the single largest investment in higher education since the GI bill."America's children are her greatest resource," Price said, "and robust support of public education is essential to ensure that our young people can fulfill their potential and our country can maintain its competitive edge. Today we are taking steps to make college more affordable and bolster our K-12 teaching force with highly qualified educators."# # #
02.04.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement today in response to President Bush's Fiscal Year 2009 budget proposal:"With today's release of the President's budget, we are witnessing the continuation of a pattern that we have seen throughout the Bush presidency. The President delivers his State of the Union Address to Congress at the beginning of each year, in which he pledges to build a stronger nation, but a few days later his budget request reveals spending priorities that will actually undermine our country."Our ability to compete in the global economy is diminished when we cut investments in research, innovation and education, which are proven engines of economic growth and prosperity. Yet the President is again proposing to freeze funding for life-saving medical research through the National Institutes of Health, and to eliminate programs supporting classroom technology and family literacy. And he seeks to eliminate the Community Development Block Grants, which, for years, have provided critical housing and employment services to low-income people throughout North Carolina and across the country."Our country is morally bankrupt when we fail to support struggling families during an economic downturn. The President continues to insist upon tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans while proposing to drastically reduce health care investments for the poor and elderly. And as energy costs increase, he wants to cut the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, a program that helps poor Americans heat their homes."Our national security is threatened when the President continues a failed war policy that is costing our nation so dearly in lives and limbs, is diminishing our military's readiness and is continuing to drain hundreds of billions from the treasury."And as Chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, I know that eliminating programs that support local first responders, as this budget proposes, will hinder our preparedness for disasters of all kinds. And the elimination of Justice Department programs that support local law enforcement will severely impair public safety and gang prevention efforts in our communities."Despite these painful cuts to critical services and investments, the President would not reverse his unsustainable course toward increased deficits and debt. He has turned a $5.6 trillion projected surplus into a $2.4 trillion deficit, adding $3.5 trillion to the national debt. And his claims that his budget will reach balance by 2012 leave out major expenses, including the ongoing war in Iraq and dealing with the Alternative Minimum Tax."Instead of using gimmicks and sleights of hand to claim that this budget will be balanced in the future, Congress will work on a budget blueprint that will uphold the priorities that will make America stronger, and we will do so in a fiscally responsible way."# # #
02.02.2008	ST. LOUIS -- Tommie Liddell and Kevin Lisch scored 16 points each and Saint Louis held high-scoring Massachusetts to its lowest point total of the season in a 71-59 victory Saturday.Massachusetts (14-7, 3-4 Atlantic 10) came into the game averaging 84.4 points, sixth-highest in the nation, and had scored at least 80 points 13 times this season.Saint Louis (12-9, 3-4) shut the Minutemen down from the start, holding them to 30 percent shooting, including 2-of-21 from 3-point range. Massachusetts was 9-for-36 in the second half, missing its final 10 shots.Gary Forbes had 20 points for Massachusetts, which had a previous low of 65 points in a 12-point loss to Xavier last Sunday.Saint Louis never trailed, leading by six at halftime then opening with a 10-4 run over the first 4:24 of the second half to take control at 44-32.Liddell was 6-of-11 from the field and grabbed nine rebounds. Lisch was 6-of-13 with four assists. Danny Brown added 14 points and seven rebounds off the bench for Saint Louis.Chris Lowe scored 14 points, Etienne Brower added 12 and Tony Gaffney had 10 rebounds for the Minutemen.Copyright 2008 by The Associated Press
01.30.2008	Washington, D.C. - To commemorate Focus the Nation, a national day of action for climate change solutions, Rep. David Price (D-NC) addressed college students in the 4th Congressional District on the need for aggressive federal action to tackle the serious global problem.View the following video of his remarks from Washington.# # #
01.29.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) released the following statement today after the House passed the Bipartisan Economic Stimulus bill (H.R. 5140) by a vote of 385 to 35.Congressional leaders and the White House formulated a package that will give a much-needed boost to our struggling economy and provide real assistance to lower- and middle-income families and individuals. To see examples of how the tax rebate will affect various types of taxpayers, see this factsheet from the House Ways and Means Committee."These are uncertain times for America's working families. Costs are rising for everyday needs like gas and groceries, and for big ticket items as well. Education, health care and home heating costs are growing faster than inflation, and now the subprime mortgage crisis is threatening many families with home foreclosure."In response, today the House passed an economic stimulus package that will help jumpstart the economy by encouraging consumer spending and business investment. The bill will provide tax rebates to working families, bringing 3.5 million North Carolina families an average rebate of $950. Economists report that the recipients of these targeted rebates are also the most likely to spend the money, so the bill will provide a direct stimulus to the economy. The legislation also includes tax breaks for small businesses to invest in new equipment and new facilities, and it will expand the availability of refinancing options for families at risk of losing their homes."By no means is this bill a panacea for our economy's vulnerabilities. And I hope that we can follow today's action with more targeted measures that will provide support to individuals who are put out of work and better address the mortgage crisis. But the bill we passed today is a good first step in helping to mitigate the effects of an economic downturn on American families."# # #
01.22.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) released the following statement today after the Navy reported that it is abandoning its original site recommendations for an Outlying Landing Field (OLF) and will initiate a new process to examine five alternative sites.Price helped lead opposition to the Navy's initial preferred site in Washington County, which is located next to a national wildlife refuge. He inserted a provision in the recently-enacted Omnibus Appropriations Act (Public Law 110-161) stripping funding for the OLF in Washington County."After spending three years fighting the Navy's plans to locate its landing strip next to a wildlife refuge in eastern North Carolina, I am pleased the Navy has formally abandoned the Washington County site. Today's announcement signals that the process of examining alternative sites in North Carolina and Virginia will begin anew. As the 30-month environmental impact study proceeds, I will continue working with my colleagues to ensure that the Navy fully examines and takes into account the impact of each site on the environment, Navy personnel and local stakeholders."# # #
01.21.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) delivered the following remarks today at the Martin Luther King, Jr. Unity Rally in Durham.Today I want to direct our attention to what Martin Luther King, Jr. taught us about "power and love." I speak to you unapologetically as a politician about politics. I am among many elected officials here today aware that we are accountable to the communities that elect us. And this is a year when those communities will be engaged in elections, making decisions critical to our common future.I take my text from Martin Luther King, Jr.'s last presidential address to the Southern Christian Leadership Conference in 1967:Power properly understood is nothing but the ability to achieve purpose. And one of the great problems of history is that the concepts of love and power have usually been contrasted as opposites—polar opposites—so that love is identified with a resignation of power, and power with a denial of love. We've got to get this thing right. What is needed is a realization that power without love is reckless and abusive, and love without power is sentimental and anemic. Power at its best is love implementing the demands of justice, and justice at its best is power correcting everything that stands against love. It is precisely this collision of immoral power with powerless morality which constitutes the major crisis of our time.This is a powerful and pertinent message in this election year. Our challenge is to construct a strong and reliable connection between power and leadership on the one hand and our deepest values, "love implementing the demands of justice," on the other.We have had too much of "reckless and abusive," indifferent and unaccountable power in our country. We cannot simply relegate love, justice, our deepest values to the realms of advocacy and protest, as important as advocacy and protest can be. We must link-up love and power.People of conscience need to get practical, yes political, and put our shoulders to the wheel. The realms of power need to be made responsive and accountable. That is what politics and elections should be about in a democracy. It is what Martin Luther King Jr. stood for. Today is the day to clarify our understanding and steady our resolve for the challenges that lie before us.# # #
01.11.2008	By Patrick Peterson, Florida TodayCAPE CANAVERAL — NASA is targeting Feb. 7 for shuttle Atlantis' launch to the International Space Station to deliver the European Columbus module. About two months after the original launch attempt, the extra time is needed to correct faulty fuel-level readings likely caused by an electrical connector that passes through the wall of the external tank.Waiting until at least Feb. 7 also would put the shuttle's arrival at the space station behind the docking of a Russian Progress cargo vehicle scheduled to launch the same day from Kazakhstan.NASA officials stressed Thursday that the date is tentative."That date is now under evaluation," NASA spokesman James Hartsfield said. "There's not an official launch date yet."FIND MORE STORIES IN: Columbus | Kazakhstan | International Space Station | Atlantis | James Hartsfield | Russian ProgressToday, technicians will install a new connector to replace the one thought to have caused intermittent readings from a low-fuel sensor.NASA plans to proceed to launch without fueling the shuttle to test the performance of the replacement part."We're not scheduled to do a tanking test," NASA spokeswoman Candrea Thomas said. "That doesn't mean we can't do one later on."Copyright 2007, SPACE.com Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
01.11.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) was recently interviewed by State Government Radio's Don Curtis on a host of issues including the assassination of former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto, the war in Iraq, the future of the economy and the subprime mortgage crisis, energy reform, the drought, and other topics.The hour-long interview for "Carolina Newsmakers" first aired on January 1, 2008, and it can be accessed here.# # #
12.19.2007	Funding Included for the Triangle and North Carolina ProjectsWashington, D.C. - Congress today gave final approval to a bill funding the majority of the federal government in fiscal year 2008. A combination of 11 separate appropriations bills, the Consolidated Appropriations Act (H.R. 2764) includes everything from health and education programs to homeland security and transportation. U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) announced today that he was able to secure funding in the bill for some initiatives in the Triangle and North Carolina (see highlights below).Congressional Democrats had hoped to increase funding for key domestic priorities that have been squeezed under 12 years of Republican rule, but the President vetoed the Labor, Health & Education bill and threatened to veto any subsequent bills that exceeded his total budget request or that put conditions on funding for the Iraq War."While the President has insisted upon an additional $200 billion to continue the war in Iraq, he has summarily rejected a modest 2% increase over his budget for domestic priorities," Price said. "The result is a bill that does not adequately invest in the priorities of the country. In light of the President's insistence on his arbitrary budget number, we have reallocated priorities within that number, avoiding the significant cuts he recommended for health research, college financial aid, veterans' health care, and law enforcement support, among others."Price, as Chairman of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, helped author the homeland security portion of the bill. "We rejected the President's cuts to critical state and local grant programs, instead providing our first responders the support they need to protect our communities," Price said. "We have also provided long overdue investments in the security of our ports and in rail and transit facilities."As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, Price was also able to secure funding for projects in the Fourth Congressional District and for the State of North Carolina in the bill. Below is a list of highlights:Roads & Transit – A combined $3.675 million for road and highway projects in the Triangle, including funding for the southwestern portion of I-540, separations of grade crossings at Walker Street in Cary and Hobson Road in Durham, and statewide upgrades in bus service.Disaster Mitigation – A combined $5 million to support the State of North Carolina's efforts to mitigate against the effects of natural and other disasters, including improving evacuation plans; identifying and protecting critical infrastructure; better identifying areas at risk of flooding; and enhancing communications tools among federal, state and local emergency managers.Wake County Mental Health - $287,000 to add new beds for inpatient, acute mental health care at Holly Hill Hospital. This facility provides care to the indigent and uninsured, and additional capacity is needed to compensate for the beds that will be lost when Dorothea Dix Hospital closes in 2008.Law Enforcement – A combined $2.3 million for law enforcement agencies in Wake, Durham and Orange Counties to obtain interoperable communications equipment, expand forensic investigative capabilities, and improve emergency response capabilities using satellite technology. An additional $329,000 is provided to the North Carolina Highway Patrol to replace outdated regional communications equipment.Innovative Cancer Research – $984,000 for the Collaborative Initiative in Biomedical Imaging, a joint effort among UNC-Chapel Hill, NC State, and UNC-Charlotte to apply state-of-the-art medical imaging technologies to understand how complex diseases such as cancer and diabetes relate to each individual's genetic map.Water Infrastructure – A combined $984,000 for Durham to upgrade its aging water and wastewater infrastructure, and for Cary, Apex, Morrisville and Holly Springs to construct a new regional water treatment facility to keep pace with the demand of growing communities.Hog Waste Clean-up – A combined $697,000 to help convert hog waste lagoons to more environmentally sustainable waste technologies through research at NC State and technical support for farmers shifting from lagoon systems.At-Risk Youth Enrichment – A combined $260,000 for NC Central's Saturday Academy for academic support and social enrichment for K-10 students in Durham, and for the expansion of the gymnasium at the John Avery Boys and Girls Club in Durham.# # #
12.18.2007	Congressman Price joins Congressman John Spratt (D-SC) for his monthly public access program. Price discusses the accomplishments of the U.S. House of Representatives after the first full year of Democratic control. Spratt is chairman of the House Budget Committee.
12.12.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congress will soon send the President two major bills to significantly improve the government's lax management and oversight of private security contractors. Currently in Iraq and Afghanistan, there are tens of thousands of armed contractors employed by U.S. agencies who are subject to minimal oversight and accountability.U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) spearheaded the effort, along with Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), to include these provisions in the Defense and Intelligence Authorization bills when they were first approved by the House in May. The House passed the Defense bill today and is expected to pass the Intelligence bill tomorrow. The Senate is expected to take up the bills next week and subsequently send them to the President for his signature."With these measures Congress is stepping in where the President and his administration have failed to properly manage and account for its unprecedented reliance on contractors to perform functions that were previously exclusive to the government," Price said. "We are providing the military and other agencies with a mandate to better manage their contractors, and we are sending a message to contractors that they will be held to high standards, much like we demand of our own troops."The Defense Authorization bill (H.R. 1585) will provide Congress with better information to conduct oversight of security contracting, require clear rules of engagement and minimum standards for hiring and training contractors, and enhance the military's role in coordinating the movement of contractor convoys. These measures are preventive in nature – they are designed to keep armed contractors on a tighter leash so that events such as the shootout involving Blackwater contractors in September are not repeated.The Intelligence Authorization bill (H.R. 2082) will require the intelligence community to provide a detailed report to Congress on its use of contractors, including an assessment of what intelligence activities should be considered inappropriate and off limits to private contractors. The bill also requires an examination of the intelligence community's mechanisms and procedures for conducting oversight of contractors to ensure identification and prosecution of criminal violations, financial waste, fraud, or other abuses. "This report should give Congress a better understanding of the extent to which our intelligence agencies rely on private contractors," Price said. "In turn, it will spark a broader debate on what activities are appropriate for a private contractor to perform."The House has previously passed Price's bill to subject all contractors in a war zone to the jurisdiction of U.S. criminal law (H.R. 2740). That measure is pending in the Senate. It would close a major loophole in the law that has allowed armed contractors to operate with impunity. The House passed the measure overwhelmingly in October."These three bills together should dramatically change the way out government uses and oversees contractors on the battlefield and in sensitive intelligence areas," Price said. "We are addressing an essential question of accountability. That means ensuring that our government has the tools to properly manage the contractors it employs and that it can punish those responsible for criminal misdeeds. I want to thank Chairmen Ike Skelton and Carl Levin and Chairmen Silvestre Reyes and John Rockefeller for working with us to include these important provisions in their legislation."# # #
12.09.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) contributed an article on the intersection of faith and politics to the Fall 2007 edition of Reflections, a publication of Yale Divinity School. In the article, Price writes, "both our faith and our politics require the exploration of the wellsprings of our own vision for society and of the way our deepest values should shape public policy."Read the full article here.# # #
12.07.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) will host a workshop Monday to inform Triangle-area nonprofits and religious organizations of the funding opportunities available to them through the federal government and private foundations. Over one hundred representatives from organizations in the area are planning to attend the event at North Carolina Central University."The purpose of the event is to help local organizations to navigate the federal bureaucracy and to access resources that may be available to the nonprofit community," Price said. "The myriad programs scattered across the government can appear pretty daunting to the average nonprofit, so I hope my office can provide some clarity to the application process."The workshop will feature representatives from various federal government agencies, as well as presentations from local foundations and NC Central's Office of Sponsored Research. In addition to providing a broad overview of the existing programs that support nonprofit work, the workshop will assist attendees in understanding the proposal development and submission process. It will be held at the H.M. Michaux School of Education on the campus of NC Central and will last from 9 am to 2 pm. Price will welcome the attendees with remarks at 9:15.According to the North Carolina Center for Nonprofits, North Carolina has 8,966 nonprofit 501(c)(3) organizations. Durham, Wake, Orange and Chatham Counties have a combined total of 1,850 nonprofit organizations.Nonprofits play a critical role in delivering services to all communities, and many activities of nonprofits are eligible for federal funding through grant programs. Annually, nearly $400 billion is distributed to support the work of eligible nonprofit organizations through these programs. Many more funding opportunities are available through private foundations."The Fourth Congressional District has wonderful nonprofits doing incredible work in this community, across the state, and even across the globe," Price said. "The spirit of community service is alive and well in the Triangle, and we hope to foster that spirit in any way we can."# # #
12.07.2007	Calls New State Dept-DOD Agreement an "Important First Step"Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) was interviewed yesterday on WUNC-North Carolina Public Radio about a new agreement by the State Department and the Department of Defense to more closely monitor and manage the activities of private security contractors in Iraq.That interview can be found here.Price is a leading voice in Congress on bringing transparency and accountability to the controversial practice of private security contracting in the war zone. Congress has acted on his legislation to rein in abuses committed by rogue contractors through better management and by subjecting contractors to legal accountability for criminal behavior.In a statement released late Wednesday after the State and Defense Department deal was announced, Price said:"The Memorandum of Agreement between the Departments of Defense and State is an important step toward improving transparency, management, and accountability in security contracting. There is no question that it comes in response to significant Congressional pressure -- in fact, the MOA would take a number of steps I called for in legislation I introduced a year ago and that are included in this year's defense authorization bill -- but the agencies deserve credit for reading the writing on the wall and taking substantive steps to deal with a clear and critical problem."I am encouraged that the MOA includes several of my proposals: unified rules of engagement, a contractor activity coordination mechanism, standards for authorizing the use of weapons and carrying out background checks, and a clear mandate that evidence of misconduct be investigated and referred to prosecuting authorities. Of course, as the MOA itself acknowledges, this is only a first step, and more work needs to be done to clarify standards, improve criminal jurisdiction, and expand this oversight to all contractors in all war zones. But it is an important first step, and I applaud Secretaries Negroponte and England for their attention to this issue."# # #
12.06.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representatives David Price (D-NC) and John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) today renewed their effort to improve federal aviation safety. They have sponsored legislation to equip new commercial aircraft with a back-up "black box" – the cockpit voice and flight data recorder – that would enhance investigators' ability to collect information in the wake of a crash. By re-introducing the Safe Aviation Flight Enhancement (SAFE) Act, the congressmen hope to enact a key recommendation of the 9/11 Commission."Federal investigators rely on the information contained in these black boxes in order to piece together the events that lead to a flight disaster," said Price, who is Chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. "Their findings help us to determine the causes and then recommend actions to prevent a recurrence in the future. And in our post-9/11 world, it is important to have this information as soon as possible so that we can determine whether an incident is a threat to our national security.""Our current black box standards have proven inadequate given the threats of terrorism to our transportation systems," said Duncan, former Chairman of the Aviation Subcommittee. "Post 9/11, we cannot afford to wait. We need to know immediately what happened in the event of an aviation disaster, and this legislation represents a simple solution to a serious problem by allowing commercial aviation to benefit from black box technology that has proven successful in our military."The SAFE Act would require that new commercial aircraft designed for extended-range flights have a second black box that can deploy from the rear of the aircraft upon impact. It would be equipped with satellite technology to transmit its location, allowing for its immediate recovery. The box would contain both a Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) and a Flight Data Recorder (FDR).Since 1996, eight major commercial airline accidents have occurred in which the immediate cause was unknown and recovery of black boxes was significantly delayed. On average, it has taken investigators eight days to recover flight data recorders and fifteen days to recover cockpit voice recorders from the wreckage of these accidents. Data from two of the airplanes involved in the 9/11 attacks were never recovered.The 9/11 Commission noted that "maximizing the amount of evidence to recreate the events of a terrorist attack is critical to understanding precisely what happened, which in turn translates into more comprehensive 'lessons learned.'" The Commission specifically recommended that the federal government take steps to improve the survivability of flight data recorders and cockpit voice recorders to ensure that complete and reliable information is available to investigators in the aftermath of a terrorist attack."The ability to recover and analyze data from black box recorders is immensely important for after-accident investigators, which is why we originally proposed the use of deployable black boxes in 1999," said Jim Hall, former Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB). "I was directly involved in several accident investigations where it took us seven days or more to recover the black boxes from the ocean. If similar delays occurred today, especially over the ocean, officials may shut down the airspace out of fear that it was a terrorist attack, when in fact it could be the result of a mechanical failure. Such uncertainty would have devastating long term effects on the aviation industry. Since current federal regulators have not acted on the NTSB's recommendations from 1999, I strongly applaud this effort in Congress to enhance the safety of air travel."The SAFE Act has also been endorsed by representatives from major airline disasters such as the National Air Disaster Alliance/ Foundation (NADA/F), as well as by TWA 800 and 9/11 victim advocates."NADA/F praises our Congressional leaders for understanding that we simply cannot afford to ignore the glaring deficiencies in our current recorder regulations," said Gail Dunham, NADA/F President. "Given the many past recorder problems, it is clear that U.S. officials must be better equipped to respond to an aviation disaster in the future, and prompt recovery of the recorder information is necessary for a prompt response."Also joining Price and Duncan as original cosponsors of the SAFE Act are Rep. Harold Rogers (R-KY), Ranking Member on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, along with Reps. John Boozman (R-AR), Mike Capuano (D-MA), Bob Etheridge (D-NC), Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Steven Rothman (D-NJ) and Lee Terry (R-NE).# # #
12.05.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representatives David Price (D-NC) and Christopher Shays (R-CT) and U.S. Senators Russ Feingold (D-WI) and Susan Collins (R-ME) have introduced legislation to repair and strengthen the presidential public financing system(Price's remarks during a press conference today are included below).The Presidential Funding Act of 2007 addresses problems that have developed in the system, which was put in place following the Watergate scandal. The presidential public funding system is intended to protect the integrity of the electoral process by allowing presidential candidates to run competitive campaigns without becoming overly dependent on private donors. Also cosponsoring the legislation in the Senate are Joe Biden (D-DE), Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Chris Dodd (D-CT), Richard Durbin (D-IL), John Kerry (D-MA), and Barack Obama (D-IL). Other House cosponsors include Representatives Rahm Emmanuel (D-IL), Mike Castle (R-DE), Todd Platts (R-PA), and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD)."Neither party is immune from the current fundraising arms race, which is why we need a bipartisan solution that will return the system to sanity," Price said. "The voters win when all candidates can spend more time talking to the American people than raising money.""The Presidential public financing system is worth preserving and improving," stated Shays. "Several factors -- including the front-loading of the primary process, the emergence of extremely wealthy candidates and the unpopularity of the tax check-off -- have combined to render the system of presidential public financing in serious need of repair. I am grateful for this bipartisan, bicameral legislation which makes several changes to the presidential public financing system to make the public financing system more attractive to candidates and more fair for those who choose to participate.""In the two decades since Watergate, public financing made presidential elections more competitive and reduced the appearance of corruption that accompanies a wide-open money chase," Feingold said. "But the system clearly needs to be updated to increase voter confidence in the electoral process by making the candidates less dependent on wealthy contributors.""Current estimates are that the 2008 contest for the presidency of the United States will cost more than one billion dollars. As a result of these skyrocketing costs, candidates are going to be spending more time holding exclusive, high-dollar fund-raisers than meeting the voters and discussing the issues. Clearly, the system is flawed. The Presidential Funding Act of 2007 would make important and sensible improvements to our nation's campaign-finance system. This legislation would go a long way in helping to eliminate special-interest money from the presidential campaigns and restoring the public's faith in the election process," said CollinsFrom 1976 to 2004, the presidential public funding system produced competitive elections in which Republicans were elected five times and Democrats three times, while challengers managed to be victorious in three of the six elections in which the incumbent was a candidate. But the front-loading of decisive primaries and the emergence of candidates able to raise money far in excess of the primary election spending limits have exposed the weaknesses of the current system. Both major party candidates accepted public financing for the 2004 general election, but candidates from both parties opted out of the primary election system. In the 2008 election, most of the leading candidates have declined to accept matching funds, and, for the first time since the system began, one or both major party nominees may refuse the general election grant in order to be able to spend unlimited money. The system will likely become even less attractive to candidates in the future if it is not revised and updated.The bill is supported by a wide range of organizations supporting campaign reform including Americans for Campaign Reform, Campaign Legal Center, Common Cause, Committee for Economic Development, Democracy 21, League of Women Voters, Public Campaign, Public Citizen, and U.S. PIRG. Also see an editorial from Sunday's New York Times on the subject.*******Salvaging Public Financing for Presidential CampaignsRemarks by Rep. David PriceWednesday, December 5, 2007"We've already heard about the massive amounts of money that will be raised and spent before voters choose their next president. The figures are astronomical – even 50% more than was collectively spent in 2004."We are witnessing a veritable arms race for campaign money. The system is obviously out of whack, and we must return it to sanity."Both parties' leading candidates are spending their valuable time raising money when they should be talking to voters – and they'd be the first to lament this fact. The fact is in order to remain competitive in this high-stakes presidential election, the current public funding system is simply untenable."Factors behind the erosion of the current system include declining participation in the tax 'check-off' program; unrealistic campaign spending limits; and increased need for early money due to the 'front-loading' of the primary calendar."Our proposal is simple: update the tax check-off, raise the spending limits, move up the release date, and create an 'escape hatch' that allows participating candidates to remain competitive even if a non-participating candidate out-raises them."This legislation would return the public financing system to its proper role – that of an equalizer. It was public financing that allowed long-shot candidates like a former California governor named Ronald Reagan and a former Georgia governor named Jimmy Carter to run viable campaigns against better-funded, better-known opponents."Public financing benefits both political parties equally, and most importantly, it benefits the American people, by reducing the influence of money in the electoral process and opening the field of candidates beyond those with the deepest coffers."We've also included an aggressive provision in this bill to disclose the major bundlers for the presidential campaigns. Of course, under a robust public financing system, the practice of bundling would become less relevant in the first place because candidates would be under less pressure to raise so much money. But the disclosure provision is important for the benefit of an informed electorate."It's too late to affect the 2008 election, but we must act now to fix the system before 2012. I'm confident that this bipartisan, bicameral coalition can lead the way, and I am honored to be part of it."# # #
11.20.2007	Raleigh - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) today joined with the North Carolina Public Interest Research Group (NC PIRG) at a press conference to highlight the group's new report on hazards posed by certain toys. He also discussed legislation he supports in Congress, the SAFE Consumer Product Act, to protect consumers from dangerous toys, following a wave of recalls of millions of toys for toxic lead, choking and small magnet hazards in 2007. The event was held at the Marbles Kids Museum in downtown Raleigh.View the NC PIRG Toy Safety ReportPrice's prepared remarks follow below.*******Good morning! It's good to be with you.As we near the holiday season, we are mindful of the approaching tradition of holiday gift-giving. Now that we are grandparents, my wife and I have the opportunity to shop for toys for our grandson, Charles Albert. So I, like many other parents and grandparents in our community, am very concerned about the safety of the gifts we buy.While decades of advocacy from consumer groups like NC PIRG have resulted in American toys that are safer than ever before, we still must be vigilant in ensuring the safety of all toys.This year we have been confronted with lots of troubling news about toy safety. We've read reports of the unprecedented number of lead-based recalls, many of which were imported toys that were poorly inspected. Twenty million toys manufactured in China were recalled this summer because they were dangerous to children. Some of those toys contained nearly 200 times the legal amount of lead. We also learned that a popular toy was releasing a toxic chemical similar to the date rape drug when ingested.These horror stories point to two things: First, parents need to be informed about what they're buying, which is why I am so glad that NC PIRG today is raising awareness through its annual "Trouble in Toyland Report."And secondly, there is clearly something wrong with the regulators that we depend upon to keep us safe. Somebody is asleep at the wheel. This is unacceptable, and it needs to change.In Congress, we are working to fix this situation. I am cosponsoring a bill that would strengthen and reform the Consumer Product Safety Commission – that's the federal agency that is responsible for making sure these products are safe for Americans. It's also the federal agency that, in my view, is under-staffed and generally under-resourced. Among other things, our bill would:-Ban lead from children's products and paint;-Require testing of children's products by independent labs;-Strengthen the Consumer Product Safety Commission with greater resources for testing and with enhanced enforcement authority to punish the safety violators; and-Ban unsafe and untested imported children's products.This bill should go a long way toward fixing a troubled system. The White House doesn't want to go as far as Congress for consumer protection – the President is touting his own proposal. But this is an issue on which the President will just have to prove to us that his plan will protect our children as effectively as our bill. The indications are that it will not.Reform is needed, but reform alone cannot account for the failure of current leadership at the Consumer Product Safety Commission. We learned in a recent Washington Post article that current and former heads of the agency took dozens of high-dollar trips paid for by the industries they are supposed to regulate.This is unacceptable, and it constitutes a clear conflict of interest. That is why I have also cosponsored a resolution calling on the President replace the current agency leadership. It is time for the Consumer Product Safety Commission to work for our families, rather than for manufacturers it is supposed to regulate.So, in closing, I want to encourage all parents to inform themselves of the dangers posed by some toys. We don't want anyone to be a "Grinch" – but rather, to be mindful of what toys are appropriate for your child.And I pledge to continue working in Congress to see to it that we can rely on our government to keep us safe from the hidden dangers of toys and other products.Thank you again for inviting me here today, and thank you to NC PIRG for your good work.
11.14.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) today called on the President to drop his partisan opposition to a bill providing major investments in transportation, housing and economic development. The final Transportation, Housing & Urban Development Appropriations bill (H.R. 3074) also provides funding, which Price helped secure, for a number of road and community development projects in the Triangle (see below).The bill was approved by the House today by a vote of 270 to 147 and requires the President's signature for enactment."This funding bill puts our country on a solid path toward better roads and transportation alternatives, which has a direct impact on our quality of life in the Triangle," Price said. "It also prioritizes road safety by investing in repairs for our nation's aging bridges. And this bill will strengthen our communities by expanding housing opportunities, especially for veterans and low-income families. The President should cooperate with Congress by signing this critical legislation. If he chooses to veto this bill, it would be a major setback to efforts to improve our communities."Specifically, the bill invests $40 billion in the nation's highway system for construction of new roads, repairs and improvements. In the wake of the I-35 bridge collapse in Minnesota, the legislation also invests $1 billion to strengthen aging bridges across America, a 25% boost for this urgent national priority. It provides sufficient funds to renew all current housing vouchers, and provides 15,500 new vouchers for veterans, the disabled, and low income families. And it provides a major increase for housing counseling to help homeowners threatened by the sub-prime mortgage crisis. The President has threatened to veto the legislation, which fits into his pattern of knee-jerk opposition to the many bills that the House has passed, Price said.The bill also provides funding for a number of transportation and community development projects in the 4th Congressional District, which Congressman Price requested as a member of the Appropriations Committee, including:Transportation Projects:I-540 Western Wake Freeway: $1,000,000 to support the completion of a critical link in the I-540 Raleigh Outer Loop that will connect rapidly growing areas in southwestern Wake County with the I-40 corridor and Research Triangle Park.Walker Street Grade Separation (Downtown Cary): $1,000,000 to help the Town of Cary extend Walker Street by 0.19 miles and construct a bridge over the railroad tracks in downtown Cary. Currently, both crossings along the railroad tracks in the downtown area are "at-grade," forcing motor vehicles to stop and causing major delays when an average of five passenger trains and 12 freight trains pass through downtown daily.Hopson Road Grade Separation (Durham): $500,000 to help the City of Durham replace the existing two-lane, at-grade rail crossing at Hopson Road with either a new roadway bridge across the rail line or a new rail bridge across the roadway. The project, which will accommodate five motor vehicle lanes, is needed because a significant increase in commercial and industrial activity in the area is expected to contribute to a significant increase in traffic volume on Hopson Road.Statewide Bus and Bus Facilities Upgrades: $1,250,000 for the State of North Carolina to improve bus service in communities throughout the state.Community Development Projects:Jim and Carolyn Hunt Child Care Resource Center: $275,000 for the Child Care Services Association to help complete the final elements of a child care resource center in Durham. The Jim and Carolyn Hunt Child Care Resource Center will house and centralize the services of three child care service agencies to improve access to services for children, families, and child care providers in the Triangle. Co-locating these services will allow over 5,000 families each year to more easily access information on child care programs, learn about referrals and vacancies, and seek financial assistance.Manufactured Housing Redevelopment Fund: $275,000 for the Community Reinvestment Association of North Carolina (CRA-NC) to help capitalize a loan fund for the redevelopment of manufactured housing land-lease communities into vibrant neighborhoods. The loan fund is intended to help demonstrate how manufactured housing can be a successful low-income housing option and an integral component of community development strategies.Family House at UNC Hospitals: $175,000 for the State Employees Credit Union Foundation to help complete the construction of a 40-bedroom hospitality house for critically ill patients and their families. The facility will provide lodging and a nurturing environment to those traveling significant distances to UNC Hospitals for inpatient evaluation and treatment. Existing lodging in the area is financially out of reach for many patients and their families, and the Ronald McDonald House (located next door to the proposed site) serves only the families of children.Durham Boys and Girls Club: $100,000 for the John Avery Boys and Girls Club to expand and renovate its gymnasium to better serve Durham's youth and families. The capacity of the Club's current athletic facility has been significantly stretched by the growth in the number of participants (150 youths per day on average). The space will serve as an auditorium, a gathering place for the community, and a home for the club's Gang Prevention through Targeted Outreach program.# # #
11.09.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) today supported a bill that protects hundreds of thousands of North Carolinians from a tax increase without adding to the national debt. The Temporary Tax Relief Act (H.R. 3996) would prevent the Alternative Minimum Tax (ATM) from hitting 23 million additional middle class American families next year. It would also extend a number of tax benefits to homeowners, parents with children in college, and small businesses. The vote was 216 to 193."Today the House made the right choice in shielding millions of American taxpayers from a major tax increase," Price said. "The AMT was never intended to hit middle class families, which is why it is so important that this bill be passed and signed into law. I call on the President and the Senate to cooperate with the House to resolve this critical issue as soon as possible."The AMT was put into place in 1969 to ensure that the wealthiest Americans did not escape paying taxes altogether through myriad deductions and exemptions in the tax code. While the AMT was not aimed at middle-class Americans, the tax was not indexed for inflation. It has grown to be such a problem that it now threatens teachers and firefighters – a far cry from its original intent.In North Carolina alone, 580,607 families would face a major tax increase next year if Washington doesn't act – a 729% increase from the number of NC families that currently pay the AMT. And in Congressman Price's 4th District, 75,701 families would face such an increase, up 474% from last year. "Of all of North Carolina's congressional districts, the AMT would fall hardest on the taxpayers in the Triangle," Price added. "Those seventy-five thousand citizens in the Fourth District can rest easier knowing that we are working to prevent the AMT from hitting them next year."In order to comply with pay-as-you-go rules, which Democrats have insisted upon following since taking control of Congress earlier this year, the Temporary Tax Relief Act would pay for the AMT fix by closing a loophole that allows private equity fund managers to pay a much lower capital gains rate of 15% on their income instead of the ordinary income tax rate. No other profession earning income through contingency fees enjoys such a low rate."While the President and Congressional Republicans have voted to patch the AMT for years by borrowing money against future generations of Americans, we are providing tax relief for the middle class in a fiscally responsible way," Price said.# # #
11.08.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) today applauded the House for overwhelmingly supporting a bill providing major investments in health care and education for Americans. The House passed the final Labor, Health and Education Appropriations bill (H.R. 3043) tonight by a vote of 274 to 141. Price also urged the President to put aside partisanship and sign the bill into law."Congress's funding bills are a reflection of our priorities as a nation," Price said. "This bill demonstrates that we are a country that invests in our children and in the well being of our people. This bill will strengthen our nation now and in the future."The legislation provides significant support to community health centers, on which 1.2 million medically-underserved Americans rely for their health care. The bill strengthens America's research capacity by issuing nearly 1,400 more life-saving medical research grants than the President requested. It strengthens education by providing funds for the training and development of thousands of teachers and increasing college aid through Pell Grants. And in order to meet local goals for No Child Left Behind, the legislation boosts funding for after school programs, classroom technology, and Title I grants that help low-income kids.In other areas the bill restores cuts in the President's budget to vital job training programs across the country. And as the temperatures begin to drop, Price said the timing couldn't be better to pass this bill, which restores the President's cuts to a program that helps low-income and elderly families pay their home heating bills.The Senate passed the measure yesterday. After House passage, the bill will now be sent to the President for his signature. The President has threatened to veto the bill because it does not match his original request, which would cut funding for many of the priorities outlined above."The President hasn't quite gotten the message that it's a new day in Washington that calls for more than digging in with failed policies and issuing veto threats," Price said. "The President and Congress need to cooperate, and to ensure that we deliver what the American people expect of their government, including better performing schools and access to health care for the poor and uninsured."The bill also provides funding for a number of projects in the 4th Congressional District, which Congressman Price requested as a member of the Appropriations Committee. These include:$300,000 for a Wake County mental health facility that will provide care to the indigent and uninsured. Additional capacity is needed to compensate for the beds that will be lost when Dorothea Dix Hospital closes in 2008.$170,000 to support NC Central's Saturday Academy, which provides supplemental academic support and social enrichment to 400 K-10 students at underperforming schools in Durham.$200,000 to renovate the Lincoln Community Health Center in Durham, which provides accessible, affordable outpatient health care services to the medically underserved.$175,000 for the statewide expansion of the North Carolina Symphony's K-12 music education program. This funding will bring the program's musical and artistic residency activities to elementary and secondary students in underserved communities through a partnership with community colleges.$130,000 to improve assistance programs for family caregivers through the Durham-Chapel Hill Jewish Federation Caregiver Project.# # #
11.07.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today spoke on the House floor on his resolution condemning the November 6th terrorist bombing in Afghanistan and expressing condolences to the people of Afghanistan and the members of its Parliament.The bombing killed 6 Members of the Afghan Parliament. As Chairman of the House Democracy Assistance Commission, Price has been working with the Afghan Parliament to help strengthen its capacity to govern. He traveled to the country last November and met with many of the country's leaders, including dozens of parliamentarians.See video of Congressman Price's speech here. The text of his speech follows as well.Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 811, to offer a message of solidarity to the people of Afghanistan.The House Democracy Assistance Commission, which I chair at present and which our colleague, Mr. Dreier, chaired in the previous Congress, has worked in partnership with the Wolesi Jirga, the Afghan Parliament's equivalent of the House of Representatives, for the last two years. In the course of that partnership, we have had the opportunity to travel to Afghanistan and to meet with a range of Afghan leaders, including dozens of Members of the Wolesi Jirga.We have been profoundly impressed by the courage and commitment of the Afghan people, who are striving against long odds to radically transform their society. Their nation has been at war or under attack for nearly all of the last thirty years, and yet they have faced down those who would deny them political and personal freedoms and have continued on course, to build a democratic and secure nation.None have demonstrated this dedication more than the members of the Wolesi Jirga. Afghan voters have selected individuals representing every aspect of the Afghan culture –Islamic scholars, Western businessmen, former communists, progressive women, and everything in between – for this remarkable assembly.They have approached their differences in a truly democratic fashion, settling disputes through debate rather than violence. As their Speaker, Yunus Qanooni, likes to say, they now settle differences by holding up voting cards instead of guns. And now they stand together, conservatives and progressives, men and women, Tajiks and Pashtuns – all working for a better Afghanistan.One week ago today, the Afghan democracy suffered its deadliest terrorist attack since the fall of the brutal Taliban regime. Over 50 Afghan citizens, including schoolchildren, tribal elders, and other bystanders, were killed, and over 100 more were injured.The main target of the attack was a delegation of members of the Wolesi Jirga: a delegation that strongly represented the new democratic spirit I have described. The 18 members on the delegation represented diverse ethnic groups and religious affiliations, included men and women, and covered the full political spectrum. It was a delegation traveling to Baghlan province to reach out to the constituents that the members have sworn to serve.After the bombing, six Wolesi Jirga members lay dead: Sayed Mustafa Kazemi, Chair of the Economic Commission of the Wolsi Jirga and former Minister of Commerce; Engineer Abdul Matin, a member from the province of Helmland; Sibgatullah Zaki, a member from the province of Takhar; Haji Sahib Rahman Hemat, a member from the province of Kunar; Nazik Mir Sarferaz, a member from the Kunduz province; and Mohammad Arif Zarif, a member from Kabul.Many more were injured. Some of the members killed and injured were members that our House Democracy Assistance Commission met with last fall. We offer our deepest sympathies to the families and friends of these members, who died in service to their country. But I rise to say to those behind these attacks that, despite your cowardly actions, Afghanistan's democracy remains strong. And our support for Afghanistan remains unwavering.The resolution before us condemns this horrific attack and expresses our deep condolences to the Afghan people, who have sacrificed so much for the cause of a free and democratic nation. It also calls upon our nation and the international community to redouble our efforts in support of Afghanistan, to turn back the forces within the country and beyond that are capable of the barbarism we witnessed last week.I urge my colleagues to support this resolution.# # #
11.07.2007	Washington, D.C. - North Carolina Congressmen David Price, Bob Etheridge and Brad Miller have announced their annual Veterans' Briefing, which will take place on Tuesday, November 13, 2007, from 8:00 to 10:00 a.m. at the Jim Graham Building on the State Fairgrounds.The year 2007 has been historic for veterans' issues in Congress. In addition to passing the largest funding increase in the 77-year history of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Congress has taken action to confront the shortcomings in health care revealed by the Walter Reed Medical Center scandal, dramatically improve the VA's approach to mental health care, and move toward ending the disabled veteran's tax. Reps. Price, Etheridge and Miller will discuss these efforts and speak with veterans about the work left to be done.The annual Veterans Briefing is open to all veterans, but seating is limited. Please reply no later than Thursday, November 8, 2007 with your name and that of any guests. RSVP by calling Congressman Price's Durham office at 919.688.3004 or his Raleigh office at 919.859.5999.# # #
10.23.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) addressed his colleagues in the House of Representatives this evening, calling attention to the dire drought conditions in North Carolina. He pledged to work to include emergency relief for drought-stricken farmers in the next Supplemental Appropriations bill.View the following video clip of his remarks to the House. His full, prepared speech follows below.I thank my colleague for yielding. That map [showing severe drought conditions in North Carolina] before us is an all too familiar scene, I'm afraid. We have seen the drought areas growing and growing each week in the newspaper depictions of our weather pattern. It is very, very dry up and down the eastern seaboard. In the Washington, D.C. area, this is a serious situation as well. But my colleague is right; no State has been hit harder than North Carolina. And the devastation started in the western part of the State at first, but has now swept across the State, and we have severe drought conditions in every one of our North Carolina counties. The situation is dire.The gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. Etheridge) who serves so well on the Agriculture Committee and also the Homeland Security Committee, has done us a service in organizing this Special Order tonight and bringing this serious problem to the attention of our colleagues and to the attention of the country.If anyone has spent any time at all in the Southeast this summer and fall, it would be difficult for the enormity of the drought not to catch your attention. We see it daily during our time in North Carolina. We are not simply talking about brown suburban lawns or needing to take shorter showers, although both of those are realities. The hot and dry conditions of the past several months have dried up our lakes and killed our crops. They are threatening the water supply of many communities, and they are irreparably damaging this year's agricultural output.It is that damage to agriculture that brings us here tonight. North Carolina boasts one of the most diverse arrays of agricultural products in the Nation, yet crop yields in North Carolina and other southeastern States are down across the board. I can't think of a single crop that is not affected.Last month, following our Governor's recommendation, the U.S. Department of Agriculture designated 85 of North Carolina's 100 counties as disaster areas, and all 85 of these counties have lost at least 35 percent of at least one major crop.Such losses are not confined to farming in rural areas. They may hit the smallest farming communities the hardest, but they inflict serious pain on the entire economy of an agricultural State like ours. They are felt throughout the country, seriously affecting the Nation's food supply and prices.This may be a regional drought, a disaster that is centered in the Southeast and in North Carolina in particular, but there is no doubt it is a national problem and that national attention is called for. We need to focus attention on this challenge in this body.Congressional attention and action are demanded.That is why we signed a letter to the President requesting that he include disaster assistance in any supplemental appropriations request. I am disappointed that yesterday's request failed to do so. I know my colleague shares that disappointment, and I suspect he has talked about it a good deal tonight already.I am hopeful that the Appropriations Committee will pay attention to tonight's remarks and understand the scope of this problem and take appropriate action. I am a member of that committee, and I plan to press for disaster relief wherever and whenever it can be achieved. I urge all of my colleagues to do the same.Again, I commend my colleague for calling this Special Order and for his dogged persistence in looking out for our farm communities, but also understanding the implications of this disaster for the economy as a whole.# # #
10.17.2007	Washington, D.C. - Ezekiel "Zeek" Taylor, a Durham 3rd grader was lobbying the halls of Congress today to encourage Members to override the President's veto of the Children's Health Insurance bill. Taylor was chosen this year as the National Ambassador for the March of Dimes. He participated in a press conference at 10:15 am today with Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Congressman David Price, who represents Zeek in Washington. March of Dimes President Dr. Jennifer L. Howse also participated.Although Congressman Price, along with 272 of his House colleagues, voted for the Children's Healthcare expansion bill (H.R. 976), the vote did not garner the 2/3 majority needed to override the President's veto. Price said the House will keep working to insure 10 million American children, despite today's vote.Zeek was accompanied by his mother, Betty Marrow-Taylor. Zeek attends Club Boulevard Elementary School in Durham. To read more about Zeek and his work supporting the March of Dimes, see the following website: http://www.marchofdimes.com/aboutus/793_22649.asp.Pictured in the following photo are Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Zeek Taylor, Betty Marrow-Taylor, and Rep. Price.# # #
10.10.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Reps. David Price (D-NC) and Mike Thompson (D-CA) will introduce legislation today calling for a "diplomatic surge" in Iraq, which, the Representatives said, must go hand-in-hand with any plan for a responsible redeployment of American combat forces from Iraq.The legislation calls for a regional diplomatic initiative that would bring together Iraq's neighbors and the international community to address the key challenges facing Iraq and the region. Such an initiative would seek to ease the threat of the Iraq war sparking a broader regional conflagration, promote cooperation on addressing critical issues like border security and refugees, and seek to involve the international community in support of economic and political development in Iraq. This bill builds upon previous efforts by Price and Thompson to encourage the more aggressive use of America's diplomatic assets to address the many challenges in Iraq."Iraq, her neighbors, and the entire international community have a stake in a peaceful and stable future for Iraq, and neither Iraq's nor our interests are served by the continuation of our military's involvement in the sectarian conflict," Price said. "The focus of the debate in Congress has been on ending the war, and rightly so. But no matter what else happens, there is a great need for intensive diplomatic efforts to protect our interests in the region and give Iraqis the best chance to succeed as our troops begin to come home.""Our troops in Iraq have done an outstanding job. However, military and foreign policy experts repeatedly confirm that keeping our troops mired in Iraq's civil war will not lead the Iraqi government to take control of its country," Thompson said. "It's time to bring our troops home and initiate a diplomatic strategy for controlling the violence and turmoil in Iraq. We have a responsibility to assemble the international support that the Iraqi people so desperately need. And we have a responsibility to work with the international community to keep Iraq's civil war from spilling over into neighboring countries, which would have catastrophic consequences for the entire world."Although President Bush has vetoed Congress's efforts to force a change of course in Iraq, Price and Thompson hope their bill will garner the bipartisan support needed for enactment into law.The bipartisan Iraq Study Group last year acknowledged the reality that "there is no action the American military can take that, by itself, can bring about success in Iraq," and strongly recommended regional engagement "to establish an international support structure intended to stabilize Iraq and ease tensions in other countries in the region." Experts from both sides of the political spectrum have come out in support of aggressive international engagement as a way to responsibly draw down America's military involvement in Iraq.For more information on the bill, see the following background information...NEW DIPLOMATIC OFFENSIVE FOR IRAQ ACT"The United States must build a new international consensus for stability in Iraq and the region. In order to foster such consensus, the United States should embark on a robust diplomatic effort to establish an international support structure intended to stabilize Iraq and ease tensions in other countries in the region." – Iraq Study GroupThe "New Diplomatic Offensive for Iraq Act," introduced by Rep. Price and Rep. Thompson, would implement the Iraq Study Group's first recommendation – to launch a new diplomatic offensive- by requiring the President to institute a regional diplomatic plan that would prevent the spread of violence from Iraq into neighboring countries and require the President to engage in robust regional diplomacy. In brief, the legislation would do the following:Containment and Diplomatic Plan: Requires the President to institute a regional diplomatic plan in conjunction with the United Nations Security Council, and to regularly report to Congress on the plan's progress. The plan would include strategies to:prevent the spread of violence from Iraq into neighboring countries;curtail the ongoing civil war in Iraq;prevent the establishment of terrorist safe havens;engage Iraq's neighbors and international organizations such as the UN and the Arab League to take a more active role in working for stability in Iraq;prevent genocide and other crimes against humanity; andpromote a national process of reconciliation within Iraq.Presidential Special Envoy for Iraq Regional Security: Requires the President to appoint a Presidential Special Envoy for Iraq Regional Security to spearhead regional diplomatic efforts, work with the Iraqi government and neighboring countries on efforts to achieve peace and stability (including by organizing an Iraq Support Group, as recommended by the Iraq Study Group), and organize a forum for negotiations on national reconciliation.Cooperation with International Partners: Requires the Administration to work to enhance the participation of neighboring nations and the international community by: (1) organizing an international donors conference to solicit additional commitments from the international community for reconstruction and economic development activities in Iraq; (2) seeking a new U.N. Security Council resolution that supports regional and international cooperation in promoting stability and development in Iraq, encourages increased participation in efforts to rebuild and expand Iraq's economy, and authorizes renewed U.N. assistance to promote security and political reconciliation in Iraq; and (3) continuing direct bilateral negotiations with Iraq's neighbors to produce increased commitments to securing Iraq's borders and working for stability in Iraq.BIPARTISAN SUPPORT FOR A DIPLOMATIC SURGEIraq Study Group: "The United States must build a new international consensus for stability in Iraq and the region. In order to foster such consensus, the United States should embark on a robust diplomatic effort to establish an international support structure intended to stabilize Iraq and ease tensions in other countries in the region." (Final report, December 2006)The Brookings Institution: "An urgent and energetic international political effort with focused mediation is required to complement military deployments to Iraq. Both need to advance together to create the basis for sustainable peace. This mediation should be an intensive and well-coordinated joint effort of the United States, the United Nations, and the European Union." (Policy Brief #162, Carlos Pascual and Larry Diamond, June 2007)Senator Sam Brownback: "...we need a diplomatic solution. The key is for the Sunnis, the Shi'a and the Kurds to reach some type of political equilibrium. That will allow the Iraqis to drive out the terrorists, build their country and survive in a very tough region of the world. And, of course, a diplomatic solution is the key to reducing threats to our forces, and bringing about stability that will allow us to bring our forces home." (Speech, 8/1/07)The Financial Times: "Americans, Europeans and Arabs need to forge a compact among all Iraq's neighbours, including Iran, on stabilising Iraq and regional security. Time to unleash a politico-diplomatic surge." (Editorial, 9/14/07)Center for American Progress: "Increased U.S. diplomacy with key countries in the region is a step in the right direction, but it is not enough...The United States needs a full-time high-level envoy engaged full-time on the monumental tasks tied to diplomacy needed to stabilize Iraq and the region." (Brian Katulis, 8/9/07)Senator Norm Coleman: "We must also implement a diplomatic surge, particularly with Sunni Arab nations in the region who can work with Iraqi Sunni areas to aid our efforts in fighting al-Qaeda. The United Nations must also play a greater role in order to curb Iran's efforts to destabilize Iraq." (Press Release, 9/10/07)Former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger: "Today the United States is bearing the major burden for regional security militarily, politically and economically while countries that will also suffer the consequences remain passive. Yet many other nations know that their internal security and, in some cases, their survival will be affected by the outcome in Iraq and are bound to be concerned that they may all face unpredictable risks if the situation gets out of control. That passivity cannot last. The best way for other countries to give effect to their concerns is to participate in the construction of a civil society. The best way for us to foster it is to turn reconstruction step-by-step into a cooperative international effort under multilateral management. Such a strategy is the best road to reduce America's military presence in the long run; an abrupt reduction of American forces will impede diplomacy and set the stage for more intense military crises further down the road." (Washington Post op-ed, 9/16/07)# # #
10.04.2007	House Passes Price Contractor BillWashington, D.C. - The House of Representatives today overwhelmingly approved a bill introduced by Congressman David Price (D-NC), which would ensure that the U.S. government has the legal authority to prosecute crimes committed by U.S. contractor personnel working in war zones. The bill closes a major loophole in the law that allows thousands of contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan to operate with impunity. The final vote was 389 to 30.Defense Department contractors are already covered under U.S. law, but contractors such as Blackwater USA, who work for the State Department and other agencies, are not held liable for criminal activity under current law. Price's bill would extend the jurisdiction of the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act (MEJA) to cover all contractors working for the government in a war zone.Price's bill also ensures that the Administration has the tools it needs to investigate and prosecute allegations of abuse. The MEJA Expansion and Enforcement Act (H.R. 2740) would require the FBI to have investigators in place where there is a significant contractor presence, so they can investigate alleged crimes.During House debate Price noted that while the military goes to great lengths to ensure accountability, thousands of armed civilians in Iraq are not held responsible for actions that could damage the U.S. mission and our national security interests."Our military is the best fighting force in the world today, in large part because it is structured in a way that demands accountability, discipline, and unity of action," Price said. "But there is no clear chain of command for contractors, little in the way of standards for training and vetting personnel, and no legal accountability for misconduct."The bill that the House approved today will now move to the Senate where leaders have announced plans to act swiftly on the measure."This bill will improve the law, and it will improve enforcement," Price said. "It will give our country the ability to hold contractors accountable, which will enhance our national security and the safety of our troops. And it will ensure that our country remains a model of law and integrity to the rest of the world. I applaud the solid bipartisan support for this critical measure in the House today."# # #
10.03.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) delivered remarks before the House of Representatives today in support of accountability for private security contractors in the war zone.The House is expected to vote tomorrow on his bill, H.R. 2740, which would ensure that all contractors working for the United States in the war zone are accountable to U.S. criminal law. The following are his remarks, as prepared.Mr. Speaker, as the sponsor of this legislation, I rise to speak in favor of what is a long overdue solution to a problem with serious implications for our military and our national security.Put simply, this legislation ensures that the U.S. government has the legal authority to prosecute crimes committed by U.S. contractor personnel working in war zones.First let me think Chairman Conyers and Chairman Scott for their leadership in bringing this legislation to the floor. And there are many other members on both sides of the aisle who have worked on this issue, including the gentleman from Connecticut, Mr. Shays, who held an excellent series of hearings on the issue last year, and Mr. Waxman, who has focused his committee on the issue this year.My bill would do two simple things: it would expand the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act – MEJA – to cover all contractors operating in war zones, and it would beef up the Department of Justice's enforcement of MEJA.The word "accountability" is used a lot in debates in this chamber. Let me tell you what "accountability" means in this context.• It means that we will have the tools at our disposal to ensure that the criminal behavior of the men and women working in our name and on our dime does not, in any way, damage our goals and objectives.• It means making sure that rogue actors – the bad apples in the bunch – are not able to act in ways that endanger our troops or our mission without fear of prosecution.• Our military is the best fighting force in the world today, in large part because it is structured in a way that demands accountability, discipline, and unity of action. Military commanders will universally tell you that accountability is critical to success, because lapses in discipline or judgment can lead to defeat on the battlefield or can undermine popular support for the mission.• The military goes to great lengths to ensure accountability. There is a clear chain of command, extensive training on legal and illegal actions in war, and – perhaps most importantly – clear consequences for violations. During the war in Iraq alone, there have been over 60 courts martial and hundreds of non-judicial punishments of military personnel under the Uniform Code of Military Justice.And there is good reason for this accountability. If a military service member unlawfully kills an innocent civilian, steals property, or defiles a cultural icon, it contributes to popular outrage against American forces, making the military's mission more difficult and undermining our national security. It could motivate insurgents, and provide fodder for terrorist organizations. What's more, if we cannot ensure the rule of law for our own personnel, how can we credibly ask other nations – like Iraq – to uphold the rule of law when their own citizens commit crimes?Unlike the military, there is no clear chain of command for contractors, little in the way of standards for training and vetting personnel, and no legal accountability for misconduct.And as the recent shooting incident involving Blackwater USA employees demonstrated, contractors can clearly act in ways that have the same serious implications for our national security. If we do not hold contract personnel accountable for misconduct, as we do for our military, we are not only failing to uphold moral responsibilities, we are endangering the men and women of our Armed Forces. And we are undermining our nation's credibility as a country that upholds the rule of law.It may be hard for some of us to believe that this gaping hole in the law exists. In fact, certain contractors – those working under the Department of Defense – are already covered by MEJA. But others – including those working under the Department of State or USAID, a category that includes most armed security contractors – are not now covered under this law.The law is not the only problem – we have also seen a serious deficiency in enforcement. Even though MEJA already covers DoD contractors, I am not aware of a single case of violent contractor misconduct that has been prosecuted in court. I have been told that MEJA has been applied in only one case in Iraq or Afghanistan: a Defense contractor convicted of child pornography.There is nearly universal support for accountability for contactors, and there is broad support for the approach taken by this bill - including leading human rights organizations like Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, and Human Rights First, and from contractor associations, including the International Peace Operations Association.My bill will improve the law, and it will improve enforcement. It will give our country the ability to hold contractors accountable, which will enhance our national security and the safety of our troops. And it will ensure that our country remains a model of law and integrity to the rest of the world.I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.# # #
09.17.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC), a leading congressional proponent of private security contractor accountability, called on the Administration to help clear the legal fog that has contributed to lawless behavior by some contractors working in Iraq.In a letter to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice following an incident in which Blackwater USA contractors were alleged to have killed civilian Iraqis, Price wrote, "the incident requires immediate investigation and, if warranted, prosecution of any criminal acts."News reports indicate that the Iraqi government is seeking to ban Blackwater from operating in the country, and that the Iraqi government may attempt to bring charges against the contractors involved under Iraqi law. This would be a significant development given that the Administration has failed to investigate or prosecute almost all previous allegations of abuse by contractors and has argued that contractors enjoy immunity from Iraqi law.One major factor in the lack of accountability for private security contractors, Price notes in his letter, is a gap in the original law that was intended to bring contractors under the jurisdiction of U.S. courts. Price has legislation, H.R. 2740, which would clarify the law and ensure that all contractors working for a U.S. government agency would be covered by federal criminal codes. His bill would also establish F.B.I. investigative units in the war zone charged with investigating allegations of misconduct.The text of Congressman Price's letter is below.*******September 17, 2007The Honorable Condoleezza RiceSecretaryU.S. Department of State2201 C Street NWWashington, DC 20520Dear Secretary Rice:I am writing with regard to today's press reports that private security contractors working for Blackwater USA were involved in an incident in Baghdad which left as many as eight Iraqi civilians killed and thirteen wounded.As I understand it, Blackwater employees, working under a diplomatic security contract with the Department of State, were providing protection to an US Embassy motorcade when two mortar rounds landed near the convoy, prompting contractors to open fire. The reports, which indicate that the contractors used excessive or inappropriate force against civilians, are apparently credible enough that the Iraqi Government has decided to terminate the company's license to operate in Iraq. I hope you agree that the incident requires immediate investigation and, if warranted, prosecution of any criminal acts.I would like to inquire about your plans to pursue an investigation and about the adequacy of existing legal authority to prosecute misconduct by contractors working under your authority.First, what are your plans to investigate the incident?Secondly, do you believe you have the legal authority to prosecute the individuals involved in the September 16 incident if your investigation finds evidence of wrongdoing? As you know, the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act (MEJA) and the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) extend only to contractor personnel "accompanying the force" or working "in support of a Defense Department mission." In your reading of these statutes, does their jurisdiction extend to the contractors involved in the September 16 incident? Are there other statutes which you would expect to apply in this case?A related question is whether the contractors involved in the incident could potentially be prosecuted under Iraqi law. According to the Associated Press, an Iraqi Interior Minister spokesman has acknowledged that U.S. contractors are immune from prosecution under U.N. Security Council Resolution 1546, but has suggested that this resolution exempts security contractors from this immunity. Do you agree with this interpretation, and would you anticipate that any contractors charged by the Iraqi government with crimes in this incident would be prosecuted under Iraqi authority? If MEJA, UCMJ, or other statutes do not apply to such contractors, does our government have the discretion to cancel immunity or otherwise make accused contractors available to the Iraqi government for prosecution?Finally, how do you intend to meet security needs that have been provided by Blackwater? Do you anticipate awarding a new contract for diplomatic security or otherwise replacing Blackwater USA? What immediate interim steps will be necessary to fulfill diplomatic security functions in Iraq?The allegations related to the September 16 incident have the potential to become a flashpoint in terms of Iraqi antagonism toward U.S. personnel, with wide-ranging implications for our mission and our troops. There is no question that the lack of clarity surrounding the legal options for prosecuting criminal acts has significantly undermined our efforts in Iraq.To address this uncertainty in the law, I have introduced legislation (H.R. 2740) to clarify that all contractors working for the United States Government in theaters where our military is conducting contingency operations could be prosecuted under the authority of MEJA. I request your support and assistance in enacting this legislation so that we will have the tools to hold accountable those who recklessly flout the rule of law and endanger our troops and mission.I look forward to your response clarifying the questions posed above. Thank you for your attention to this matter.Sincerely,DAVID PRICEMember of Congress
09.13.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) released the following statement in response to President Bush's address to the nation on the war in Iraq and his intent to make small reductions in US troops levels in Iraq over the next year. The President also indicated that the US military role in Iraq would stretch beyond his presidency."Returning to pre-surge troop levels would continue the 'stay the course' strategy that has failed for four and a half years. Keeping 130,000 American soldiers on Iraqi soil is unlikely to resolve Iraq's political crisis in 6 months, 12 months or 2 years. In the meantime, more American troops and innocent civilians will lose their lives, and America's military readiness and global leadership will continue to decline."The President is skirting responsibility by simply waiting out his term and passing along the Iraq problem to his successor. Congress must assert its prerogative to bring this war to a responsible end and reject the President's plan for an open-ended occupation. I will continue working to build a bipartisan coalition to make that happen."# # #
09.11.2007	Six years after the terrorist attacks on September 11th, we remember the thousands of innocent people who lost their lives on that dreadful day. And we are reminded of the threats posed to Americans by radical individuals and organizations whose ideological fixation overrides any concern for human life.In the wake of that tragedy, we dedicated ourselves to improving our ability to prevent, prepare for, and respond to threats to our national security. And while we have made gains in a number of areas, we have a responsibility to address our many remaining security needs.I feel this responsibility acutely as chairman of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, and I pledge to continue working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to make our nation more secure.
09.07.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today hailed final passage of the College Cost Reduction and Access Act (H.R. 2669). The bill, which will provide a $20 billion boost in student aid over the next five years, represents the single largest investment in higher education since the GI bill. It is paid for by reducing excessive federal subsidies paid to lenders in the college loan industry."Today is a bright day for the tens of thousands of college students and their parents who call the Triangle home," Price said. "The Democratic Congress has made good on its pledge to reduce the cost of college in America by passing the College Cost Reduction and Access Act, which significantly enhances federal support for students through grants and subsidized loans. And we have accomplished this without increasing taxes."Price has long championed efforts to make college more affordable. He is the author of a 1997 law allowing students and parents to deduct student loan interest payments on their tax returns."Making a college education affordable is essential to ensuring equal opportunity for all Americans," he added. "And with college costs increasing faster than inflation for years, many students have been discouraged from pursuing higher education. With this legislation we will restore hope for college aspirants and their parents. I encourage the President to sign this bill as soon as it reaches his desk."More on the College Cost Reduction and Access Act:The bill strengthens the middle class by making college more affordable by:• Cutting interest rates in half on subsidized student loans over the next four years.• Making student loan payments more manageable for borrowers by guaranteeing that borrowers will not have to pay more than 15 percent of their discretionary income in loan repayments, and allowing borrowers in economic hardship to have their loans forgiven after 25 years.The bill increases the purchasing power of the Pell Grant Scholarship by:• Increasing the maximum Pell Grant scholarship by $490 next year and at least $1,090 over the next five years, ultimately reaching a maximum scholarship of at least $5,400 by 2012.• Expanding eligibility through needs analysis to include and serve more students with financial need.The bill places highly qualified teachers in the classroom by:• Providing upfront tuition assistance to qualified undergraduate students who commit to teaching in public schools in high-poverty communities or high-need subject areas.The bill encourages and rewards public service by:• Providing public servants loan forgiveness after 10 years of public service and loan repayment for military service members, first responders, law enforcement officers, firefighters, nurses, public defenders, prosecutors, early childhood educators, librarians, and others.The bill makes historic new investments in minority-serving institutions by:• Making a landmark new investment of $510 million over five years in Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Hispanic-Serving Institutions, Tribal Colleges, Alaska Native and Native Hawaiian institutions, and the newly designated Predominantly Black Institutions and institutions serving Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders and Native American students – to ensure that students will not only enter college, but remain and graduate.The bill encourages state and philanthropic participation in college retention and financing by:• Establishing a partnership among federal, state and local government entities and philanthropic organizations through matching challenge grants aimed at increasing the number of first generation and low-income college students.# # #
09.06.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today applauded action by the Department of Homeland Security to make visas available to immigrants who are victims of domestic violence in the United States. Price, who chairs the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, has been urging the department to issue the needed "U Visa" regulations for months.Undocumented immigrants often do not report abuse committed against them for fear of deportation, which can leave them vulnerable to further abuse and threats to their lives. To remedy this situation, Congress passed legislation in 2000 to give them protected status, but neither U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services nor its predecessor agency, the INS, had ever issued regulations to implement the law. Now, however, these crime victims are eligible for a U Visa, which grants temporary legal status to such victims who provide information that helps law enforcement prosecute their abusers.Since assuming the role of chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee in January, Price has been urging the department to make this new visa available as soon as possible. In a March committee hearing, Price prodded the Director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services to move forward on implementation of this critical program that had been delayed for seven years after the visa was authorized by Congress.And in the Homeland Security funding bill (H.R. 2638) the House passed in June, Price inserted language insisting upon implementation of the U Visa program, even threatening to withhold funds for construction of a new Department headquarters facility until the visa was made available. That bill now awaits action by a joint House-Senate conference committee.From the official report accompanying the bill (House Report 110-181):"The Committee continues to be disappointed with the lack of progress in publishing regulations to allow for immigration benefit applications under the U–Visa authorities enacted in the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000. Given that this program is designed to provide relief for immigrant victims of domestic violence and other heinous crimes, it is unacceptable that it has taken the Administration more than six years to promulgate this regulation. The Committee encourages the Administration in the strongest possible terms to use its authority to immediately publish the pending U–Visa rule in an interim final form. To encourage speedy progress on this issue, the Committee has withheld from obligation any funds for the Department's headquarters projects until the U– Visa rule is published."Price expressed relief that the rules for the new U Visa were finally released."This is good news for victims of domestic violence and for their tireless advocates who have been working to make the U Visa a reality," Price said. "Safety and justice for crime victims should never take a back seat to a victim's fear of deportation. This new visa program upholds the right priorities for a compassionate society."Victims' advocates also applauded today's news and praised Congressman Price for his work. A press release from Legal Momentum, the nation's oldest legal advocacy organization dedicated to advancing the rights of women and girls, "commends Congressman David Price (D-NC) and Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA) who were instrumental in encouraging the Department of Homeland Security to release the regulations."Leslye Orloff, director of Legal Momentum's Immigrant Women Program, said, "These regulations make it possible for our most vulnerable immigrants to finally have the opportunity to apply for a status that should have been available years ago."# # #
08.27.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today announced that he will lead a delegation of fellow House members to Colombia this week to work with Colombian legislators on strengthening institutional capacities for good governance.Price, who is chairman of the House Democracy Assistance Commission, will be accompanied by Reps. David Dreier (R-CA), Rush Holt, (D-NJ), Wayne Gilchrest (R-MD), Sam Farr (D-CA), Jeff Miller (R-FL), and Adam Schiff (D-CA). The Colombian Congress is one of 12 legislative bodies throughout the world with which the House commission has established a partnership.The delegation of HDAC members will spend most of the week in the capital Bogotá, where they will meet with President Alvaro Uribe and several members of the Colombian Congress, as well as human rights and labor leaders, representatives of Afro-Colombian communities, and other key government officials. Price, the other U.S. congressmen and House staff will engage in a series of discussions and presentations with various committees of the Colombian Congress to share their knowledge of legislative procedure, including bill research and drafting, oversight of the executive branch, and independent budgetary analysis. The commission members will also discuss the status of a proposed US-Colombian free trade agreement with the Colombian Trade Minister and labor leaders. The commission also plans a meeting with the United Nations' High Commissioner for Human Rights and representatives of the Colombian Military on internally displaced people and the U.N.'s work to monitor the human rights situation in the country."From demobilization of paramilitaries and the war on drugs to rural development and improving labor standards, Colombia is now wrestling with a wide array of critical challenges that will shape the future of that nation and all of Latin America," Price said. "The Colombian Congress will play an essential role in these debates, and I am pleased to have the opportunity to work with our colleagues in the Congress to help strengthen its tools for confronting these challenges."The delegation will also travel with Colombian lawmakers to Medellín, the country's second largest city, to discuss constituent relations. There, they will take site visits to examine USAID programs to provide alternative livelihoods to coca growers and the Colombian government's efforts to demobilize paramilitary groups.After an initial assessment visit by House staff, the House Democracy Assistance Commission voted to formally partner with the Colombian Congress last year. A delegation of Colombian lawmakers traveled to Washington, DC in April, where they observed first-hand the workings of the United States Congress. They also met with a number of U.S. House members, including Price, to discuss the American legislative process and the tools that U.S. lawmakers employ to promote their legislative agendas. Following the program in Washington, the Colombians visited the California district of Rep. Sam Farr (D-CA) to observe a typical member's constituent services and local outreach efforts.# # #
08.27.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today announced a federal grant of $408,300 for NC State University to continue participating in the University Transportation Center (UTC) program through the U.S. Department of Transportation.NCSU was selected as one of seven universities across the country working to solve national and regional transportation challenges through research, education and technology transfer. The university's Center for Transportation and the Environment will receive the funding.Last year, Price led an effort among the state's congressional delegation to pen a letter to the Department in support of NCSU's bid for inclusion in the UTC program (See letter). The university had participated in the program in the past, but last year the Department of Transportation required all universities to re-apply for the special designation.Other universities receiving funding following today's announcement include the University of Alabama at Tuscaloosa, the University of Denver, Mississippi State University, Cleveland State University, the University of Detroit-Mercy, Michigan Technological University, and the University of Nevada-Las Vegas.# # #
08.03.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) today announced the success of his effort to make community college students eligible for a major federal scholarship to help them become science and math teachers.The provision was approved by the House of Representatives late yesterday as part of a bill to re-authorize the National Science Foundation and support other government efforts designed to bolster the competitiveness of the American economy (H.R. 2272). The bill was approved by a vote of 367-57 in the House. The Senate approved the bill unanimously later last night, thus sending the measure to the President's desk for his signature.The Robert Noyce Teacher Scholarship program provides grants to institutions of higher learning for scholarships and stipends for math and science majors who commit to teaching those subjects in "high-need" schools. In return for up to $10,000 in financial aid per year (up to 3 years), students must commit to teach two years for every year they receive the scholarship."We are all too familiar with the impending teacher shortage in our country," Price said. "These scholarships will help us fill the need for qualified teachers who provide instruction in subjects that are critical to the future of American innovation."The legislation that the House originally passed left uncertainty as to the scholarship eligibility of community and junior college students. Martin Lancaster, President of the North Carolina Community College System, alerted Price to this omission in the bill. In turn, Price worked with Chairman Bart Gordon of the House Science and Technology Committee on a conference-level amendment that ensures their eligibility."North Carolina has made great progress in establishing a seamless transition from community colleges to four-year schools and teacher certification," Price said. "Community colleges represent a great potential source of 'home-grown teachers' who are likely to stay in rural, inner-city and other underserved areas."H.R. 2272 is a compilation of several bills with bipartisan support designed to further American innovation and competitiveness. The legislation comes in response to a 2005 National Academies report, "Rising Above the Gathering Storm," which predicted that in an increasingly competitive global economy, the U.S. would lose technology jobs to other nations if it did not pay more attention to math and science research and education.In order to address these pressing needs, the legislation:• Invests in roughly 25,000 new teachers over the next three years through professional development, summer training institutes, graduate education assistance, and scholarships through the Noyce Scholarship and the Math and Science Partnerships Program.• Invests in basic research and development and puts us on a path to double funding for the National Science Foundation (NSF), the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), and the Department of Energy's Office of Science.• Ensures more highly qualified teachers in the fields of mathematics, science, engineering, technology, and critical foreign languages through grant programs that provide baccalaureate degrees in these areas with concurrent teacher certification. Also authorizes competitive grants to increase the number of teachers serving high-needs schools and increases the number of qualified Advanced Placement (AP) and International Baccalaureate (IB) teachers and expands student access to these programs.• Establishes a public-private partnership with the business community to identify 'high needs' fields, and to train mathematicians, scientists and engineers to enter those jobs.• Broadens the participation of minorities and women in science and engineering fields at all levels, from kindergarten students to advanced researchers.# # #
08.02.2007	Measure Would Impose Accountability for Criminal BehaviorWashington, D.C. - The House Judiciary Committee today approved a bill authored by Congressman David Price (D-NC) to require greater accountability among the tens of thousands of armed private security contractors working in Iraq and other conflict zones around the world.Both contractors and critics have complained that these individuals are operating in a legal vacuum with no clear mechanism to hold contractors accountable for criminal acts. Price's bill (H.R. 2740) would bring all contractors operating in a war zone under the jurisdiction of U.S. criminal code, and stand up FBI field units in conflict areas to investigate allegations of criminal misconduct."The lack of a legal framework for battlefield contracting has allowed certain rogue contractor employees to commit violent criminal acts in Iraq and Afghanistan without the threat of prosecution. With no accountability for these violations, such acts have undermined our U.S. military efforts and tarnished the reputations of thousands of contractors working legitimately in support of our missions," Price said.Numerous accounts of criminal misconduct by private contractors have been documented by the media, including the involvement of contractors in detainee abuse at Abu Ghraib prison and several incidents in which contractors have fired upon Iraqi civilians without justification. Despite these allegations, only one contractor has been brought to trial in U.S. courts under existing laws."There is no excuse for the de facto legal immunity that our government has permitted for tens of thousands of armed private individuals working on our country's behalf in Iraq in Afghanistan," Price said. "The U.S. government has a responsibility to hold the individuals carrying out its work to the highest standards of conduct, and to ensure that these individuals protect human rights and uphold the law. This responsibility does not disappear simply because such individuals are contractors instead of government employees."The Judiciary Committee's approval of the Price bill represents the latest in a series of advances for the congressman's contractor measures in the House. Earlier this year, the House passed the Defense Authorization bill that included language proposed by Price and Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), which would facilitate identifying and reporting cases of contractor misconduct, and establish clear regulations and strong oversight for battlefield contracting. And just last week, the House approved a funding bill for the Justice Department which included a Price provision requiring the Administration to explain its failure to investigate and prosecute alleged abuses by private security contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan.The Defense Authorization bill and Justice funding bill await Senate action. The bill passed today in the Judiciary Committee will now be referred to the House floor for full consideration.# # #
07.26.2007	Congressman Price speaks to the House of Representatives in favor of a bill (H.R. 2929) prohibiting the establishment of permanent U.S. bases in Iraq. The bill would make it clear to the Iraqis and the American public that our occupation is not indefinite.
07.19.2007	Washington, D.C. - The U.S. House today approved a bill containing funding to support new mental health services in Wake County. The $300,000 in funding was requested by Congressman David Price (D-NC).As the News & Observer reported in May, "Since...2003, Wake County has had no general hospital capacity for people in psychiatric distress." The state's Dorothea Dix mental health facility was used by the County for this purpose, and with the impending closure of Dix, Wake County's capacity to provide hospitalization and other mental health care to its citizens will be challenged.In response, Wake has partnered with Holly Hill Hospital to expand that facility's psychiatric ward to include a total of 44 new beds for short-term, acute mental health patients. The funding secured by Price will help provide the expanded mental health services."Wake County is working hard to ensure that its citizens are guaranteed access to mental health care," Price said, "and I'm glad to support their efforts in Congress. When local health resources severely depleted, the first to lose out are the uninsured and the working poor. With this new facility, we will plug a widening gap in mental health coverage for the citizens of Wake County."The Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill (H.R. 3043) passed the House by a vote of 276-140. The Senate is expected to consider the legislation in September.Other key provisions of the bill approved by the House today:Makes college more affordable by increasing the maximum Pell Grant award by $390.Helps raise the achievement levels of America's students by providing increased funding for the No Child Left Behind Act by $2 billion. A common criticism of the education program is that it labels schools 'failing' without providing critical resources to address shortcomings.Invests in initiatives that will provide access to health care for more than 2 million uninsured Americans, including an increase of $66.8 million to address mental illness and substance abuse disorders through the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA).Invests in life-saving medical research by providing a $750 million increase for the National Institutes of Health, which supports much of the research in the Research Triangle.# # #
07.19.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) today applauded the North Carolina House of Representatives for significant action to convert hog waste lagoons in the state to more environmentally friendly waste systems. Meanwhile in Washington, the House Appropriations Committee approved Price's request for $445,500 in federal funding to support the waste conversion program envisioned by the General Assembly.Price's provision in the annual agriculture funding bill would allocate $445,500 to provide technical assistance to hog producers participating in the waste technology conversion program envisioned in the General Assembly's bill. The money would be jointly administered by the NC Division of Soil and Water Conservation and the federal Natural Resources Conservation Service (located within the Department of Agriculture)."North Carolina is the number two pork producer in the country," Price said. "It's an industry that is critically important to our state. But we need to take advantage of new waste disposal technologies that are more effective and environmentally friendly than waste lagoons. Today's actions in the General Assembly and the U.S. House will help bring pork production into the 21st century. And I am happy to work to bring in the federal Department of Agriculture as a partner in this effort."The House Appropriations Committee approved the funding bill by a voice vote today, and it is expected to be considered on the House floor later this month.# # #
07.12.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) addressed the House of Representatives today in support of a bill to initiate an exit from Iraq beginning within 120 days of enactment, requiring full redeployment of U.S. troops by April 2008.The Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act (H.R. 2956) would also require the President to develop a comprehensive strategy for managing the redeployment and the challenges that Iraq will continue to present after U.S. troops are gone. The House passed the bill this afternoon by a vote of 223-201.Price, who voted against the authorization of the war in Iraq, is a longtime opponent of President Bush's war strategy, and he has been calling for a responsible exit for two years. In his speech Price appealed to his colleagues to recognize that the current U.S. policy is not serving our national interest.View the video of Congressman Price's remarks, followed by the prepared text of his speech.*******Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2956, which would compel a responsible exit of U.S. troops from Iraq.I voted against giving the President the authority to go to war in Iraq. Two years ago, Brad Miller and I introduced legislation to terminate the authorization and require of the President a comprehensive exit strategy. The President has responded to calls for change by stubbornly adhering to a failed strategy that has cost our nation severely, in blood, treasure, and moral authority. He has rejected Congress's constitutional role in determining policy and he has ignored the will of the American people. This obstinate, irresponsible, destructive course cannot continue.The President has repeatedly pointed to the surge of U.S. forces, begun six months ago, as a tide-turning event. But the surge seems mainly to have shifted the locus of the fighting, improving security in some areas while pushing violence into others.The intent of the surge was to create space for Iraq's political leaders to make the hard choices that will lead their country forward. But those hard choices are not being made, and we can no longer leave our foreign policy at the mercy of sectarian and political forces we cannot control.Our troops are simply biding time in Iraq – but they are doing so at great cost in terms of lives and resources. A mission of biding time is not one that we, as policymakers, can or should support. We must begin to bring our troops home.Yet, as I and many others have repeatedly argued, it not only matters that we leave Iraq, it also matters greatly how we leave.There will be serious consequences for the people of Iraq whether we stay or go. When our troops leave, there is a risk of increased sectarian violence and ethnic cleansing – though the violence of the past several years has left many neighborhoods and regions in Iraq already largely purged of sectarian diversity. And it is uncertain how terrorist groups will fare after we depart; they may become more entrenched or our absence may undermine their support. We must have a plan for managing all of the potential consequences.We cannot afford the same mistakes leaving this war that the administration made entering it, without a plan for protecting troops, managing consequences, and giving the Iraqi people every possible chance to succeed.For that reason, the legislation before us requires President Bush to develop a comprehensive strategy for managing the redeployment and the challenges that Iraq will continue to present after our troops are gone.This bill would provide the discipline of a timeline to the Bush Administration for beginning and completing the termination of combat operations and the redeployment of our troops. It also would engage the leading minds in our military, intelligence and diplomatic communities to chart the best way forward.Mr. Speaker, some persist in suggesting that a withdrawal would somehow be a defeat for the United States. But this is simply the wrong way of looking at this very complex situation. Our goal must be to maximize U.S. national security, and we cannot afford to define that in static terms based on goals established at the outset of the conflict that were at best naive.The continued presence of 160,000 American troops in Iraq is not sustainable and does not serve our national interest. It is time not merely to urge but to require a change in course, and this legislation offers us the chance to do just that.# # #
07.12.2007	Washington, D.C. - The House Appropriations Committee today approved a provision to require the Bush Administration to report on its failure to investigate and prosecute alleged abuses by private security contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan. The provision was included in the annual funding bill for the Justice Department.Congressman David Price (D-NC), who sits on the subcommittee that drafted the bill, proposed the inclusion of the provision to enhance Congress's oversight of the use of private security contractors. He has long advocated for greater transparency and accountability for war contractors, and this move is the latest in a series of measures that Price has moved through the House of Representatives this year."We open our newspapers and see allegations on a regular basis of violent abuse by rogue contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan," said Price, "but the Justice Department has thus far barely lifted a finger to investigate or prosecute these crimes. The Administration has simply failed to enforce the laws on the books. With this language, the Administration will finally have to answer for its failure to act on this critical issue of law and order in war zones. I want to thank Chairman Alan Mollohan for recognizing the need for this provision and for including it in the bill he reported to the Committee."The Justice Department has the authority to prosecute criminal misconduct by civilian contractors in a war zone under the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act (MEJA), which was enacted in 2000. The language approved by the Appropriations Committee highlights the fact that "the Department has not prosecuted any cases of civilian misconduct under MEJA, despite numerous allegations of criminal misconduct by civilian contractors." The legislation directs the Department to report to Congress on the number of incidents of alleged misconduct reported to the Department, the number of investigations undertaken, and the number of criminal cases opened and closed. The legislation further calls for an assessment of the Justice Department's capacity to prosecute contractor abuses under MEJA and whether additional resources or legal authority is needed in this regard.Price cited the overall lack of accountability for private security contractors as the reason for this provision and others he has introduced. Earlier this year, the House passed the Defense Authorization bill that included language proposed by Price and Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), which would facilitate identifying and reporting cases of abuse by rogue contractors, and establish clear regulations, accountability mechanisms, and strong oversight for battlefield contracting. Price has also introduced two bills, H.R. 369 and H.R. 2740, to expand MEJA and enhance law enforcement tools to investigate and prosecute abuses.The Defense Authorization bill awaits Senate action, and the Judiciary Committee is considering Price's two bills. The Justice Department funding bill will now move to the House floor for consideration.# # #
07.06.2007	Washington, D.C. - Bloomberg News reported today on legislation authored by Congressman David Price (D-NC), which would direct the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agency to focus its deportation efforts on lawbreaking illegal aliens.As first reported by Price in his Fiscal Year 08 Homeland Security Appropriations bill, the article highlights the federal government's glaring failure to identify and deport hundreds of thousands of illegal aliens who have been incarcerated for serious crimes committed in the US.Price contends that there should be no higher priority for immigration enforcement than the removal of undocumented individuals who have shown they are a threat to the community, and he included a significant increase in funding for this activity in his bill, along with a clear congressional mandate that ICE make this one of its top priorities.Read the Bloomberg News Article: US Unable to Deport Most Illegal Immigrants Who Commit Crimes# # #
06.29.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) wrote the following analysis of U.S. policy toward Lebanon for the Center for American Progress's Middle East Bulletin. Price is Chairman of the House Democracy Assistance Commission, which is engaged with the Lebanese parliament to support continued democratic development in the Middle East. He recently visited Lebanon with the Commission, and his impressions of the situation in that country are reflected in his recommendations for U.S. policy.*******Lebanon for Lebanon's SakeBy Rep. David Price (D-NC)Original Commentary for Middle East Bulletin6/29/07Lebanon is in trouble. It is no exaggeration to say that its government is on the verge of collapse.I recently led a delegation of the House Democracy Assistance Commission (HDAC) to Lebanon as part of our ongoing partnership with that country's parliament. We are working with the parliament to strengthen its essential institutional capabilities, such as its capacities for oversight of the executive branch, budgetary analysis, and independent legislative research. Our work has set the stage for what we hope will be a long-lasting partnership to help the parliament realize its potential as a responsive and effective branch of government.In this trip, we got a unique, first-hand understanding of the fragility of Prime Minister Fouad Siniora's government. While we were there, pro-Syrian President Emile Lahoud was announcing his plan to dissolve the government and appoint a new, six-member "national salvation government." This plan has not been enacted yet....not yet. But make no mistake: Lebanon is deeply enmeshed in a constitutional crisis of which there is no easy – or even discernible – way out. With presidential elections looming less than three months away, the stakes are rising with each passing day.During our visit, we met with leaders from nearly every political faction: Prime Minister Siniora, reform leader Saad Hariri, Speaker of the Parliament Nabih Berri, Maronite Patriarch Nasrallah Boutros Sfeir, and over 30 members of Parliament (MPs). We heard the constitutional crisis and Lebanon's current situation dissected from every angle. I came away from our visit with four key conclusions about U.S. policy there:(1) We must support the pro-reform leaders and legislators in Lebanon. We – and especially this administration – have talked a great deal about supporting democracy in the Middle East, but we have done far too little to bolster Prime Minister Siniora and the March 14 bloc in Parliament. As Lebanon continues its rebuilding following last summer's war, the U.S. can help shore up public support for the Siniora government by helping accelerate this work. Of equal importance is the need to help the government extend its reach to all parts of Lebanon, especially the South, where Hezbollah currently runs a de facto social and public services network. Above all, the United States must make it clear that it supports the leaders and the people of Lebanon, not as a piece in a complex regional puzzle, but purely for Lebanon's sake. Now is the time: these leaders are fighting, literally, for their lives.(2) U.S. support for the Lebanese military is essential. Unlike nearly every institution in Lebanon, the military is a truly cross-sectarian, national institution that enjoys overwhelming support from all sectors of the Lebanese population. It also happens to hold the key to rooting out Sunni extremists, like the Fatah al-Islam militia responsible for the recent conflict, and Hezbollah militants, and for strengthening security along Lebanon's porous borders. The U.S. should be working overtime to help train and equip the Lebanese military, strengthening it to the point where it can assume responsibility and control over the entirety of Lebanese territory.(3) Peace in Lebanon is directly linked to peace in the region. There is no shortage of reasons to pursue peaceful resolutions to long-standing disputes in the region like the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, but add this to the list. Lebanon is deeply affected by other regional disputes, especially those involving its nearest neighbors, Israel and Syria. A resolution – which a forthcoming U.N. report may make imminent – on the dispute among Israel, Lebanon, and Syria over the Shebaa Farms territory would significantly deflate Hezbollah's raison d'etre. Achieving peace in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict would have an inestimable impact on the more than 400,000 Palestinian refugees living in camps in Lebanon. And an agreement checking Iran's worrying ascendance in the region would help to ensure that events like last summer's conflict are not repeated.Hezbollah has repeatedly justified its well-armed militia on the back of two assertions: first, that it is a legitimate resistance against Israeli occupation of Shebaa Farms and, second, that the Lebanese military is too weak to protect Lebanon's sovereignty. It is naive to think that Hezbollah would suddenly give up its weapons should these justifications disappear. But, in military terms, Hezbollah's most important center of gravity is its public support. Undermining that support attacks Hezbollah at its most vulnerable point.(4) Lebanon cannot be a bargaining chip. The previous recommendation cannot be pursued without this important qualification: regardless of the potential benefits agreements negotiated with Syria or Iran might bring, Lebanon cannot be used as a bargaining chip. The United States must make clear that Lebanon's sovereignty and autonomy are not on the table for any price, including discussions about Shebaa Farms, a peace agreement between Israel and Syria, the implementation of the U.N. Tribunal examining assassinations of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri and other Lebanese leaders, Iraq's stability, or Iran's nuclear program. We must stand firm with Lebanon, no matter how attractive the prize.As long as the U.S. and its allies are firm on this point, there is significantly less reason for anxiety about developing diplomatic initiatives, like Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice's recent discussions with her Syrian counterpart and the movements toward a resumption of Israeli-Syrian talks. The latter talks hold both risk and promise. No one can doubt that, if talks between those nations in 2000 had come to fruition, Lebanon's subsequent history would have been much different. The right kind of resolution between Israel and Syria would hold tremendous benefits for Lebanon; in fact, such a resolution will almost certainly have to precede any lasting resolution of issues between Israel and Lebanon.The United States cannot and should not try to solve Lebanon's problems on its own. Lebanese leaders must take a stand – if not against Syria, then at least for their own country and its institutions. Nabih Berri's refusal to allow parliament to convene or to allow elections replacing assassinated MPs is an embarrassment and an insult to the institution over which he presides. I have also been perplexed by General Michel Aoun – once one of the most vocal opponents to Syrian dominance in Lebanon – and his followers, who now find themselves aligned with Hezbollah and in rejection of the sitting government. General Aoun and other leaders must stand up for the good of their country and demand a government that works according to the constitution and on behalf of the Lebanese people.The next few months pose several questions that will undoubtedly define Lebanon's future. Will the competing factions find a way out of the current constitutional crisis, or will the current stalemate continue indefinitely? Will Lebanon elect a president who is a true national leader, or will the next Lebanese president answer to Damascus? Will Syria successfully intimidate leaders in Lebanon and at the U.N. and prevent the Hariri tribunal from moving forward? Will the U.N.'s reexamination of Shebaa Farms and Israel's discussions with Syria yield progress on that decisive issue?These are questions that will resonate throughout the country and the region, and all are questions to which the United States should be an active participant in developing an answer. But as we engage with the Lebanese people in seeking these answers, we should not fall into the trap of considering them through the lens of our policies toward Syria, Iran, Israel, or any other regional interest. Each time I return to Lebanon, I am more and more convinced that we need to treat Lebanon, not as a proxy for some other challenge, but as a critical interest in its own right. Throughout its long history, Lebanon has been a vital center in the Middle East, a cornerstone for economic and political vitality. Let us treat it as such, working to support Lebanon for Lebanon's sake.# # #
06.28.2007	Washington, D.C. - Triangle Congressman David Price (D-NC) today wrote the U.S. Secretary of Transportation, questioning the agency's regulation of unspent oxygen canisters, following yesterday's revelation by the U.S. Chemical Safety Board that such devices contributed to last October's hazardous waste fire in Apex.In the letter Price notes that the fatal crash of ValuJet flight 592 in 1996 was blamed on expired oxygen canisters that were improperly stowed yet still combustible. As a result the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) recommended that expired canisters should be "actuated," meaning the combustible oxygen gas should be released, prior to being transported. However, the Department of Transportation has never issued regulations requiring this step to be taken."The EQ facility clearly failed to implement precautionary measures that could have prevented that horrifying fire in Apex," Price said. "And yesterday's announcement further reveals how this fire could have been prevented or at least minimized at many steps along the way. The Department of Transportation has known for years about the danger of transporting and storing expired oxygen containers without taking the necessary steps to make them safe. I want to know why the Department has not acted on the long-standing recommendation of government safety experts, which in this case might have been able to protect Apex residents from a very dangerous situation."The text of Price's letter follows.*******June 28, 2007The Honorable Mary E. PetersSecretary of TransportationU.S. Department of Transportation400 Seventh Street, SWRoom 10200Washington, DC 20590Dear Secretary Peters:I am writing concerning the U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board's (CSB) June 27, 2007 Safety Advisory regarding the Dangers of Unspent Aircraft Oxygen Generators.On October 5, 2006, a fire occurred at the EQ Industrial Services (EQ) hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal facility in Apex, North Carolina, located in my congressional district. The fire resulted in the evacuation of thousands of residents and the complete destruction of the hazardous waste building at the facility. During the course of its investigation, CSB discovered that the initial small fire observed by firefighters was in the same location as a fiberboard container of unspent aircraft oxygen generators and containers of solid chlorine-based pool chemicals awaiting final disposal. CSB has concluded that the oxygen generators most likely contributed to the rapid spread of the fire to the area where flammable hazardous wastes were stored.I am concerned that current U.S. Department of Transportation regulations are insufficient for ensuring the safety of unspent oxygen generators. Following the fatal crash of ValuJet flight 592 in 1996, the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) identified the probable cause of the crash as a fire in the cargo compartment initiated by the actuation of one or more oxygen generators improperly carried as cargo. In its findings the NTSB stated: "Given the potential hazard of transporting oxygen generators and because oxygen generators that have exceeded their service life are not reusable, they should be actuated before they are transported." There are currently no regulations in place, however, to ensure that this necessary step is taken once oxygen generators are removed from an aircraft and/or transported for disposal.The discovery of unspent oxygen generators at the site of the EQ fire raises serious safety concerns. I would appreciate a response regarding current DOT regulation of unspent oxygen generators and opportunities for more effective safety requirements. Thank you in advance for your time and attention.Sincerely,DAVID PRICEMember of Congress# # #
06.28.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) today introduced a bill to address one of the biggest challenges facing school districts throughout the country – the retention of qualified public school teachers. Today's move complements Price's ongoing efforts to expand teacher recruitment efforts at the national level.Approximately one-third of teachers leave the profession within five years of being hired, according to the non-partisan Congressional Research Service (CRS). In some schools, the five-year attrition rate reaches 50 percent. This comes at a time when schools are hard-pressed to recruit enough teachers to fill the demand of the coming years. The National Education Association recently released an assessment revealing that American schools would need to hire an additional 2 million teachers over the next decade to keep pace with student growth.Price's bill, the Keep Teachers Teaching Act, would help schools cope with these pressures by providing federal grants directly to states or school districts to develop innovative teacher retention programs. The Department of Education would identify the most promising teacher retention approaches, drawing from fully-operational programs as well as those in the pilot test phase, and share information about the success of the various approaches to states and school districts around the country."There can't be a top-down, one-size-fits-all approach to solving our teacher retention crisis," Price said. "Some of the best policy ideas generate at the state and local level. My legislation seeks to identify and support those programs that produce results and to encourage other states to draw on the experience of their counterparts and work toward their own solutions."Price spotlighted the Kenan Fellows Program at North Carolina State University as an example of a promising state-wide effort. Kenan Fellows are public school teachers who partner with scientists and university faculty for two years to develop innovative math, science and technology curricula for use in classrooms all across North Carolina."We've got to encourage teachers to stay in the classroom," Price said. "Whether it's supporting their professional development, providing them with the tools to perform their work, or contributing to a more positive working environment, the states and local districts have the awareness to come up with solutions. And at the federal level, we should help spark the innovation."Price has been a leader in Congress on legislation to address the impending teacher shortage. He has been working for years to build on North Carolina's success at recruiting qualified teachers through the Teaching Fellows program by proposing legislation to expand access to similar programs throughout the country. The House recently approved legislation that would provide incentives for students to become math and science teachers in the public schools while offering professional development opportunities through the National Science Foundation and the Department of Education. (Read more about 10,000 Teachers, 10,000 Minds Act).Price has proposed his new teacher retention proposal for consideration during the upcoming reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (also known as No Child Left Behind). Last month, as the House Education and Labor Committee was preparing to consider the No Child Left Behind Act, Price testified before the committee on his ideas for teacher recruitment and retention. Read his testimony here.# # #
06.15.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) today hailed passage of the Homeland Security Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (H.R. 2638), which he authored as chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security. The bill, which provides a total of $36.254 billion in discretionary funding for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), passed in the House by a vote of 268 – 150.Since he was appointed chairman of the subcommittee, Price has held 20 oversight hearings with DHS officials, outside experts and stakeholders from throughout the country. Price says the subcommittee's extensive investigation of Department activities helped produced a well-informed funding bill."The testimony we heard over the last several months helped us identify numerous security vulnerabilities and management problems to which our bill offers thoughtfully considered solutions," Price said.Highlights from the bill include:• A new emphasis on port security and on rail and transit systems;• Increased funding to states and communities to confront not only the threat of terrorist activity, but also natural disasters and the emergency situations they must deal with every day;• Management reforms and additional oversight to ensure investments of taxpayer money are made wisely and productively;• Significant additional investments in explosive detection systems at airports and double the amount of cargo screened on passenger aircraft;• Additional investments in northern and southern border security and increased emphasis on tracking and deporting criminal aliens; and,• Additional privacy protections in DHS programs that collect personal data."The American people demand results from their government when it comes to homeland security," Price said. "Our subcommittee worked in a diligent, bipartisan way to produce a bill that will lead to better preparedness and enhanced response capabilities for the federal government and the states and localities we depend on."After three days of debate, two of which were occupied by Republican delaying tactics, Price said he was glad the House was finally able to proceed with the important issues facing the county."Despite attempts from a small core of Republicans to delay consideration of the important items contained in this bill, the House finally passed this critical legislation. I only wish more Republican members would have voted to address the security needs of this country, rather than bowing to pressure from the White House," Price said. "Securing the homeland should never be about politics and partisanship; the threats posed to our communities from terrorism and natural disasters endanger all of us."The Senate companion to the Price bill is working its way through that chamber. After both the House and Senate pass their versions of the funding bill, a conference committee will convene to arrive at a final bill to be passed in both chambers and sent to the President for his signature.
06.08.2007	The State Department continues to experience significant delays in processing passport applications, with waiting periods exceeding 12 weeks. On June 8, 2007, under significant pressure from Congress, the U.S. Departments of State and Homeland Security temporarily waived a requirement that U.S. citizens re-entering the country from Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, and Bermuda have passports as proof of identity.Under the temporary waiver, which will end on September 30, 2007, U.S. citizens traveling to these destinations can re-enter the United States with a government-issued photo identification (such as a driver's license) and documentation from the U.S. Statement Department showing they have applied for a passport. IMPORTANT NOTE: THIS ANNOUNCEMENT DOES NOT WAIVE THE REQUIREMENTS FOR ENTRY INTO FOREIGN COUNTRIES. YOUR DESTINATION COUNTRY MAY REQUIRE ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTATION FOR ENTRY THE STATE DEPARTMENT CAN ONLY WAIVE REQUIRMENTS FOR EXIT FROM AND ENTRY INTO THE UNITED STATES.While this development will help facilitate the travel plans of individuals traveling to Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, and Bermuda, travelers to other foreign destinations may still face significant wait times for new passports. Therefore, passport applicants should plan accordingly by submitting applications at least four months in advance of anticipated travel dates. (For residents of the Fourth Congressional District whose departure date is within two weeks and who have applied for but not yet received a passport, please contact my staff in Raleigh, Durham or Chapel Hill. We may be able to help you through the State Department's congressional passport inquiry line. Please see my office contact information at the bottom of the page.)The current delays are associated with a surge in passport applications related to the implementation of the first phase of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI). WHTI, a Department of Homeland Security program, requires passports as proof of identity for anyone entering the United States from Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean and Bermuda. The passport requirement was initiated for air travelers in early 2007, with a planned expansion to land and sea ports of entry in 2008 or 2009.There is simply no excuse for the Department's failure to anticipate the increased demand for passports stimulated by implementation of WHTI. I have written to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice calling for major changes in the Department's passport application program to more efficiently handle the increased demand for passports.As the Chairman of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, I also recently included instructions in the Fiscal Year 2008 Homeland Security Appropriations bill for the Department of Homeland Security to closely coordinate with the Department of State to more adequately plan and prepare for the next phase of WHTI implementation to ensure that it does not create the kind of backlogs we are experiencing today. That bill is expected to reach the House floor next week.# # #
06.07.2007	Additional Price Legislation Would Ensure All Votes are CountedWashington, D.C. - In response to voter discontent over the increasing number of negative campaign ads flooding the airwaves, Congressmen Christopher Shays (R-CT) and David Price (D-NC) have introduced legislation that will allow candidates to request - without risk of violating campaign finance law - that their national party committees not pay for advertising in their races.Price also reintroduced separate legislation to allow additional time to conduct a ballot recount in the event of a disputed presidential election.The Shays-Price bill, known as the Independent Expenditure Opt-Out Act, would address a problem that has become evident over the last few election cycles, in which we have seen a significant increase in the number of negative ads being run by national parties. Under current law, the arm of party committees that makes independent expenditures to pay for such ads is prohibited from coordinating its activities with the candidate who the ads are intended to benefit. The law even prohibits candidates from asking their party committee not to run advertisements in their race. The Independent Expenditure Opt-Out Act would empower candidates to act if they feel that party-sponsored advertisements run counter to the values they espouse."Negative advertising makes Americans less interested in the political process and raises distrust of elected officials," stated Shays, a long time advocate for campaign finance reform. "Many people don't know that candidates don't have any control over these advertisements. This legislation will give candidates the ability to try to run a cleaner campaign.""This simple measure is about giving candidates the ability to reject mudslinging – even if it's being used against their opponents," Price said. "If a candidate wants to run a clean campaign but an outside group is running attack ads against his or her opponent, that candidate should have the right to ask the group to stop. This bill makes it clear that candidates can exercise that right without fear of violating campaign finance law."Nothing in this legislation would bind a party committee to follow a candidate's request, as the party's right to run independent advertisements has been ruled constitutional by the Supreme Court. Nor would the bill create a broad exemption for coordination between candidates and national committees; the communication would have to be limited to a simple request not to run any campaign advertisements. Instead, it would provide a simple clarification of current law to let candidates take the high road if they so choose.Meanwhile, Price also re-introduced his bill to allow additional time for conducting recounts in presidential elections. The Count Every Vote Act would push back the date when the Electoral College meets to officially select the winner of the presidency from mid-December to early January. Price originally introduced this bill in response to the Florida debacle during the 2000 presidential election, in which a recount was cut short by the Supreme Court due in part to the imminent meeting of the Electoral College."We have an obligation to go to the greatest lengths to ensure that the results of our elections are accurate," Price said. "The public's trust in our electoral system is a cornerstone of our democracy, and that trust should never be undermined by a simple scheduling conflict."These two bills continue Price's long record of advocacy for clean and fair elections. Earlier this year he introduced a bipartisan bill to close a loophole in campaign finance law that allows political candidates and campaign committees to skirt responsibility for ads conveyed online. That bill, the Responsible Campaign Communications Act (H.R. 894), would also seek to curb the deceptive use of prerecorded telephone calls, or "robo-calls." Price also collaborated with Shays earlier this year to introduce a bill (H.R. 776) intended to salvage the public financing system for presidential campaigns.# # #
06.06.2007	Price, Butterfield Worked to Include the Prohibition in the BillWashington, D.C. - A key House committee today approved a bill that would block funding for the Navy's plan to locate an Outlying Landing Field (OLF) in Washington County, NC.The site has raised objections from the surrounding communities, environmentalists, sportsmen, and numerous state and local leaders.Reps. David Price (NC-04) and G.K. Butterfield (NC-01) worked with their colleagues on the Military Construction Appropriations Subcommittee to strip the funding. Price is a member of the full Appropriations Committee and a former member of the military construction subcommittee. The bill, which passed the full committee with unanimous support today, is slated to move to the House floor within two weeks.The funding prohibition follows House approval of a Defense Bill that would de-authorize the OLF project in Washington County. That bill is now working its way through the Senate."Today's action will allow us to cover all our bases as these two bills that impact the OLF move forward in Congress," Price said. "This should leave no room for doubt that we are serious about blocking any plans to locate a landing field next to the Pocosin National Wildlife Refuge.""This is another clear, strong and simple message from Congress to the Navy about the need to choose a suitable location," Butterfield said. "Now it's time for the state and Navy work together and move forward."The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill allocates $64.7 billion in funding for the military's construction needs and for military and veterans' health care. The bill prohibits the Navy from pursuing "any activity related to the construction of an Outlying Landing Field in Washington County, North Carolina."In the report accompanying the bill, the committee expressly disavows the Navy's selection of Site C in Washington County. The report also acknowledges the ongoing discussions between the Navy and the State of North Carolina to broker a mutually acceptable site for the landing field, and it pledges the committee's intent "to closely monitor the Navy's progress in considering alternative locations in North Carolina, and expects the Navy to fully and fairly consider pilot safety, negative environmental impacts, and potential disruptive effects on surrounding communities in its consideration of such sites." The report also requires the Navy to deliver a progress report to Congress on its efforts to find an alternative site by July 31, 2007.Price and Butterfield also hailed the bill for fulfilling our nation's obligation to its servicemen and women, their families and our veterans. It provides the largest increase in funding for veterans health care in the VA's 77-year history, adding over 1,000 new claims processors to reduce the backlog of 400,000 benefits claims. It also increases funding to address the VA's repair and maintenance needs to prevent a Walter Reed type scandal from occurring in the VA system.# # #Bill to Block Funds for OLF in Washington Co. Moves to House Floor
06.05.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (NC-04) submitted the following remarks today during debate of a resolution recognizing the 40th anniversary of Israel's victory in the Six-Day War. Price joined his colleagues in commemorated Israel's important victory, which "helped secure [its] continuing existence as a sovereign nation."But Price expressed his disappointment that the resolution could undermine American efforts to broker a peaceful solution to the crisis in Israel and the Palestinian Territories. He noted that provisions in the legislation supported an "obsolete notion" of an undivided city of Jerusalem under sole Israeli control, an idea that "has not been part of any serious peace proposal...in the last several years," and which "fails to reflect the present reality in Jerusalem."The text of Price's statement follows.*******"Mr. Speaker, I rise to address H. Con. Res. 152, recognizing the 40th anniversary of Israel's victory in the Six-Day War. This resolution will pass by a large majority, but I fear that it will become the latest in a series of missed opportunities for this body to support a viable peace process in the Middle East."This resolution has several positive features. It is appropriate to commemorate Israel's victory in the Six-Day War. Its overwhelming military victory helped to secure Israel's continuing existence as a sovereign nation, something that was very much in doubt on the eve of the conflict."I particularly support the third clause of the resolution, which commends Egypt and Jordan for their bold and brave decisions to reach peace with Israel. Their leadership has been a critical, if often underappreciated, guarantor of Israel's security and survival, and I continue to hope that other nations in the region will follow their lead."It is also important to affirm that Jerusalem is the rightful capital of Israel, while acknowledging that the Palestinian people also have a claim to Jerusalem as a capital and as a sacred city."Nevertheless, I am concerned that this resolution, while calling for peace negotiations, actually undermines U.S. efforts to secure the trust of all sides in the search for peace. The resolution pursues an obsolete notion, put forth as if the last decade of peace negotiations simply had not occurred."The idea of an undivided Jerusalem under sole Israeli sovereignty has not been part of any serious peace proposal--proffered by Israelis, Palestinians, or the international community--in the last several years. Israel's 2000 Camp David proposal and the Clinton compromise proposal, the 2002 Road Map for Middle East Peace, the 2003 Geneva Initiative, the 2003 ''People's Voice'' Initiative offered by Ami Ayalon and Sari Nuseibeh: none of these plans envision an undivided Jerusalem under sole Israeli sovereignty."And this idea is not just outdated in theory; it fails to reflect the present reality in Jerusalem. Israel's security barrier is rapidly creating a physical barrier between already segregated neighborhoods of East and West Jerusalem."Recognizing Jerusalem as the undivided capital of Israel under sole Israeli sovereignty does not help to bring peace to Jerusalem or Israel, nor does it help achieve the vision the resolution espouses. In fact, the only thing likely to fully guarantee Jerusalem as the permanent capital of Israel is the official, international recognition of Israel's neighbors and the entire international community--and this recognition is unlikely so long as Palestinian claims to their own capital and sacred city are denied."As Christians, Jews, and Muslims, we can best honor our holy city by helping it become a model of peace, unity, and reconciliation. Doing so requires sustained, courageous, and open-minded efforts to promote negotiations, stand against violence, and find solutions. Congress and our Administration must play a much more effective role, returning our nation to active and sustained engagement in seeking peace."I just returned from a brief visit to Jerusalem, now divided, threatened, strained by the anxiety of constant conflict. It is my great hope to one day visit a revitalized Jerusalem, undivided and shared as the capital of Israel and an independent Palestinian state, where Jews, Muslims, and Christians live together in peace and mutually honor the sites sacred to all of us. I can only wish that the resolution before us more adequately expressed this aspiration."# # #
06.05.2007	Washington, D.C. - The House Appropriations Committee today approved the Fiscal Year 2008 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill by a voice vote.The bill, authored by Homeland Security Subcommittee Chairman David Price (D-NC), makes key investments in our nation's security vulnerabilities, it requires greater accountability in the government's expense of taxpayer dollars, and it directs the Department of Homeland Security to assess and respond to the risks to our country, both natural and man-made in nature. The bill will now move to the House floor for consideration.Chairman Price's opening statement to the committee explaining the bill follows below.*******Opening Statement of Chairman David Price:Full Committee Mark-up of theFY 2008 Homeland Security Appropriations ActI want to start by saying how proud I am of the work our subcommittee has done over the last several months Through the 20 hearings we have held so far this year, featuring testimony from Department officials, watchdog agencies, and outside experts, numerous security vulnerabilities and management problems have been identified and solutions offered. I believe that the mark that I am asking all Committee members to approve is well informed by what we learned in those hearings.I want to express my gratitude to the distinguished ranking member, Mr. Rogers, both for his leadership as the inaugural chairman of this subcommittee and, more recently, for his contributions as ranking member. Hal established a strong, bipartisan approach to providing vigilant oversight of the Department, and I have endeavored to continue on that path.In total, the bill before us contains $36.254 billion in discretionary funding, which is $2.5 billion, or more than 7 percent, above the funding appropriated in 2007 (including emergency funding), and $2 billion, or 5 percent, above the amounts requested by President Bush. I hope you will agree that the country's outstanding homeland security vulnerabilities more than justify this level of funding.The mark does four important things.First, it provides funding to address our country's most pressing security vulnerabilities, with a new emphasis on our ports and on rail and transit systems.Second, the bill provides critically needed funding to our states and communities to confront not only the threat of terrorist activity, but also natural disasters and the emergency situations they must deal with every day. Homeland security requires a faithful partnership among the federal government, states, and local communities. This bill honors that partnership.Third, the bill helps to ensure that taxpayer dollars are well spent by requiring specific management reforms related to contracting, procurement, and competition. It cuts $1.234 billion below the FY 2007 levels and $244 million below the requested amounts for programs and activities that are not performing well or for which increased or level funding has not been adequately justified. And it withholds a total of $1.9 billion from various programs until the Department submits detailed expenditure plans.And fourth, the bill takes a long term approach by requiring outside reviews of several major programs and activities to ensure that long term investments of taxpayer money are made wisely and productively. For instance, we are commissioning studies by the National Academies of Science on the current direction of the BioWatch program and on the Department's risk analysis capabilities and the improvements needed to ensure that investments are well targeted.The funding increases provided in this bill address the security vulnerabilities identified by numerous expert groups, including the 9-11 Commission, and the Hart-Rudman Commission. They also fund security actions mandated in the SAFE Ports Act and the Katrina Reform Act.Aviation explosive detection systems are funded in total at $849 million, $324 million more than the regular 2007 bill.Air cargo security is funded at $73 million, $18 million more than the 2007 bill. And the bill directs TSA to double the amount of cargo it screens prior to loading onto passenger aircraft.Transit security grants are funded at $400 million, $225 million more than the 2007 bill.Port security grants are funded at $400 million, $190 million more than the 2007 bill. In addition, $40 million is provided for the Coast Guard to implement the requirements of the SAFE Ports Act.Emergency management performance grants are funded at $300 million, $100 million more than the 2007 bill.Metropolitan medical response system grants are funded at $50 million, $17 million more than 2007.State homeland security and law enforcement terrorism prevention grants are funded at $950 million, $50 million more than 2007.Urban area security grants are funded at $800 million, $30 million more than the 2007 bill.REAL ID and interoperable communication grants are funded in total at $100 million, in contrast to no funding provided in 2007.Fire grants are funded at $800 million, $138 million more than 2007.FEMA management and administration is funded at $685 million, $150 million more than 2007.I want to highlight a number of other provisions in the bill that are particularly important. We have all heard about contracts and awards from the Department that were not competed. FEMA recently submitted a list of nearly 4,000 contracts that were never competitively bid. This bill mandates that all grant and contract funds be awarded through full and open competitive processes, except when other funding distribution mechanisms are required by statute. This approach creates a level playing field and also ensures that there are no congressional or administration earmarks in the bill.In addition, the bill addresses a major immigration vulnerability that exists today. It requires that ICE obtain information, on a monthly basis, from correctional facilities throughout the United States to identify incarcerated immigrants who are subject to deportation. Although ICE deports some number of these individuals now, it is not systematically identifying and deporting them. There is simply no excuse for failing to identify every deportable alien and deporting them immediately upon their release from prison. This activity should be among the first priorities in our illegal immigration enforcement strategy, and the bill provides funding and direction to DHS accordingly.The bill funds the Secure Border Initiative at the requested level of $1 billion, while requiring the Department to clearly justify how it plans to use these funds to achieve operational control of our borders. For each border segment, the Department will have to produce an analysis comparing its selected approach to alternatives based on total cost, level of control achieved, impact on affected communities, and other factors.We are requiring the Department to seek the advice and support of each local community affected by a border infrastructure project. I want to be clear that this does not require that border communities agree to projects before they proceed; it only requires the Department to actively and faithfully consult those communities to ensure that our border security efforts minimize adverse community impacts. I think that is reasonable to ask of the Department, and the Department agrees that such consultation is appropriate.We are also directing the Department to increase by over 40 percent the number of border patrol agents on the northern border, to comply with the levels called for in the Intelligence Reform Act.In addition, the bill addresses a Customs and Border Protection staffing problem that we heard about on our February trip to the southwest border. Because CBP officers are not considered "law enforcement officers," or LEO, despite the increasing role of law enforcement in their duties, they don't receive the same benefits as DHS personnel who are considered LEO. This has made it extremely difficult to hold on to CBP officers. In a nutshell, the bill would allow eligible CBP officers to transition to LEO status beginning in FY 2008.The Transportation Security Administration's loss of the personal data of thousands of its employees is only the most recent example of the privacy problems plaguing the Department. This bill withholds funding for certain DHS programs until the proper privacy protections are in place because security and privacy can and should go hand in hand.There are a few other provisions that I would like to mention. First, the bill includes language mandating that stricter state and local chemical security laws and regulations cannot be preempted by the federal government. Second, the bill mandates that all grant and contract funds comply with Davis-Bacon prevailing wage requirements. Third, the $101 million in the bill for the new DHS campus facility at St. Elizabeth's will not be available until the Department submits an explosive detection equipment spending plan and promulgates long-overdue regulations on U-Visas for victims of domestic violence, rape, and involuntary servitude. This withholding of funds should not be interpreted as a signal of tepid support for the development of the St. Elizabeth's campus; the Department – and the country – should be better served by co-locating most of its headquarters components onto a single campus. This is simply our way of signaling that any further delay on an explosive detection plan and the overdue U-Visa rule is completely unacceptable.
06.04.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC), along with officials from the US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) today broke ground on a new Triangle facility to serve central North Carolina's growing population of immigrants applying for citizenship and residency status adjustments. Previously, North Carolina residents had to trek to an overburdened Charlotte facility to apply for immigration services. Recognizing the need for a new office, Price had worked for years to encourage USCIS to look to the Triangle for the placement of a satellite office. The new facility is scheduled to open to the public in March 2008.Below are Congressman Price's remarks at the groundbreaking.*******It is a pleasure to join everyone for this important and long-sought celebration.As we know from the ongoing debate in Washington, immigration is one of the most consuming and high profile issues in our public discourse. I am hopeful that the current proposal before the Congress will be improved and finally lead to a solution for our country's enormous immigration challenges. Comprehensive reform is desperately needed to fix the mismatch between official policy and our labor market needs, a mismatch that has left immigrants, their families and employers alike in an untenable situation.But today is not about that national debate. Rather, we are here to mark a major improvement in our local immigration service and a path-breaking project that will set a new standard nationwide. We have long known that the Triangle needs a field immigration office. Our diverse economy and good quality of life draw workers of every skill level and many backgrounds from all around the world.I know this by personal experience. I employ two people in my local offices to work on the constant flow of immigration cases, and approximately 80 percent of each staffer's time is devoted to such casework.For several years, North Carolina has had the highest number of applicants and petitioners for immigration services and benefits in the nation. Applicants and petitioners in the Triangle and eastern part of the state faced an additional burden beyond lines, paperwork, and backlogs – the long trips back and forth between their homes and Charlotte.We felt strongly that if any state should receive a USCIS sub-office, it should be North Carolina. So we set out to make our case for a Triangle immigration office. It was a long uphill struggle that involved many people and agencies along the way. But after 10 years of increasing needs, extensive efforts and persistence, we are finally here today to break ground.I am proud to be a part of this event today and look forward to the near future when those who have come to our country to better their lives and enhance our society can complete their immigration process right here, in our own community. We are lucky to live amid such diversity. We hope this office will make those seeking legal status feel even more welcome here.# # #
05.25.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) submitted the following statement during debate of the Iraq War supplemental funding bill. Price voted against the bill, which he faulted for not including provisions to bring about an end to the war. He noted, however, that the bill includes important benchmarks for political progress in Iraq, and he pledged to continue applying pressure on the President to change his failed war policy.The bill passed the House last night by a vote of 280-142. The Senate also passed the bill and it now awaits the President's signature in order to become law.******"Mr. Speaker, today we are asked to vote for a fourth time in two months on legislation to provide funding for the ongoing military mission in Iraq."The tally of this vote will reflect the dilemma facing this Congress as well as the American people. We are torn by two deeply held sentiments: on the one hand, we support our troops and want to make sure they are protected and supported in the field of battle; on the other hand, we are frustrated by a failed war policy and a President too stubborn to change course."I voted against giving the President the authority to wage war in Iraq. I have introduced legislation to place a termination date on that authorization and to require the President to formulate and execute an exit strategy. But I have consistently voted for bills to fund the war effort because that funding is essential to our troops in the field. Over the last two months alone, I have voted three times for funding for the troops in different versions of a supplemental appropriations bill. But I will not vote YES today."In addition to funding troop needs, the previous versions of the bill – despite differences among them and the compromises they contained – would have made substantial progress toward bringing this war to an end. The legislation before us today takes some modest steps forward by including benchmarks for progress for the first time and requiring the Administration to report on whether its strategy is achieving them. Unfortunately, however, it does not advance us nearly far enough toward ending this war and putting Iraqis in charge of their own governance and defense."The progress the bill does make has been the result of the pressure brought to bear by the prior supplemental votes. I will be voting against this bill as a way of helping maintain and increase that pressure."Let no one mistake the significance of the vote we take today. This fourth vote is not primarily about material support for the troops – every member of this body supports our troops. This vote is fundamentally about the future of our policy in Iraq."Even if this bill were to fail today, the result would not be a cut-off of funding for the troops. The result would be to force the Administration to give ground it should have given long ago, and that, sooner or later, I believe it will be forced to give by this Congress."There is nothing about our military strategy that can solve what are fundamentally political and sectarian conflicts among Iraqis. Military and intelligence leaders have consistently declared that the solution in Iraq will be political and diplomatic in nature, not military. We have increasingly asked the military to work toward goals that military force cannot achieve: political agreements between intransigent Iraqi leaders, equitable sharing of power and resources, and an end to sectarian-based civil war. In the meantime, our presence has become a provocation for insurgency and a magnet for international terrorism."We have, in short, left our troops in an impossible situation. I am not willing to vote to fund their operations without at the same time compelling a change in policy that will bring them home."The struggle to change the U.S. course in Iraq is not over. The American people are speaking loudly and clearly. Our efforts over the last two months have moved the debate in the right direction, and we will continue exerting pressure on the Administration to alter its course in the days and weeks to come as we consider other legislation related to the war. In fact, it should not escape notice that we also passed today a resolution requiring consideration of legislation in September that would require an end to the occupation of Iraq."Our goal in considering the President's supplemental appropriations request was to confront the President over his failed policy and to force a change in course. Even as this supplemental legislation likely passes into law, we can be confident that we have taken important steps toward this goal. We have demonstrated to the Administration that it can no longer proceed with its failed policy unaccountably. While many in the House and the other body, where the power of filibuster can be used to obstruct progress, have resisted efforts to craft a more effective Iraq policy, the President and his allies in Congress have been put on notice that the tide is turning."I regret that this bill will not immediately bring the change to our Iraq policy that we so desperately need. But it does represent one more turn of the screw. The President should recognize that a growing number of Members of this Congress, and a clear majority of the American people, will continue boring deeper toward the heart of his failed policy. And we will not stop turning until our troops begin to come home."# # #
05.17.2007	Washington, D.C. - Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation to increase transparency and accountability in the government's use of armed contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan.The measure was attached to the Department of Defense Authorization bill. During floor debate, the House also approved an amendment offered by Reps. David Price (D-NC) and Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) designed to further strengthen the bill's efforts to improve the government's ability to oversee contracting activities.Price has been working for the last three years to clarify and enhance the rules governing the use of private contractors on the battlefield. There is currently scant information regarding the tens of thousands of armed contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan, and Congress therefore has limited ability to exercise appropriate oversight of them. Unfortunately, the rules governing contractor behavior are clear to neither the contractor nor the government, which has led to a confusing legal scenario in which rogue contractors can act without fear of retribution. Despite many documented incidents of the alleged violent criminal misconduct by contractors, the Justice Department has filed charges in only one case of such abuse by a contractor in Iraq.In response to Price's concerns, Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton (D-MO) included several provisions in his committee's bill based on legislation Price has authored which would facilitate identifying and reporting cases of abuse by rogue contractors, and establish clear regulations, accountability mechanisms, and strong oversight for battlefield contracting.During House floor debate, Price joined Schakowsky in offering an amendment which would strengthen these provisions by requiring the government to issue guidance on uniforms and weapons for contractors, track information on contractor casualties, and give Congress access to a comprehensive database on contracting activities in Iraq and Afghanistan. The amendment would also require the Defense Department to explain its plans to implement a law passed in last year's Defense Authorization bill, which places civilian contractors under the legal authority of the military justice system. The Schakowsky-Price Amendment passed by a unanimous voice vote."This bill dramatically changes the rules of the game for battlefield contracting," Price said. "To this point, I think it's fair to say that there have been no rules in many cases, and that contractors haven't been made aware of the rules that exist. With this legislation, the executive branch will be required to set out a clear framework for battlefield contracting, and Congress will be granted access to the information we need to hold the government accountable for enforcing this framework in a fair and just way."Price plans to continue pressing for further reforms to ensure that allegations of abuse by armed contractors are fully investigated and prosecuted by the Justice and Defense Departments.Below are Price's remarks on the amendment on the House floor.******"I rise in support of the Schakowsky-Price amendment, and I thank my colleague, Mrs. Schakowsky, for yielding time and for her excellent work on this issue."I also want to thank [House Armed Services Committee] Chairman Skelton for the significant steps this bill takes in addressing the vast challenges surrounding battlefield contracting. He generously worked with me to include key elements of H.R. 369, my bill regarding security contractors, and I appreciate his leadership."Very quickly, I want to highlight three additional key improvements this amendment will make to the language in the bill:"First, it will require the departments doing the vast majority of contracting – DoD, State, USAID – to track contractor casualties. We believe over 800 contractors have been killed in Iraq, and many more injured. But what is the exact toll? Right now, nobody knows. Our amendment will change that."Second, it will require these departments, when appropriate, to issue guidance on appropriate equipment and uniforms for contractors."And third, it will require the departments to clarify how a provision inserted in last year's defense authorization bill – which places certain contractors under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) – will be implemented. The DoD, which is responsible for the administration of UCMJ, has so far refrained from implementing or issuing guidance on this controversial provision."These are three simple but important additions that I think make the bill's current language even stronger, ensuring that the agencies engaged in contracting on the battlefield will develop an effective framework for managing and overseeing contractors."Four years into the war in Iraq, after all the stories of waste, abuse, and criminal misconduct, I think we can agree that this is not too much to ask. I urge my colleagues to support the amendment."# # #
05.16.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) today called on his colleagues to address the impending teacher shortage by passing robust recruitment and retention programs.Price testified before the House Education and Labor Committee, which is drafting legislation to reauthorize the major federal elementary and secondary education program known as No Child Left Behind. He warned the committee that local school districts will need to hire an estimated 2.5 million teachers over the next ten years in order to keep pace with growing demand.Price said any legislation to address the impending teacher shortage must combine federal scholarships with preparation and enrichment programs to fully support teachers as they enter the classroom. The ten-term congressman has authored a bill (H.R. 1828) which would encourage states across the country to replicate the successful North Carolina Teaching Fellows Program. That program provides scholarships and support services to prospective teachers in exchange for their pledge to work in the public school system after graduation. Price said that reciprocal obligation and community service are essential to the success of Teaching Fellows.Price also described legislation he is working on to help local districts retain teachers. His bill would provide federal grants directly to states or school districts to develop innovative teacher retention programs, such as NC State's Kenan Fellows program.Below are his remarks as prepared.*******"I thank the distinguished Chairman and Ranking Member for giving me the opportunity to testify before the Committee today about the reauthorization of the No Child Left Behind Act. In particular, I want to highlight the law's teacher recruitment and retention provisions."In order to keep pace with anticipated teacher retirements and the growing student population, local school districts will need to hire an estimated 2.5 million teachers over the next ten years! And not just any warm body will do. Under the No Child Left Behind Act, every teacher was supposed to have been "highly-qualified" by the end of the 2005-2006 school year, a goal that has not yet been achieved. In order to meet these challenges, we must embark on an unprecedented teacher recruitment and retention effort."Chairman Miller has introduced comprehensive legislation, the Teacher Excellence for All Children Act (H.R. 2204), which seeks to elevate the teaching profession, increase the supply of new teachers, and recognize the effectiveness of veteran teachers. The TEACH Act would improve the recruitment, preparation, and retention of excellent teachers through peer mentoring programs, financial incentives, and the development of student data tracking systems."In related action, the House recently approved Rep. Gordon's 10,000 Teachers, 10 Million Minds Science and Math Scholarship Act (H.R. 362), which would provide scholarships for college students in STEM fields who commit to teaching after graduation. That bill is a critical step for recruiting math and science teachers, which are in particularly short supply."The experience of my state shows, however, that we must go further if we want individuals to make teaching their career. It is not enough to simply dispense scholarships. We must combine federal scholarships with preparation and enrichment programs to socialize students into the teaching profession and to mentor and support them as they enter the classroom."In 1986, the North Carolina General Assembly established the Teaching Fellows program, which currently produces 500 highly qualified and enthusiastic new teachers each year. I believe it offers a model for national emulation, and that is why I reintroduced the Teaching Fellows Act as H.R. 1828 early in the current Congress.The Teaching Fellows Act would establish two tracks for recruiting new teachers. First, it would offer scholarships to students graduating from high school or in their sophomore year of college, when they would perhaps be better prepared to make a mature choice about committing to a teaching career."Second, through partnerships with community colleges, the bill would offer fellowships to community college students, particularly those being trained as teaching assistants, to go on and obtain a bachelor's degree and full teaching certification. Students attending community colleges are often deeply rooted in their local communities, including rural and inner-city areas where the need for well qualified teachers is the greatest. Identifying and training a cadre of "homegrown" teachers is a promising strategy for meeting our most pressing teacher recruitment challenges."These programs do not merely throw money at individual students but promote, through rich extracurricular programs, esprit de corps and collaborative learning. They strengthen professional identity and provide a support system as students first enter the classroom as teachers. Students would participate in various community and school-based internships and experiences that go well beyond normal teacher preparation. These enrichment programs, which would aim to socialize a young teacher into the profession, could feature a variety of components ranging from school system orientations and educational seminars to Outward Bound programs and international travel."In exchange, scholarship recipients would be required to teach in a public school for a minimum period of time equivalent to the length of their scholarship plus one year. The idea of reciprocal obligation and community service are essential to the success of these programs."In the 108th Congress, I was pleased that the bipartisan Committee leadership worked with me and former Congressman Cass Ballenger to enhance the teacher recruitment provisions of the Ready to Teach Act in accordance with the Teaching Fellows Act. Those provisions were again included in the comprehensive higher education legislation considered by the House in 2006. It is not of great concern to me whether a Teaching Fellows-type program is made part of a higher education or an elementary and secondary education authorization. But I urge you to consider it as an approach to teacher recruitment of proven worth."Now let me turn to teacher retention – a challenge that equals or excels the challenge of recruitment. According to the Congressional Research Service, approximately one-third of teachers leave the profession within five years of being hired because of poor working conditions, low pay, low morale, lack of a pathway for professional advancement, or other reasons. In some schools, the five-year attrition rate reaches 50 percent."Effective programs to address this problem are already at work in school districts around the country, and many more innovative programs could be advanced if the right kind of resources were available. The Kenan Fellows Program, administered by North Carolina State University, is an example of a model program that is already working and could be replicated in other states. Kenan Fellows are public school teachers who partner with scientists and university faculty for two years to develop innovative math, science and technology curricula for use in classrooms all across North Carolina."I am drafting legislation modeled on the Advanced Technological Education program at the National Science Foundation, which was established in the early 1990's through legislation I authored. The ATE program provides grants to community colleges to develop innovative technological education curricula and teaching methods that can be disseminated to other community colleges around the country. Like the ATE program, the teacher retention legislation I will be introducing would provide federal grants directly to states or school districts to develop innovative teacher retention programs. The Department of Education would be charged with identifying the most promising teacher retention approaches, including those already working and those developed through the pilots, and disseminating information about those approaches to states and school districts around the country. Innovation at the state and local level is the key to solving the teacher retention issue, and I believe federal support can help leverage the unleashing of the existing innovative potential."I commend Chairman Miller for introducing the TEACH Act, which takes a comprehensive approach to solving the teacher recruitment and retention problem. My retention proposal would complement that approach by piloting and identifying innovative retention strategies. I ask you to give it serious consideration as you work to reauthorize the No Child Left Behind Act."Again, I thank the Committee for inviting me here today, and I look forward to working with members from both sides of the aisle to encourage our best and brightest to enter and remain in the field of teaching."# # #
05.11.2007	Washington, D.C. - This week Rep. David Price (D-NC) reported progress on two of his efforts to promote accountability for private contractors performing sensitive national security tasks for the government.In response to his concerns, the House Intelligence Committee included in its Intelligence Authorization bill (H.R. 2082) new reporting and disclosure requirements for the Director of National Intelligence (DNI). Under the bill, the DNI will be required to report to Congress every year on the number of contractors working for the intelligence agencies, the full costs associated with those contracts, and the measures in place to hold contractors accountable for waste, fraud, abuse, or criminal violations.During consideration of the Intelligence bill late last night, the House passed an amendment offered by Price that would require the DNI to conduct a comprehensive examination of the activities currently being performed by contractors, the minimum standards for hiring and training contractors, whether contractors save taxpayer money, and which intelligence activities, including sensitive tasks such as interrogation and electronic surveillance, are appropriate for contracting out to private entities.Meanwhile, the House Armed Services Committee has approved its Defense Authorization Bill (H.R. 1585), which also includes provisions Price has advocated that will lead to greater accountability and transparency in the government's use of armed contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan.Price worked with Armed Services Chairman Ike Skelton (D-MO) and others on provisions to facilitate identifying and reporting cases of abuse by rogue contractors, and to establish clear regulations, accountability mechanisms, and strong oversight for battlefield contracting. To date, contractors have been operating in a virtual legal vacuum. Despite many documented incidents of the alleged violent criminal misconduct by contractors, the Justice Department has filed charges in only one case of such abuse by a contractor in Iraq.Price's provisions will require the State Department, the Defense Department and the US Agency for International Development (US AID) to create a mutual framework for managing contractors and will require them to establish regulations in a number of important areas that have been unregulated thus far. For the first time, these agencies will be required to:-Maintain a comprehensive database of contractors working in Iraq and Afghanistan that will include the type of work, the cost, the number of personnel, the cost of security, the number of security personnel, and the overhead costs;-Coordinate movements of contractors in the battle zone (so their operations are consistent with the military's mission and that their activities do not endanger US troops);-Regulate the authority of contractor personnel to carry weapons, issue rules of engagement for security contractors, and establish minimum qualifications, including background checks for vetting armed security personnel;-Collect and refer information relating to criminal misconduct to the appropriate authorities."This bill dramatically changes the rules of the game for battlefield contracting," Price said. "To this point, I think it's fair to say that there have been no rules in many cases, and that contractors haven't been made aware of the rules that exist. With this legislation, the executive branch will be required to set out a clear framework for battlefield contracting, and Congress will be granted access to the information we need to hold the government accountable for enforcing this framework in a fair and just way."Price has been working for the last three years to clarify and enhance the rules governing the use of private contractors on the battlefield and within the intelligence agencies. He plans to continue pressing for further reforms to ensure that allegations of abuse by armed contractors are fully investigated and prosecuted by the Justice and Defense Departments.# # #
05.09.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressmen G. K. Butterfield and David Price today applauded legislative language included in the national defense authorization bill that bars the Navy from building an outlying landing field at a site in North Carolina's Washington and Beaufort counties."It's a strong and positive step away from a site that would put our community, pilots and aircraft in danger," Butterfield said. "Now we have to focus on finding an alternative that fulfills the needs of both the Navy and the community," Butterfield said.Price, who has been working closely with Butterfield to compel the Navy to work with the state to find a feasible alternative site, said the language provides a clear message from Congress."We're effectively saying to the Navy that Congress is not going to allow the Washington County site," Price said. "This provision in the Defense Bill will complement our efforts in the Appropriations Committee to block the funding for the site and to direct the Navy to work with North Carolina to find a workable alternative for an OLF."The language, included in the National Defense Authorization Act of 2007, specifically repeals the authorization of funds and future funds for an outlying landing field (OLF) at the site in Washington and Beaufort counties. The bill, which is expected to be approved by the Armed Services Committee late tonight, is scheduled to be voted on by the full House next week.Butterfield and Price said that they will continue to work to ensure that similar language is included in the upcoming defense appropriations legislation.The Navy has already purchased more than 2,000 acres in Washington and Beaufort counties as part of a 30,000-acre OLF the Navy says it needs in order to train pilots to land on aircraft carriers. The proposed site lies just west of an area that was established specifically as a waterfowl sanctuary where thousands of birds winter annually. At peak, there are about 25,000 tundra swans and more than 65,000 snow geese which regularly fly out to feed in the farm fields just west of the site.Last week, Navy Secretary Donald Winter told Butterfield that the Navy is ready and willing to work with the state to find an alternative site.# # #
05.03.2007	Washington, D.C. - The U.S. House of Representatives has voted to put the government on track to double funding for the National Science Foundation (NSF) over the next 10 years. The NSF Authorization Act (H.R. 1867) passed the House by a vote of 399 – 17 shortly before midnight.Congressman David Price (D-NC) applauded the move, which he says will provide a significant boost to Triangle area scientists who are seeking federal grant support for their research. An original Price initiative to help students prepare for jobs in high-tech fields also received generous support in the bill."In the Triangle we are well aware of the importance of investing in scientific research," Price said. "In our modern global economy, we need to play to our country's strengths, one of which is our unparalleled capacity for research and innovation. This bill sets Congress on a path to significantly increase our investment in scientific research, and that will translate into jobs and innovation in North Carolina. It will also strengthen America's hand in the global economy."The NSF bill would authorize $21 billion in funding for the agency over three years, including increased funding for math and science education. If Congress maintains this level of percentage increase, the money available to support researchers through NSF grants will double in ten years.The NSF bill also would provide a funding increase of 22 percent over the next two years for the Advanced Technology Education program (ATE). In 1992, Congressman Price authored the legislation that established ATE, which seeks to prepare students for jobs in the high-tech fields. The program involves partnerships between academic institutions and employers to promote improvement in the education of science and engineering technicians at the undergraduate and secondary school levels. The initiative has provided significant support to North Carolina's community colleges and universities since its inception."Low skill, low wage industry is a thing of the past; America's future will be in knowledge based and globally competitive industry and services," said North Carolina Community College System President H. Martin Lancaster. "Congressman Price's initiative in support of Advanced Technology Education is critical to that economic transition. Thousands of community college students all over the country will prepare themselves for brighter futures in specialized, high tech fields as a result of the expansion of important initiative."Price, who is a member of the Appropriations subcommittee responsible for funding the NSF, will be working to uphold the funding levels this bill would authorize for ATE and NSF. The House is expected to consider the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations bill before July 4th.Background• Each year, NSF supports an average of about 200,000 scientists, engineers, educators and students at universities, laboratories and field sites, and makes up 20 percent of all federal money awarded for basic research at American universities.• NSF has the broad mission of supporting science and engineering and funding basic research across many disciplines. Basic research serves as the building blocks of technological advancement, but because it doesn't always lead directly to the creation of new products and services, basic research is often not a priority for private investment. Adequate federal funding for basic research is essential to strengthening this foundation for innovation.• The bill also would establish a pilot program of one-year seed grants for new investigators to stimulate higher-risk research, and encourage NSF to foster relationships between academia and industry in order to spawn U.S. competitiveness.• Congress and President Clinton made significant gains in funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in the 1990s, doubling its research budget over 5 years. The NSF bill represents the 2nd step in the original Clinton Administration goal to double federal research funding.# # #
04.30.2007	Raleigh - On Sunday Congressman David Price addressed a gathering at Meredith College's Jones Auditorium for the annual North Carolina Holocaust Observance.He invoked scripture from Proverbs to express how we must honor the righteous deeds of our predecessors by "mak[ing] a better future for those who will yet inherit the earth." Below are his remarks as delivered:"The memory of the righteous is a blessing," wrote the author of Proverbs (10:7).We are met here today to renew and refresh memory, to keep alive the memory of the victims of the Holocaust. Thank God we have this capacity to remember. These memories still shock, horrify, and anger us. Yet the author of Proverbs insists that while "the name of the wicked will rot...the memory of the righteous is a blessing."It is a blessing that enables us to keep faith with those who suffered and died – to empathize with what they endured; to mourn for their lost potential, their lost hopes; to pledge that their lives and deaths were not for naught, that they are remembered by us, their heirs, and that their lives will bear fruit in our own.The memory of the righteous is a blessing that makes us vigilant, that warns us of man's inhuman capacities, that leads us to confess our own sin and alerts us to perils of complicity with evil.This memory is a blessing that sensitizes us to human suffering whenever is occurs and leads us to become instruments of God's peace.In this service and those like it across our country, the part of the world that is most likely to be mentioned is Darfur, in western Sudan. The murderous Janjaweed militias continue to kill and destroy there, and the conflict has spread to other groups and neighboring Chad. We must do more to get adequate numbers of African Union and UN Peacekeepers there and to step up international pressures on the Sudan government to end its complicity in the decimation of its own people.There are other desperate needs that cry out to us today, such as the suffering of millions from loathsome diseases like Guinea worm and river blindness and continuing scourges like tuberculosis and malaria. It is remarkable how much misery can be alleviated or ended with relatively simple measures and modest expenditures. People of good will and sensitive memory must continually press the question: why are we, individually and collectively, not doing more?So memory is a blessing if it leads us not only to empathize but to engage. Not only to vow "never again" but to find ways to give that vow focus and force in confronting the human tragedies that are engulfing large parts of our world.Our most fitting tribute to the dead is to serve the living, to make a better future for those who will yet inherit the earth. An irony of our existence is that it is those who forget the past who are doomed to repeat it, but with remembrance come the wisdom, determination, and faith to bring in a new day. In this way above all, "The memory of the righteous is a blessing."# # #
04.27.2007	Washington, D.C. - House Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton (D-MO) and Congressman David Price (D-NC) yesterday called for an investigation of the government's use of private security contractors in Iraq.In a letter to the Government Accountability Office (GAO), the investigative arm of Congress, the Congressmen noted that several government agencies employ private security contractors in Iraq for a wide range of functions, with limited oversight and within a murky legal environment."We have long been concerned about the use of private security contractors in Iraq and the lack of information regarding these contractors. Therefore, we are requesting that GAO undertake a review of the use of private security contractors in Iraq," the letter states.The use of private security contractors has multiplied exponentially since the beginning of the Iraq War over four years ago, and the number of armed contractors operating in the battle zone is unprecedented in the history of U.S. military engagements."With this study, we hope to gain an accurate account of the role that contractors play in security operations in Iraq," Price said. "And given their sheer numbers on the ground, we hope to determine whether the current level of contracting is cost-effective, appropriate, and consistent with our national security objectives." Price has also introduced legislation, H.R. 369, which would enhance transparency, accountability, and battlefield coordination for private security contractors operating in a war zone.The text of the letter follows.April 26, 2007Mr. David M. WalkerComptroller General of the United States441 G Street N.W.Washington, DC 20548Dear Mr. Walker,As you know, the Department of Defense has contracted with several private security contractors to provide security for its employees as well as other U.S. Government civilian employees working in Iraq. In addition, the Department of Defense and other government departments and agencies have contracted with private security contractors to provide a variety of security services at installations in Iraq. Several government departments and agencies have also contracted for a diverse array of other services there.We have long been concerned about the use of private security contractors in Iraq and the lack of information regarding these contractors. Therefore, we are requesting that GAO undertake a review of the use of private security contractors in Iraq. Specifically, we request that GAO examine (1) why private security contractors are being used in Iraq instead of military or U.S. Government civilian personnel; (2) the number of private security contractor employees working in Iraq for the U.S. Government and the total costs of employing those contractors; and (3) the process used to assure that the contractor employees are properly trained, qualified, and vetted. In addition, we would like GAO to review the process used by the contractors and the government to ensure accountability for vehicles and weapons acquired by contractors.The GAO has already done tremendous work in raising concerns about the use, management, and oversight of security contractors in Iraq and elsewhere, and we are deeply grateful for this work. We believe the proposed study will allow you to continue this critical effort as questions about the U.S. Government's management of security contractors continue to arise. We are grateful for your assistance in this matter.Sincerely,IKE SKELTONChairman, House Committee on Armed ServicesDAVID PRICEMember of Congress# # #
04.26.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (D-NC) issued the following statement today on the Iraq supplemental spending bill, which the President has threatened to veto.The bill, which Price supports, passed the House last night by a vote of 218 – 208 with 2 voting 'present.' It passed the Senate this afternoon by a vote of 51 – 46."The bill provides a responsible timeline to end our involvement in Iraq, and it requires the President to adhere to the very goals for Iraqi political progress he endorsed in a speech to the American people in January. But the President has signaled his refusal to even consider any measure that imposes accountability on his war policy. The public is fed up with his 'my way or the highway' mentality. Soon enough he's going to have to answer the demands of the American people to bring this war to an end. He could start by signing this bill."# # #
04.21.2007	Washington, D.C. - In honor of Earth Day, which takes place tomorrow, Congressman David Price (NC-04) released the following statement regarding our responsibility to be green. He further called on the Bush Administration to work with Congress to address one of the most pressing issues of our time – climate change."On the 37th anniversary of the first Earth Day, we should take the opportunity to evaluate our stewardship of the land and its resources, which we have a duty to preserve for future generations. Indeed, we have a moral obligation to see to it that the air, water, land and climate we leave to our children is not spoiled due to lack of foresight or initiative by the current generation."While much has been done to preserve our environment through the ingenuity and creativity of individuals in government, the private and nonprofit sectors, and in our research institutions, the challenges we face today remain grave and sobering. Global climate change has been staring us in the eyes for too many years while the leadership in the White House and in Congress has refused to take serious action to curb our greenhouse gas emissions."The evidence continues to accumulate, revealing to us the dire consequences of our continued inaction. In February, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), a network of leading climate scientists sponsored by participating countries including the U.S., concluded for the first time that global warming is 'unequivocal' and that human activity is its main driver. Last month, the IPCC further revealed how species, water supplies, ice sheets and regional climate conditions are already responding to the global buildup of heat, which portends even starker consequences for the coming decades. We can no longer deny the seriousness of climate change, nor can we afford to neglect our moral responsibility to act now."Fortunately, with the shift to a Democratic Congress, we are finally seeing the beginnings of a proactive and coherent national strategy to combat climate change. The House has appointed a Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming, which will play a key role in developing policy initiatives to assure we make real progress over the next two years. As one of our first orders of business this year, we also passed legislation to roll back government subsidies for the oil and gas industries and instead invest in clean, alternative energy sources. And the House will produce legislation by mid-summer that will represent a starting point on a new energy policy for America – one that will take a significant step to reduce our energy dependence and address global warming."Our efforts to exercise environmental stewardship will require more cooperation from the White House than we have seen thus far. Therefore, I call upon the President to work with us in Congress to implement real solutions to these challenges that simply cannot be ignored any longer. We all share a stake in the future of our planet, and likewise, we all share a duty to ensure its preservation."# # #
04.16.2007	Price: Rogue Security Contractors Must Be Held AccountableWashington, D.C. - Sunday's Washington Post featured a detailed account of two shooting incidents involving private security contractors operating in Iraq.Some witnesses are alleging that the shootings were reckless, unnecessary and obvious violations of the law. However, the article further reports that no investigation into the shootings was ever initiated by the Pentagon or the Justice Department, and in fact, "not a single case has [ever] been brought against a security contractor [in Iraq]." The article can be found at http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/04/14/AR2007041401490_pf.html.Today, Congressman David Price (D-NC) is again calling upon Congress to take up his legislation aimed at establishing legal accountability for private security contractors operating in the war zone. Price's bill, the Transparency and Accountability in Security Contracting Act (H.R. 369), would clarify that all private security workers operating under contract (or subcontract) by a government agency in the war zone are subject to the Military Extraterritorial Justice Act (MEJA), which is to be enforced by the Department of Justice. His bill would also establish field investigative units that would gather reports of abuse and misconduct, investigate, and bring charges when violations of the law are evident.Price released the following statement today regarding the newspaper's report:"Yesterday's Washington Post report on shooting incidents involving private security contractors in Iraq highlights the need for Congress to introduce some accountability into the lawless environment in which battlefield contractors operate. The motto of the contractor personnel featured in the story, 'what happens here today, stays here today,' is a sad but telling sign of the problem. The fog of war is no excuse for overlooking allegations of serious misconduct by private citizens operating under the direction of the federal government. Congress should take up my bill to enhance transparency in security contracts and establish a clear legal framework to prosecute abuses. In addition, the Administration should immediately open a probe into the shootings highlighted by the Washington Post, as well as the various other such incidents that have been reported in the past."# # #
03.30.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (NC-04) will lead a delegation of his colleagues to support the strengthening of legislatures in Eastern Europe on a week-long trip beginning today.Price will be accompanied by Pennsylvania Reps. Allyson Schwartz and Bill Shuster, along with congressional and State Department staff. Price is Chairman of the House Democracy Assistance Commission, which works to strengthen legislatures in emerging democracies throughout the world.The delegation begins its trip in Moldova, where members will meet with Moldovan officials and tour projects supported by American partner organizations. The North Carolina National Guard, NC Secretary of State Elaine Marshall's office, and a number of area universities and nonprofits have ongoing projects with their counterparts in Moldova. While in the country, Price and his colleagues will visit a health clinic constructed by members of the North Carolina National Guard, and will tour the Moldovan Medical University, which has received ongoing support from the medical schools at UNC-Chapel Hill, Duke University, Wake Forest and ECU.Price will then lead the delegation to Ukraine and Georgia for five busy days of workshops and meetings to share best practices for legislative governance. Specific areas of discussion will include oversight of executive branch agencies, budgetary analysis, constituent and media relations, and parliamentary procedure.# # #
03.29.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (NC-04) today re-introduced his "Teaching Fellows Act" in the House of Representatives. The bill would expand a successful North Carolina teacher recruitment and retention program to the national level."The impending teacher shortage is the most critical education issue we will face in the next decade," said Price. "We can reform the education system and talk about standards and accountability all day long, but our efforts won't amount to anything without a qualified teaching force to fill our classrooms. This initiative has been tried and proven in North Carolina, and I am confident Congress can help replicate its success forty-nine times over by passing my bill this year."Congress previously incorporated major provisions of Price's legislation into the Ready to Teach Act, which sought to strengthen teacher training programs in order to meet the demands of No Child Left Behind. As the first in a series of bills to reauthorize the broader Higher Education Act, the Ready to Teach Act passed the House in 2003 but was not signed into law.This year, both the House and Senate are expected to take up the Higher Education Act, and Price will push to ensure that the Teaching Fellows components are included in the final package.Specifically, Price's Teaching Fellows Act would do the following:-Support state scholarship programs for high school seniors and/or college sophomores who want to become teachers-Provide fellowships to enable teacher assistants and community college students to earn a four-year degree or teaching certificate-Offer these student teachers and new teachers access to mentors and extra-curricular programs designed to hone their teaching skills-Require scholarship and fellowship recipients to teach in a public school following graduation"This program does not simply throw money at individual students," Price added. "It promotes esprit de corps and collaborative learning, strengthens professional identity, and provides a support system as students first enter the classroom as teachers. It makes sense to build on this initiative's proven track record and begin the intensive national recruitment effort that is essential to strengthening our public education system."
03.29.2007	Washington, D.C. - After years of red ink and misplaced priorities, today the House of Representatives set our nation back on the right track with the adoption of its fiscal year (FY) 2008 budget resolution.The fiscal failures of the Bush Administration and former Republican congressional leadership have been unprecedented, turning a $5.6 trillion surplus into a $2.8 trillion deficit and repeatedly slashing vital domestic priorities to pay for tax cuts and a war of choice in Iraq. The budget we have adopted today reverses this dangerous course and makes good on the House Democrats' commitment to rein in the deficit and invest in our nation's future.In stark contrast to the budgets of the last few years, the House FY 2008 budget is both fiscally and morally responsible. It would balance the budget within the next five years by adhering strictly to pay-as-you-go budgeting rules, ramping up efforts to close the tax gap, and calling for tougher measures to rein in fraud and abuse at federal agencies. More importantly, it increases our investment in a broad range of priorities that have been abused or neglected for too long under this Administration, such as the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), education programs from Head Start to Pell Grants, and support for state and local first responders. It also takes major steps to provide for the health and well-being of our veterans and service members returning from war, and has received the endorsement of the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, and Disabled American Veterans. As I have said on many occasions, the federal budget is a reflection of our fundamental values as a nation, and on this measure, we are finally doing right by the American people.Despite these improvements, this budget is not a panacea. The fiscal hole that we are currently in is far too deep to climb out of in just one year. But this spending blueprint is a significant down-payment on America's future that balances fiscal discipline with support for critical domestic priorities. I look forward to helping implement it as a member of the House Appropriations Committee.# # #
03.28.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (NC-04) today urged the Navy to come back to the drawing board with North Carolina officials to find an alternative site for the Outlying Landing Field. In a letter to Navy Secretary Donald Winter, Price wrote that he hopes the Navy will move quickly to avoid a confrontation over the authorization and funding of the OLF as Congress weighs the Navy's request. Price is a member of the House Appropriations Committee.Price's letter further states the Navy's selected site in Washington County "is not a viable option for an OLF because of the threats it would pose to Navy and Marine pilots and aircraft, to local communities, and to the surrounding environment." The letter sites the broad-based opposition to locating the landing strip in proximity to the world renowned Pocosin Lakes National Wildlife Refuge, including objections from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.The text of the letter follows.*******March 28, 2007The Honorable Donald C. WinterSecretaryU.S. Department of the Navy1000 Navy PentagonWashington, DC 20350Dear Secretary Winter:I am writing to urge you, in the strongest possible terms, to reject Site C as your preferred location for the North Carolina Outlying Landing Field (OLF) and to initiate discussions with the Governor of North Carolina, the North Carolina congressional delegation and the congressional committees of jurisdiction, the Fish and Wildlife Service, and other key stakeholders to identify a mutually agreeable alternative that will better serve our military.As you know, I have expressed ongoing concern about the Navy's plan to construct an OLF at the location identified as Site C in Washington County, North Carolina. I can say without hesitation that the citizens and elected officials of North Carolina welcome the Navy's decision to build an OLF in our state. I can say with equal certainty, however, that Site C is not a viable option for an OLF because of the threats it would pose to Navy and Marine pilots and aircraft, to local communities, and to the surrounding environment.The Navy has repeatedly characterized its decision to construct an OLF as a necessity for "force protection." Site C would seem to be incompatible with that goal given the significant Bird Aircraft Strike Hazard (BASH) risk, which indicates that there is a very real possibility that Navy and Marine pilots operating at Site C will lose their lives due to bird strikes. In fact, military BASH analysts have identified Site C as one of the locations with the highest BASH risk in the country. Even the Navy's Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement (SEIS) characterizes the BASH risk as "moderate to severe." That level of risk is simply unacceptable, and it is unwarranted given the availability of other low risk sites.The Navy also has failed to mitigate the impact of the OLF on the local community. As currently envisioned, the OLF would force dozens of farmers to plant less profitable crops or sell land that has been with them, in many cases, for generations. North Carolina's Agriculture Commissioner estimates the proposal would cost local farmers an estimated $6 million in revenues. Moreover, an OLF at Site C would undermine another valuable component of the local economy; namely, the tourism drawn to the Pocosin Lakes National Wildlife Refuge which Site C abuts. There are other sites which would have a more acceptable impact on agribusiness and on tourism.I am also concerned by the Navy's failure to consult with state and local officials about the siting decision, despite urgings by federal courts and the Congress. North Carolina Governor Mike Easley has announced his adamant opposition to Site C, stating that "the draft SEIS shows [that] the Navy remains unwilling to even fully consider reasonable alternatives." Such a statement leaves no doubt that the Navy has failed to live up to obligations to consult with state and local stakeholders on a viable location for the OLF.In addition, Rep. G.K. Butterfield (whose district includes the Washington County Site C location), State Senate President Pro Tempore Marc Basnight, State Speaker of the House Joe Hackney, State Agriculture Commissioner Steve Troxler, the NC Wildlife Resources Commission, the Washington County Board of Commissioners, and Mayor Brian Roth of Plymouth, NC (which is adjacent to Site C) all have voiced their opposition to Site C. This strong opposition at the state and local levels calls into question the viability of the Navy's plans to move forward with Site C.Finally, the Navy appears to have ignored the input of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) about the impact of the proposed OLF at Site C on the surrounding wildlife habitat. As you know, the Navy used FWS as a "cooperating agency" in the preparation of the SEIS, a designation that requires it to incorporate FWS analysis to the full extent practicable. The Navy does not appear to have complied with that requirement. FWS Director Dale Hall recently testified at a public hearing that "we are concerned that the conclusions the Navy has drawn are more definitive than the data can support...We continue to note that other sites in North Carolina have been identified within the Draft SEIS where the proposed OLF could be constructed, with far fewer risks to the resources we are charged with managing." The Navy can avoid creating a tradeoff between the needs of the military and our environmental protection laws by selecting a site that the FWS and other environmental stakeholders can support. .Mr. Secretary, it is my deep hope that, working together, we can avoid a confrontation over the Navy's request for funding and authorization to move forward with construction of an OLF at Site C in Washington County, NC. I have every reason to be confident that we can identify a site for the OLF that all stakeholders can support and that will not compromise the Navy's mission.I appreciate your attention to this matter, and I look forward to your prompt response.Sincerely,DAVID PRICEMember of Congress# # #
03.23.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (NC-04) spoke today on the floor of the House of Representatives in support of a House bill that will establish a time frame for ending the U.S. occupation of Iraq, and in the meantime will push the Iraqis to reconcile their differences and provide for their own defense. He urged his colleagues to consider the moral dimensions of their vote on the bill, which he considers "the best chance we may have for a long time to compel a change of course in Iraq." The text of Price's speech, as delivered, follows below.Price is a Member of the House Appropriations Committee, which drafted the bill, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act. The bill passed the House by a vote of 218-212, with 1 Member voting present.*******ON THE EXERCISE OF CONSCIENCE IN THIS VOTETime Stamp: 10:49 amMr. Speaker, I rise in support of this bill as chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, advocating for its acceleration of programs critical to the integrity of our borders and the safety of the American peopleToday, however, I want to address the broader bill, speaking colleague to colleague, mindful and respectful of the struggles with conscience so evident among us in recent days.I did not support originally giving the authority to the President to wage war in Iraq, and I have introduced legislation calling for an end to that authority.But I understand there is a wide range of opinion on where we should go from here, and there are many who believe that this bill, which takes a major step toward changing our course in Iraq, either goes too far or not far enough.Our discussions on this issue have brought to mind lessons from my days in divinity school and as a teacher of ethics – lessons that I believe are helpful in sorting out what it means and should mean to follow one's conscience on a matter such as this.On the first day of Ethics 101, we learn that we often face two kinds of moral choice in life. One has to do with the morality of an act itself, which is what many colleagues are referring to when they say they are "voting their conscience" on what we know is an imperfect bill.The second kind of moral choice requires us to consider the consequences of our acts. That is also an exercise of conscience, perhaps an even more demanding one.Think about the consequences. What if a consequence of voting "no" is to let slip away the best chance we may have for a long time to compel a change of course in Iraq? What if a consequence is the further crippling of this House's influence on the country's foreign and defense policy? What if a consequence of a "no" vote is to allow the President to continue on the same failed policy course? Are those not matters of conscience?Some talk as though we should simply square the contents of the bill against an ideal and vote accordingly. No, I'm afraid moral choice and our obligations as public servants run deeper than that.Please, don't sell short a vote in favor of this bill, as though it were a mere practical or political accommodation. By all means, treat this vote as an act of conscience, but an act based upon a searching consideration of the full range of consequences that may result.# # #
03.15.2007	Washington, D.C. - Representatives David Price (NC-04) and David Dreier (CA-26) today announced the selection of 20 Members of the House Democracy Assistance Commission (HDAC). Price was named the Commission's Chairman and Dreier was chosen as the Ranking Republican Member. The Commission's purpose is to strengthen democratic institutions by assisting legislatures in emerging democracies throughout the world.The following 11 Democratic Members were selected by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi to serve on the Commission: David Price (NC-4), Lois Capps (CA-23), Rush Holt (NJ-12), Adam Schiff (CA-29), Alyson Schwartz (PA-13), Don Payne (NJ-10), Earl Pomeroy (ND-AL), Sam Farr (CA-17), John Salazar (CO-3), Keith Ellison (MN-5) and Mazie Hirono (HI-2).The following 9 Republican Members were selected by Minority Leader John Boehner to serve on the Commission: David Dreier (CA-26), John Boozman (AR-3), Jeff Fortenberry (NE-1), Joe Wilson (SC-2), Judy Biggert (IL-13), Jerry Weller (IL-11), Jeff Miller (FL-1), Wayne Gilchrest (MD-1), and Bill Shuster (PA-9)."As the world's oldest existing democratic assembly, the U.S. Congress has a unique contribution to make in promoting democracy around the world," said Rep. Price. "The Members that have been named today make up an impressive and diverse group of skilled legislators, and I am confident they will greatly enhance our mission of strengthening representative government in emerging democracies.""I'm very proud of the work that this Commission began in the last Congress," said Rep. Dreier. "We are already seeing the great benefits that these partnerships are producing. I look forward to continuing to work with my fellow HDAC colleagues, old and new, in our efforts to advance the spread of democracy around the globe."HDAC serves as a model of bipartisan cooperation to promote a common goal among Members of the House. Central to HDAC's work is providing procedural, technical, and material assistance to legislatures and their members in developing democracies around the world, drawing on the experience of the U.S. Congress in legislative governance. Commission Members and their staff work in Washington and on site in partner countries to build the capacity of democratic institutions and work with elected officials to strengthen the building blocks of effective, independent national legislatures, such as budgetary analysis, legislative research, and oversight of the executive branch. The Commission is unique in its peer-to-peer, legislature-to-legislature method of democracy building.Currently, the House Democracy Assistance Commission is implementing programs for legislatures in twelve nations: Afghanistan, Colombia, East Timor, Georgia, Haiti, Indonesia, Kenya, Lebanon, Liberia, Macedonia, Mongolia, and Ukraine. Examples of the Commission's work include helping to set up a national archival library in East Timor, supporting the establishment of an independent office of fiscal analysis in Kenya, and assisting the Parliament of Afghanistan with oversight of its budget.# # #
03.13.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (NC-04) today renewed his fight to give consumers the tools they need to effectively manage their credit card debt.The bill he introduced today, titled the Credit Card Repayment Act of 2007, focuses on the "minimum monthly payment" trap, which allows cardholders to accumulate unmanageable debt loads even when they are fulfilling their obligations to credit card companies.The Credit Card Repayment Act would require credit card companies to disclose more information to consumers about the minimum monthly payment option. Minimum payments often only barely cover monthly interest charges and fees, leaving the balance due virtually unchanged. The result is a state of perpetual debt for many hardworking American families.For example, if a consumer makes a 2 percent minimum monthly payment on a credit card with a $5,000 balance and a 17 percent interest rate, it could take over forty years and cost over $11,300 in interest to repay the balance.Under the Price bill, credit card companies would have to clearly outline the full cost of the minimum payment on a cardholder's monthly statement and offer cardholders tools to help them pay off their debt. Specifically, the legislation would require companies to include five important pieces of information on each customer's monthly statement:- A warning that making only the minimum monthly payment would increase the amount of interest paid;- Information on how long it would take and how much it would cost the consumer to pay off his/her entire balance if making only the minimum monthly payment;- Information on how much the consumer would have to pay per month if he/she wanted to pay off the balance in three years;- A toll-free number that consumers could call for credit counseling."Consumers deserve to have better information from credit card companies to get themselves out of debt," Price said. "This bill provides a simple solution to the very serious problem of rampant consumer debt."American families are carrying record levels of debt, and by deliberately lowering their minimum monthly payment requirements, Price says credit card issuers are not encouraging responsible financial management."I hope this more consumer-friendly Congress will act soon to reign in this deceptive and potentially ruinous lending practice," Price said.# # #
03.09.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (NC-04) released the following statement today on efforts in Congress to address the deficiencies in military and veterans health care.Recent revelations about the difficulties our service members and veterans are experiencing in obtaining health care from Walter Reed Army Medical Center and other facilities are disgraceful, and these problems must be rectified immediately. Unfortunately, this latest information comes as no surprise: the Administration's neglect of our wounded warriors has gone on for far too long. As a former member of the House Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee, I and many of my colleagues alerted the Administration to the increasing pressure on the VA's capacity to respond to the mounting caseloads resulting from the many veterans returning from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. The VA's claims backlog was already in crisis well before the latest exposé, and the Administration has left the VA short of adequate funding for health care year after year.The good news is the New Congress is making headway on this critical issue. After opening far-reaching investigations and public hearings on the problems with Walter Reed and health care for returning war veterans, House leaders unveiled an emergency funding bill yesterday that supplies an immediate injection of funding to fulfill our moral obligation to care for our soldiers returning from the battlefield. It targets three and a half billion in funds to treat traumatic brain injury and post traumatic stress disorder, and to immediately improve conditions and the quality of care at our military and veterans hospitals. I strongly support this effort. As our brave men and women return from the war zone, we have a responsibility to take care of any and every health issue they face as a result of their deployment.# # #
03.08.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (NC-04) will pose a question to FEMA Director David Paulison tomorrow that is on the minds of many North Carolinians: Have we learned from the lessons of Hurricane Katrina, and is our country fully prepared to respond to the next disaster?Price, who is Chairman of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, will convene a hearing tomorrow to probe the Department of Homeland Security's progress in restoring the federal government's ability to respond to disasters, whether natural or man made. FEMA was moved to the Department of Homeland Security when it was created in 2002.Price was an early critic of the Administration's almost singular focus on the threat of terrorism at the Department of Homeland Security at the expense of preparing for natural disasters. And he has long championed enhanced federal support for local first responders, which has lagged under the Bush Administration. He was also an early critic of the downgrading of FEMA within the department, which has been cited as one of the major factors in the inadequate federal response to Hurricane Katrina. As part of the FY 2007 Appropriations bill, Congress mandated that FEMA be elevated within the department and that the FEMA director be given more authority, as well as direct access to the President during an emergency."North Carolinians know all too well the destruction that can result from natural disasters, and especially from hurricanes and floods," Price said. "We are also keenly aware that successfully responding to disasters of any kind requires a strong partnership among federal, state and local authorities. That partnership was dysfunctional during the crisis in the Gulf Coast in 2005, and I want to ensure that FEMA has the capacity to do its job before the next big disaster strikes."Price's hearing comes on the heels of a report released this week by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), citing the potential for increased Atlantic hurricane activity this year associated with a possible transition to "La Niña" climate conditions.During testimony scheduled for 10 am tomorrow, representatives from first responder organizations will provide their assessments of the current state of disaster preparedness. Jeff Cash, the North Carolina State Director of the National Volunteer Fire Council, will testify in the first panel. During the second panel, Price and his colleagues on the subcommittee will question FEMA Director Paulison and a Homeland Security expert from the Government Accountability Office (GAO). Details of the hearing are below.Price will hold an additional hearing next Thursday (3/15) on the government's efforts to rebuild the Gulf Coast.# # #
02.28.2007	Washington, D.C. - It's Tax Time again, but there is good news! Working families may qualify for credits that reduce their tax burden.The Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) is an important anti-poverty and work incentive program that is targeted to individuals and families who earn low to moderate wages. But lots of Americans don't even know about it. According to EITC Carolinas, a non-profit network of community tax resources for the Carolinas, eligible taxpayers in North Carolina lose between $93 million and $176 million of their own money each year because they do not claim federal taxes due back to them through the Earned Income Tax Credit.To qualify for the EITC, you (or your spouse) must have a job, have wages below a certain level, and file a federal tax return. For tax year 2006, workers with no children must have earned income below $12,120 to receive the credit. Workers with one child must have an earned income below $32,001 to be eligible, and workers with two or more children must be below $36,348 in earned income to qualify for the EIC (these limits are $2,000 higher for workers filing a joint tax return).Based on the income guidelines, the EITC lowers or even eliminates income tax liability. If taxes have already been deducted from an eligible worker's pay check, or if the credit is larger than taxes owed, the worker will receive a refund check from the IRS after filing their return.To find out if you are eligible for the Earned Income Tax Credit, contact the IRS at www.irs-eitc.info or 1-800-Tax-1040 (829-1040), or EITC Carolinas at www.eitc-carolinas.org or 1-888-927-3230.IRS Taxpayer Assistance CentersFor general assistance with:• Accepting Cash payments• Account Inquiries (help with letters, notices and levies on your wages or bank account)• Adjustments (changes to tax account information or payments)• Alien Clearances (Sailing Permits)• Application for Taxpayer Assistance Order (ATAO)• Copies of Tax Returns & Transcripts (Verifiable extreme hardships only; such as victims of Hurricanes, medical emergencies, etc.)• Help with preparing Form 2290 (Heavy Vehicle Use Tax)• Multilingual Assistance (over 150 languages translated)• Federal Tax Return Preparation (If you qualify for the Earned Income Tax Credit or your Income is less than $39,000.00)• Payments/Payment Arrangements• Procedural Inquiries• Solutions to Tax Issues• State Return tax prep (only for the state in which TAC is located)• Tax Forms (based on availability)• Tax Law Assistance (answers related to your individual Federal Tax Return)• Taxpayer Identification NumbersDurham3308 Chapel Hill Blvd.Durham, NC 27707Monday-Friday - 8:30 a.m.-4:30 p.m.(919) 401-0300Raleigh4405 Bland Rd.Raleigh, NC 27609Monday-Friday - 8:30 a.m.-4:30 p.m.(919) 850-1100Low Income Taxpayer ClinicFor legal help with representation before the IRS, tax audits, appeals, collection disputes, etc.DurhamDuke University School of Law919-613-71681-888-600-7274Se habla Espanol.# # #
02.23.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (NC-04) released the following statement today in response to the Navy's Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement (SEIS) regarding its plans for an Outlying Landing Field (OLF) in northeastern North Carolina.*******"The Navy's effort to locate a site for the proposed OLF has raised as many questions as it has answered. While North Carolinians are uniquely committed to offering a good and supportive home for our military, the Navy has failed to demonstrate its willingness to work with the communities in our state to protect our interests and concerns."The SEIS will require extensive review by the North Carolina delegation, the Congress, and the courts. However, my initial impression is one of disappointment. The Navy has apparently continued to brush off numerous concerns about the damage that its chosen location could do to North Carolina's Pocosin Lakes National Wildlife Refuge, and continues to downplay the severe risk the birds native to the area could pose to Navy and Marine Corps aircraft using the OLF. The bottom line is that a site which could put the lives of Navy and Marine pilots at risk is unacceptable."I will be working with my colleagues to ensure that Congress carefully scrutinizes this proposal and the risks it may hold for our sailors and Marines and for the state of North Carolina. I have yet to be convinced that the Navy is willing to work in good faith with the State on its OLF site selection process."# # #
02.14.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (NC-04) spoke today on the floor of the House of Representatives in support of a resolution opposing the President's plan to escalate troop levels in Iraq. The resolution, H.Con.Res. 63, can be found here. The text of Price's speech, as delivered, follows below.Last month, Price was joined by Rep. Brad Miller (NC-13) in introducing a bill that would terminate the authority Congress gave the President to wage war in Iraq by year's end, and would require the President to submit exit strategy to bring American troops home by that date. More information on the bill can be found here.*******ON THE FUTURE OF U.S. INVOLVEMENT IN IRAQMr. Speaker, I rise today to oppose the escalation of troop levels, call for an end to the American occupation of Iraq, and support the resolution before the House.The two clauses of the resolution go hand-in-hand. There should be no doubt about the support from this Congress and, indeed, from the American people for those who risk their lives to defend our nation. As a nation, we have learned to sincerely honor the warrior, even when we disagree with the war.I have personally been moved by my own interactions with our troops. I have been honored to meet with them here at home, in Iraq, in Afghanistan, in Kosovo, and in numerous other locations where they are serving honorably. And I have mourned with their families when their service has led to the ultimate sacrifice. No one who spends time with the members of our Armed Forces can fail to be impressed by the dedication and valor with which they carry out their duty.In addition to guaranteeing that they have the resources, equipment, and compensation they need, supporting our troops also means ensuring that the missions we ask them to perform are viable and well-designed in terms of our national objectives. The President's surge plan does not meet these criteria, and Congress should oppose it.The question before us today is whether an escalation of as many as 48,000 American troops is the best way to turn things around in Iraq. However, this question is part of a much larger debate that this country, and this chamber, must conduct: a debate on the future of the U.S. military mission.There cannot be a simply military solution to the challenges we, and the Iraqi people, face in Iraq. The size of our military presence will not make the difference, because any solution to Iraq's problems will be political, not military.The recent National Intelligence Estimate, or NIE, on Iraq confirms this conclusion. The unclassified report noted that, even the term "civil war" is not grave enough to convey the complexity of the security challenges in Iraq. More to the point, the NIE noted three "identifiable elements [that] could help to reverse negative trends": broader Sunni acceptance of the federalist political structure, Shi'a and Kurdish concessions to Sunnis, and "a bottom-up approach...to help mend frayed relationships between tribal and religious groups." Note that none of these elements can be achieved by military force.Outgoing Commander of Multi-National Forces Iraq, Lt. General Peter Chiarelli, recently stated, "We need to get out of thinking this is solely a military conflict...All our nation's strengths -- diplomatic, economic, political -- must be leveraged to help the Iraqis find their way through this process." Other military leaders have echoed this sentiment.My colleague from North Carolina, Brad Miller, and I have proposed such an approach in our bill H.R. 645. Our bill would dramatically strengthen U.S. political and diplomatic efforts.It would send Special Envoys to the region to encourage Iraq's neighbors to play a more productive role in resolving the conflict and to facilitate a national reconciliation process in Iraq. It would also authorize a program to get would-be insurgents off the streets and into the workforce. And it would provide ongoing support for development of democratic institutions, especially at the local level.While enhancing our political and diplomatic efforts, the bill would de-escalate our military commitment. It would terminate the authorization for the war at the end of this year, and require President Bush to develop an exit strategy for bringing our troops home by that date. We can no longer continue to ask our troops in Iraq to do the impossible. In fact, their presence is fueling the insurgency and is a magnet for international terrorism. It is time for the American occupation of Iraq to end, and for Iraqi leaders to assume responsibility their nation's future, for better or worse.Some have argued that our troops must remain in Iraq to prevent intolerable outcomes. But the outcomes we most feared – a civil war, a training ground for terrorists, an ascendant Iran – have already become reality, despite the continuing presence of our troops. While a military presence may delay even worse outcomes, it cannot prevent them. If we are to avoid a regional war or an exponential increase in Iraq's carnage, our best hope is the increased political and diplomatic effort I have proposed.How we leave Iraq does matter. A well-planned withdrawal can enhance our ability to protect our troops and prepare Iraqis to assume control. We must not make the same mistake ending the war that we did in beginning it, pursuing a strategy without adequate planning. But we should not hide behind this imperative, allowing an exit strategy to prevent or postpone an exit.I urge my colleagues to consider H.R. 645, which I believe offers the best way to pursue American national security interests in Iraq.Let me close on a note of caution. The resolution we are debating here today is necessary, but it is not sufficient. The President should hear our message, which expresses the conviction of the majority of the American people: the time to end our occupation of Iraq has come. However, if he does not take steps to bring our troops home, the President should be under no illusion that this non-binding resolution exhausts Congress's role. Rather, it is a first step in holding him accountable and reversing a failed policy that has made our nation less safe, and cost us so dearly in blood and treasure.# # #
02.07.2007	Washington, D.C. - Reps. David Price (D-NC) and Mike Castle (R-DE) will introduce legislation today to close a loophole in campaign finance law that allows political candidates and campaign committees to skirt responsibility for ads conveyed online. Their bill, the Responsible Campaign Communications Act of 2007, would also seek to curb the deceptive use of prerecorded telephone calls, or "robo-calls."Candidates and political committees are turning increasingly to the Internet and email to distribute campaign messages, including audio and video ads that would be subject to "Stand by Your Ad" requirements if distributed through radio or TV. "Stand by Your Ad" – more commonly known as the "I approved this message!" tagline – has been credited by many political observers with giving voters a greater understanding of the advertising they see on television and for encouraging more responsible ads. Price introduced the original "Stand by Your Ad" legislation that was included in the 2002 Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act (BCRA), and Price and Castle joined forces to file an amicus brief in defense of the provision when the Supreme Court considered a challenge to BCRA in 2003.The bill being introduced today would ensure that candidates continue to "stand by" their ads in the Internet age by extending the existing requirements for radio and television ads to those conveyed online or via e-mail. The bill would apply only to those who are currently subject to "Stand by Your Ad" rules, and it would not infringe upon online free speech as protected by a Federal Election Commission (FEC) ruling issued last year.The new legislation would also promote accountability in the use of political "robo-calls." The 2006 elections saw a proliferation of calls designed to give the impression that they were coming from a candidate's opponent, often placed repeatedly and at inconvenient hours, in an attempt to discourage potential voters from supporting the opponent. The Price-Castle bill would put an end to this sort of deception by requiring up-front identification of the call's sponsor."When we first instituted the 'Stand By Your Ad' requirements, our hope was to deter candidates from the harsh attacks that have become all too common in today's political environment," Price said. "The means to communicate a political message are constantly evolving, and political operatives are finding new and creative ways to undermine our best efforts to change the tone of public debate. If we are going to uphold the spirit as well as the letter of Stand by Your Ad, we need to update the law.""Like it or not, with the advent of increasingly sophisticated technology, voters are being targeted through communications means that we may not even have thought of five years ago. That is why it is critical that all types of electioneering communication are transparent -- voters deserve to know who is behind these advertisements. This legislation will apply the 'I approved this message' tagline to all election ads," Castle said.The Price-Castle legislation is supported by the non-partisan campaign watchdog groups Democracy 21 and the Campaign Legal Center. Fred Wertheimer, founder and President of Democracy 21, said, "It is simple and unassailable logic that the same campaign finance rules should apply to a campaign ad placed on the Internet by a candidate that apply to the same campaign ad run by the candidate on television or radio...The Price-Castle legislation would [also] help ensure that robo-callers take responsibility for making sure that voters know who is behind the robo-calls they receive. We congratulate Representatives Price and Castle for their important leadership on behalf of ensuring that voters are clearly informed about who is responsible for the campaign communications they receive."# # #
02.05.2007	Washington, D.C. - The disastrous fiscal policies of the past six years have stranded our nation in a sea of red ink, and the President's latest budget offers no hope for relief. Our deficit is forecast at $218 billion this year, and a realistic assessment of the President's proposal shows continued deficits as far as the eye can see.Leading up to its release, the President claimed he was committed to balancing the budget, and he even made overtures of cooperation to the Democratic Congress. Indeed, there are a couple of items included in this year's budget that have long been priorities of mine and of many of my colleagues, including a significant increase in the Pell Grant for college students. But at what cost is the President offering these inducements to support his budget?In order to make his tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans permanent, the President wants to hammer the poor and the middle class. His budget would eliminate the Perkins Loan and nine other assistance programs for college students; it would refuse to reform the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) which is set to ensnare many middle class Americans with tax hikes in the near future; it would shortchange the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), resulting in a loss of coverage for thousands of children; and it would under-fund his own signature No Child Left Behind program by $15 billion. The President also wants to cut billions from Medicaid, which provides health coverage to the poor and disabled. One small step forward in some areas does not make up for giant leaps backward in many others.As The Washington Post reported on Saturday, by the end of this year more money will have been designated for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan than was spent on the entire 16-year Vietnam War, when adjusted for inflation. The Administration's decision to pursue this dangerous course in Iraq continues to sacrifice too many lives along with precious resources to achieve national security and take care of other priorities at home.Over the next few months, Congress will be formulating a budget resolution to set priorities for our government. The President's budget proposal will not find much support in Congress, nor should it. Democrats are committed to balancing the budget by 2012, but we will do so by upholding the priorities of the American people. As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I am committed to working with my colleagues toward this goal.# # #
01.30.2007	Washington, D.C. - Yesterday, the House passed H. Res. 24, a bill reauthorizing the House Democracy Assistance Commission (HDAC), which will permit the Commision to continue its work over the next two years. HDAC, which Rep. Price helped establish in March 2005, works with legislatures in developing democracies around the world to strengthen the building blocks of effective democratic governance. Currently, HDAC is working in 12 nations: Afghanistan, Colombia, East Timor, Georgia, Haiti, Indonesia, Kenya, Liberia, Lebanon, Macedonia, Mongolia, and Ukraine. H. Res. 24, which Price introduced earlier this year, passed the House by a 426-0 vote. An excerpt of Price's remarks in support of the bill follows.*******CONGRESSIONAL RECORD—January 30, 2007ESTABLISHING THE HOUSE DEMOCRACY ASSISTANCE COMMISSIONFOR THE 110TH CONGRESS...House Resolution 24 would reauthorize the work of the [House Democracy Assistance] Commission. This is a body that was inspired by the work of the Frost-Solomon Task Force back in the early 1990s. We worked then with states in Central and Eastern Europe as they were emerging from communism.Our commission has undertaken this same kind of work. We are building the institutional capacities of legislatures in emerging democracies. We are working with them to develop their research and budget analysis, oversight, legislative drafting, and other capabilities.There is a difference, though. In contrast to the Frost-Solomon effort, our scope is not just Central and Eastern Europe, although some of our partner countries are still in that region. We are undertaking around the world to work with partner legislatures. In the commission's first 2 years, we have worked with legislatures in 12 nations. Many of these countries are of key strategic import for our own Nation, and all are enthusiastic, worthy, and willing partners: Afghanistan, Colombia, East Timor, Georgia, Haiti, Indonesia, Kenya, Lebanon, Liberia, Macedonia, Mongolia, and Ukraine.Madam Speaker, we view our work as a small but important niche in the United States' mission to spread democracy around the world. We do this not in the sense that we have all the answers about how to promote democratic rights and governance. The commission's work is rooted in the fundamental realization that the heart of democracy is not found just in elections but between elections. Between elections, that is when a nation's ability to govern itself in a way that is responsive to its citizens and representative of its citizens is established. What happens between elections, establishing representative institutions of governance, is just as important as the nation's free determination of who will govern.Our commission works with partner legislatures to support development of the tools legislators need to establish responsive, effective government. We carry on our work in the sure realization that we do not have all the answers. We know that our own democracy is a work in progress. We do think we have an important story to tell. But we approach each of these legislatures in a true spirit of partnership, learning from them as they learn from us.We also don't have a corner on the market of democracy promotion, and we coordinate closely with USAID, with the State Department, with other actors in the field to ensure that our efforts complement and enhance theirs.We have high expectations for the program which we hope to implement in 2007 with the support of this body. During the last 2 years, our focus has been on assessing candidate legislatures and seeking to establish partnerships. Now we plan to move toward consolidating these relationships by expanding and focusing our programming. We plan to conduct advanced seminars on critical legislative capabilities, to enable sustained communications between members and staff of our legislatures, to identify and support pro-democracy reformers in partner legislatures, and to provide small-scale material assistance in cases of significant need.So, Madam Speaker, let me close by again thanking my colleague Representative DAVID DREIER, the founding chairman of the House Democracy Assistance Commission, thanking him for his leadership. He has led us with vision and with an inclusive spirit. I also want to thank Speaker Pelosi, past Speaker HASTERT, Majority Leader HOYER, Chairman Lantos, Ranking Member Ros-Lehtinen, and many others who have supported the commission and helped bring forward quickly this resolution to get our work going.I urge my colleagues to support the resolution, which offers Members of this body a promising opportunity to directly contribute to the important work of championing democracy around the world.# # #
01.30.2007	Washington, D.C. - Senator Russ Feingold (D-WI) and Representatives Marty Meehan (D-MA), Christopher Shays (R-CT) and David Price (D-NC) today introduced the Presidential Funding Act of 2007 to strengthen the presidential public financing system so it reflects the current reality of running for the Presidency.The legislation will enhance the viability of the system put in place following the Watergate scandal. The presidential public funding system is intended to protect the integrity of the electoral process by allowing presidential candidates to run competitive campaigns without becoming overly dependent on private donors."This legislation is a small but necessary investment to protect our democracy and preserve the integrity of our presidential elections," Feingold said. "The American people do not want to see a return to the pre-Watergate days of unlimited spending on presidential elections and candidates entirely beholden to private donors. We must act now to ensure the fairness of our elections and the confidence of our citizens in the process by repairing the cornerstone of the Watergate reforms.""The system that restored the nation's faith in presidential elections following the dark days of Watergate has eroded and become obsolete," said Meehan, "In the last 30 years, Presidential campaigns and the way they are financed have changed drastically. Accordingly, a change in the Public Financing System is vital. This bill updates the existing system, creating incentives to accept public money, while still allowing candidates to remain competitive.""The Presidential public financing system as it stands today is too little, too late," Shays said. "Contrary to past elections, candidates for Presidency who opt in to the system today are simply not as competitive as those who opt out. We want to reform the system so the funding provided is an amount that is realistic, in a timeframe appropriate for today's campaigns and discourages reliance on influence-peddlers who collect large sums of money.""There may be some out there who are already sounding the death knell for the public financing system," Price said. "But for the sake of free and fair elections, we can't let it die on our watch. What it needs is a shot in the arm, not a funeral."The legislation would put the new system into place in 2009, making 2012 the first election to which it would apply.From 1976 to 2000, the presidential public funding system produced competitive elections in which Republicans were elected four times and Democrats three times, while challengers managed to be victorious in three of the five elections in which the incumbent was a candidate. But the front-loading of decisive primaries, and the emergence of candidates able to raise money far in excess of the primary election spending limits, have exposed the weaknesses of the current system. Both major party candidates opted out of public financing for the 2004 primary election, and the system will likely become even less attractive to candidates in the future if it is not revised and updated.# # #
01.23.2007	Washington, D.C. - The President claims he is willing to work in a bipartisan manner to address the challenges we face as a nation. Tonight he presented a list of high-minded goals that we all share – extending healthcare to the uninsured, expanding educational opportunities, reducing our consumption of fossil fuels, and protecting our homeland. But the President has yet to prove that he can match his rhetoric with reality.No issue cries out for bold leadership more than the War in Iraq, and tonight the President again demonstrated his refusal to listen to Congress and the American people's demand for a dramatic change of course. Earlier today, Representative Brad Miller and I introduced a plan requiring the President to end the U.S. occupation of Iraq by year's end, implementing a realistic strategy to leave Iraq with the best chance to govern and defend itself. If the President refuses to change his misguided course in Iraq, we in Congress, as Senator Webb said in his response tonight, "will be showing him the way."# # #
01.23.2007	Washington, D.C. - On the morning before President Bush delivers his State of the Union Address to Congress, U.S. Reps. David Price (NC-04) and Brad Miller (NC-13), introduced a bill to phase out the U.S. military involvement in Iraq by year's end.The Price-Miller legislation would terminate the President's authority to wage war in Iraq on December 31, 2007, and would require an exit strategy to bring American troops home by that date. The bill would also enhance political and diplomatic efforts designed to hasten the total transfer of authority to the Iraqi government and bolster that government's chances of success after the American presence has ended."In his recent speech on Iraq, the President recklessly rejected the advice of his generals in Iraq and in the Pentagon, along with the will of Congress and the majority of Americans," Price said. "With this bill, we are calling for a responsible end to the occupation of Iraq by a date certain. If the President refuses to change his misguided course in Iraq, we in Congress have an obligation to force his hand.""The President thinks Congress is sticking its nose into his war," said Miller. "Our generals have repeatedly said any solution to the crisis in Iraq will be political and diplomatic, not military."Asserting that the U.S. military cannot solve Iraq's internal problems, the North Carolina congressmen recognize that America's national security has an important stake in Iraq's future. Thus, they are seeking to expand dramatically political and diplomatic efforts in the region to provide Iraq the best chance to govern and defend itself as U.S. forces exit. Their bill calls for a regional diplomacy initiative modeled after the recommendations of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, including the establishment of an Office of Special Presidential Envoy for Iraq Regional Security. The envoy would convene a regional conference and develop an Iraq Support Group consisting of Iraq's neighbors and other international stakeholders who are willing to pledge assistance and cooperation in an effort to stabilize Iraq and the region.The bill would also authorize funding for a major jobs program for Iraqis, in order to turn would-be insurgents and militia-men into law-abiding citizens contributing to the welfare of Iraq. However, such funding would only be available when Iraqis reach a political agreement for the equitable sharing of power and resources, serving as an incentive for the Iraqi government to take significant steps toward national reconciliation. The legislation also pledges continued U.S. support for developing democratic institutions in Iraq, particularly local and provincial governments.# # #
01.10.2007	Washington, D.C. - Tonight, the President announced a course that has been rejected by our military leaders, rejected in Congress, and rejected by the American people. The real solution in Iraq - if it's not already too late - will be political and diplomatic, not military. We do need a new direction in Iraq, but the President failed to offer one tonight.The President is finally claiming that our commitment in Iraq is not open-ended, but the message his policy is sending to the Iraqis is exactly the opposite. Our occupation of Iraq is simply unsustainable, and the only responsible option is to bring it to end.The President also made a pledge tonight to confer in good faith with Congress. The coming days are likely to put that pledge to the test. They will put Congress to the test as well, as we consider how to utilize the means at our disposal to change our country's course.# # #
01.10.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (NC-04) today introduced legislation that would bring about transparency, accountability, and battlefield coordination for private security contractors operating in a war zone.Tens of thousands of armed private security contractors (PSCs) are working in Iraq and other conflict zones around the world. Both contractors and critics have complained that these PSCs are operating in a legal and logistical gray area, with scant coordination between contractors and the military personnel with whom they share the battle space and with no clear accountability for abuses."The lack of a legal framework for battlefield contracting has allowed certain rogue contractor employees to perpetrate heinous criminal acts without the threat of prosecution, and has left thousands of contractors working legitimately in support of U.S. missions exposed and at risk," Price said.Numerous accounts of criminal misconduct by private contractors have been documented by the media, including the involvement of contractors in detainee abuse at Abu Ghraib prison and several incidents in which PSCs have fired upon Iraqi civilians without provocation. Despite these allegations not a single case of contractor misconduct has been prosecuted in U.S. courts.Members of the military have also expressed concern over the lack of coordination and cooperation between American troops and armed contractors. The Government Accountability Office (GAO) has repeatedly raised red flags about this lack of communication, recently reporting that "private security contractors continue to enter the battle space without coordinating with the U.S. military, putting both the military and security providers at a greater risk."Price's legislation, the Transparency and Accountability in Security Contacting Act, will ensure that there is a clear legal framework under which abuses and misconduct can and will be prosecuted under U.S. civilian law. The bill would enhance transparency over the operations of private security contractors in contingency operations, ensuring that the federal government and Congress have the information they need to conduct oversight of contractor operations. It will also improve coordination on the ground between military units and armed contractors sharing the battlefield."This bill will ensure that our troops are protected while also making sure contractors know the rules of the game," Price said. "Legal uncertainty and operational confusion help no one on the battlefield – not the contractors, and certainly not our troops. This comprehensive approach should guarantee that those representing the U.S. government abroad are held to a standard of conduct that is consistent with our mission and the image we want to project in conflict areas."Specifically, Price's legislation would expand the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act to include all contractors involved in a military operation, establish a Theater Security Contract Coordinating Officer to coordinate communications and operations between contractors and the military, and establish a Theater Investigative Unit of the FBI to investigate and prosecute criminal misconduct. It would also create a mechanism for gathering critical information about the nature, extent, and cost of contracting operations in a particular theater.Original cosponsors of the Price bill include Triangle area Reps. Brad Miller and Bob Etheridge, as well as House Budget Committee Chairman and Armed Services Committee Member John Spratt, Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Henry Waxman, Chief Deputy Majority Whip Jan Schakowsky, Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers, and Rep. Christopher Shays, a senior Republican Member of the Oversight & Government Reform Committee.# # #
01.10.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (NC-04) was officially approved today as Chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee by the House Democratic Caucus.The ten-term Democrat from Chapel Hill will now assume a leading role in formulating the budget for the Department of Homeland Security, and in providing oversight over the Department's use of taxpayer dollars."I am honored to accept this assignment on behalf of my constituents," Price said. "Our subcommittee, which was formed in response to the devastating terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, is charged with the solemn duty to fund and oversee our government's efforts to protect the American people from the threats with which we are faced. I assume this role fully aware of the unrelenting intent of our enemies to inflict catastrophic damage on our civilian population. I am also acutely aware of the many hazards we confront from natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods and wildfires."Given the challenges our modern world poses, I stand ready to work with my colleagues in Congress, Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff, and the President to most effectively and judiciously ensure that the American people can live free from the fear of terrorism and disasters of any nature – a goal we all share."The primary task of Price's Subcommittee is writing the annual funding bill for the Department of Homeland Security. The Department of Homeland Security was created when 22 separate government agencies were joined under the same umbrella by the Homeland Security Act of 2002. A list of the Department's subcomponents and agencies can be found at the following website: http://www.dhs.gov/xabout/structure/index.shtm.Price takes over the gavel from Rep. Harold Rogers (KY-5) after the House of Representatives switched from Republican to Democratic leadership following the fall elections. The retirement of the Subcommittee's Ranking Democrat, Rep. Martin Olav Sabo (MN-5), paved the way for Price, previously the number two Democrat, to ascend to the chairmanship.Other Democratic Members of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee include Reps. José E. Serrano (NY-16), Carolyn C. Kilpatrick (MI-13), Ciro Rodriguez (TX-23), Nita M. Lowey (NY-18), Chet Edwards (TX-17), Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-34), Sam Farr (CA-17), Chaka Fattah (PA-2), and David Obey (WI-7-ex-officio).Additional Appropriations Roles for Price:Price also secured assignments on the Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies and on the Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice and Science, and Related Agencies.# # #
01.09.2007	Congressman Price delivers a speech to the House of Representatives in support of a bill to implement the remaining recommendations of the 9/11 Commission (H.R. 1). As chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee that determines the budget for the Department of Homeland Security, Price stresses the importance of making the right fiscal choices to ensure that our homeland security needs are provided for.
01.05.2007	Washington, D.C. - During the first series of votes taken by the new Congress, House Democrats passed significant reforms to prevent unethical behavior, which had seriously tainted the previous Congress. Congressman David Price (NC-04) enthusiastically supported the package of reforms, many of which he had originally proposed in a bill he unveiled in December 2005 (See release)."The American people made their voice heard in the November elections, and their message was clear: we must change the 'business as usual' atmosphere in Washington that has led to the unethical conduct we witnessed in recent years," Price said. "Democrats have been pushing for these reforms for over a year, and with the change of leadership in Congress, ethics reform is finally seeing the light of day."The first round of ethics reforms were passed yesterday, severing the cozy relationship between Members of Congress and lobbyists. Today the House enacted additional measures to further curtail abuses of House procedures, reform the practice of earmarking, and commit the Congress to fiscal responsibility."Bad process begets bad legislation, something we witnessed on many occasions during the poor performance of the last Congress," Price said. "Abuses of the legislative process too often benefited special interests over the concerns of American families. We are now committed to a more open and democratic House of Representatives, one that is responsive to the will of the people, as our Founding Fathers intended."A summary of the House Ethics Bill (H.Res.6) follows.INTEGRITY – The House overwhelmingly approved the following measures yesterday:Bans Gifts from Lobbyists: Bans gifts, including meals and tickets, from lobbyists and any organizations that employ them.Bans Lobbyist Travel: Bans lobbyists and their clients from financing travel for Members or staff. Requires the House Ethics Committee to develop guidelines for appropriate privately-funded travel by Members.Requires Certification and Pre-Approval for Travel Paid for By Outside Groups: Requires Members and staff to obtain pre-approval from the ethics committee for travel to ensure that travel is directly relevant to official duties.Prohibits use of Company Planes: Prohibits Members from using non-commercial corporate jets.Ends the K Street Project: Prohibits Members from taking official action or attempting to influence the employment decisions of any private entity on the basis of partisan affiliation.Mandates Ethics Training: Require mandatory ethics training annually for all House employees.CIVILITY AND FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY – The House overwhelmingly approved the following measures today:Curbs Abuses of Voting Time: Prohibits holding votes open for the sole purpose of arm-twisting and affecting the outcome.Reforms House-Senate Conference Committees: Requires adequate notice of meetings to ensure bipartisan Member attendance; ensures information is available to all conferees; and ensures legislation cannot be changed after the signatures of conferees.Restores Pay-As-You-Go Budgeting: Restores the pay-as-you-go rules that balanced the budget in the 1990s, requiring that both new spending and tax cuts be paid for.Earmark Reform: Require committees to disclose the sponsors of any earmarks included in appropriations, authorizing, tax or trade legislation. These new rules would also prohibit trading earmarks for votes and require Members to disclose their earmark requests and certify that they (and their spouses) have no personal financial interest in the request.# # #
01.03.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (NC-04) today reminded prospective college students that financial aid is available to help make college more affordable and urged them to apply for assistance.January 1st marked the first day students can submit their Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), which determines eligibility for both North Carolina and federal financial aid for college in the 2007-08 school year. Since many forms of financial aid are available on a first come-first served basis, students have a better chance to receive aid if they submit their applications early in the process.To submit a FAFSA application online, students can go to http://www.fafsa.ed.gov/. The results of the application are automatically reported to the state and to colleges applicants designate."The Triangle is home to many bright and talented young people, and when they get into college, there ought to be a way for them to pay for it," Price said. "With the rising cost of higher education, federal and state financial aid programs are more important than ever to help defray that cost."Price called attention to action he and his colleagues in the House will be taking later this month to help make college education more affordable."After fighting against the cuts to student loan program funding in the Republican Congress, Democrats campaigned on a promise to reverse the policies that have increased the debt burden on many students and parents," Price said. "Within the first 100 hours of the new Democratic Congress, we will deliver on that promise by cutting interest rates in half on subsidized federal student loans."Last year, the Republican Congress enacted budget legislation that cut $12 billion from the federal student aid programs over the following five years, which resulted in increased interest rates that went into effect in July.# # #
12.17.2006	Washington, D.C. - The following op-ed appeared in the Raleigh News & Observer on Sunday, December 17th, 2006:The Iraq Study Group report moved past the semantic debate over whether Iraq is now in the midst of a civil war; the real question is how to address a rapidly deteriorating situation. The most valuable contribution of the report is that it looks at the situation comprehensively and suggests courses of action that acknowledge both what the United States can reasonably hope to accomplish and what it cannot.The report specifically states, "there is no action the American military can take that, by itself, can bring about success in Iraq." Further, it suggests that the continuing, open-ended presence of U.S. troops may in fact be working against success, noting that, "if Iraqis continue to perceive Americans as representing an occupying force, the United States could become its own worst enemy."Two messages are clear. First, U.S. troops must begin to come home. We should start an immediate, initial drawdown of American forces to signal that Iraqis must begin taking responsibility for their own nation and that we intend no continuing military presence. We must carefully formulate our remaining military mission, including our goals for training Iraqi Security Forces, responding to developing terrorist threats and preventing ethnic cleansing. A responsible exit strategy will not guarantee success, but it can help Iraqi leaders avoid the worst outcomes.Second, the report makes clear that our exit strategy must draw on all tools in our diplomatic tool belt, formulating robust nonmilitary policies that will give Iraq the best chance for success as our troops depart. We should help strengthen Iraq's institutions of government and support reconstruction efforts aimed at providing basic services and making a dent in Iraq's 25 percent to 40 percent unemployment rate.Rep. Brad Miller and I recently urged President Bush to undertake a regional diplomatic initiative, as recommended by the Iraq Study Group, to solicit a greater role for Iraq's neighbors in stabilizing that country, including stronger control over common borders. The worst-case scenario for Iraq continues to be the development of a regional conflagration, ignited by Iraq's sectarian violence, that spreads bloody conflict across the Middle East.Regional diplomacy is the cornerstone, not just for our efforts in Iraq, but also for our interests in the region. We must reinvigorate efforts to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, establish effective governance and long-term stability in Afghanistan, confront Iran's nuclear proliferation and preserve Lebanon's fragile democracy. As the report rightly notes, we are at risk not only of losing in Iraq, but also of failing in the Middle East as a whole -- an outcome we and the world can ill-afford.No one -- including the president -- should interpret the initiation of troop withdrawal as a signal that Americans are abandoning Iraq or the Middle East. In fact, the report calls for a broader commitment to the future of the Middle East than the president has been willing to make. The president often pledges his commitment to an Iraq that is at peace with itself and its neighbors; if he is unwilling to tackle the full dimensions of Iraq and the region's challenges, he will all but guarantee his failure to deliver on that pledge.# # #
12.11.2006	Washington, D.C. - Reps. David Price (NC-04) and Brad Miller (NC-13) led a group of 26 Members of Congress today in sending a letter to the President in support of expanding regional diplomacy to promote stability in Iraq and prevent a broader regional conflict. Such an effort, the North Carolina Democrats and their colleagues wrote, should "ensure the active participation of Iraq's neighbors in promoting stability [in the region]."The letter draws on several key recommendations from the Iraq Study Group report, which calls for "a robust diplomatic effort to establish an international support structure intended to stabilize Iraq and ease tensions in other countries in the region." The Price-Miller letter also calls attention to the Senate testimony of Robert Gates, the President's nominee for Secretary of Defense, who warned of the danger of an escalating regional conflict.The letter argues that the best way to avert such an outcome is for the President to dispatch Iraq Study Group Co-Chairmen James Baker and Lee Hamilton as Special Envoys to spearhead a robust diplomatic initiative, beginning with a regional diplomatic conference. The conference would seek to engage Iraq's neighbors in stabilization efforts, press the international community to fulfill its pledges of support for Iraq's reconstruction, and jumpstart talks for resolving conflicts elsewhere in the region.The text of the letter follows.**************The Honorable George W. BushPresident of the United States of America1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NWWashington, DCDear President Bush:We believe the release of the final report of the Iraq Study Group (ISG) offers an opportunity for bold bipartisan consensus for action in Iraq. A key component of such action must be the revitalization of regional diplomacy aimed at stabilizing Iraq and preventing the spread of the conflict beyond Iraq's borders.As you know, the ISG, chaired jointly by former Secretary of State James Baker III and former Representative Lee Hamilton, underscored the necessity of expanding regional diplomacy and bringing all involved parties to the negotiating table. Indeed, the first priority expressed in the ISG report reads: "The United States should embark on a robust diplomatic effort to establish an international support structure intended to stabilize Iraq and ease tensions in other countries in the region. This support structure should include every country that has an interest in averting a chaotic Iraq, including all of Iraq's neighbors."The importance of regional diplomacy has been underscored in recent days by the remarks of incoming Secretary of Defense, Robert Gates, who stated in testimony before the Congress, "My greatest worry, if we mishandle the next year or two and if we leave Iraq in chaos, is that a variety of regional powers will become involved in Iraq, and we will have a regional conflict on our hands." Our best hope for preventing such a regional conflict is to bring all those parties with a stake in Iraq's future together to fashion an integrated, united approach to the crisis.To jumpstart regional diplomacy, we urge you to immediately name Secretary Baker and Representative Hamilton as dual Special Envoys to the region, with the mission of organizing and representing the United States at a regional conference convened to discuss Iraq's future. These envoys could use a regional conference as platform for pursuing three goals the ISG identified as critically important, namely:• To begin forming an international Iraq Support Group to ensure the active participation of Iraq's neighbors in promoting stability;• To press the international community to fulfill unmet reconstruction pledges; and• To lay the groundwork for discussions on broader regional issues, including the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the fragile peace in Lebanon.Appointing these diplomats, who would be charged with obtaining commitments from Iraq's neighbors and other stakeholders to help contain the conflict, would provide a strong indication of your commitment to regional diplomacy.We stand ready to support your leadership to diplomatically engage Iraq's neighbors. Members of both parties have repeatedly endorsed such a course. As the ISG report noted, "The ability of the United States to shape outcomes is diminishing. Time is running out." Bold steps must be taken now to stem the rising tensions in Iraq and prevent the conflict from spreading into the broader region.Sincerely,Rep. Brad MillerRep. David PriceRep. Carolyn KilpatrickRep. John OlverRep. Eddie Bernice JohnsonRep. Chris Van HollenRep. Timothy BishopRep. Lois CappsRep. Charles GonzalezRep. Rick BoucherRep. Wayne GilchrestRep. Lloyd DoggettRep. Sheila Jackson-LeeRep. Maurice HincheyRep. Rush HoltRep. Sam FarrRep. Vic SnyderRep. Ron KindRep. Jim McGovernRep. Jim MarshallRep. John LewisRep. John SprattRep. Diana DeGetteRep. John LarsonRep. Jay InsleeRep. Jim McDermott
12.08.2006	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (NC-04) delivered the following remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives today:MR. SPEAKER, I rise today to celebrate an accomplishment for which my constituents and I have tremendous pride and adoration: the 2006 Lady Tar Heels of the University of North Carolina have just claimed their nineteenth Women's Soccer National Championship, beating the Notre Dame Fighting Irish 2-to-1 in the title game last Sunday.Under the leadership of Head Coach Anson Dorrance, Carolina Women's Soccer has been the most dominant program in the history of college athletics, winning 18 of the 25 national championships since the NCAA established the women's tournament.This national title game capped off a stellar career for Senior Captain Heather O'Reilly, who was named the tournament's Most Outstanding Offensive Player, as well as for Carolina's other seniors. Junior Defender Robyn Gayle was named the tournament's Most Outstanding Defensive Player, and seven freshmen played for the Lady Tar Heels in the game.I also take great pride in the fact that the Championship Game took place in my district, at the SAS Soccer Park in Cary. The sellout crowd of more than 8,300 enthusiastic fans is a testament to the growing popularity of soccer in North Carolina and around the country.So I want to extend my congratulations to the Lady Tar Heels on their outstanding success; to a Notre Dame squad for a well-played tournament; and to the university community in Chapel Hill that has come to embrace the women's soccer team as one of its most precious gems.Even the great Dean Smith, himself the winningest coach in college basketball history, once remarked: "This is a women's soccer school. We're just trying to keep up with them."# # #
12.08.2006	Washington, D.C. - In response to renewed tensions and unrest in Lebanon following the assassination of a Lebanese cabinet member, the House of Representatives today passed a resolution co-introduced by Reps. David Price (D-NC) and David Dreier (R-CA) condemning the terrorist act, and reaffirming the commitment of the United States to support and promote that country's democratic institutions.Price is the Ranking Democratic Member of the House Democracy Assistance Commission (HDAC), and Dreier is currently the Chairman. Their Commission has partnered with the reform government of Lebanon in order to help build and promote its parliament. Price and Dreier traveled to Beirut with the Commission in July where they conferred with Lebanese political leaders, including the recently assassinated Industry Minister Pierre Amin Gemayel.Price's floor speech on the bill and the text of the resolution as passed follow. The vote was 408 to 0 in favor of the resolution.***Mr. PRICE of North Carolina: "Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman and am proud to add my voice of commendation in support of House Resolution 1088, which I have cosponsored with the gentleman from California, chairman of the House Democracy Assistance Commission."In July, I traveled with the commission to Beirut to initiate a partnership with the Lebanese Parliament. While there, I had an opportunity to have lunch with Pierre Gemayel. I was struck then by his charismatic personality and his enthusiasm over the prospects for real reform in Lebanon."In many ways, Pierre Gemayel represented the promise of Lebanon's future. A strong advocate of democratic governance in Lebanon, he shook off the constraints of confessionalism to battle side by side with Christians, Sunni and Shia Muslims to guarantee Lebanon's sovereignty against the persisting threat of Syrian domination."Pierre Gemayel was named to lead the Industry Ministry in the wake of the Cedar Revolution demonstrations of March 14, 2005 and the subsequent national elections which brought to power a cross-sectarian coalition of pro-democracy politicians, determined to reform the Lebanese Government to make it strong and effective and to resist foreign domination."Our Nation celebrated the courage of the Lebanese people in registering their demand for democratic government in these elections, but we have not done enough since the elections to support the democratic institutions that leaders like Pierre Gemayel have worked to strengthen."This resolution before us sends a clear signal that the United States must do more to support these institutions if we hope to help the Lebanese people achieve their dreams."I thank my colleague, DAVID DRIER of California, for his strong leadership as chairman of our House Democracy Assistance Commission. This commission, as he has stated, has allowed Members of this body to work colleague to colleague to strengthen the Lebanese Parliament and other parliaments in emerging democracies. I look forward to joining with him in the next Congress to continue this important work."And I join my colleagues in expressing condolences to the Gemayel family and the people of Lebanon on their tragic loss. We must also acknowledge that Mr. Gemayel is but the latest in a succession of leaders recently martyred in Lebanon because of their fight for democracy, beginning with former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri. We must fight to bring justice to the perpetrators of these crimes and to bring fulfillment to the goals these pro-democracy leaders have sought."Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the resolution and to support efforts to strengthen democratic institutions in Lebanon."***H. RES. 1088Expressing support for Lebanon's democratic institutions and condemning the recent terrorist assassination of Lebanese parliamentarian and Industry Minister Pierre Amin Gemayel.IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESDecember 5, 2006Mr. DREIER (for himself and Mr. PRICE)RESOLUTIONExpressing support for Lebanon's democratic institutions and condemning the recent terrorist assassination of Lebanese parliamentarian and Industry Minister Pierre Amin Gemayel.Whereas on November 21, 2006 Pierre Gemayel, a Member of the March 14 parliamentary coalition, was assassinated in New Jdeidé, north of Beirut, Lebanon;Whereas a series of targeted attacks and killings of public leaders working to promote democracy and autonomy in Lebanon has placed a heavy toll on Lebanon's intellectual and democratic freedoms;Whereas the prosecution by the proposed International Independent Investigation Commission of persons accused in the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri could deter future assassinations;Whereas Pierre Gemayel was born on September 24, 1972 into a prominent Lebanese family;Whereas Pierre Gemayel was first elected to the Lebanese Parliament in 2000;Whereas Pierre Gemayel was named Minister of Industry in the Lebanese Government in 2005;Whereas Amine Gemayel, the father of Pierre Gemayel and former President of Lebanon, has urged the Phalange party supporters and all Lebanese citizens to promote cooperation and solidarity and hamper attempts to instigate civil strife;Whereas, on November 21, 2006, following Pierre Gemayel's assassination, President George W. Bush stated that "the United States remains fully committed to supporting Lebanon's independence and democracy in the face of attempts by Syria, Iran, and their allies within Lebanon to foment instability and violence";Whereas supporting the development of democratic institutions in Lebanon is critical to promoting the interests of the United States in the Middle East region, building upon the momentum of the March 14, 2005 "Cedar Revolution," fighting terrorism, and supporting negotiations for peace in the region; andWhereas the House Democracy Assistance Commission has worked in partnership with the Lebanese Parliament to strengthen its institutional capacity, and met with Pierre Gemayel during the Commission's delegation to Lebanon in July 2006: Now, therefore be itResolved, That the House of Representatives--(1) Expresses its condolences for this heinous crime to the people of Lebanon and to the members of Lebanon's Cabinet in which Pierre Gemayel served with distinction;(2) Affirms its support for the international tribunal to try suspects in the 2005 assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri;(3) Urges that the perpetrators of the assassination of Pierre Gemayel be brought to justice;(4) Conveys concern regarding the increasing polarization of Lebanon's religious sects and calls on the Government of Lebanon to actively pursue electoral reform as a first step in reducing confessional tensions;(5) Recognizes that a regional peace in the Middle East will greatly contribute to Lebanon's long-term security and stability; and(6) Reaffirms the commitment of the United States to support and promote the development of autonomous, effective democratic institutions in Lebanon, including an independent Parliament and a strong central government that represent and serve the interests of the Lebanese people.# # #
12.07.2006	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (NC-04) delivered the following remarks today during debate of S. 2370, the Palestinian Anti-Terrorism Act:Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak about S. 2370, the Senate-passed version of the Palestinian Anti-Terrorism Act before us today.Earlier this year, the House considered a version of this legislation. I rose in strong opposition to that bill, because it would have unfairly punished the average Palestinian citizen for the crimes of extremist Hamas leaders. It would have shut off all aid but the most narrowly defined humanitarian assistance, ending U.S. support for successful non-governmental efforts to promote democracy, tolerance, and peace in the region. In short, though well-intentioned, it would have undermined our ability to stop attacks against Israel and to achieve our most important foreign policy goals in the region.I was joined by several of my colleagues in opposing the bill. Though the House passed this flawed legislation, we were able to send a vital message: at this critical moment, we cannot afford to pull the rug out from those working for democracy and reconciliation in the region.The Senate heeded our message, and passed a much improved bill. Specifically, the bill addresses two significant concerns we raised during the House Debate.First, the Senate bill provides the Administration far more flexibility to deliver aid to the Palestinian people and to those working for a peaceful resolution to the conflict. In addition to broader humanitarian aid, it explicitly authorizes "assistance to promote democracy, human rights, freedom of the press, non-violence, reconciliation, and peaceful co-existence."Second, the bill expands the Administration's options for engaging diplomatically with Palestinian leaders not associated with Hamas, including Palestinian Authority (PA) President Mahmoud Abbas, who will be a critical ally if we are to negotiate a peace agreement.I am greatly pleased to see the improvements the Senate legislation has made, and for that reason I will support the bill's passage. However, because events have evolved since this legislation was first considered, I want to add a few words, lest our action today send the wrong message at the wrong time.After a summer of crisis, during which the kidnapping of an Israeli soldier led Israel to send its military into Gaza, there have been several recent positive developments. First, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and PA President Abbas negotiated a ceasefire to end the violent confrontation in Gaza. Second, both Prime Minister Olmert and President Abbas have recently made clear their commitment to resuming peace talks. And third, Palestinian leaders are reportedly on the verge of forming a unity government that would end Hamas's sole control of the PA.Passage of this legislation at this time should not be interpreted as unawareness of these positive developments or unwillingness to support them. Such progress should be rewarded with an increased U.S. commitment to work for peace in the region, not punished by the erection of new obstacles or the imposition of new sanctions.With that said, however, I strongly support the goals of isolating Hamas and encouraging the Palestinian leadership to renounce violence and recognize Israel's right to exist, practical and principled steps toward the resumption of negotiations aimed at a two-state solution. This bill would accomplish those goals and I will support it. I hope it will serve not as an endpoint but as a launchpad for reinvigorated U.S. action to support a settlement that will bring a lasting peace to Israelis and Palestinians.# # #
12.06.2006	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (NC-04) today issued the following statement in response to the report by the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, which was released earlier this morning.The report from the bipartisan Iraq Study Group confirms what has been clear for quite some time: the situation in Iraq is "grave and deteriorating," staying the course in Iraq is no longer an option, and the President must take our Iraq policy in a new direction.Our country's challenges in Iraq are daunting, and this dire situation calls for bold action to change our course. I applaud the ISG for recognizing the need to begin bringing our troops home, to enhance diplomatic engagement with Iraq's neighbors, and to act more assertively to achieve a peaceful resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, a priority which has been neglected far too long. The panel also calls on the President to publicly disavow plans for permanent military bases in Iraq, a pledge I have long believed to be imperative for our government to offer the Iraqi people and their neighbors.While I support many of the recommendations for changes to the President's Iraq policy, I know that the question foremost on many Americans' minds is 'how do we bring our troops home?' The ISG proposes some worthy goals for transitioning our troops out of combat involvement in Iraq. But it is now incumbent upon the President to translate these goals and recommendations – in consultation with Democrats and Republicans in Congress – into a responsible, detailed exit strategy for Iraq.The most important conclusion the Iraq Study Group reached is that our presence in Iraq cannot be open-ended. The President should now respond to this message by beginning an immediate, initial drawdown of combat forces in Iraq.# # #
10.26.2006	Washington, D.C. - US Rep. David Price (NC-04) today announced details of the Annual Veterans' Briefing organized in cooperation with Reps. Bob Etheridge (NC-02) and Brad Miller (NC-13). The event will provide an update on federal issues related to North Carolina's veterans and convene at the Jim Graham Hall of Fame Room at the NC State Fairgrounds, Monday, November 13th from 8 to 10 am. A light breakfast will be provided.Charles Smith, Assistant Secretary for Veterans Affairs of North Carolina, will join the three area congressmen in delivering remarks. Veterans will also have an opportunity to hear from representatives of various veterans' service providers. For details and RSVP information, CLICK HERE to view the flyer for the event.# # #
10.06.2006	Washington, D.C. - An explosion at a hazardous materials storage facility in Apex Thursday night has caused a fire and release of potentially hazardous gases in the area. Residents in the affected communities have been evacuated.For information about the fire and resulting evacuations and closings, please call the Wake County Emergency Operations Center at (919) 856-7044. If you are experiencing an emergency, dial 911.
10.03.2006	Washington, D.C. - US Rep. David Price (D-NC) released the following statement regarding the revelations of predatory behavior by former Rep. Mark Foley (R-FL) and the failure of the House Republican leadership to act upon learning of his advances toward House pages:"Former Representative Mark Foley's predatory actions are simply beyond the pale. He should be investigated and prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law."The boys and girls who participate in the House page program do so under the care and protection of the leadership of the House. Those leaders must be held accountable for any warnings they received and protective actions they failed to take."I join my colleagues in calling for a thorough investigation by the FBI and by the House Ethics Committee into Mr. Foley's actions and the House Republican leadership's response upon learning of his inappropriate behavior. We must know exactly who knew what and when, and House leaders should be required to testify under oath to their knowledge and actions."No one who had prior knowledge of the danger Mr. Foley posed to the children under the House's care and refused to act to protect those children should be allowed to retain their leadership in the House of Representatives."# # #
09.28.2006	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (NC-04) last night called for a smarter, more effective strategy in the Global War on Terrorism, arguing that the Administration's policies are causing America to lose ground against the terrorists. His statement addresses legislation (H.R. 6166) considered by the House on Wednesday, which Price opposed, that would leave the door open to the use of torture and would grant President Bush broad and controversial authority to indefinitely detain terrorist suspects. It also addresses surveillance legislation (H.R. 5825), which the House is expected to consider today, that would effectively rubber stamp the President's warrantless wiretapping program.In his statement, Price argued that the President's overall strategy is undermining our ability to combat terrorism, inspiring new generations of extremists, and failing to uphold the values that are fundamental to our democracy. "An anti-terrorism strategy informed by moral considerations, American values, and our effort to lead the world by example is consistent with an anti-terrorism strategy that pursues terrorists smartly, effectively, and aggressively," Price said. "What's more, such a strategy augments our efforts because it unites the American people – and the world – behind us."The full text of the statement follows.PROTECTING OUR NATION FROM TERRORISMRep. David E. PriceSeptember 27, 2006Mr. Speaker, I rise today to confront a question of central importance to our nation: are we doing everything we should to protect our nation from terrorism?This is not a threat we can afford to underestimate. The terrorists' means of organization, communication, and attack challenge our intelligence community, our armed forces, and our domestic law enforcement agencies in fundamentally new ways.We must take the fight to the terrorists, but that does not mean we must sacrifice our moral leadership in the international community. We must defend our homeland from attacks, but we must also avoid self-inflicted damage to the values we stand for and the liberties of our people. Our strategy cannot be merely aggressive; it must also be smart and efficient, and it must be true to the values that make us American.We must not only kill and capture specific terrorists and dismantle their organizations. We must also reduce the number of new terrorists and organizations that might exist tomorrow. Ultimately, we will win this war not by denying the rights of detainees and not by law enforcement excesses, but by protecting the integrity of our free and democratic society, and by repairing our diplomacy and showing the world that there is a better way.The Bush Administration has repeatedly implied that Americans must be prepared to set aside moral considerations, American values, and America's image in the world if such concerns get in the way of the aggressive pursuit of terrorists. In reality, such a strategic blindness will hamper our ability to win the war on terrorism. An anti-terrorism strategy informed by moral considerations, American values, and our effort to lead the world by example is consistent with an anti-terrorism strategy that pursues terrorists smartly, effectively, and aggressively. What's more, such a strategy augments our efforts because it unites the American people – and the world – behind us.Following the 9-11 attacks, President Bush had two choices. The first option was to create and implement a smart, bipartisan anti-terrorist strategy. Such a strategy would have been focused on devoting sufficient troops and resources to Afghanistan to bring down the Taliban, find and incapacitate Osama bin Laden and his lieutenants, and enable that nation's successful reconstruction – not just in the capital but in the outlying areas that we have never fully secured.The President could have capitalized on the tremendous outpouring of public support in the wake of the attacks to build bridges between our nation and the rest of the world, including the millions of moderate Muslims who hold no sympathy for the terrorists who are hijacking their religion. He would have proactively sought a resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, which has historically been the largest source of inspiration for new generations of terrorists. (The Iraq war can now lay claim to that ignoble reputation.) And he would have more significantly bolstered our defense and intelligence assets to prevent future attacks and dismantle terrorist networks.Instead, the President chose a second option that has simply failed to meet the standard of an intelligent anti-terrorism strategy. He diverted resources from the hunt for bin Laden to prepare for and initiate a war of choice in Iraq – a war, incidentally, that has made the threat of terrorism worse, not better. The recent National Intelligence Estimate makes this quite clear.In doing so, President Bush left Afghanistan vulnerable to the resurgence of the Taliban we have seen over the last several months, resulting in a deteriorating security environment in that country five years after we supposedly defeated them. He has undertaken policies that have seriously undermined public support for the U.S. in the Islamic world and beyond, including policies that cultivated a culture within the military and the intelligence community that have tolerated and even encouraged the abuse of detainees – many of whom were later determined to be innocent bystanders. He has largely neglected the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, with disastrous results for Israel, Lebanon, and the entire Middle East region.David Schanzer, one of my constituents and director of the Triangle Center on Terrorism, got it right in a recent op-ed. He wrote: "Unfortunately, we have made no progress, and in fact may have lost ground, in the ideological conflict that is fueling jihadist violence around the globe."So I ask today: are we doing everything we should to protect our nation against another terrorist attack? Is President Bush pursuing a smart, effective strategy to win the war on terrorism? The answer to these questions is clearly "no."This week in the House, we are debating two prominent components of the President's strategy to fight terrorism: a bill to grant the President the right to circumvent checks by the judiciary to wiretap the phones of American citizens, and a bill to establish an extrajudiciary system for trying detained terrorist suspects. These bills are both clear examples of how the President continues to make the wrong choices in the war on terrorism.There is no doubt that we need a more extensive and sophisticated wiretapping program directed at those who mean us harm, both outside and inside the United States. That is not the question. The question is who should make decisions that balance civil liberties with surveillance needs. The Administration says "just trust us." To that, we say a resounding no. This is not merely because the Attorney General and the Bush Administration have proved unreliable stewards of our liberties. It also recognizes what our founding fathers knew quite well, that balancing power among institutions with different functional roles is the essential to our form of government. The executive branch is in the business of putting criminals and terrorists in jail; the judicial branch is in the business of interpreting the law and the Constitution, and protecting individual rights. Neither can effectively do the job of the other.The 1978 FISA law established procedures governing how the federal government can constitutionally collect foreign intelligence, including the ability to gather intelligence immediately in urgent situations and to obtain a warrant post-facto. Unfortunately, this administration feels that protecting the constitutional rights of its citizens has become too cumbersome. Instead of abiding by current law, the administration has chosen to make up new ones. And now that we have called the Administration on this violation of the law, it is asking Congress to formally authorize its practices. In essence, the administration is telling us that we have to choose between being safe and being free. I, for one, am not willing to accept this overly simple analysis or the proposed wiretapping bill.We do not yet know what provisions will be included in the House bill, but the President's proposal would allow warrantless surveillance of international calls and e-mails of American citizens without any evidence that they are conspiring with terrorist organizations. The communications of Americans would only be protected if the National Security Administration "reasonably believes" all senders and recipients are in the U.S. Essentially this provision would allow anybody communicating with family or friends outside the U.S. to be monitored at any given time without any real justification or oversight.In addition, the President's proposal would pre-approve warrantless searches on all Americans following a terrorist attack in the United States for up to 45 days. I know the investigations that take place in the days and weeks following a terrorist attack are crucial in apprehending all of those involved, and I agree that we need to make sure the intelligence community has whatever resources it needs. However, providing pre-approval to the President to violate the 4th amendment of the Constitution after an attack is completely unnecessary. Current law already allows the President reasonable exemptions in these situations, and if extensions are needed, he simply needs to request judicial approval.The second key terrorism bill under debate in the House this week would establish a system for bringing detained terrorist suspects to trial. Again, there is wide and bipartisan agreement that this issue must be addressed. But President Bush has once again failed to choose the smart and morally acceptable way to do it.Over the past three years, many of us have watched in horror as new details about the Bush Administration's treatment of detainees have been revealed. Torture, arbitrary arrest and detention, indefinite imprisonment – Americans used to think of these as charges off the pages of reports about other countries, not as sanctioned American policies. While some of us have spoken out against these practices since they became public, recent actions by the Supreme Court and a handful of courageous Senators have forced the Administration to revisit them. Yet, the legislation before the House – legislation supported by Republicans in the House, Senate, and White House – would do little to rein them in.In fact, under the proposed legislation, the Administration could continue to arbitrarily arrest and detain foreign citizens. It could continue to imprison these detainees indefinitely, without standard judicial protections such as their right to challenge their detention in court and the right of the accused to know the charges against them. And, despite the coverage granted to the so-called compromise between the White House and Senate Republicans, the Administration would still be able to continue practices that violate the Geneva Conventions prohibition of torture.Many have argued that we must prioritize winning the war on terrorism above considerations for the rights of detainees accused of having links to terrorism, as if the two were always mutually exclusive. It might be tempting to understand the issue in such simple terms, but we should resist that temptation.It is certainly true that terrorism is such a grave threat to our nation that, in some circumstances, extraordinary actions may be necessary to protect American lives. The question we should be asking, however, is whether particular policies advance our fight against terrorism, both now and over the long term. In this case, the moral argument – that potentially innocent detainees do have rights that should be protected – is in line with the appropriate strategic argument.In the short-term, the Administration's approach fails because, as current and former military and intelligence officers have repeatedly stated, torture does not reliably produce actionable intelligence. In addition to the statements of these experts, we have hard evidence: the New York Times has reported that, according to our military, interrogators were able to obtain up to 50 percent more actionable intelligence from detainees at Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq after coercive practices like hooding, stripping, and sleep deprivation were banned.In the long-term, the Bush Administration's approach is even more detrimental to our progress in the war on terrorism. First, it is already having disastrous repercussions on our effort to win the hearts and minds of those at risk of being tempted by terrorist recruiters. Let us be clear: while stopping active terrorists is a critical challenge, disrupting the development of new generations of terrorists is the single most important task in winning the war on terrorism. Every person that we can persuade to renounce violence and cast his or her lot with the forces of moderation is one fewer threat to our nation, one fewer potential airplane hijacker or train bomber. Winning hearts and minds is no exercise in sentimentality; it is perhaps the key strategy in protecting our nation from another 9-11. The Administration's approach negates such efforts, as it essentially endorses indefinite imprisonment, arbitrary detention, and treatment of detainees in violation of the Geneva Conventions.The Administration's approach further harms our progress in the war on terrorism by placing our own troops at risk. It sends a dangerous signal to other nations that the United States has endorsed these practices for foreign detainees, inviting these nations to visit the same practices upon our own troops. It is that risk that has led several top-ranking former military leaders to object to the Administration's proposal.There is no question that a system is needed for bringing terrorists to justice. But doing it the wrong way will impede our ability to stop terrorists in the future. And the Bush Administration's approach is, quite clearly, the wrong way. Victory in the war on terrorism demands, and the American people deserve, a smarter approach, consistent with the values that have made our country great.Mr. Speaker, we can choose a smart, effective strategy for combating terrorism that makes our nation safer, or we can opt for an irresponsible, shortsighted approach that undermines our progress. These bills represent the latter. I strongly urge my colleagues to oppose them.# # #
09.21.2006	Calls for Investigation into Alleged Destruction of FCC StudiesWashington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (D-NC) is calling on the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to investigate revelations that the agency may have suppressed studies questioning the Bush administration's position on media ownership. He has authored a letter, cosigned by 33 of his fellow members of Congress, which will be mailed to the FCC today. It is the North Carolina Democrat's latest effort to stop the FCC from loosening its rules on media ownership, which the congressman says will deal a heavy blow to local control of television, radio, and print media in our communities."If these allegations of suppressed studies are true, they are part of a disturbing pattern of the Bush administration twisting the facts to further its own policy objectives," Price said. "Good public policy is supposed to reflect what is best for the American people. If the FCC can't be trusted to present the results of its own studies to the public, how can it be trusted to act in the public's interest when it comes to the ownership of our airwaves?"The allegations of the two suppressed studies came to light during FCC Chairman Kevin Martin's reconfirmation hearing before the Senate last week, and in subsequent correspondence between Martin and Senators. Whistleblowers within the FCC provided Sen. Barbara Boxer with a copy of one of the studies in question, which they say was ordered destroyed by senior managers at the agency. That study illustrated the negative impact media consolidation has on the American public's ability to receive local and diverse news coverage. The other study demonstrated the marked decrease in the diversity of radio station ownership in America between 1996 and early 2003.These revelations cast doubt on the FCC's commitment to transparency and public involvement in its activities, just as the agency's most recent proceeding on media ownership policy is getting underway. In 2003, the FCC tried to force through changes in its rules, resulting in widespread public outcry and opposition in Congress, led by Reps. Price and Maurice Hinchey (D-NY). A U.S. Appeal Courts eventually blocked the FCC's rule change, forcing the Commission to re-evaluate its proposal for new ownership rules.In a letter to the FCC's Inspector General, the 34 House Democrats wrote: "If one or both of these reports were suppressed because they did not support official FCC policy, such actions could not only constitute fraud, but could also run counter to the FCC's stated goals of transparency and public involvement in its media ownership proceedings.We believe that a full accounting of the circumstances surrounding the possible suppression of these reports is essential if the FCC is to be perceived as acting in good faith on media ownership issues by Congress and the American people."Price has been one of Congress's most outspoken opponents of FCC proposals to relax its ownership rules, which, among other things, would allow companies to own more newspaper and broadcast stations in the same community. Since June of 2003, he has worked on a series of legislative initiatives in the House that would effectively roll back some or all of the new rules. Price also helped convene a public hearing on media consolidation at Duke University in March 2003. Hundreds from across the political spectrum turned out in opposition to the proposed relaxation of ownership rules. He also addressed an October 2003 FCC hearing on localism in Charlotte, which was attended by Chairman Michael Powell.The full text of the letter from the 34 House Democrats to the FCC Inspector General follows:September 21, 2006The Honorable Kent R. Nilsson, Ph.D., J.D.Inspector GeneralFederal Communications Commission445 12th Street, SWWashington, DC 20554Dear Inspector General Nilsson:We are writing to express our grave concern about recent revelations that the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) may have intentionally suppressed two important studies on the impact of media consolidation during the term of former FCC Chairman Michael Powell.The reports in question were a 2004 draft working paper that examined the relationship between media ownership and local news coverage, and a 2003 draft report titled "Review of the Radio Industry." The first report concluded that "locally owned television broadcast stations air more local news than network owned-and-operated and non-locally owned stations, even adjusting for the number of stations owned by the corporate parent." This conclusion appears to contradict arguments made by the FCC during the agency's 2002-2003 media ownership rulemaking process.The second report found that between 1996 and early 2003, the number of commercial radio stations on the air rose 5.9 percent while the number of station owners fell 35 percent. This dramatic evidence of radio industry consolidation, had it been publicly available, would almost certainly have called into question the loosening of newspaper and television ownership rules finalized by the FCC in June 2003. If one or both of these reports were suppressed because they did not support official FCC policy, such actions not only could constitute fraud, but also would run counter to the FCC's stated goals of transparency and public involvement in its media ownership proceedings.We believe that a full accounting of the circumstances surrounding the possible suppression of these reports is essential if the FCC is to be perceived as acting in good faith on media ownership issues by Congress and the American people. We urge you to quickly initiate a thorough investigation, as requested by FCC Chairman Kevin Martin, to ascertain whether these reports were suppressed, identify the parties involved, and recommend any appropriate disciplinary actions.Thank you for your time and attention.Sincerely,DAVID E. PRICE MAURICE HINCHEYTAMMY BALDWIN SHERROD BROWNTOM ALLEN XAVIER BECERRAJULIA CARSON JOHN CONYERS, JR.PETER DeFAZIO ROSA DeLAUROANNA ESHOO SAM FARRBOB FILNER RAUL GRIJALVALUIS GUTIERREZ DENNIS KUCINICHJOHN LARSON BARBARA LEEJOHN LEWIS JIM McDERMOTTMIKE McINTYRE DAVID OBEYDONALD PAYNE BERNARD SANDERSJAN SCHAKOWSKYJOSÉ SERRANOLOUISE McINTOSH SLAUGHTERADAM SMITHFORTNEY PETE STARKTED STRICKLANDTOM UDALL DIANE WATSONLYNN WOOLSEY NEIL ABERCROMBIE
09.20.2006	Calls for Greater Role for Guard in PentagonWashington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (NC-04) is spearheading an effort on Capitol Hill to protect the authority of governors to direct the National Guard during natural disasters and other emergencies. Price, a senior member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, said he wants to ensure the most effective disaster preparedness and response possible, and he believes the state's traditional role of coordinating readiness and response with the National Guard has served North Carolina well.In a letter authored by Price and sent yesterday to the chairmen and ranking members of the House and Senate Armed Services Committees, nine of North Carolina's representatives in the U.S. House called on their colleagues to reject a proposal in the 2007 Defense Authorization bill that would give the President the authority to wrest control of the National Guard away from governors during a federally declared disaster. The Tarheel state members are also seeking a greater role for the National Guard in the Pentagon's chain of command to reflect the expanded role of Guard forces since the 9-11 attacks. Joining the Fourth District Democrat in signing the letter were Reps. G.K. Butterfield, Bob Etheridge, Robin Hayes, Walter Jones, Mike McIntyre, Brad Miller, Sue Myrick, and Mel Watt."The National Guard has a successful record of working directly with states to prepare for and respond to catastrophic events," the representatives wrote. "The key to this success has been a clear chain of command under each state's governor that allows the Guard to efficiently and effectively deploy its resources," they wrote, adding that the new rule would create uncertainty during a time of crisis, when clear leadership is most needed.The proposed federalization of Guard command is strongly opposed by the nation's governors, 51 of whom wrote the President about the issue in August.The nine House members are also supporting provisions in the Defense Authorization Bill that would bolster the voice of the National Guard in military's chain of command. The proposal, contained in the Senate's version of the bill, would promote the Chief of the National Guard Bureau to a four-star general, require that the Deputy Commander of the U.S. Northern Command be a National Guard officer, and enhance the lines of communication between the National Guard Bureau and the military's leadership structure. Price has cosponsored similar legislation in the House.Price and his NC colleagues are seeking to influence House and Senate negotiators as they draft the final version the Defense Authorization bill, which is expected to be passed by the end of the month in both chambers.A copy of the letter follows:Senator John WarnerChairman, Senate Armed Services CommitteeRepresentative Duncan HunterChairman, House Armed Services CommitteeSenator Carl LevinRanking Member, Senate Armed Services CommitteeRepresentative Ike SkeltonRanking Member, House Armed Services CommitteeSeptember 19, 2006Dear Chairmen Warner and Hunter and Ranking Members Levin and Skelton:We are writing to ask for your support in addressing two issues critical to our National Guard in the conference report for the Fiscal Year 2007 National Defense Authorization Act.First, we oppose the inclusion of provisions to give the President greater authority to take control of the National Guard during a federally declared disaster. The National Guard has a successful record of working directly with states to prepare for and respond to catastrophic events, including earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, and fires. The key to this success has been a clear chain of command under each state's governor that allows the Guard to efficiently and effectively deploy its resources. Federal usurpation of control over the Guard would create uncertainty over the command structure precisely when clear leadership is most needed, undermining states' ability to prepare for and respond to disasters.Federal control would change but not enhance the military's overall role in disaster response. Ample authority already exists in both federal law and Defense Department doctrine to allow both National Guard and active-duty forces to participate in disaster response activities. This legislation would simply wrest control of the operations out of the hands of the officials best situated to lead a response tailored to state and local needs: state governors.Fifty-one governors, including North Carolina Governor Michael Easley, have registered their opposition to the federal control provisions, and North Carolina National Guard leaders adamantly oppose them as well. We agree that these provisions would hinder the Guard's ability to carry out its dual mission and urge you to remove them from the final bill.Second, we want to register our strong support for Senate-passed provisions that would enhance the voice of the National Guard in our military's leadership hierarchy.As you know, Sections 932-33 of the Senate bill would promote the Chief of the National Guard Bureau to a four-star general position, require the Deputy Commander position at U.S. Northern Command to be filled by a National Guard officer, and instruct the National Guard Bureau to establish more direct lines of communication with the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, states and federal agencies. We believe these provisions are critical to adapting the military leadership structure to reflect the expanding role of the National Guard in our nation's defense, and we urge you to retain them in the conference agreement.Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the National Guard has been called upon at an unprecedented rate to defend our nation and respond to challenging domestic emergencies. The Fiscal Year 2007 National Defense Authorization Act offers Congress key opportunities to recognize its new and integral role in our national security. We urge your strong support for the National Guard as you negotiate the final legislation.Sincerely,David Price Brad MillerG.K. Butterfield Mike McIntyreBob Etheridge Sue MyrickRobin Hayes Melvin WattWalter Jones# # #
09.19.2006	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (NC-04) released the following statement today in response to President Bush's announcement of a special U.S. envoy to Sudan to help end the ongoing violence.On September 9, 2004 - just over two years ago - then Secretary of State Colin Powell took a firm stand on the violence in the Darfur region of Sudan by labeling the atrocities "genocide". Since that time, as the U.S. and the international community have remained paralyzed, tens of thousands of Darfuris have been killed and hundreds of thousands have been forced to flee their homes, and the situation on the ground in Darfur continues to deteriorate. I have joined many of my colleagues in Congress in calling for a more active U.S. role in ending the crisis, particularly by appointing a special envoy to Sudan.Today I am pleased that President Bush finally decided to take this important step, by naming former U.S. Agency for International Development chief Andrew Natsios to be Presidential Special Envoy to Darfur. Mr. Natsios is faced with a difficult road ahead, but we stand with him as he applies the necessary pressure on the government of Khartoum to approve the U.N. peacekeeping force that must take over from African Union forces currently in the country. Ending the humanitarian crisis in Sudan should be among the top foreign policy goals of the Administration. This important step forward should be followed by a firm commitment of diplomacy and resources to achieve that goal.However, the work cannot not stop there. In a show of bipartisan concern earlier this year, the House voted 416-3 to pass the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act. Among other things, the Act would authorize assistance for peacekeeping troops in Darfur and impose sanctions on the Sudanese government for its support of militia groups. Similar legislation is pending before the Senate, but has not yet been called up for debate. I call upon Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist to immediately bring this legislation to the floor for a vote, and I urge President Bush to sign the bill into law immediately upon passage and to move swiftly to fully implement its provisions.# # #
09.18.2006	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (NC-04) this morning addressed a ribbon cutting ceremony for an expanded distribution facility at the Food Bank of Central and Eastern North Carolina. He was joined by Raleigh Mayor Charles Meeker and local advocates for the hungry as they sought to draw attention to the growing needs of the Raleigh distribution facility, which serves the needs of families in 34 North Carolina counties. The following are Price's remarks as prepared.I am proud to celebrate these new dock doors with you. I don't believe I've ever participated in such an expansive ribbon cutting.But it frustrates and challenges me to be here, too. I did not have to think about whether there was something in the kitchen this morning that would make a good breakfast. When I return home tonight, I won't have to think about where our dinner is coming from either. I believe that most of us here are in that lucky place.But many are not so fortunate. One in eight North Carolinians receives help as North Carolina's Second Harvest Food Banks provide food assistance to over one million different people each year.And those numbers spike in unique emergency times: hurricanes that disrupt lives and destroy homes and other natural and man-made emergencies that take away a family's safety net.Many of those seeking food assistance have not been able to find their way out of poverty because of this economic recovery that has failed to significantly boost wages. We have a federal minimum wage that has been stagnant for nine years. At least the NC General Assembly has improved it at the state level. People have had to choose between food on the table and paying for utility bills, prescriptions and medical care, gas, or their mortgage. Many are working but cannot make ends meet. Consider this: a third of the households served [by NC Food Banks] include at least one employed adult.Many served by the Food Bank are hungry children. The richest country in the world has children who are starving. How can this be? There are a host of answers to this question, and government, business leaders, and non-profits must continue to work together to resolve them. I know one thing: to address our fiscal meltdown at the federal level by targeting Medicaid and food stamps is an outrage.Still, while hunger remains, these dock doors are a great way to better address the Food Bank's demands. They allow more trucks to back up here, load the food, and head out to the families served by the Food Bank in 34 counties. They build in efficiencies not available before. They really are a reason for celebration.Thank you to the donors who have made this possible. I see that White Memorial Presbyterian Church is well represented and I am glad to see Ed Carney from Cisco Systems. Special thanks to Jack and Mary Hoffler who helped fund this building. I know there have been other corporate sponsors, too. Our religious congregations are a great resource, and we are lucky to have business leaders across the state who are committed to giving back to our communities in such important ways.Lastly, I want to thank you for including me today. We sometimes get caught up in the minutia of running a government in Washington and occasionally lose sight of the good that is happening in America as citizens help one another. I appreciate the Food Bank's professional and volunteer efforts to reduce hunger among our neighbors.# # #
09.11.2006	?Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (NC-04) delivered the following remarks today to commemorate the fifth anniversary of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Price was joined by local firefighters and community leaders at a memorial ceremony at the Exploris Museum in Raleigh.Thank you for taking the time to be here and for helping us remember the lives that were lost and how our own lives changed on this day five years ago.The first plane came out of a cloudless blue sky to strike one of the twin towers at about this hour (8:45 a.m.). TV stations interrupted their normal programming and then, in stunned silence, America watched the second tower being hit a little after 9:00 a.m.I'm sure that each of us can remember where we were when we first heard the news. I was not near a TV at the time but was with other members in the Longworth House Office Building, preparing for a Budget Committee hearing, when we first heard news that the Pentagon had been hit around 9:45 a.m.There was disbelief and then alarm as word came that the Capitol itself might be a target. I learned that we were to evacuate, and I joined my staff as they left our office building next door. There are many stories from my colleagues and staff of uncertainty, clogged highways, jammed phone lines, and family members trying to determine our safety. Above all, there was a kind of amazement bordering on disbelief. I remember one colleague saying as we stood outside, "This country will never be the same."I live near the Capitol and was able to wait out the day safely in my apartment. After repeated efforts, I was able to assure my wife of my safety. The next day, in a spirit of bipartisan determination, Congress came back into session.We know now that the Capitol was a target. United Airlines Flight 93 crashed in Somerset County, Pennsylvania, at 10:10 that morning, brought down by the heroic acts of Americans who understood what was happening elsewhere and gave their own lives to save many others. Congress has directed that a memorial to the passengers and crew of Flight 93 be selected in the next few weeks.We saw candles lit and U. S. flags flown in countries around the world to offer their sympathy. We were comforted by that solidarity, and it was reflected in congressional enactments of emergency assistance to New York and Washington and of authorizations to pursue Al Qaeda and the Taliban.Our lives in Washington – and most everywhere – are different now. There are much more obvious provisions for security and some that are not so obvious. There are health concerns for all those who survived the rubble and for those who helped clean it up in NYC. There is need for the government to take new measures to ensure security and at the same time to respect the privacy rights of individual citizens. There is the continuing challenge to stop those who would do us harm and to do so in a way that honors the values our country stands for.I know that others in the program are to say thank you to the first responders here, but I want to acknowledge your heroism, too. No one could have known the totality of what was happening on 9/11 at the time, and that's true as you move through all kinds of emergencies. Thank you for your willingness to go into dangerous situations every day. Though there have been serious frustrations as the Department of Homeland Security has evolved, we must continue to find ways to provide equipment, training, and enhanced capacities that give you as much protection as possible as you protect our communities against whatever disaster, manmade or natural, may befall us. Today we honor and thank you, as we memorialize the fallen.# # #
09.06.2006	Washington, D.C. - The dramatic increase in gasoline prices over the last several months has raised awareness of the pressing need to develop alternative energy sources to reduce our dependence on foreign oil in the United States. The threat of global warming and the harmful effects of other air pollutants should lead us to change the way we use other fossil fuels, as well. The answer is to invest much more heavily in the development and use of alternative energy technologies and improved energy efficiency.I am an original cosponsor of a comprehensive Democratic energy independence bill, the PROGRESS Act (H.R. 5965). The centerpiece of this legislation is a new initiative to expand federal research for hydrogen and fuel cell technology. In addition, the bill would launch a program to establish a nationwide network of infrastructure for the use of biofuels, authorize funding for transit development, and require the government to be a leader in using alternative fuels. I believe this legislation is critical to ensuring our nation's energy independence and economic security.Unfortunately, Congress passed up an important opportunity to significantly address our energy challenges when it approved the Energy Policy Act (H.R. 6) last year. Although the bill contained some forward-thinking provisions, it did not strike an acceptable balance between increased fossil energy production and the need to promote alternative and renewable energy development and increased energy efficiency. In addition, H.R. 6 provided billions of dollars in new tax breaks and subsidies for oil and gas companies, which are already making record profits.I will continue working to make our country energy-independent and to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels.# # #
08.10.2006	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (NC-04) released the following statement today in reaction to the news of the foiled terror plot originating in the UK.Today we are grateful for the ongoing vigilance of our allies and our intelligence professionals in the fight against terrorism. A number of would-be terrorists have been apprehended by British authorities before their sinister plot could have unfolded, although it is not certain that all elements have been eliminated. This targeting of innocent civilians, which in reality is an attack against the American and British people, should be met with swift and decisive justice.We have learned a lot since those heinous attacks on 9/11, and we should never take for granted the security of our homeland. This event should serve as a reminder that there is still work to be done to implement the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission, something I will continue pressing for on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee.# # #
08.08.2006	Tackle Hezbollah with a cease-fire, postwar strategyWashington, D.C. - The following Op-Ed by Congressman David Price (NC-04) was printed in the August 8, 2006 edition of the Atlanta Journal-Constitution.The strategic interests of the United States and Israel are inextricably linked to the fate of the pro-democracy reform movement in Lebanon, which offers Israel its best hope for peace on its northern border and gives democracy a foothold on the doorstep of the Arab world. The current crisis has left this movement in grave danger.It is critical for our interests in the Middle East that we press both Israel and Lebanon for an immediate cease-fire, and that we follow such an agreement with intensive diplomacy toward a comprehensive political settlement. The escalating Israeli offensive is destroying Lebanon's infrastructure and increasing popular support for extremist elements, yet U.S. and Israeli interests require a stronger, not weaker, Lebanon. A cease-fire would serve as a starting point for diplomatic engagement to disarm Hezbollah, establish an international security force in southern Lebanon, return kidnapped soldiers, and provide assurances that Israel will not be vulnerable to continued cross-border attacks.But we must look beyond the immediate crisis to an equally urgent question: What will Lebanon look like after the dust settles?President Bush has repeatedly touted his commitment to spreading democracy in the Middle East; yet his inaction in the current crisis and his failure to follow last year's Cedar Revolution with sustained support have left Lebanon, the only democracy other than Israel in this pivotal region, teetering on the brink.We cannot allow Lebanon's democracy to become a casualty of war. The prospects for its survival depend largely on how key players — especially the United States — engage the Lebanese government as the conflict's resolution is negotiated. As negotiations proceed, the Bush administration must take special pains to support reformers, or it risks allowing Hezbollah and anti-Western extremists to emerge emboldened and empowered.First, the administration, in concert with other key actors in the international community, must empower Lebanon's reformist Prime Minister Fouad Siniora by giving him a key role in negotiations on the political settlement. Siniora is a proven advocate for democracy and an important bulwark against Lebanese President Emile Lahoud and other pro-Syrian leaders. U.S. negotiators must make sure Siniora leaves the negotiating table with tangible victories that will bolster his political stature at home.Second, Lebanon will need a substantial assistance package for reconstruction in the conflict's aftermath. Bush must commit to providing substantial U.S. support that empowers Siniora to deliver much-needed assistance to his people.Third, the administration must elevate pressure on key political actors in Lebanon to condition their dealings with Hezbollah political representatives on Hezbollah's renunciation of violence. For example, Gen. Michel Aoun, leader of a major Christian faction in the Lebanese Parliament, must break his alliance with Hezbollah's 15 members of parliament. Hezbollah has tried to have it both ways, with one foot in the political arena and one foot on the battlefield; ultimately it must choose between these paths. By isolating it in the political arena, Aoun and others can force Hezbollah to make this existential choice.Fourth, it is hard to imagine a resolution of which Syria is not a part. It is critical that Syria establish diplomatic relations with the Lebanese government, thus formally recognizing it as an independent, sovereign nation. Securing full Syrian compliance with U.N. Security Council Resolution 1559 is also a major challenge for our diplomacy. Ultimately, Syria must be shown the way back to negotiations for the return of the Golan Heights, which came so close to fruition in 2000.Finally, our nation must make a sustained commitment to strengthening the reformist direction of the Lebanese Parliament. The House Democracy Assistance Commission, on which I serve as ranking Democratic member, has already established a partnership with the Lebanese Parliament. We initiated our assistance program with a mission to Beirut only three weeks ago, and our work will continue. The administration must magnify our work with a significant, long-term commitment to the development of democratic institutions in Lebanon, including an independent and effective legislative branch. Democracy alone is not sufficient; Lebanon needs a strong and responsive government to protect its interests and serve its people.The Bush administration must recognize that it has a stark choice. It can use negotiations to hand victories to the reform movement in Lebanon, giving democracy hope to survive, or it can impose a resolution that weakens and delegitimizes the Lebanese government, leaving Hezbollah to exploit resentments and re-emerge. The president's choice could determine the success of his commitment toward spreading democracy in the Middle East for generations to come.U.S. Rep. David Price (D-N.C.) is the ranking Democrat on the House Democracy Assistance Commission, which had been working with pro-democracy reformers in Lebanon's Parliament to strengthen that institution.
07.29.2006	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (NC-04) yesterday led a bipartisan group of his colleagues in calling on the Bush Administration to join with America's allies in seeking an immediate ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah, accompanied by intensive diplomacy to produce a just and lasting resolution to the conflict. In a letter sent to the President yesterday, the four members of Congress called the Administration's failure to support an immediate ceasefire "strategically naïve," and expressed worries that the continuing conflict is galvanizing anti-Israel sentiment in the region and undermining pro-democracy reformers in the Lebanese government. Price was joined by Reps. James Leach (R-IA-02), Lois Capps (D-CA-23), and Bob Filner (D-CA-51) in sending the letter Friday.Price and his colleagues placed the blame for the conflict squarely on the unprovoked aggression of Hezbollah, and they affirmed Israel's right to defend its citizens. The letter also urges the Administration to combine the negotiated ceasefire with intensive diplomacy to establish an international military force in southern Lebanon, dismantle Hezbollah's military capabilities, facilitate the return of kidnapped Israeli soldiers, and support a strengthened reform government in Lebanon.Price recently returned from Lebanon where, as ranking Democrat on the House Democracy Assistance Commission, he was working with the recently elected pro-reform majority to make the parliament a more effective representative institution. He said his experience with the Lebanese reformers gives him hope that, with ongoing support from the international community, Lebanon's government will be able to exercise control over all its territory and join with Israel as a peaceful, democratic nation in a troubled region.The text of the letter follows.July 28, 2006The Honorable George W. BushPresident of the United States1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NWWashington, DC 20500Dear Mr. President;We write to urge you to join our allies in seeking an immediate ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah, with the understanding that such a ceasefire must be followed by intensive diplomacy to establish an international military force in southern Lebanon, dismantle Hezbollah's military capabilities, facilitate the return of kidnapped Israeli soldiers, and support the ongoing development of an autonomous, democratic government in Lebanon.This crisis was precipitated by neither Israel nor Lebanon. Hezbollah's unprovoked raid across the internationally recognized border between the two nations, and its subsequent rocket attacks – explicitly aimed at civilian targets – left Israel no choice but to defend itself. But the continuing conflict is costing the lives of innocent civilians on both sides of the border, is destroying Lebanon's infrastructure nationwide, and has the potential to escalate beyond the immediate theater. For these reasons, we cannot allow the current violence to continue.Press reports have indicated that your Administration would not support a ceasefire agreement until Hezbollah is entirely disabled. We believe this to be strategically naive. All indications suggest that Israel's campaign to root out Hezbollah from southern Lebanon faces far greater challenges than anticipated, and that even several additional weeks of fighting may make little difference in the terms of a ceasefire arrangement. As the New York Times recently reported, "Israeli Army officers are saying that it is probably unrealistic to expect that the military can wipe out Hezbollah's well-hidden and widespread arsenal," even with a prolonged campaign. Moreover, as the conflict drags on, anti-Israel sentiment in Lebanon and in the region is drastically escalating, a development that clearly works against Israel's long-term interests and our own national security interests.Achieving a ceasefire agreement must be the first step in our diplomatic effort to achieve a just and lasting resolution to the conflict, not the end result. Once a ceasefire is achieved, it is essential that your Administration work with our allies to achieve a settlement that protects the people of both Israel and Lebanon from threats posed by Hezbollah and external forces. At a minimum, such a settlement should include the return of kidnapped Israeli soldiers and a process for fully dismantling Hezbollah's military capabilities in accordance with U.N. Security Council Resolution 1559. Our diplomatic efforts must also include a significant U.S. support for the pro-democracy forces that captured the majority in the Lebanese government in the wake of the Cedar Revolution.It is also clear that a long-term, multi-national security force will be required in Southern Lebanon to monitor a ceasefire and prevent a re-emergence of Hezbollah. Such a force must have significantly greater capabilities and stronger international backing than the current UNIFIL mission. The establishment of a security force, which will be needed in the region until a lasting peace is secured, cannot be accomplished without the assertive leadership, and the strong financial backing, of the United States. Israel has made clear it would welcome a strong multi-national force in southern Lebanon, and we should begin the hard work of assembling it now.We are acutely aware that the lives of many thousands of Israeli and Lebanese civilians are under constant threat as a result of this conflict, and we mourn the lives that have already been lost. We urge you to act now to prevent the unnecessary loss of additional lives by committing to a long-term U.S. diplomatic engagement in the region, beginning with a call for an immediate ceasefire. We also urge you to give favorable consideration to Rep. Leach's proposal for appointment of a special Middle East peace envoy.Sincerely,s/ s/David Price Lois Cappss/ s/Bob Filner James Leach# # #
07.21.2006	Washington, D.C. - The Department of Veterans Affairs announced that it has recovered a stolen computer containing the personal information of approximately 26.5 million veterans and over 2 million active duty military, National Guard, and Reserve personnel. The computer, which was stolen from the home of a VA employee, contained names, dates of birth, and social security numbers of these veterans and military personnel. According to the FBI, a preliminary analysis indicates that none of the personal information on the computer's hard drive was accessed during the time in which the computer was not in the VA's custody.Although this news leads me to believe that none of the records have been misused, I would still urge veterans and military personnel to be vigilant about any unusual activities in their banking and credit/debit card records and to immediately act upon any indication of identity theft.The VA has established a call center for veterans and service members to obtain more information about the situation, and to learn more about identity protection. You may call the VA's toll-free hotline at 1-800-FED-INFO (333-4636). It is now open and operating between the hours of 8am and 9pm (Eastern Daylight Time), Monday through Saturday. Information relating to the prevention of identify theft also is available at http://www.militaryonesource.com.While it appears that we have avoided the worst potential outcomes, this incident clearly exposes significant flaws and weaknesses in the policies and security protocols the VA currently has in place to protect sensitive data. The House Government Reform Committee, which produces information security report cards for all federal government agencies each year, has issued the VA an "F" for four of the last five years. Until the VA begins to take information security more seriously, there is a significant risk that it will remain vulnerable to more incidents like this recent data theft. To address the deficiencies in VA information security, I am a cosponsor of H.R. 5588, legislation that would require major policy changes at the VA, including the establishment of a VA Ombudsman for Data Security. The legislation would also require free credit monitoring services for any veteran whose personal data is or has been stolen from the VA.I encourage veterans and military personnel who suspect they may be victims of identity theft or who encounter any other problems related to the Veterans Administration to contact my office by clicking here.# # #
07.21.2006	Says Stem Cell Research is the Hope for MillionWashington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (NC-04) met today with representatives of patient advocate groups, researchers, and patients who support federal funding of embryonic stem cell research. Price voted on Wednesday to override President Bush's veto, the first of his presidency, of stem cell legislation. Price said the President's action goes against the majority of Congress and the majority of Americans."We're here today because science and compassion were dealt a devastating blow this week," Price said. "The President's first ever veto of legislation has effectively dashed the hopes of millions of Americans who suffer from debilitating diseases."Proponents of embryonic stem cell research argue that it holds the promise of medical breakthroughs that could help treat and cure terrible diseases such as Alzheimer's, cancer, Parkinson's, Lou Gehrig's disease, multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injuries, diabetes, and others. Price said this promise alone provides a "morally compelling argument" in favor of stem cell research. Price added that he meets regularly with patients, advocates and researchers who are perplexed by the President's stubbornness on this issue.Earlier in the week, the U.S. Senate passed the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act (H.R. 821) by a vote of 63 – 37, clearing the way for the President's signature. The House passed the bill in May 2005 by a vote of 238 – 194. When vetoing the bill on Wednesday, President Bush claimed the legislation "crosses a moral boundary" and supports "the taking of innocent human life in the hope of finding medical benefits for others." However, many in the President's own party contradicted his statements, claiming instead that stem cell bill was, in fact, pro-life. Republican Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, usually one of the President's most lock-step supporters, said the President was wrong on this issue.The House attempted to override the President's veto just hours after the event on Wednesday. Although a majority of members voted to strike the veto, the vote failed to garner the two-thirds majority required in the House.H.R. 810, The Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act would require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to conduct, support or fund research on stem cells that have been derived from embryos in accordance with the following guidelines:• The stem cells were derived from human embryos that have been donated from in vitro fertilization clinics, were created for the purposes of fertility treatment, and were in excess and no longer needed by the individuals seeking such treatment.• Before the embryos were donated, the clinic consulted with the individuals seeking fertility treatment, and it was determined that the embryos would never be implanted in a woman and would otherwise be discarded.• The individuals seeking fertility treatment donated the embryos with written informed consent and without receiving any financial or other inducements to make the donation.Price vowed that the fight will continue on embryonic stem cell research and urged supporters not to give up hope."With the legislation we have proposed, there are adequate ethical safeguards in place," Price said. "We cannot let this setback from President Bush be the final word on stem cell research."# # #
07.19.2006	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (NC-04) responded today to the escalation of the conflict involving Israel and Hezbollah militants operating in Lebanon. Price was in Beirut, Lebanon only two weeks ago, meeting with reformers within the Lebanese parliament who are seeking to strengthen parliamentary independence and authority. Price has also received numerous calls from Triangle residents who are trapped in Lebanon or who have relatives or friends attempting to escape the country.Price's speech, as prepared, is included below. The remarks were included during debate of a House resolution (H.Res.921), condemning the recent attacks by Hezbollah against the State of Israel and supporting the Israeli response.Remarks on H. Res. 921July 19, 2006Mr. Speaker, I address my colleagues in support of H. Res. 921 but acutely aware of its shortcomings.Nearly two years ago, the United Nations Security Council unanimously adopted a resolution calling for the disarmament of all armed militias in Lebanon. As Lebanon's Cedar Revolution has brought new pro-democratic forces into power, one group has defied the world's mandate: Hezbollah. Hezbollah has justified its defiance by claiming to be a legitimate resistance against Israel's occupation of a small parcel of land in Syria, adjacent to Southern Lebanon, called Sheba Farms. It has tried to straddle the fence, claiming political legitimacy by participating in democratic elections and the Lebanese government, yet refusing to disarm and adding to its arsenal of rockets and other weapons.Hezbollah's decision to kidnap two Israeli soldiers and kill three others – without provocation – and to launch rockets deep into Israel belie its claims to legitimacy and reveal its true mission: fighting not for Lebanon, but for its own interests, and those of its patrons in Iran and Syria.No nation should be expected to tolerate a situation in which a terrorist organization bent on its destruction has free rein to ignore established borders through ground attacks or air strikes. Hundreds of thousands of Israelis are living in constant fear of deadly rocket attacks. I join with my colleagues in strongly supporting Israel's right to defend its sovereignty and its citizens.The human toll of this conflict has also been frightful on the Lebanese side of the border. Dozens, perhaps hundreds, of innocent lives have already been lost. Hundreds of homes housing innocent Lebanese citizens have been destroyed, and tens of thousands of families have been displaced. The Lebanese people, like the Israelis, are living under a dense cloud of fear and danger.Our own citizens, too, have suffered from this violence. Over the last few days, I have received calls from tearful fathers with young daughters stuck in the hills of Lebanon with no way out; from families stuck in Beirut on vacation; from relatives with Lebanese family members killed in the conflict. We must remember the suffering of these innocent citizens, caught by chance in the storm of war.As Israel faces the imperative of disabling Hezbollah, it must do all it can to obey the moral imperative of protecting the innocent, though it is an imperative we know is wholly disregarded by Hezbollah. The enemy here is not the Lebanese people. And the enemy is not the Lebanese government, which is led by a reform coalition that continues to fight against Syrian domination. The real enemy here is Hezbollah.Our ultimate need is for a stronger, not weaker, Lebanese government. What sense does it make, for example, to demand more vigorous action against terrorists by the Lebanese Army, and then proceed to destroy that Army's barracks?Our country's role must be to work for an end to this conflict that is both swift and just. Let us harbor no illusions: a settlement that allows Hezbollah to remain intact and merely postpones this fight until another day is not an acceptable option. We must require Hezbollah to disarm permanently and guarantee that Hezbollah will no longer threaten Israel or Lebanon. That will likely require the establishment of an international peacekeeping presence.We must also work for a resolution that preserves the promise of the Cedar Revolution and empowers those Lebanese leaders who seek reform and democracy in their country. I recently returned from a mission to Beirut with the House Democracy Assistance Commission, which is working with Lebanese Parliamentarians as they seek to establish an independent and effective representative body. Our Commission met with many of the reformers who, in a stunning victory, won a majority of seats in the Parliament in the 2005 Cedar Revolution. While key positions in the government, including the Presidency, are still controlled by those who would do the bidding of Syria, democracy has a foothold in Lebanon – the most significant foothold for democracy in the entire Middle East, outside of Israel. We must not allow the current conflict to destroy that foothold.To bring about such a resolution, the United States must dramatically increase its engagement in the region. As the conflict has unfolded, we have watched the international community react with promising diplomacy. The United Nations, our allies in Europe, and key actors in the region – Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia – have rushed forward with mediators, ceasefire proposals, and calls for international peacekeepers. Even the Arab League, too often silent in the face of past attacks against Israel, is working to convene an emergency summit to deal with the crisis. But where has our own Administration been? As one commentator recently wrote, "the world's sole superpower is also its only no-show."With so much at stake for our national security interests in the region, the Bush Administration's lack of engagement is troubling. But it is not surprising. This Administration has taken a hands-off approach to the area, at great cost to the prospects for peace. It has allowed the Road Map for resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict to wither on the vine. It has failed to sufficiently support the moderate Palestinian leader Abu Mazen, watching as Hamas capitalized on his political struggles. And, after trumpeting the gains of the Cedar Revolution, it has done too little to actually support the fledgling reform movement in Lebanon. With the Administration's gaze still fixed on Baghdad, the tensions that have led to the current conflict mounted unchecked.Mr. Speaker, the current crisis demands decisive leadership. Secretary Rice should go to the region sooner rather than later, working with the international community toward a resolution to the conflict that guarantees Israel's security, permanently disarms Hezbollah, and supports the development of democracy in Lebanon. If we are to truly support Israel, we must do far more than the resolution before us suggests.# # #
07.12.2006	Washington, D.C. - Today Rep. David Price (NC-04) delivered a message to Congress and the President on behalf of the North Carolina General Assembly: stop under-funding our schools. The NC House passed a resolution last week (H.B. 1811), sponsored by Rep. Marvin Lucas (D-Spring Lake), that calls on Congress and the President to fulfill their obligations to public education by fully funding No Child Left Behind and other federal education programs. Price hand delivered that resolution to the U.S. Congress today and gave the following remarks:Mr. Speaker, I am here to deliver a message from the North Carolina General Assembly. It is a bipartisan, nearly unanimous message from our State House: Stop under-funding our schools!Last week, 52 Republicans joined all voting Democrats in the North Carolina House of Representatives in passing a resolution that, "urges the President of the United States and Congress to make a serious commitment to improving the quality of the nation's public schools by substantially increasing the funding for the No Child Left Behind Act, the Higher Education Act, the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, and other education related programs."This resounding call from both sides of the aisle in my state is a sign that North Carolinians are exasperated with a President and a Congress that refuse to follow through on their commitments. They're simply fed up, Mr. Speaker.By consistently under-funding NCLB, the federal government has failed to hold up its share of the bargain it made with our schools when NCLB was signed into law four years ago.In passing the law, the government promised to help improve failing schools by targeting the areas that needed support and providing that assistance. By failing to come through on promised funding, the Administration has thus turned NCLB into a program that punishes our schools instead of supporting them.Two of the resolution's clauses tell the story more fully:"Whereas, the federal government has decreased funding to North Carolina for No Child Left Behind in fiscal year 2006 by [almost $11 million] and overall funding for public education by [almost $12 million], including a deduction of $759,012 from programs that serve students with disabilities; and"Whereas, in addition, the federal government has cut almost $11 million from postsecondary education programs in North Carolina"Mr. Speaker, since NCLB was signed into law in 2002, and counting the President's latest budget proposal, the Bush administration and Republican Congress have under-funded this law by some $55 billion. In fact, the House is expected to debate an appropriations bill for the Department of Education soon that will cut the program by another $500 million as compared to last year.And what about other federal education programs? The story is much the same: the government is not fulfilling its promises. Since the passage of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) in 1975, the federal government has failed to fully fund the education of children with special needs to the tune of $217 billion.And this President and the leadership of this House have dropped the ball on making college more affordable for students and parents. Student loan rates are going up and federal support for aspiring students is stagnant or decreasing while the cost of education continues to rise.To put this in perspective, our alternative Democratic budget would invest far more in education, smartly and strategically, while at the same time balancing the budget sooner.Mr. Speaker, North Carolina Schools are no strangers to accountability. The teachers, parents, and administrators in my state want our students to succeed like none other. They are simply asking that our federal government be a reliable partner and live up to its promises of support for the education of our children.I ask unanimous consent to reprint at this point in the Record House Resolution 1811 from the North Carolina General Assembly, adopted on July 5, 2006.# # #
07.12.2006	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (NC-04) took to the floor of the House of Representatives this morning to urge his colleagues to renew the Voting Rights Act (H.R. 9) in its entirety. The law, originally passed in 1965 during the height of the civil rights movement, requires states with a history of voter discrimination to "pre-clear" voting law changes and congressional redistricting plans with the Justice Department. Price cited testimony from election officials throughout the state in support of the law and H.R. 9.A transcript of Rep. Price's statement is included below. To read the testimony of the General Counsel for the North Carolina State Board of Elections before the Senate Judiciary Committee, which Price quotes in his statement, click here.The speech aired between 10:30 and 10:37 am EST today on C-SPAN.RENEW THE VOTING RIGHTS ACTMr. Speaker the Voting Rights reauthorization appropriately carries the names of civil rights pioneers Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, and Coretta Scott King.Along with the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Voting Rights Act was the major legislative expression of that great movement that inspired and challenged so many of us, whites and blacks alike, and that brought the liberty and justice that our nation professes closer to realization.Now many Republicans say the voting rights act is too burdensome or that pre-clearance is no longer needed. But listen to the testimony of the North Carolina election officials:"I would hate to operate without it," says one."Pre-clearance requirements are routine and do not occupy exorbitant amounts of time, energy, or resources," adds another."The history of 'x' county causes our operations to be scrutinized and rightfully so," says a third official.And a fourth adds, "[The Voting Rights Act] allows us an opportunity to assure the public that minority rights are being protected...and that someone is independently validating those decisions."Mr. Speaker the Voting Rights Act works, and we must pass it at full strength.# # #
06.30.2006	Chapel Hill, NC - On July 5, U.S. Rep. David Price will be visiting Kibera, East Africa's largest slum located on the outskirts of Nairobi, Kenya. Price's trip is part of a larger democracy building initiative by the U.S. House of Representatives that will also take him and six other U.S. congressmen to Lebanon and Liberia. In Kibera, Price will visit with Carolina for Kibera (CFK), a University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill-based non-profit organization that has been promoting grassroots development in Kibera since 2001 and celebrates its Fifth Anniversary this summer.In Kibera, an area that has suffered from ethnic and religious violence, nearly 700,000 people live in an area roughly the size of UNC-Chapel Hill's campus. Half of Kibera's residents are under age 15, and there is a severe shortage of adequate healthcare and educational opportunities for residents. CFK, named one of ten "Heroes of Global Health" by Time Magazine in 2005, serves approximately 10,000 Kibera residents each year through four major programs: a youth soccer association, The Tabitha Medical Clinic, The Taka ni Pato (Trash is Cash) youth waste management program and The Binti Pamoja (Daughters United) Reproductive Health Center. CFK's philosophy is grounded in the concept of participatory development, whereby solutions to problems involving poverty are initiated and carried out by those directly affected."Carolina for Kibera has a great reputation for turning hopes and dreams into concrete results in some of the toughest living circumstances in the world," Price said. "Non-profits like CFK play an instrumental role in the development of democracy because they foster empowerment and initiative among a population that has long been disenfranchised by the political process."During Price's trip to Kibera, he will be touring CFK's projects and meeting with UNC students who have spent their summer working with CFK. His trip is in conjunction with the newly established U.S. House of Representatives Democracy Assistance Commission, of which Price is the ranking Democratic member. The Commission has helped eight developing countries, including Kenya, to strengthen democratic institutions by making their parliaments more independent and effective. While in the country, Price and other delegation members will be meeting with Kenyan leaders to share their knowledge and experience in the legislative process, in hopes that the international exchange will help strengthen Kenya's developing democratic institutions.# # #
06.22.2006	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (NC-04) took to the House floor today to urge his colleagues to reject the legislative line item veto, which would give the President broad discretion to accept or reject the fiscal priorities of Congress as he sees fit. The North Carolina Democrat said the bill, which passed the House, had less to do with fiscal restraint than with relinquishing powers to the executive branch. His remarks, as prepared, are included below.Remarks on H.R. 4890, the Legislative Line-Item Veto ActMr. Speaker, all this posturing about fiscal responsibility is nothing more than a sideshow.This legislation is not about fiscal responsibility. Look no further than the Republican Estate Tax bill, also on this floor today. Putting us nearly a trillion dollars further in debt over the next 15 years for the sake of a few of our country's wealthiest families is evidence enough of where the priorities of the Bush administration and Republican congressional leadership lie.In fact, the line-item veto has very little to do with budgeting at all. It has everything to do with power—Presidential power.Like many of my colleagues, I have been open to some forms of expedited rescission in the past. In the early nineties, I voted for two such bills as alternatives to a full-fledged line-item veto. I returned to Congress not long after the 1996 enhanced rescission bill was signed into law, before it was ruled unconstitutional. Despite the fact that President Clinton used his new powers sparingly, the conversations I had with administration officials to ensure that my funding priorities would not be threatened gave me a sobering glimpse of how our appropriations process might work in the future.Since then, the shift of constitutional power from Congress to the Executive Branch has greatly accelerated. As congressional scholars Tom Mann and Norm Ornstein observe, the Republican Congress under the administration of George W. Bush has featured "a general obeisance to presidential initiative, and passivity in the face of presidential power." This bill would tilt the balance of power even further in the direction of the White House.This isn't just a rhetorical concern. Specific provisions of this legislation would give the President inordinate control over the appropriations process:First of all, this isn't even a "line" item veto bill—it's a multiple-line, multiple-item veto bill. It would allow the President to cherry-pick from among a wide range of provisions—authorization or appropriations, discretionary or mandatory—and package them together in whatever way he saw fit, requiring Congress to vote up or down on the entire package. Imagine the possibilities: A critical healthcare program could be packaged together with several unpopular earmarks...Or Congress could be forced to vote individually on every earmark that some mid-level OMB staffer decides doesn't pass his litmus test.Second, the bill would let the President withhold up to a quarter of a program's annual funding regardless of congressional intent. He could take a program he has proposed for elimination that has broad congressional support—the Perkins Act, for example—and tie up its funding for up to 90 days.Third, and most disturbingly, the bill would give the White House unprecedented leverage over Congress by allowing him to use our funding priorities as bartering chips for our votes on other legislation. The President could condition his support for our priorities on our support for his.It is for this exact reason that many experts believe this bill would actually increase government spending, not rein it in. The CBO, Congressional Research Service, and Joint Committee on Taxation have all concluded that, in the words of the CBO, "Congress might accommodate some of the President's priorities in exchange not to propose rescission of certain provisions, thereby increasing total spending." In states where the governor holds a line-item veto, this is already happening. But even if this sort of quid-pro-quo didn't occur, do we really believe that Presidents in general—and this one in particular—are any more virtuous with taxpayer dollars than Congress?I will take a back seat to no one in targeting "bridges to nowhere" and other examples of congressional waste. But I also know this: Presidents almost invariably ask for more money than Congress is willing to appropriate, and the profligacy of our current President is well-documented. The line-item veto is not about spending versus saving—it is about letting the President, not Congress, decide what we're spending money on.Even if this bill did lead to some marginal savings, it is nothing more than a fig leaf for the Republicans to hide behind while they starve our nation's finances. I challenge my friends on the other side of the aisle to tell me exactly how much they think this bill will save. I'll tell you one thing: it's not $762 billion, which is how much their sham Estate Tax "compromise" will cost between 2012 and 2021.Mr. Speaker, if the leadership of this House were serious about getting our finances in order, it would never have abandoned the "pay-as-you-go" rules which helped produced balanced budgets and even surpluses in the nineties—and it would reinstate these rules today, as proposed by Mr. Spratt's substitute. The Spratt substitute would have also addressed several other key weaknesses of H.R. 4890, but once again, the House leadership has rigged the rules to deny us a vote on it. Instead, we get a fig-leaf bill designed to hide the fiscal sins of this Republican Congress from the American public.The House of Representatives has three designated powers: Declaring war, conducting oversight, and the power of the purse. We've already gone a long way toward sacrificing the first two to the Executive Branch. Do we really want to give away the only one we've got left? I urge my colleagues to oppose this misguided legislation.# # #
06.21.2006	Washington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (NC-04) was joined by the entire North Carolina delegation in the U.S. House last night when he introduced legislation congratulating the NHL Champion Carolina Hurricanes on winning the 2006 Stanley Cup title. Price, whose congressional district is home to the Hurricanes' RBC Center, expects the resolution to pass the House next week."Now this is the kind of 'Hurricane season' North Carolina likes!" Price said after introducing the bill on the House floor.The text of the resolution and a list of cosponsors are copied below.H.Res.881Congratulating the National Hockey League Champions, the Carolina Hurricanes, on their victory in the 2006 Stanley Cup Finals.IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESMr. PRICE of North Carolina (for himself, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr. COBLE, Mr. ETHERIDGE, Ms. FOXX, Mr. HAYES, Mr. JONES of North Carolina, Mr. MCHENRY, Mr. MCINTYRE, Mr. MILLER of North Carolina, Mrs.MYRICK, Mr. TAYLOR of North Carolina, and Mr. WATT) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Government Reform.RESOLUTIONCongratulating the National Hockey League Champions, the Carolina Hurricanes, on their victory in the 2006 Stanley Cup Finals.Whereas on Monday, June 19, 2006, in Raleigh, North Carolina, the Carolina Hurricanes won the National Hockey League (NHL) Stanley Cup with a 3–1 victory over the Edmonton Oilers in the decisive seventh game of the championship series;Whereas the Edmonton Oilers proved worthy opponents and should be congratulated for a hard-fought Stanley Cup series;Whereas the Hurricanes' win marked their first Stanley Cup title in franchise history;Whereas the Hurricanes' win marked the first major professional sports championship won by a team from the State of North Carolina;Whereas owner Peter Karmanos and general manager Jim Rutherford have created a model franchise, assembling a team that rose from last place three years ago to the pinnacle of its sport today;Whereas the Hurricanes were ably led by head coach Peter Laviolette, also the head coach of the 2006 United States Olympic team, and assistant coaches Kevin McCarthy, Jeff Daniels, and Greg Stefan;Whereas Hurricanes team members Craig Adams, Kevyn Adams, Anton Babchuk, Rod Brind'Amour, Erik Cole, Mike Commodore, Matt Cullen, Martin Gerber, Bret Hedican, Andrew Hutchinson, Frantisek Kaberle, Andrew Ladd, Chad LaRose, Mark Recchi, Eric Staal, Cory Stillman, Oleg Tverdovsky, Josef Vasicek, Niclas Wallin, Aaron Ward, Cam Ward, Doug Weight, Glen Wesley, Ray Whitney, and Justin Williams are all worthy of praise and admiration for their contributions to the resilient championship team;Whereas Cam Ward, the Hurricanes' goalkeeper and a 22-year-old rookie, was awarded the Conn Smythe Trophy as the most valuable player of the NHL post-season;Whereas the Hurricanes' championship run and intense Stanley Cup series have reinvigorated professional hockey following the 2004–2005 lockout and lost season;Whereas the Carolina Hurricanes represent a new future for the NHL, introducing hockey to additional regions of the country and creating new fans of the sport's high level of athleticism and competition;Whereas the entire Hurricanes organization has contributed considerably to the community it represents, generously donating time and resources to a variety of charitable and educational programs for children throughout the state of North Carolina; andWhereas Raleigh, the Triangle region, and all of North Carolina are proud of the accomplishment and dedication of the Carolina Hurricanes' team, organization, and fans: Now, therefore, be itResolved, That the House of Representatives congratulates the National Hockey League Champions, the Carolina Hurricanes, on their victory in the 2006 Stanley Cup Finals.# # #
06.15.2006	Washington, D.C. - The U.S. House of Representatives engaged in an extended debate today over the conduct and future of U.S. involvement in the conflict in Iraq. The following are Congressman David Price's (NC-04) remarks that he delivered on the House floor. Links to referenced material are provided within the text.Mr. Speaker, the American people are increasingly aware of where things stand in Iraq, despite the glib assurances and political spin we get from sources like the whereas clauses of the resolution before us and the Pentagon's most recent quarterly report, which has been so devastatingly refuted by Middle East expert Anthony Cordesman of the Center for Strategic and International Studies.The real question before us and the question most Americans are asking is, how long must our troops stay in Iraq? Our military's valiant efforts have clearly facilitated such important steps as the formation of a democratically elected government in Iraq. But the troubling reality is that our continued presence also makes success more elusive. It serves as a disincentive for Iraqi military and political leaders to take courageous risks to stabilize their country and assume responsibility for their government. Equally important, our presence is a magnet for international terrorism and an incitement for the insurgency.In order to jump-start progress, our troops must begin to come home. We must leave in a way that maximizes Iraq's chances to govern and defend itself. At the same time, we cannot become hostages to the failures of administration policy, prolonging or staying in a situation where our very presence is a continuing provocation. How we leave does matter, but we must leave.That is why Representative Brad Miller and I introduced a resolution last fall, H.J. Res. 70, which would require the President to deliver an exit strategy for Iraq. Tonight I am renewing that call.Let me explain briefly in clear terms what a responsible exit strategy means.First, we need to hear that the President has a plan for reducing our presence in Iraq within a reasonable time frame. "As they stand up, we will stand down'' is not a strategy. It is a slogan.Secondly, we need to hear that such a plan would begin with an initial near-term drawdown of U.S. forces to send a clear message to the Iraqis that our presence is coming to an end. We also need to hear a pledge from the President that we will not establish long-term bases on Iraqi soil.And, finally, we need to hear that there is a plan for filling the void left behind when our troops depart: to mobilize resources within the international community, to ensure that Iraq's neighbors do not interfere in internal Iraqi affairs, and to support the ongoing development of the Iraqi Government and security forces.These are the elements of a responsible exit strategy. This is the type of leadership that the President owes our troops and the American people.# # #
06.14.2006	Washington, D.C. - On Tuesday, June 13th, 2006, the House Appropriations Committee passed an amendment offered by House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer to raise the minimum wage. Rep. David Price (NC-04), who serves on the committee, supported the amendment, which would raise the minimum wage to $7.25 per hour. Price also has cosponsored stand alone legislation to raise the minimum wage (H.R. 2429) and has signed a discharge petition to force floor consideration of that bill. He has voted to raise the minimum wage every time there has been a vote on the issue. Price issued the following statement regarding yesterday's action on the minimum wage:"I was proud to join my fellow Democrats and a handful of Republicans on the Appropriations Committee yesterday in passing an amendment to raise the federal minimum wage. As the Labor-HHS Appropriations bill proceeds to the full House for consideration, I hope my Republican colleagues on the Rules Committee will have the courage to protect this important measure from being ruled out of order on the House floor."It has been nine years since we last raised the minimum hourly wage to the current $5.15, which provides a full-time worker a paltry $10,712 a year in income. This is nearly 50 percent lower than the current $20,000 poverty threshold for a family of four, and it is clearly not a living wage."It is high time that Congress give working Americans a raise. House Democrats have set the stage by inserting the wage increase into this must-pass spending bill. It's now up to our Republican friends to fend off attacks from their more conservative colleagues and allow this critical legislation to get the up or down vote that it deserves."# # #
06.12.2006	Raleigh, NC - Rep. David Price (NC-04) today joined Reps. Brad Miller (NC-13) and Bob Etheridge (NC-02) at a press conference that convened to discuss the interest rate hike of federal student loans, which is set to go into effect July 1, 2006. Price encouraged students and parents with federal education loans, in addition to those planning to take out loans in the near future, to consult a financial specialist to determine if loan consolidation is right for them. The following are Price's remarks as prepared.Good morning and welcome!I bear good news and bad news today. First, the bad news is the interest rates on federal student loans are about to increase. This is due to a bill passed by the Republican Congress that cut funding for financial aid and replaced the current loan formula with a much more punitive one. The good news is there is something that students and parents can do to avoid the harshest impacts of these rate hikes, but only if they act quickly.Parents and students have an opportunity to consolidate their federal college loans before July 1, 2006. In light of the rate increases, this opportunity could potentially save parents and students thousands of dollars as they repay their loans.On July 1, the interest rates on Federal Family Education Loans (FFEL) and William D. Ford Direct Loans (DL) are expected to rise to their highest levels in six years. For loans that were dispersed on or after July 1, 1998, but before July 1, 2006, higher interest rates will go into effect on July 1, 2006. To lock in current, lower interest rates, borrowers under these federal programs should consolidate their loans before July 1.Student borrowers enrolled in school or in their grace period before repayment begins may be eligible to lock in an interest rate as low as 4.70 percent if they consolidate before the deadline. This interest rate will increase to 6.54 percent on July 1. Student borrowers already in repayment and who choose to consolidate their existing loans before July 1 may be eligible to lock in an interest rate as low as 5.30 percent. This interest rate will increase to 7.14 percent on July 1. And parent borrowers may benefit from consolidation as well. Those who consolidate before July 1 may be eligible to lock in a rate as low as 6.1 percent. This interest rate will increase to 7.94 percent on July 1.Another important point for students to consider if they are thinking about taking out loans in the future: beginning July 1, all new student and parent loans will be set at fixed rates of 6.8 percent for undergraduate students and 8.5 percent for parent borrowers.The bottom line is time is running out fast if you want to take advantage of these lower interest rates. It is critical for students who would benefit from these lower interest rates to consolidate now. But I have to also stress that consolidation may not be the best plan for every student or parent.There are many things to consider before you enter into a consolidation plan. That's why organizations like the College Foundation of North Carolina are critical in helping students and parents understand how they might benefit from loan consolidation before new interest rates take effect. Because consolidation is an important financial decision, I would also encourage students to check with their school's student financial aid office for more information on whether consolidation is right for them.In Washington, we have had a tough time recently of protecting students from financial blows. The Republican Congress recently enacted budget legislation which will cut $12 billion from the federal student aid programs over the next five years. The three of us and our fellow Democrats continue to work to make college more affordable, despite these setbacks. I am pleased to be a cosponsor of the Reverse the Raid on Student Aid Act (H.R. 5150), which would cut interest rates in half, from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent, for students with subsidized loans, and from 8.5 percent to 4.25 percent for parent borrowers, starting July 1, 2006. This could save students thousands of dollars over the life of their loans.I will continue to work hard to make college affordable and accessible for everyone.###
06.08.2006	Washington, D.C. - On July 1, 2006, the interest rates on Federal Family Education Loans (FFEL) and William D. Ford Direct Loans (DL) are expected to rise to their highest levels in six years. For loans that were disbursed on or after July 1, 1998, but before July 1, 2006, new higher interest rates will go into effect on July 1, 2006. To lock in current, lower interest rates, borrowers under both the FFEL and DL programs may consolidate their loans before July 1.What is loan consolidation?Students and parents who have taken out at least one loan through the federal government's FFEL or DL programs may be eligible to refinance their loan(s) while locking in a low fixed rate over the life of their loan(s).How can I consolidate my loans?If you have a DL through the Department of Education, you can call 1-800-557-7392 or apply on-line at https://loanconsolidation.ed.gov/appentry/appindex.html. If you have a loan through the FFEL program (a bank-based loan), you can contact one of the companies that own or service your student or parent loan(s).If you have federal loans with more than one lender, you can choose to consolidate through the U.S. Department of Education or with any lender that provides federal consolidation loans.When is the deadline to consolidate and lock in a low fixed rate?The deadline is June 30, 2006, but you should apply as soon as possible to beat the rush of applications.Why should student and parent borrowers consider consolidating before July 1, 2006?Consolidation may deliver significant benefits to borrowers, including eliminating the need for dealing with multiple lenders or allowing borrowers to enroll in payment plans based on a percentage of their income. Borrowers who make a set number of on-time repayments or who make payments through automatic banking can obtain additional interest rate reductions.Can student borrowers consolidate their loans while they are still in school?Before July 1st, you may be eligible to consolidate your loans while you are still in school. Before choosing this option, however, you should determine whether it might affect your repayment grace period after leaving school.Can borrowers consolidate Perkins loans?Students who have borrowed Perkins loans, which carry a fixed interest rate of 5 percent and offer loan forgiveness to graduates working in certain fields such as teaching or social work, should carefully consider whether or not consolidation is right for them. If Perkins loan borrowers consolidate their loans, they lose their loan forgiveness benefits.For more information, borrowers should contact the U.S. Department of Education at 1-800-557-7392, at http://www.ed.gov/students/college/repay/2006-changes.html, or athttp://studentaid.ed.gov/PORTALSWebApp/students/english/consolidation.jsp?tab=repaying.Democrats vs. Republicans on Student LoansDemocrats have been working hard to assist students and parents with the skyrocketing costs of education. Unfortunately, the Republican Congress insists upon saddling students and parents with greater financial burdens by cutting $12 billion from federal student loan programs and re-writing the interest rate formulas which have resulted in the spike in interest rates detailed above.To determine how your students loan payments would fare under Democratic proposals as compared to Republican proposals in Congress, visit the House Democrats' Student Loan Calculator.
06.07.2006	Washington, D.C. - Today the House passed a resolution sponsored by Congressman David Price (NC-04) which calls attention to the important role that entrepreneurs play in our economy and encourages schools throughout the country to engage in entrepreneurship education."Entrepreneurship education brings together the core academic, technical and problem solving skills needed for future entrepreneurs," Price said in a speech to his colleagues. "Individuals who receive entrepreneurship training are not only more likely to start a business, but are also more likely to enjoy success with their new venture."Price cited statistics showing that more than 70 percent of American high school students would like to open their own business someday, and over 10 percent of American adults are actively planning to become entrepreneurs in their local communities. He said given the driving force that entrepreneurs provide to our economy and the strong interest exhibited among students, it is important that schools harness this potential for future success by incorporating entrepreneurship training into their curricula.Price's bill, House Resolution 699, further calls upon the federal government, state and local governments, schools, nonprofit organizations, and others to observe National Entrepreneurship Week annually with special events in support of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship education programs."In short, National Entrepreneurship Week recognizes the societal contributions of America's leading entrepreneurs and encourages those with a dream to become one," Price said.------PASSED IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESJune 7, 2006HOUSE RESOLUTION 699Supporting the goals and ideals of National Entrepreneurship Week and encouraging the implementation of entrepreneurship education programs in elementary and secondary schools and institutions of higher education through the United States.Whereas according to the Department of Labor, most of the new jobs created throughout the United States in the past decade have come from the creative efforts of entrepreneurs and small businesses, which have been expanding and advancing technology and fueling the recent growth in the economy;Whereas entrepreneurs have been the source of economic innovation throughout the history of the Nation, and the entire society has been improved because of the new ways of doing things that have been brought about by people who market their ideas;Whereas economically independent entrepreneurs are engaged citizens who work to improve the economic environment in their local communities, providing better opportunities for businesses to operate and a better environment for the human resources they need to advance their business dreams;Whereas 70 percent of high school students want to become entrepreneurs, and entrepreneurial skills will assist students in the future regardless of whether they work in a business owned by others or run their own business;Whereas the high interest of students in becoming entrepreneurs and the critical role entrepreneurs have played in advancing the national economy make it vital for the Nation's schools to provide students with training in the skills which will enable them to become the entrepreneurs of the future;Whereas the Partnership For 21st Century Skills identified financial, economic, business literacy, and entrepreneurship skills as the types of skills students must have in order to enhance workplace productivity and career options;Whereas exposing students to the types of market-driven problems faced by entrepreneurs is an excellent example of how educators can use problem-based learning strategies to prepare students for the situations they will encounter in the future, an approach recommended by the National Council on Competitiveness in its 2004 report entitled ' Innovate America';Whereas entrepreneurship education provides exactly the type of academic engagement of all students promoted by the National High School Alliance, based on relevant real-world contexts that build on community assets, allow participation in workplace-based learning, and include performance-based assessments;Whereas entrepreneurship education has been shown to be especially effective in closing the achievement gap between minority students and others in public schools;Whereas students who participate in entrepreneurship education programs have better attendance records, perform better on core subjects, and have lower dropout rates than those who do not participate in these programs;Whereas successful programs in entrepreneurship education have been established in many States, including the public-private partnership program in North Carolina by the Center for 21st Century Skills, which helps students acquire the knowledge and skills needed for success in the global economy and which has been touted as a national model for education in the 21st century;Whereas the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation has assembled a multidisciplinary panel of distinguished scholars who will evaluate relevant research and review what has been learned in the many existing programs on entrepreneurship under way throughout the United States in order to provide recommendations for a comprehensive approach to teaching entrepreneurship in colleges and universities;Whereas the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation has contributed significant time and resources to create the Kauffman Campuses program to make entrepreneurship education a common and accessible campus-wide opportunity that is an integral part of the college experience;Whereas the Consortium for Entrepreneurship Education has developed and nurtured a lifelong entrepreneurship education model to encourage students' awareness of entrepreneurship as a career option throughout their years of school and to assist entrepreneurs as they implement their entrepreneurial ideas;Whereas the Consortium for Entrepreneurship Education has lead the initiative to broadly define the field of entrepreneurship through 403 performance indicators to guide the delivery of entrepreneurship education in support of the lifelong learning model;Whereas, through the initiative to observe annually National Entrepreneurship Week, the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, the Consortium for Entrepreneurship Education, and partner organizations promote awareness of the contributions of entrepreneurs as innovators, positive forces in the economy, and important resources for improving communities as places to live and work; andWhereas National Entrepreneurship Week will focus on the innovative ways in which entrepreneurship education can bring together the core academic, technical, and problem solving skills essential for future entrepreneurs and successful workers in future workplaces: Now, therefore, be itResolved, That the House of Representatives--(1) encourages the implementation of entrepreneurship education throughout the United States;(2) supports the goals and ideals of National Entrepreneurship Week so that the people of the United States are reminded of the contributions of entrepreneurs and so that educators are encouraged to reflect on how entrepreneurship education can improve the performance of their students; and(3) requests that the President issue a proclamation calling on the Federal Government, State and Local governments, schools, nonprofit organization, and others to observe National Entrepreneurship Week annually with special events in support of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship education programs.# # #
05.26.2006	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price today announced the winners of the 2006 Congressional Arts Competition for the Fourth District of North Carolina. High school students from Hillsborough to Durham to Fuquay-Varina participated in the contest. The winners were informed of their award at a reception at Burwell School Historic Site in Hillsborough on Monday.Helene Singla, an 11th grader at Apex High School, took first prize with her self-portrait. Helene and her art teacher Brenda Brokke will travel to Washington D.C. for a ribbon-cutting ceremony on June 28th. She will join high school students from across the country as they hang their works in the United States Capitol, where they will remain on display for an entire year. Southwest Airlines donated the airfare for the trip.Helene was also awarded a $3,000 scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design, if she chooses to attend the Georgia school.Alyce Mason of Riverside High School in Durham was awarded second place and her piece will be displayed in Congressman Price's Washington D.C. office for the year. Third place went to Diane Saunders, also of Riverside High School, and her work will hang in Congressman Price's Raleigh office."I congratulate the many talented students from all over the Triangle area for submitting their works of art," Congressman Price said. "Every year I am impressed by the level of talent exhibited by our high school students. Artistic ability is truly a blessing for an individual to possess, and I encourage all contestants to continue to make use of their skills for the enjoyment of the entire community."The Orange County Arts Commission, the Durham Arts Council, and the United Arts Council of Raleigh and Wake County all worked together to facilitate the judging of the competition.# # #
05.23.2006	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (NC-04) addressed his colleagues late last night regarding H.R. 4681, a bill that would cut off aid to non-governmental organizations working for peace in the Palestinian Territories. Price believes the U.S. government is justified in withholding aid to the Hamas-led Palestinian Authority, given that organization's history of terrorism. However, the North Carolina Democrat argued that the bill being considered in the House would punish ordinary Palestinians indiscriminately and greatly undermine the efforts by our government and the Israeli government to broker peace in the Middle East. Price's floor speech follows:Mr. Speaker, almost exactly a year ago, I joined a bipartisan group of Members in visiting the Hope Flowers School in the Palestinian village of al Khader, just outside of Bethlehem on the West Bank.Hope Flowers teaches its students a curriculum promoting tolerance, nonviolence, democracy and peaceful coexistence. Our bipartisanship delegation witnessed the signing of a USAID agreement to renovate several classrooms and other key facilities at the school.Projects like this are supported by the United States throughout the Palestinian territories. Other projects are paying for modern school books to ensure that fundamentalist propaganda has no place in Palestinian schools; potable water projects to prevent the spread of disease, economic development to improve job prospects for Palestinian youth, and construction of hospitals, schools, sewers, power grids and business centers.These types of projects are critical to our interests, to Israel, and to the prospects for peace. They help prevent humanitarian crises and diminish popular discontent, and they also inculcate values like those taught at Hope Flowers.They train peacemakers; they improve America's standing in the Middle East. Why would we want to eliminate programs like these? Are they not needed now more than ever? And yet that is exactly what H.R. 4681 would do. It would cut off U.S. assistance to the West Bank and Gaza.Mr. Speaker, I stress, despite the way some proponents are trying to frame this debate tonight, the issue is not aid to Hamas or to the Hamas-controlled Palestinian Authority. Nobody on this floor tonight has any tolerance for Hamas.The issue is rather the bill's ban on aid to all nongovernmental groups, private groups and organizations, many of whom are diametrically opposed to Hamas's philosophy.Let me clarify some further misconceptions about this legislation. I am not speculating here, Mr. Speaker; I am referring to page 12 of the bill. I invite colleagues to read it.Mr. Speaker, some have suggested the bill contains sufficient exceptions to allow humanitarian assistance to pass through. Not so. The bill makes an exception for health-related humanitarian aid, such as food, water and medicine. But it makes no provision for other forms of humanitarian assistance, such as aid for the homeless or displaced families and orphans.Mr. Speaker, some have pointed to Presidential waiver authority in the bill and suggested that it would allow critical assistance to reach Palestinians. Not so. Unfortunately, all aid beyond health-related humanitarian assistance would be prohibited unless the President, on a case-by-case basis, were to certify that assistance is required by U.S. national security.And then he would have to consult with Congress 25 days in advance and submit a written memorandum explaining why such assistance benefits U.S. security. How many projects would survive such a gauntlet?Think about the kinds of aid programs that would be cut off, projects that focus on building democratic institutions and civil society, projects that promote economic development to stabilize the territories, projects that ensure that school curricula provide students with a progressive education rather than fundamentalist propaganda, curricula that teach tolerance and conflict resolution skills. Surely programs like this are in our interest.Mr. Speaker, they are exactly what we need to reduce violence, to build the capacity of Palestinian civil society, and make progress toward a peaceful resolution; and yet they are exactly the programs that would be eliminated in this bill.Mr. Speaker, there are other problems with the bill as well. It would significantly handicap any effort to engage the moderate elements in the Palestinian Authority, such as Palestinian Authority President Abbas, by opposing restrictions on visas, travel, and official Palestinian Authority representation in the U.S.Mr. Speaker, because of these fundamental flaws in the legislation, it is opposed by several leading voices for Israel and Middle East peace, including the Israel Policy Forum, Brit Tzedek, Americans for Peace Now, Churches for Middle East Peace – a broad coalition of churches – and the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops.The Bush administration also opposes this bill. In a paper delivered to the House International Relations Committee, the State Department calls the bill "unnecessary" and says it "unduly constrains the Executive's flexibility."Mr. Speaker, there is no denying that Hamas's election victory was a significant step backward in the quest for a peaceful resolution to this conflict. There is no disagreement here tonight that we should send Hamas a strong message that the world will not tolerate its violent and irresponsible behavior.But this bill goes far beyond sending that message. Instead, it sends the message that the U.S. wants to punish the Palestinian people for Hamas's action, a message that serves no good purpose.We can unanimously support – and that is what we should be doing tonight, my colleagues – we can unanimously support legislation blocking assistance to Hamas, and to a Hamas-controlled Palestinian Authority.But if we adopt legislation that punishes the Palestinian people, instead of isolating the terrorists, we lose the moral high ground. Let us reclaim the moral high ground, signal our resolute opposition to terrorism and also our support for those Palestinian individuals and groups who are working for a peaceful and democratic future.Mr. Speaker, we should defeat this bill and ask the International Relations Committee to bring back a bill truly reflective of American interests and values.# # #
05.22.2006	Washington, D.C. - The Eastern North Carolina Chapter of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society released the following statement today:Congressman David Price (NC-04) has been honored by the National Multiple Sclerosis Society as its 2005 Representative of the Year. The Eastern North Carolina Chapter of the National MS Society enthusiastically nominated Price in recognition of his commitment to the policies and funding needed to adequately address the debilitating disease that affects approximately 400,000 Americans."Congressman David Price has been a tireless advocate for increased research and funding to end the devastating effects of multiple sclerosis," says Bob Bryan, President of the Eastern North Carolina Chapter of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society. "We are pleased that our national organization has recognized his efforts in this way."Price has long advocated boosting federal funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), both of which carry out critical research in the treatment of many chronic diseases including MS. In 1998, Price called on Congress to double the funding for NIH over five years and has since been critical of the President's budget, which would result in cuts to both NIH and the CDC. He also pledged to use his position on the House Appropriations Committee to continue to push for adequate funding for MS research.At the Society's Public Policy Conference on May 2, where he received the award, Congressman Price said, "Thank you for this distinguished honor as the 2005 National Multiple Sclerosis Society Representative of the Year. I'm glad to see so many representatives from our North Carolina delegation here this morning and appreciate their nomination for this award. I know there are a range of experts and advocates here who understand how important it is to end the devastating effects of multiple sclerosis. I am lucky to have such a strong base of advocates working on behalf of the National MS Society in North Carolina."Studies show that early and ongoing treatment with an FDA-approved therapy can reduce future disease activity and improve quality of life for many people with multiple sclerosis. The National MS Society's medical advisors recommend that people with MS talk with their health care professional about using one of these medications and about strategies and effective treatments to manage symptoms. The National MS Society is committed to ensuring that people with MS have the information and quality care they need to live healthy, productive and independent lives. If you or someone you know has MS, please contact the National Multiple Sclerosis Society today at www.nationalmssociety.org/nct or 1-800-FIGHT-MS to learn about ways to help manage multiple sclerosis and about current research that may one day reveal a cure.# # #
05.18.2006	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Price (NC-04) released the following statement today on President Bush's formal request for emergency funding to send National Guard troops to the border:Today President Bush formally requested $1.9 billion from Congress to send up to 6,000 National Guardsmen to the border along with the equipment and Border Patrol agents deemed necessary to secure the border in the short term.Frankly, I am puzzled as to why the President has waited this long to ask for the funding that Congress authorized a year and a half ago. When we passed the 9/11 Commission legislation in December 2004, Congress called for the addition of 2,000 Border Patrol agents annually over five years and 8,000 detention beds annually. Since that time, the President has requested the funding for less than half of the border guards that should have been protecting our borders by now. I wonder where this president was when the Democrats in Congress were trying to pass full funding for the Border Patrol. As a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Border Patrol, I can attest to the fact that it was the Democrats who were calling for more funding for more border guards time and again.Now that the President and the Republican Congress have dragged their feet for two years on beefing up our border, they want to send in the National Guard to make up the gap. If the President and Congressional leaders had been doing their job, we wouldn't have to pile another mission on the already overextended National Guard.Statement by Rep. Price on President Bush's Speech on ImmigrationWashington, May 16, 2006 -I am encouraged that the President is showing some leadership on this complex and divisive issue. I have long supported a comprehensive approach to fixing our broken immigration system, which would bolster security at the border, create a fair and orderly process to determine the legal status of immigrants currently in the country, and allow for the legal employment of foreign workers where labor shortages exist in the economy. I hope the President will use his influence to convince the more reactionary elements of his party to support a comprehensive immigration reform bill that addresses the issue in its entirety.I am not convinced, however, that policing illegal immigration along the border is the responsibility of our military. It is true that our border agents are in need of more resources, but the President and the Republican Congress have missed opportunity after opportunity to fully fund border security over the past few years. The 9/11 Commission legislation that Congress passed in December 2004 called for adding 2,000 Border Patrol agents annually over five years and 8,000 detention beds annually. Since that time the Republicans have not provided the funds to make good on these pledges. Rather than deploying our National Guard to take on another responsibility as Hurricane season begins, a much better approach to illegal border crossings would be to provide enough resources for the Border Patrol to do its job.# # #
05.18.2006	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (NC-04) said today that events over the past week in the U.S. House prove once again that Republicans in Congress have no interest in responsible budget policies. After approving a $70 billion tax cut heavily favoring wealthy Americans last week, which the President signed into law yesterday, the House passed its budget late last night, which included cuts to a number of vital domestic programs."Have my Republican colleagues completely forgotten that our nation is ridden with trillions of dollars in debt?" Price questioned. "Our nation is at war and our communities are counting on the support of the federal government to help them meet their needs. The President and this Congress are wrong to think that now is the right time to drain the treasury for the wealthy – a treasury that's broke in the first place because of years of irresponsible budgeting under Republican control."The tax bill that President Bush signed into law yesterday extended tax cuts for investment income and raised the exemption level for the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT). Price said the modification of the AMT tax bracket was important so that many middle class families would not face a large increase in their tax burden this year. But he questioned the appropriateness of cutting taxes on capital gains and dividends, which mainly benefits the wealthiest taxpayers and does little to stimulate the economy."Your average household in the Triangle is going to get a tax break of around $47, which may pay for a tank of gas these days," Price said. "But the average person earning over $1 million a year is getting almost $43,000 back from the government. Nearly ninety percent of this $70 billion tax cut is going to those who earn more than $100,000 a year," Price added. "We're already in debt as far as the eye can see. Who's going to pay for all this?"Price said that Congressional budgeters were attempting to pay for the tax cuts by slashing funding to many domestic priorities, including student loan assistance, veterans' health care, education, and environmental protection. However, the budget cuts fall short of paying for the tax cuts, and instead further increase the national debt.A hidden provision in the Republican budget resolution would raise the debt ceiling from $8.965 trillion to $9.618 trillion, an increase of $653 billion. Price said passing this provision will allow President Bush to accumulate more debt in his eight years in office than the first 41 presidents throughout 200 years in our nation's history – combined.# # #
05.15.2006	Washington, D.C. - A message from Congressman David Price (NC-04):Today is the final day to enroll in Medicare's Prescription Drug Coverage, also known as Medicare Part D. If you do not enroll by midnight tonight, the next enrollment period does not begin until November 15, 2006 and your drug coverage would not begin until January 1, 2007. If you fail to enroll by May 15th, your premium cost will go up at least 1% per month for every month that you wait to join.To learn how to enroll in a program of your choosing, I encourage you to contact the North Carolina Seniors' Health Insurance Information Program (SHIIP), operated by the NC Department of Insurance. You can reach SHIIP by going to http://www.ncdoi.com/Consumer/Shiip/Shiip.asp or calling 1-800-443-9354.I have been calling for an extension of the enrollment deadline for months, but if the Republican leadership fails to see the importance of giving seniors some breathing room, I hope we can minimize the number of Triangle seniors that face a penalty for late enrollment. That is why I am encouraging all seniors who choose to enroll in Medicare Part D to do so before tonight's midnight deadline.# # #
05.12.2006	Washington, D.C. - A group of over 50 House Democrats has renewed the call for a Special Counsel to investigate the legality of federal domestic surveillance programs.In a letter sent late yesterday, Price and 53 other Members of Congress once again urged President Bush to appoint a Special Counsel, calling recent press reports on the Administration's call record monitoring effort "shocking." Price, along with Judiciary Committee member Zoe Lofgren of California, authored a similar letter in February in response to the revelation that NSA has been conducting widespread domestic wiretapping.The text of the letter and a list of cosigners follow:May 11, 2006The PresidentThe White HouseWashington, D.C. 20500Dear President Bush:Recent reports state that the NSA's domestic surveillance of Americans is much more expansive than you previously stated. You said that the NSA surveillance program only targets international communications between Americans and suspected members of al Qaeda. Now we learn the NSA routinely collects the call records of tens of millions of Americans from telecommunications companies collectively serving more than 200 million Americans. These reports also suggest that the NSA has equipment on AT&T's network to monitor all Internet data passing over it. If true, these reports are truly shocking. We urge you once again to direct the appointment of a Special Counsel fully empowered to investigate the NSA's domestic surveillance programs and report its findings to Congress.It is time the American public and the Congress had more than press reports to establish the facts about NSA's domestic surveillance programs. Several Members of Congress wrote to you nearly three months ago asking for the appointment of a Special Counsel to investigate the NSA's surveillance of Americans. We still have not received your response.Every practical avenue for investigation has been stymied based on the feeblest of excuses. When Members of Congress wrote to the Inspector Generals of the Justice and Defense Departments, they refused to investigate. The Justice Department handed the matter to its Office of Professional Responsibility for an investigation of professional legal misconduct, and then denied security clearances to its own investigators. The Defense Department handed the matter to NSA's Inspector General, who never responded and who approved the eavesdropping at issue. The Government Accountability Office refused to investigate, anticipating you would block access to records by designating them foreign intelligence or counterintelligence materials. While the House and Senate Judiciary Committees have held hearings, they have not issued a single subpoena for witnesses or documentary evidence. Instead of investigation, all that emerges is a pattern of resisting investigation into the facts that Congress and the public deserve.Given the Attorney General's authorization of domestic eavesdropping by the NSA and his highly public defense of it, a Special Counsel is needed to avoid any conflict of interest in investigating the NSA programs. The Attorney General's recent testimony in the House Judiciary Committee suggests he has much to hide. The Attorney General acknowledged under oath that the Deputy Attorney General initially disapproved of an NSA eavesdropping program separate from the warrantless eavesdropping you described on international communications with al Qaeda members. But the Attorney General refused to tell the House Judiciary Committee anything about that separate NSA eavesdropping program. If the news reports cited above are true, the Attorney General also provided highly misleading testimony when asked whether the NSA was eavesdropping on calls entirely within the United States.Without a complete and impartial investigation of the facts, Members of Congress are robbed of their Article I oversight responsibilities under the Constitution. The American public is robbed of its ability to hold Article II officials accountable for their conduct. While we appreciate the need to safeguard sensitive classified information, existing legal protections for handling of classified information would allow an investigation to proceed without compromising national security.Mr. President, both our Constitutional duties and yours are to protect the security of the nation from terrorist threats and to protect and uphold the laws of our nation. The NSA's domestic eavesdropping programs may fail in both. Without a thorough investigation into the facts, we can simply never know. We urge you once again to direct the appointment of a Special Counsel fully empowered to investigate the NSA's domestic eavesdropping programs and report its findings to Congress.Sincerely,David PriceZoe LofgrenJohn Conyers, Ranking Democrat – House Judiciary CommitteeBennie Thompson, Ranking Democrat – House Homeland Security CommitteeGary AckermanJoe BacaBrian BairdHoward BermanRick BoucherRobert BradySherrod BrownJulia CarsonLois CappsWilliam ClaySusan DavisPeter DeFazioWilliam DelahuntRosa DeLauroJohn DingellLloyd DoggettEliot EngelSam FarrRaúl M. GrijalvaMaurice HincheyRush HoltMike HondaJay InsleeJim LangevinTom LantosBarbara LeeJohn LewisStephen LynchCarolyn MaloneyDoris MatsuiMarty MeehanBetty McCollumJim McGovernJerrold NadlerEd PastorCollin PetersonJohn SalazarLinda SanchezLoretta SanchezAdam SmithHilda SolisPete StarkBart StupakEllen TauscherMike ThompsonMark UdallPeter ViscloskyDebbie Wasserman SchultzMaxine WatersDianne WatsonRobert Wexler
05.10.2006	Navy Must Seriously Consider Alternative OLF Sites, Congressman SaysWashington, D.C. - Rep. David Price (NC-04) was once again able to put Congress on the side of the many North Carolinians concerned about the Navy's plan to locate its Outlying Landing Field (OLF) in Washington County. The North Carolina Democrat included a provision in the military's construction budget that requires the Navy to demonstrate to Congress that it is considering alternative OLF sites in good faith and in accordance with court orders.The provision that Price inserted further affirms Congress's expectation that the Navy comply with recent court orders that require it to reexamine its OLF decision. The bill also requires the Navy to provide Congress with a written report showing that it has conducted a comprehensive analysis of environmental impact on the area and that it has considered a number of alternative OLF sites in cooperation with the State of North Carolina. The House Appropriations Committee passed the spending bill today, and it is expected to be approved by the entire House next week."North Carolina is the most military-friendly state in the union, and we have made every effort to work with the Navy in finding a suitable site," Price said. "The Navy owes it to North Carolinians to work in good faith and to fully reassess their past positions."In addition to local residents who fear an encroachment into their way of life by the constant stream of fighter jets taking off and landing at the OLF, there are concerns about environmental repercussions and flight safety due to the large populations of swans and geese that flock to nearby Pocosin Lakes National Wildlife Refuge in the winter. The Refuge is also a favorite location for hunting, fishing, and recreation. A decision by the 4th District Court of Appeals in 2005 found that the Navy's initial study of the environmental impact of the OLF in Washington County was inadequate and required the Navy to conduct a Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement (SEIS). The same court order directed the Navy to seriously reconsider alternative sites for the OLF and warned that the Navy's reassessment should "not simply serve to ratify forgone conclusions" about the location of the OLF.Price noted, however, that recent events suggest the Navy is not interested in taking its legal obligations seriously. The Navy has moved ahead with plans to purchase land in Washington County, and when pressed by Price during a recent congressional hearing, Admiral Michael Mullen, Chief of Naval Operations, suggested that the Navy was fully committed to locating the OLF at the site of its choosing, in Washington County. Mullen also said that the Navy would not consider additional alternative locations within North Carolina that Gov. Mike Easley has suggested."I am grateful that my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee recognized the importance of holding the Navy to account on its end of the bargain," Price said. "I fully expect the Navy to complete its impact statement and report to our committee promptly, completely, and in good faith."# # #
05.08.2006	Washington, D.C. -May 15, 2006 is the final day to enroll in Medicare's Prescription Drug Coverage, also known as Medicare Part D. If you do not enroll by this date, the next enrollment period does not begin until November 15, 2006 and your drug coverage would not begin until January 1, 2007. If you fail to enroll by May 15th, your premium cost will go up at least 1% per month for every month that you wait to join.To learn how to enroll in a program of your choosing, I encourage you to contact the North Carolina Seniors' Health Insurance Information Program (SHIIP), operated by the NC Department of Insurance. You can reach SHIIP by clicking here or calling 1-800-443-9354.I have been calling for an extension of the enrollment deadline for months, but if the Republican leadership fails to see the importance of giving seniors some breathing room, I hope we can minimize the number of Triangle seniors that face a penalty for late enrollment. That is why I am encouraging all seniors who choose to enroll in Medicare Part D to do so before the May 15th deadline.# # #
05.05.2006	Cary, NC - Congressman David Price (NC-04) delivered the following address during a Memorial Day Observance at Hillcrest Cemetery in Cary on Monday.It is a privilege to join the veterans and citizens of Cary once again for a Memorial Day observance that we look forward to each year, a time when we remember those who have served our country in uniform and the sacrifices they have made so that the nation Lincoln called "the last, best hope of earth" might endure.I was thinking about this observance yesterday, and of what meaningful word I could bring to you, when I realized I had just heard it! My minister began his sermon with this thought: "While we would all like to add years to our lives, what really matters is the life we add to our years." This is something we might well contemplate on Memorial Day, regarding both those lives we memorialize and the lives we are living in the present.Almost all of those whose sacrifice we honor today died too young. They were cut down in the flower of their youth, leaving a void in the lives of parents, spouses and sweethearts, and often young children, leaving their dreams and ambitions unrealized. Yet their lives were consequential beyond what many of us could ever hope to contribute no matter how long we live. They added "life to their years," lives of service to their country when it most needed them, dedication to a cause larger than themselves.And what lesson do we, the living, take from those who gave their all? This was the question Lincoln asked at Gettysburg in 1863:It is for us the living ... to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced .... that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they gave the last full measure of devotion – that we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain – that this nation under God, shall have a new birth of freedom – and that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth.We, the living, are admonished and inspired to add life to our years – to make our lives consequential not just for ourselves but for those around us, for family, for community, and for the country that has given us so much. We will find different ways to serve; not everyone's contribution will be the same. But let us resolve today to add life to our years in ways that honor and build upon the sacrifices of those who gave so much for us.# # #
05.03.2006	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (NC-04) today said House Republicans are missing the point on restoring the integrity of Congress. The North Carolina Democrat said the bill the House passed today has no chance of ending the rampant abuse of power in Congress because it fails to address the real problem in the recent corruption scandals: unscrupulous activity by some members of Congress and a culture that nurtures it."This isn't simply a problem with lobbyists," Price said. "After all, lobbyists have no power or authority to slip special favors into legislation without a willing accomplice in Congress. We had a proposal to tackle this problem, and the Republicans outright refused to consider it."Price called attention to a much more robust and comprehensive bill that the House Democrats proposed, which would curb abuses in earmark funding, permanently ban travel with lobbyists, and require more transparency and open debate on the business before the House. In a closed-door session last week, the Republican-led Rules Committee rejected the Democratic alternative bill, along with a slew of other amendments from Democrats and Republicans alike. After the Republican refusal to permit a number of bipartisan amendments to strengthen the legislation, the House passed the bill by a vote of 217-213, with reformers from both parties voting against the measure.Recognizing that the House Republican leadership had little interest in reigning in its own abuses of authority, which have contributed to a culture of corruption in the House, Price and three of his colleagues stepped forward late last year with a reform bill of their own. Price, along with Reps. David Obey (WI-07), Barney Frank (MA-04), and Tom Allen (ME-01) – the so-called "Gang of Four" – released a 14-point plan to limit not only the influence of lobbyists, but also the ability of the House Republican leadership to abuse its authority in running the House. Many of the "Gang of Four" reforms were subsequently incorporated into the Democratic Caucus' lobbying reform bill, which was blocked from consideration by House Republicans last week."The House leadership had a real chance to enact real reform, not for the sake of an aggrieved minority, not for the sake of election-year politics, but for the sake of the integrity of our institution," Price said. "What we got instead was a cynical effort to sweep this issue under the rug before the fall elections. The majority party has simply resigned lobbying reform to the dustbin of empty rhetoric and hollow solutions."In a January column for the New York Times, congressional scholars Norman Ornstein and Thomas Mann of the American Enterprise Institute and the Brookings Institution, respectively, wrote that after observing 36 years of Washington politics, "we have never seen the culture so sick or the legislative process so dysfunctional." Orstein and Mann point to the abuses of power that Price has sought to eliminate with his ethics bill and draw a clear connection between a breakdown in the democratic process and corruption in the Republican Congress."If you can play fast and loose with the rules of the game in lawmaking, it becomes easier to consider playing fast and loose with everything else, including relations with lobbyists, acceptance of favors, the use of official resources and the discharge of governmental power," write Orstein and Mann.A chorus of editorial boards and commentators across the country have denounced the Republican approach to lobbying reform as a "sham" and "diluted snake oil" (Washington Post), a "Bill to Nowhere" (New York Times), and "watered down" (Raleigh News and Observer).Price said given the importance of restoring the public's confidence in the legislative branch, he and many of his colleagues will continue to press for meaningful reform, despite the majority party's efforts to dispense with the issue.------The following are remarks for the Congressional Record, submitted by Congressman Price during the floor debate on lobbying reform last Thursday, April 27, 2006:Mr. Speaker, I'd like to join my colleagues in making a point that seems to be lost on the leadership of this House: this is not simply a "lobbyist problem" we are facing. Ensuring that lawmakers comply with existing ethics rules and enhancing lobbyist disclosure requirements are important goals, and even on this measure, the so-called "Lobbying Accountability and Transparency Act" falls embarrassingly short.What started as a limited but seemingly earnest attempt at reform has been progressively hollowed out over the past several weeks in--you guessed it--closed-door meetings with lobbyists. The result is not surprising. Reporting requirements for lobbyist-hosted fundraisers? Gone. No more bargain rates on corporate jets? Gone. A study to examine lobbyist employment contracts? Gone.But again, this is not simply a lobbyist problem. House Democrats have tried in earnest to offer a plan for reform that takes a hard look in the mirror and examines what Congress must do to clean up its own house.My colleagues Dave Obey, Barney Frank, Tom Allen and I have introduced a fourteen-point plan that would address not only individual abuses, but also the abuses of the legislative process. Our proposal would end the practice of keeping votes held open long enough to twist recalcitrant arms into compliance. It would prevent legislation from being slipped into conference reports without conference approval. It would require House-Senate conferences to actually meet and vote. And it would give Members of Congress at least a full day to examine the contents of any legislation we are voting on.We have testified before the Rules Committee in favor of this comprehensive approach. During Rules Committee markup of this bill and again during the hearing on the rule last night, numerous amendments were offered and defeated--mostly on party-line votes--that would have implemented these reforms. The Democratic Substitute, which was also denied a fair hearing last night, recognized the need to take a comprehensive approach to lobbying and ethics reform. At each step in the process, our attempts at genuine, bipartisan reform were turned away.So what did we get instead? It's no surprise: a bill that could serve as a case study in everything that is broken in our legislative process--of everything we should be reforming. We get a so-called "Lobbying Accountability and Transparency Act" that offers neither accountability nor real transparency. We get a minority party--and many Members of the majority--completely shut out of the process once again, their amendments denied, their advice and concerns unheeded. We get a restrictive rule that makes in order just nine out of the 74 amendments offered--and only one sponsored by a Democrat without a Republican cosponsor--and allows for only one hour of debate on what should be one of the most significant bills we consider all year.This leadership had a real chance to enact real reform, not for the sake of an aggrieved minority, not for the sake of election-year politics, but for the sake of our institution, for its integrity and its capacity to govern. Instead, they seem to think they can convince the American people that they're cleaning up our House, when all they're doing is sweeping our problems under the rug.Well Mr. Speaker, the American people will not be so easily fooled. And I assure you that those of us in this body who want real, comprehensive reform will not rest until we have successfully enacted such a measure. But this is not such a measure. I urge my colleagues to oppose this legislation.# # #
04.28.2006	Price Welcomes Delegates from Emerging DemocraciesWashington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (NC-04) addressed a gathering of lawmakers from four Asian and European countries by describing democracy as a "work in progress". He said democracy is not an end in itself, but an "ongoing process that requires the enduring commitment of the nation's leaders."Forty-four members of parliament from East Timor, Georgia, Indonesia, and Macedonia were in Washington this week for a conference with U.S. lawmakers on ways to strengthen their democratic institutions. The event was sponsored by the House Democracy Assistance Commission (HDAC), also known as the Dreier-Price Commission after its leading members, Rep. David Dreier (R-CA) and Congressman Price, a North Carolina Democrat. HDAC has chosen to assist these four countries whose parliaments are in a developmental stage.The visiting delegates attended meetings with lawmakers, congressional and State Department staff, and participated in workshops on budgetary oversight, legislative research and parliamentary administration. Price shared his professional expertise when he led a discussion on the federal budget and the appropriations process with members of parliament from Macedonia and Indonesia. He also played a major role in setting the week's agenda and planning the events.Congressman Price first conceived of the Commission after working with the Frost-Solomon Commission in the early 1990s, a similar congressional partnership with emerging democracies that focused on the breakaway republics of the former Soviet Union. After that program was eliminated under the new House leadership in 1994, Price worked for years to restore the program, finally succeeding last year with the help of Rep. Dreier."In an environment that is so poisoned with partisanship, the work of the House Democracy Assistance Commission is one area that we should all agree upon," Price said. "All of us, Democrats and Republicans alike, would like to see democratic governments flourish throughout the world, and we are doing our part to strengthen the emerging democracies that are in the early stages of development by conferencing with foreign lawmakers and sharing ideas and best practices."In May, Price and other HDAC members will lead a delegation to provide assistance to Afghanistan and Georgia in May, two countries that have experienced historic transitions to democracy in recent years. Later in the year, Price will visit Lebanon, Kenya and Macedonia. Price hopes to eventually partner with an Iraqi parliament once stability is restored in the country.# # #
04.28.2006	Washington Post Highlights Price Intelligence AmendmentWashington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (NC-04) is part of a core group of lawmakers who are pushing back on the President and his surveillance and intelligence policies that have increasingly come under scrutiny. "In a Congress that is all too willing to let the President do as he pleases without the slightest oversight, a few of us have found select ways to break down the walls of complicity and shed some light on this administration's cavalier actions when it comes to civil liberties and national security policy," Price said.During a contentious debate on the House floor over the administration's methods regarding the gathering of intelligence, Price was successful in including language in the bill to examine the shadowy practice of contracting intelligence operations to private companies. Price's amendment is featured in a story published by the Washington Post today.You can read the article by visiting http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2006/04/27/AR2006042700977.html# # #
04.27.2006	Washington, D.C. - The recent spike in gasoline prices is posing serious hardships for commuters and other motorists and for our farms and small businesses. In many parts of the country, prices have topped $3 per gallon. Crude oil prices have exceeded the previous record set after Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast, reaching over $70 per barrel. High gasoline prices are simply placing too high a burden on American consumers.I believe that gasoline price increases call for both a short-term and a long-term response. We must first determine whether price gouging is occurring and, if it is, take steps to punish those who artificially inflate the price of gasoline. I am a cosponsor of the Federal Response to Energy Emergencies (FREE) Act, H.R. 3936, which would give the Justice Department and FTC authority to prosecute oil companies engaged in price gouging and other forms of market manipulation. The FREE Act would also establish new criminal penalties, including jail time and fines, for individuals involved in energy price gouging. Because the House Republican leadership has blocked action on H.R. 3936, I have signed a discharge petition to bring this proposal to the floor for a fair up-or-down vote.Over the long term, we will need to transition to a greater reliance on renewable and other alternative energy sources over which we have more control. We will also need to do much more in the areas of alternative energy technologies and energy efficiency. I am a cosponsor of the Fuel Choices for American Security act, H.R. 4409, which would put the United States on a clear path to energy independence by mandating a reduction of 2.5 million barrels per day (more than we import now from the Persian Gulf) by 2015, and requiring a reduction of 5 million barrels per day by 2025. It would require federal agencies to take the lead by substantially reducing the amount of oil consumed by the federal government. In addition, the bill would significantly expand tax credits for the purchase of the most advanced flexible fuel, hybrid, and electric vehicles, support a transition to alternative transportation fuels – including bio-fuels and hydrogen – and invest significantly more in alternative energy research and infrastructure.Unfortunately, Congress passed up an important opportunity to significantly address our energy challenges when it approved the Energy Policy Act (H.R. 6) last year. Although the bill contained some forward-thinking provisions, it did not strike an acceptable balance between increased fossil energy production and the need to promote alternative and renewable energy development and increased energy efficiency. In addition, the H.R. 6 provided billions of dollars in new tax breaks and subsidies for oil and gas companies, which are already making record profits.I will continue working to bring consumers much-needed relief from record gas prices, to make our country energy-independent, and to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels.# # #
04.27.2006	Washington, D.C. - Over the last 24 hours, we have seen missed opportunity after missed opportunity in the House of Representatives. First, the House Republicans flat-out rejected any semblance of real ethics reform to rein in the abuses of power in Congress. They refused to even consider dozens of proposals from both Democrats and Republicans that would have strengthened the provisions of the lobbying reform bill and stopped the abusive practices that have become all too common within the ruling party. And today, the House leadership failed at even passing the hollow and ineffectual lobbying reform that they had proposed. The term "do-nothing Congress" is becoming more appropriate by the day.# # #
04.26.2006	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. David Price (NC-04) took the lead today in calling attention to a "major shift in the way our intelligence community operates." The North Carolina Democrat offered an amendment to the Intelligence Authorization bill to examine the extent to which private companies are conducting sensitive intelligence work for the government. The amendment passed the House by a unanimous voice vote."The last few years have seen fundamental changes in our intelligence agencies," Price said. "Some reports estimate that approximately half of the intelligence community's budget is now spent through contracts awarded to private sector firms. This is not an inconsequential matter, and it requires the immediate attention of Congress."Experts both within and outside the Intelligence Community have warned that the expanded use of private contractors is raising several challenges. According to a March 20, 2006 article in the Washington Post, the Director of National Intelligence, John Negroponte, has recently expressed concern about the issue. Price said the contracts reach into several billion dollars each year."It is our constitutional duty to faithfully exercise oversight of the agencies of the federal government, so I am pleased that my colleagues have supported my attempt to shed some light on the outsourcing of intelligence activities," Price said.The Price Amendment would require the Director of National Intelligence to report to Congress on the extent of private contracting of intelligence work, the rules governing the practice, and how it may be affecting employee recruitment and retention in the agencies. Last year, Price introduced related legislation to enhance the transparency and accountability of contracts awarded to private military firms, who are providing security for most State Department and reconstruction projects in Iraq and Afghanistan.# # #
04.23.2006	Raleigh, NC - U.S. Rep. David Price (NC-04) delivered the following speech Sunday, April 23rd, at Meredith College in Raleigh, NC, in observance of the Day of Remembrance of the Holocaust.". . . Take care and watch yourselves closely, so as neither to forget the things that your eyes have seen nor to let them slip from your mind all the days of your life; make them known to your children and your children's children . . ." (Deuteronomy 4:9)On this Day of Remembrance we confront stark, unmitigated evil, evil that could and did impose starvation, torture, unimaginable cruelty, and – for six million human beings – death. On this day we remember those who suffered and died and we resolve to keep faith with them.Keeping faith means empathizing with what they endured, mourning for their shattered and lost lives, and resolving that they shall not have died in vain – that their lives will continue to inspire and bear fruit in our own lives.That is why each year during the Days of Remembrance we look back but we also look around us. Remembrance makes us vigilant, warning us of man's capacity for evil. And keeping faith requires us to ask ourselves, how can we make "Never again" more than a noble sentiment? How can we recognize and confront man's inhumanity to man as it manifests itself in our own time?There are many parts of our world we should attend to during these Days of Remembrance, but none more horrific and desperate than the Darfur region of Sudan. And now the genocidal marauders who have decimated Darfur's villages (with the complicity of Sudan's government) have murdered, raped and pillaged their way into the eastern regions of neighboring Chad.Last week I joined some 120 members of the House in again calling on the President and Secretary of State to appoint a special envoy for Sudan to maintain pressure for the full implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement and for bringing the murderous janjaweed under control. There is much more that we, the French and other Europeans, the African Union, Arab and Muslim leaders, the UN and others can do.Knowing what policies could make a positive difference is less the problem than gaining the world's focused attention and determination to act. It is a story we have heard before; it is how the Holocaust raged unchecked and it is how genocides have occurred from Cambodia to Rwanda to Darfur. May these Days of Remembrance, 2006, be days of awakening and resolve, so that what Elie Wiesel once called "the silence of the bystander," and with it the world's halting response, may be overcome.# # #
04.07.2006	Washington, D.C. - On the floor of the House of Representatives yesterday, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) delivered the following speech denouncing the Republican budget for failing to live up to Congress' responsibilities to the American people. He encouraged his colleagues to support a Democratic alternative which meets the needs of our communities and makes progress toward balancing the budget.The Republican budget gives us the worst of two worlds. It takes us over the cliff fiscally, and yet it underfunds key domestic priorities.You would like to think that if we are going into $400-plus billion worth of additional debt, at least we are getting adequate funding for our domestic needs. But we are getting neither fiscal responsibility nor an adequate addressing of our needs for investment.The premise of the Republican budget as submitted by the President and as presented by our Republican friends seems to be that this country is going broke because we are doing too much cancer research. We are going broke because we have too many after school programs. We are going broke because we are opening up too much affordable housing. It simply is not true. To scapegoat these sorts of domestic expenditures is deceptive and reprehensible.There are many reasons for the fiscal mess that we are in, starting with the President's tax cuts targeting the wealthiest Americans, defense and security spending above projected levels, a sluggish and sporadic economic recovery, and the expansion of health care entitlement costs. The one item not on the list is domestic discretionary spending, which is very close to projected levels. Yet that is the item that is being squeezed in this budget as though that were the culprit in our fiscal meltdown.I am happy to say that our Democratic alternative balances the budget sooner and addresses these pressing domestic needs.Mr. Chairman, our Federal budget, like our household budget, is a statement about our priorities, about what we most care about.We ought to care about our obligation to future generations, to avoid placing a debt on them. We also have an obligation articulated in James' epistle in the scriptures. ''Suppose a brother or sister is without clothes and daily food. If one of you says to him, 'Go, I wish you well, keep warm and well fed,' but does nothing about his physical needs, what good is it?''Mr. Chairman, we must take these dual obligations seriously: An obligation to be fiscally responsible, to avoid loading a burden on future generations, and at the same time to meet the needs of our communities, to open up opportunity, to be fair, to bring home the promise of American life.Surely there is no better indication of what we really care about and what we aspire to for this country than the Federal budget that we enact each year. It is not just abstract numbers; it reveals what kinds of stewards we wish to be.The Democratic alternative shows us the way past the President's ''worst-of-both-worlds'' budget, and I urge colleagues to give this alternative open-minded consideration and support.# # #
04.06.2006	Washington, D.C. - During an Appropriations Subcommittee hearing on Capitol Hill today, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) challenged Veterans Administration Secretary James Nicholson to explain how the VA will be able to provide adequate health care to our nation's veterans if the Administration cuts funding for biomedical research.Price said the Durham VAMC is one of the most important veterans research facilities in the country, and it is home to the only VA mental health research center focused on post-deployment mental health conditions, such as Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). The President's budget calls for a $13 million cut in research funding within the Veterans Administration, from $412 million last year to $399 million this year. Price told Secretary Nicholson that some of the labs at the Durham VA are in urgent need of renovation, and he said the cuts would undermine ongoing research at the facility."Now is precisely the wrong time to cut funding for research that benefits returning servicemen," Price said. "As our brave men and women return from the war zone, we have a responsibility to take care of any and every health issue they face as a result of their deployment. And as more and more soldiers return from the battlefield, our responsibility to support veterans programs is increasing, not decreasing."An independent analysis of VA funding completed by four major veterans groups recommends a $61 million increase in research funding in order to adequately address the challenges facing American veterans, from prosthetics research to mental health care. Participating in the study were the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), the Disabled American Veterans (DAV), the Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA) and AMVETS.Recent studies also suggest that servicemen and women returning from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan are experiencing higher rates of mental health problems than ever before. A 2005 Army Surgeon General survey of troops returning from the Iraq war found that nearly a third had developed mental health problems three to four months after returning home.Following the hearing, Price pledged to continue the fight to restore VA research funding.
03.18.2006	Washington, D.C. - To the Editor:I applaud your call for Congress to get serious about ethics reform. In January, I joined with three colleagues to introduce House Resolution 659, a reform package that addresses the two specific abuses you mentioned:1. When Members of Congress fly on corporate jets, our legislation would require FULL-VALUE reimbursement and disclosure of the name of the aircraft's owner, the names of any other people on the flight, and the reason a commercial flight was not used.2. When Members of Congress attend a conference or other event, our legislation would prevent them from accepting free travel and lodging if the sponsoring organization conducts lobbying activities, employs registered lobbyists or invites lobbyists to attend.Our reform legislation would also address many abuses in the way the House of Representatives conducts its business — ending extended roll call votes, requiring House-Senate conference committees to actually meet and vote, and ensuring that members have time to read and understand what they're voting on.Our reform package now has 132 cosponsors. We are urging the Republican leadership to give it serious and expedited consideration.David PriceU.S. House of RepresentativesWashington
03.16.2006	Washington, D.C. - Yesterday, the House of Representatives passed an amendment to prohibit a permanent U.S. military presence in Iraq. The vote came on the heels of Rep. David Price's sharp questioning of General John Abizaid, the U.S. Army's top commander in the Middle East, about long-term U.S. policy in Iraq.During General Abizaid's testimony before a House Appropriations Subcommittee, Price asked: "Can you make an unequivocal commitment that the U.S. does not plan to establish permanent bases in Iraq?" Abizaid's response: "No sir, I can't...the policy on long-term presence in Iraq hasn't been formulated."Price's questions prompted concern among House members and were widely cited during floor debate on the amendment, which was offered during consideration of a $91.8 billion supplemental appropriations bill."On Saturday, our Ambassador to Iraq, Zalmay Khalilzad, said the U.S. has no goal of establishing permanent bases in Iraq," Rep. Price told his colleagues on the floor of the House. "Three days later, General Abizaid tells me the policy on long-term presence in Iraq 'hasn't been formulated.' If Administration officials cannot make up their minds three years into this war, it is time Congress did it for them."Rep. Price has been outspoken in his opposition to the war and to the President's handling of it. He has cosponsored legislation (H. Con. Res.197) to prohibit a permanent U.S. military presence in Iraq. He has also introduced legislation (H.J. Res.70) to require the President to submit to Congress an exit strategy for U.S. forces in Iraq and to prohibit permanent bases.# # #
03.14.2006	Washington, D.C. - David Price On the Floor of the House of RepresentativesMr. Speaker, it was one year ago today, March 14, 2005, that the House gave final approval to the formation of the House Democracy Assistance Commission. Today I am pleased to report that the HDAC, which is chaired by Rep. David Dreier and on which I serve as Ranking Member, is off to an energetic and encouraging start.My hope in first proposing creation of the Commission in the 108th Congress was to build upon and extend the pioneering work of the Frost-Solomon Task Force, which in the early 1990s extended support to the emerging democratic parliaments of Central and Eastern Europe. Those hopes began to be realized as Speaker Hastert got behind the idea, the authorizing resolution was refined and passed, and both Speaker Hastert and Leader Pelosi appointed serious, committed Members to carry out the work of the Commission.During calendar year 2005, the Commission entered into agreements with five parliaments around the world to provide material, technical, and procedural assistance to members of Parliament as they learn how to govern their nations responsibly, effectively, and, in many cases for the first time ever, democratically. The Commission has now, begun its work with these nations: East Timor, Georgia, Indonesia, Kenya, and Macedonia.Our relationship with these countries will continue, hopefully over the course of several years. At the same time, the Commission will be undertaking programs with a new round of emerging democratic parliaments in 2006. We hope to continue to support our country's ideals and interests in key nations around the world through our assistance.While our program is still in its early stages, we have already seen clear evidence of the impact it can have. Last month, the Commission's first delegation of members of Congress traveled to Indonesia and East Timor and began to train members of those nations' parliaments. I want to especially thank the members of this delegation: Reps. Jim Kolbe, Lois Capps, Adam Schiff, and Allyson Schwartz, who I understand were greeted with warm welcomes and rapt attention in both countries. While in East Timor, this delegation announced that the House Democracy Assistance Commission would be helping East Timor build a parliamentary library from the ground up, no small accomplishment in a nation with extremely limited resources. Our Commission's work goes far beyond building physical structures, however; we are helping to build the foundations of effective and lasting democracy.Mr. Speaker, the House Democracy Assistance Commission is an all-too-rare example of sincere bipartisan cooperation, Chairman Dreier, who chairs our commission, has helped us carry out our work with no considerations other than the best interests of the House, the United States, and our partner parliaments, Under his leadership, our Commission's 16 members have been able to demonstrate to our partners our deeply-felt, shared respect for and admiration of American democracy and the esteemed institution of the House of Representatives. We also owe a particular debt of gratitude to the Commission's Staff Director, John Lis, whose energy and vision have helped us launch the Commission in such a promising way.Every day, members of Congress are called upon to assess and oversee our Nation's policies toward developing democracies around the world. The House Democracy Assistance Commission offers the House an opportunity to directly contribute to the sustainability and effectiveness of these democracies. We are working to establish democracy not just in name but also in practice, training our partners in the nuts and bolts of democratic government. Mr. Speaker, I can think of no more important work for ensuring our national security and maintaining our role as leader of the free world. I thank you and I thank my colleagues for your support, and I look forward to continuing our work.# # #
03.09.2006	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative David Price (NC) was less than satisfied with the U.S. Navy's position on an Outlying Landing Field in Washington County, NC. In a congressional hearing this week, Price asked Admiral Michael Mullen, Chief of Naval Operations, if alternative locations with fewer environmental and safety concerns had been seriously considered for a planned jet landing field. The field would support operations at Oceana Naval Air Station, Virginia and Cherry Point Marine Corps Air Station, North Carolina.Despite a federal court order and language in the 2006 Military Construction Appropriations bill directing a serious look at alternative sites, the Navy's senior admiral admitted that the focus was on making their preferred site work rather than considering other possibilities."The federal appeals court's decision last year specifically warned that the Navy's environmental reassessment should 'not simply serve to ratify foregone conclusions,'" said Price after the hearing. "However, it appears they have chosen to ignore the court and proceed without full consideration of alternatives to their hand-picked site, despite serious concerns about its viability."A 2005 federal court decision ordered the Navy to comply with the National Environmental Policy Act, which requires the consideration of alternatives when a proposed government action would have significant environmental impact. Concerns about environmental impact and flight safety have been raised because large populations of swans and geese winter at nearby Pocosin Lakes National Wildlife Refuge.Last year, the Fourth Court of Federal Appeals found that the Navy had taken inappropriate shortcuts in completing an Environmental Impact Statement, and specifically ordered the Navy to "proceed with a hard look and honest assessment of the environmental impacts" of the proposed site."Admiral Mullen also told the Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs Subcommittee yesterday that the Navy will not consider alternative sites proposed more recently by the governor of North Carolina and former governor of Virginia, and cast doubt on whether any alternatives to a controversial location in Washington County will be considered for the facility."That frankly puzzles me," Price said. "Both governors are fully cognizant of the need for this facility and their recommendations were made with due consideration and in good faith.The Navy seems to be flaunting the intent of Congress, the instructions of the Court, and the public interest of the people of North Carolina. We have signaled from the beginning that we are willing to work with them on this, but they are not upholding their side of the bargain."# # #
02.28.2006	Washington, D.C. - As a member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, I am pushing for additional oversight of the DPW purchase, including the required 45-day investigationThe Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) recently approved the purchase of a British company by Dubai Ports World (DPW)—owned by the Emir of Dubai—that manages a number of U.S. port terminals. Dubai is one of the United Arab Emirates (UAE).CFIUS has the responsibility for conducting reviews of proposed foreign investments in the United States to ensure they do not compromise our national security. For cases in which foreign investment involves ownership by a foreign government that could affect national security, current law requires CFIUS to conduct a more in-depth investigation lasting up to 45 days.As a member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, I am pushing for additional oversight of the DPW purchase, including the required 45-day investigation. At the same time, I will continue to fight for much more federal investment in security at all our seaports so they do not remain vulnerable entry points for terrorists.The Dubai Ports World management buyout would not mean the company would own any U.S. ports or port terminals, or would be given any port security responsibilities. The same American workers who currently load and unload ships at these port terminals would reportedly continue, and the U.S. Coast Guard and U.S. Customs and Border Protection will continue to provide security.Legitimate concerns have been raised, however, about the access that terrorists might gain to logistical and security information related to U.S. ports if they were able to infiltrate the UAE government or DPW. In the past, terrorists have been successful in using UAE territory to stage operations and using UAE financial institutions to launder money. Concerns have also been raised that the CFIUS employs a relatively narrow definition of what might constitute a national security threat in reviewing foreign investment deals. In addition, the CFIUS has reportedly not conducted a 45-day investigation, which appears to be required by law in this case.This is yet another instance of the Bush Administration acting unilaterally, without adequate consultation with Congress and without acknowledging the right of Americans to be fully informed on issues that directly affect them and the nation. Even the governors of states with ports that would be affected were left in the dark.Unfortunately, the Administration's actions also reflect a broader, more alarming inattention to the security of all of our ports. The U.S. Coast Guard, which is responsible for the security of U.S. ports, estimated in 2002 that it needed $7 billion to make our ports secure. Since 2001, the Bush Administration has requested only $46 million specifically for port security, and Congress has appropriated less than $1 billion. Only 5 percent of the containers coming through ports are currently inspected, in large part because we are not investing enough in developing technology to inspect a larger percentage without substantially delaying cargo shipments. Even more disturbing, the system for ensuring the safety of cargo loaded at foreign ports is still largely inadequate.# # #
02.16.2006	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative David Price (D-NC) had sharp questions about the poor performance of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff, whose huge department includes FEMA, testified before Price's Homeland Security Subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee."Hurricane Katrina made pretty clear that FEMA is not the same top-notch emergency management agency it was when Hurricanes Fran and Floyd devastated North Carolina in the 1990s," Price told Secretary Chertoff. "To a great extent, I and many others attribute FEMA's loss of capacity to its downgraded status within the Executive Branch, accompanied as it was by a loss of experienced professional personnel and the siphoning off of critical funds."In 1992, former President Bill Clinton elevated FEMA to cabinet status, with agency director James Lee Witt reporting directly to the White House. The Bush Administration lowered FEMA's standing and rolled it, along with all or parts of 22 other federal agencies, into the huge Department of Homeland Security.Price posed three questions to Chertoff:"You are now, in effect, the FEMA Director because you are the only one with direct access to the President – the only one who can make sure that FEMA's capabilities are restored to what they once were and expanded to adapt to the Post-9/11 world we live in. How you can possibly perform that role effectively? FEMA is only one of two dozen directorates, bureaus or offices that report to you and your Deputy Secretary. What reassurance can we have that FEMA's bureaucratic submersion will not continue?""FEMA has two essential functions: Disaster Preparedness and Disaster Response. Before Katrina made landfall, you had proposed splitting those functions, and you followed through after the hurricane. In light of the Preparedness weaknesses exposed by Katrina, have you reconsidered? What benefits are there to splitting the functions, and what do you think you might gain or lose by doing that?""The Department is requesting more funding in 2007 to coordinate with state and local emergency management personnel during disasters. But at the same time, you are proposing a $12 million—or 7 percent—cut in Emergency Management Performance Grants that help pay for the same local and state personnel FEMA needs to coordinate with. How can FEMA improve its coordination efforts if state and local governments are being starved for resources?"Price indicated that he was not satisfied with the Secretary's responses at this first budget hearing for the Department of Homeland Security, and said he would continue pushing for the information until his questions are fully answered.# # #
02.14.2006	Washington, D.C. - "President Bush's 2007 Budget draws a very clear picture of who this Administration values and it's not the average American family," said U.S. Representative David Price (D-NC). "The underlying message to Congress is: Schools, hospitals, roads, veterans, seniors, prescription drugs, clean air and clean water are going to have to wait so we can deal with 'really important' matters."Price pointed to the President's call in his State of the Union speech for making permanent his 2001 tax cuts, most of which benefit those who make more than $200,000 per year. The tax cuts were a major factor in the federal government's plummet from budget surpluses in 2001 to staggering annual deficits in just a few years."Cutting taxes on investment income for the wealthiest Americans while we're spending more than $6 billion per month in Iraq — more in a few months than we invest in public education, job training, medical research or veterans' healthcare in a whole year — makes absolutely no sense," Price said. "It's put the country in a fiscal hole that's only getting deeper.""This 2007 budget reveals the true cost of the Bush tax cuts and the Iraq war," said Price, a member of the House Appropriations Committee. "Sadly, it's a cost that will have to be paid by millions of school children, senior citizens, military veterans, rural residents and families through cuts and freezes to vital federal services they count on. It's a budget that doesn't reflect the values of most Americans."2007 BUDGET FACT SHEET1. In his State of the Union speech, President Bush said his first priority was making Americans safer. However, his 2007 Budget Proposal:• Cuts funding for emergency responders under the Department of Homeland Security by 25% ($573 million) from this year;• Reduces Firefighter Assistance Grants for new and upgraded equipment by $355 million;• Cuts the highly-acclaimed Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Grants program that has helped so many cities and towns hire more police officers by 79% ($376 million) below 2006; and• Cuts the State and Local Criminal Justice and Juvenile Justice program by 54% ($1.1 billion) below this year.2. The President said he wanted to strengthen American competitiveness by investing in science and math education. However, his budget plan:• Eliminates all federal funding for Vocation Education Programs;• Eliminates all federal funding for Educational Technology Programs• Eliminates Safe and Drug Free Schools funding to the states• Eliminates High School Achievement and Drop-Out Prevention Programs, including GEAR-UP and TRIO Upward Bound; and• Underfunds the No Child Left Behind Program by $15.4 billion below the promised level.3. The President talked about an "Ownership Society," which creates opportunities for all Americans to succeed. However, his budget plan:• Freezes the maximum Pell Grant— which helps millions who could not otherwise afford a college education— for the fifth year in a row, while the cost of a four-year public college education has soared by 36%; and• Cuts all prior federal funding from the Perkins College Loan revolving fund, on top of the $12 billion already cut from federal student loan programs earlier this year by Congressional Republicans.4. The President expressed concern about the rising costs of healthcare. Yet, his budget plan:• Cuts Medicare funding by $105 billion over ten years by reducing payments to hospitals and ambulance services and increases premiums for higher-income seniors;• Freezes medical research funding for the National Institutes for Health;• Cuts funding by 5% below this year's for the National Centers for Disease Control; and5. The President has talked about Americans taking care of each other, and helping those who need help. Yet, his 2007 budget plan:• Cuts Community Development Block Grants, which help provide decent housing and living environments for low and moderate-income areas, by $736 million below the 2006 level;• Eliminates the Community Services Block Grant program, aimed at fighting poverty by providing assistance in:o employmento educationo better use of available incomeo housingo nutritiono emergency serviceso substance abuse• Freezes funding for Head Start at this year's level, which would put 19,000 children out of the program; and• Eliminates or slashes funding for many housing programs, including HOPE VI, which has transformed run-down public housing into vibrant, mixed-income neighborhoods, and the Rural Housing and Economic Development Program.# # #
02.02.2006	"Unless we enact meaningful and comprehensive reforms of the way this chamber conducts its business, Jack Abramoff will be the least of our concerns."Washington, D.C. - The U.S. House of Representative has passed lobbying reform legislation based on a comprehensive ethics and lobbying reform bill (H. Res. 659) introduced by Democratic Representatives David Price (NC), David Obey (WI), Barney Frank (MA), and Tom Allen (ME). H. Res. 659 has attracted the support of 132 cosponsors."I want to commend my colleagues for passing this first, small step toward reining in the culture of corruption that's been laid bare by the various scandals currently surrounding this institution," said Price. "But we should be clear that lobbying abuses are only a part of a much bigger problem."Price told the House that a genuine reform plan must more comprehensively address the abuses of power by the House Republican leadership that have become common in recent years and have contributed to an atmosphere in which rules are disregarded."Among other things, our plan would reform the earmarking process (congressional spending on member-supported projects), end protracted roll call votes, require House-Senate conference committees to actually meet and vote, and ensure that members have time to read and understand what they're voting on."Price cited comments by noted congressional scholars Norman Orenstein and Tom Mann on this issue in a recent newspaper article:"This is not simply a problem of a rogue lobbyist, or a pack of them. Nor is it a matter of a handful of disconnected, corrupt lawmakers taking favors in return for official actions. The problem starts, not with lobbyists, but inside Congress. Over the past five years, the rules and norms that govern Congressional debate and voting have routinely been violated, especially in the House of Representatives, in ways that mark a dramatic break from custom."This week's lobbying reform measure was limited, barring former House Members who are registered lobbyists from access to the House floor and the House gym."I'll gladly the support this first step . . . But unless we enact meaningful and comprehensive reforms of the way this chamber conducts its business," Price warned his colleagues, "Jack Abramoff will be the least of our concerns."# # #
02.02.2006	Washington, D.C. - The Triangle Business Journal conducted a non-scientific poll from Jan. 25 through Jan. 31 to help determine who, among the region's Congressional delegates, is the most effective.Our readers were asked, "Who do you think is the most effective North Carolina congressional delegate serving the Triangle?"Out of 188 total responses, just two votes separated the top two elected officials. With 49 votes, or 26 percent of the total, Rep. David Price, a Democrat for the 4th District, ranked first in the poll. Sen. Elizabeth Dole, a Republican, tallied 47 votes, or 25 percent.Sen. Richard Burr, also a Republican, accumulated 20 percent of the total, or 38 votes, followed by Rep. Brad Miller, a Democrat from District 13, with 14 votes or 8 percent. Democrat Bob Etheridge, a representative from District 2, received 12 votes or 6 percent.Fourteen percent of respondents, or 28 voters, decided not to vote for any of the Triangle delegates and selected "None of the above" instead.# # #
01.31.2006	Washington, D.C. - Mr. Speaker, I first want to commend my colleague from California for introducing this first step toward reining in the culture of corruption that's been laid bare by the various scandals currently surrounding this institution. I know that broader lobbying reform is on the way. But I want to suggest today that lobbying abuses are part of a more comprehensive problem that is going to require a more comprehensive solution.Congressional scholars Norm Orenstein and Tom Mann put it this way in a recent article:"This is not simply a problem of a rogue lobbyist, or a pack of them. Nor is it a matter of a handful of disconnected, corrupt lawmakers taking favors in return for official actions. The problem starts, not with lobbyists, but inside Congress. Over the past five years, the rules and norms that govern Congressional debate and voting have routinely been violated, especially in the House of Representatives, in ways that mark a dramatic break from custom."Lobbying reform alone is not going to right this ship. We need a comprehensive plan that gets to the root of the problem, the deterioration of our institutions of governance, particularly this institution.Yesterday, I joined my colleagues Mr. Obey, Mr. Frank and Mr. Allen, along with 130 original cosponsors, in introducing a 14-point plan, House Resolution 659, that would address many of the abuses of power that we've witnessed in recent years. Among other things, our plan would reform the earmarking process, end protracted roll calls, require House-Senate conference committees to actually meet and vote, and ensure that members have time to read and understand what they're voting on.I'll gladly the support the first step that we're taking today. But, unless we enact meaningful and comprehensive reforms of the way this chamber conducts its business, Jack Abramoff will be the least of our concerns.# # #
01.12.2006	Raleigh, NC - The Downtown Housing Improvement Corporation (DHIC), the Triangle's largest non-profit developer of affordable homeownership and rental housing, will be the recipient of $200,000 in federal funding in 2006, thanks to the support of Congressman David Price (NC-04).Included in the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development budget, the funding is earmarked for DHIC's downpayment assistance revolving loan fund. DHIC will lend the funds to first-time homebuyers in Wake County who make less than 80% of area median income."DHIC's revolving loan fund gives modest income homebuyers the chance they need to achieve the American dream," said Price, a long-time advocate for affordable housing efforts. "I am confident DHIC will ensure these funds are put to good use, adding to the economic vitality and stability of Wake County communities."DHIC started its downpayment assistance fund in 2002, and the new federal commitment will bring it to the $600,000 mark. Low- and moderate-income residents who take part in homebuyer education programs sponsored by DHIC's Homeownership Center are eligible to apply for the funds. The maximum loan size is $15,000, with a 2% interest rate and a 30-year term.Gregg Warren, DHIC's President, said the $200,000 funding commitment could not come at a better time. "Wake County home values are continuing to rise rapidly, pricing out hard-working families with average incomes. We need to make sure that nurses, firefighters and teachers can live in the same county where they work."Established in 1973 as the Downtown Housing Improvement Corporation, DHIC, Inc. develops quality rental and homeownership opportunities in the greater Research Triangle area. It operates the only comprehensive Homeownership Center in Raleigh, providing counseling and education programs for low- to moderate-income residents who seek to purchase their first home. DHIC is a chartered member of the national NeighborWorks® network.# # #
01.05.2006	Washington, D.C. - Jack Abramoff's travails should inspire Republicans and Democrats both to reform the system in which the high-flying lobbyist flourished.Mr. Abramoff pleaded guilty Tuesday in federal court to fraud, tax evasion and conspiracy to bribe public officials. Wednesday he pleaded guilty to more charges in Florida. In exchange for information about half a dozen House and Senate members, he's expecting a sentence of 91/2 to 11 years -- out of a possible 30. In other words, the man is squealing. That scares plenty of people in Washington.Even former Republican House Speaker Newt Gingrich is urging a broad review of how politicians finance campaigns and deal with lobbyists. "I think Abramoff is just part of a large pattern that has got to be rethought," he said.He's right. The current system is awash with too much cash and too-cozy relationships with lobbyists. The public is rightly disgusted with the whole crowd.Of course, just taking a campaign donation from a lobbyist isn't necessarily a bribe. Proving cause and effect is squishy. But there's plenty in the Abramoff case to fuel suspicion.Former House Majority Leader Tom DeLay, who denies wrongdoing, took thousands in donations from Mr. Abramoff and went with him on a lavish golf trip to Scotland. Mr. DeLay's wife, Christine, was paid $115,000 over three years for a special project -- finding out favorite charities of members of Congress. The firm that hired Mrs. DeLay has a business relationship with Mr. Abramoff and is run by a former top DeLay aide.That aide was Tony Rudy, now a lobbyist. Court papers say Mr. Abramoff directed a $50,000 payment to Mr. Rudy's wife, Lisa, through a charity group in exchange for Mr. Rudy's "agreement to perform a series of official acts" while he was on Mr. DeLay's staff.Plenty of reforms have been proposed. U.S. Rep. David Price, D-N.C., of Chapel Hill and three other representatives in December offered a 14-point plan that would, among other things, curtail lobbyists' paying for congressional travel. The four were Democrats. Republicans who control Congress paid little attention.But current lax lobbying and campaign donation rules create too much potential for Abramoff-style corruption. That tarnishes whoever's in power. Now, it's Republicans. In the past it was Democrats.As Rep. Price told National Public Radio in December, "The Abramoff scandal is going to be one that just is huge." Unfortunately, it looks as if Rep. Price was on target.The time for reform is now.# # #
12.16.2005	"Let's start giving the American people what they're looking for..."Washington, D.C. - Related DocumentsPrice-Miller Resolution on IraqWashington, Dec 16, 2005 - Today, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) made the following statement on the House floor:"Mr. Speaker, the Republican leadership's resolution turns the Iraqi elections – a historic moment for the Iraqi people by any account – from a point of pride to a point of partisanship."As usual, the minority was prohibited from offering a constructive substitute. We could have offered a measure that congratulated the Iraqi people on a successful election. Or we might have put forward a substitute, similar to one that passed resoundingly in the Senate, that would have required the President at last to submit a detailed plan for phasing out the occupation."The leadership refused to let us do either, opting instead for a measure that divides and distracts."As a statement of policy, this resolution is deeply flawed. It rejects a plan for bringing our troops home, it fails to empower the Iraqis to take charge of their own future, and it blindly adopts the vague formula the President has repeatedly put forth: 'as they stand up, we stand down.'"As we've come to know very well from this 'mission accomplished' president, catchy slogans do not make effective foreign policy."Standing up Iraqi troops is a critical step in empowering the Iraqi state, but American national security demands additional priorities: that we maximize Iraq's chance of a successful transition to self-rule while minimizing the possibility of civil war; that we stabilize the region, preventing the terrorists from taking hold; and that we protect the men and women in American uniforms."t's high time we took up a real measure to deal with the situation in Iraq, such as H. Con. Res. 70, which I've introduced with Brad Miller, now cosponsored by 17 members."This approach takes into account the Iraqis' recent steps toward sovereignty with two successful elections. It recognizes the valor of our troops, requires a detailed exit strategy of the President, calls for an immediate initial drawdown, and sends a strong signal that we don't intend to occupy Iraq indefinitely."Why won't the House Republican leadership let us vote on such a measure? Because they fear it would pass, and they fear embarrassing the President by calling him to account."Mr. Speaker, let's start giving the American people what they're looking for: honesty, accountability, and a serious plan going forward– three things that have been sorely lacking since President Bush launched this war."
12.15.2005	Washington, D.C. - US Rep. David Price (NC-04) issued the following statement this afternoon:"Recent press reports have suggested that the Triangle Transit Authority's regional rail project may be 'dead.' Based on the latest information I have, that suggestion is not accurate."I met personally with the acting administrator of the FTA yesterday, and he told me that FTA wants to work with TTA to bring the Triangle commuter rail project to completion. I am therefore quite surprised a letter sent to TTA by other members of this delegation would indicate otherwise."At this time, FTA is waiting for additional information, and I am hopeful that TTA will provide it in short order. Once FTA has all the data, the project will be formally rated. Only then will we know whether the project is eligible for full federal funding. In the meantime, it is the responsibility of elected officials at every level of government to work together in a bipartisan way to facilitate the FTA review process."The Triangle will need mass transit in the decades ahead. Highways alone cannot fully address traffic congestion and its impact on our quality of life."# # #
12.08.2005	Washington, D.C. - If the House of Representatives were a person, it would be blushing these days. Unfortunately, the House is beyond embarrassment.Its once (and maybe future) majority leader, Tom DeLay, is under indictment on money-laundering charges in Texas. One of its more colorful members, Randy "Duke" Cunningham of California, resigned last week after pleading guilty to shaking down lobbyists and contractors for $2.4 million in cash and gifts.DeLay's former press secretary, lobbyist Michael Scanlon, has copped a plea and is busy explaining to federal prosecutors how he funneled money to perhaps half a dozen other compliant members of the House. Scanlon's former partner, lobbyist Jack Abramoff, is at the center of separate investigations that could implicate still other legislators of both parties.And in the midst of all these shenanigans, the House staged a mock debate about the legitimate issue of American troops in Iraq that was as uncouth as it was unproductive.Alumni of the House -- men and women of both parties -- will tell you that they are appalled or nauseated by what has happened there. Last week, in a downtown restaurant, I ran into a former member of the GOP leadership who said, "I'm so thankful I got out when I did."The place needs a good scrubbing, and that is what it would get if the leadership were somehow to embrace a set of rules changes put forward this week by several longtime members. But because the authors are Democrats -- and in some cases liberal as well -- the receptivity of the Republicans managing the House is not likely to be great.The four members involved -- David Obey of Wisconsin, Barney Frank of Massachusetts, David Price of North Carolina and Tom Allen of Maine -- held a news conference on Monday at the Center for American Progress to introduce their 14-point plan. It is strong medicine -- a stiff enough dose of salts that even a watered-down version would mark a major change in the ethical environment of Capitol Hill.On the lobbying front, for example, it would bar any reimbursed travel by a member of the House or its staff unless that person could certify in writing that no lobbyists were invited on the trip, no lobbyists attended the meetings, and whoever sponsored the gathering does not lobby or pay for lobbying.It would also require former members who exercise their prerogative of visiting the floor of the House while it is in session to guarantee that the House is not debating a subject in which they have a financial interest and that the alumni will not advocate for or against any matter during the visit.It cracks down on some of the favorite devices that Republicans have used to stifle genuine debate and deliberation in the House. To end the practice of lengthy roll calls -- some as long as three hours -- during which Republican arms are twisted to produce party-line victories, the rule would limit voting on any bill or amendment to 20 minutes, unless the leaders of both parties agreed to extend the time.It would halt the spread of "earmarks," the spending targeted toward individual projects in members' districts, which are used to punish dissenters or reward reluctant supporters, thereby enforcing party discipline on bigger bills. And it would strike a further blow for budgetary sanity by requiring that reconciliation bills -- the end-of-the-line spending measures -- must be tailored to reduce the budget deficit, not increase it, except by a two-thirds vote of the House.Finally, it would put teeth into two rules now often ignored by the majority party: It would require that printed copies of all bills be available at least 24 hours before they are called up for a vote, and it would insist that conference committees of the House and Senate actually meet and vote in open session, rather than having brief pro forma gatherings and then turning everything over to staff members or leadership aides to be negotiated in secret.As I said, this is strong medicine. At the briefing, Tom Mann of the Brookings Institution, a scholar of Congress, asked the right question when he wondered whether the Democrats would actually adhere to such requirements if they became the House majority in a future election. Price said the requirements would be endorsed by the Democratic caucus and become part of the permanent rules. Frank added that the press would not allow the Democrats to backslide.The Democrats' record during their 40-year reign in the House gives reason for skepticism. But something must be done to cleanse the House -- and this points the way.# # #
12.05.2005	Washington, D.C. - Tim Funk, Charlotte ObserverIraq. Religion in politics. And the 2008 presidential primary calendar. All headline-grabbers. And all areas where Rep. David Price, 65, of Chapel Hill has taken a lead.The longest-serving Democrat in the N.C. congressional delegation, Price sponsored a House resolution -- along with Democratic Rep. Brad Miller of Raleigh -- directing President Bush to submit a detailed exit plan for Iraq. A Baptist with a divinity degree from Yale, Price also contributed to a recent book, "One Electorate Under God? A Dialogue on Religion and Politics." And the former Duke University political science professor is taking heat from New Hampshirites as head of a Democratic Party Commission that wants other states to join the opening round of 2008 primaries.Price recently spoke with the Observer. An edited transcript:Q. Do you agree with Rep. John Murtha's call to immediately withdraw U.S. troops from Iraq?"Brad and I have a more developed approach: an exit strategy, with the focus on both exit and strategy. The present situation permits an initial drawback. But we also want a full plan going forward. Bush has never given a strategy, much less an exit strategy. (His) policy failures can become a rationale for not being able to leave. And that's dangerous thinking because our presence there -- perceived by many to be permanent -- is part of the problem. We've got to let it be known we have a plan to disengage. We need to leave in a way that minimizes loss of life and gives the Iraqi government a decent chance."Q. Are Democrats divided on Iraq?"Yes. We were divided on the vote to go to war. (Note: Price voted against invading Iraq). And we're not all of one mind on the exact shape of an exit strategy. However, there's a lot that unites us. Up to now, the more important division has been between those who buy into 'stay the course' and those who have been saying, 'We need a plan for turning the country back over to the Iraqis.' Democrats overwhelmingly are on the exit strategy side. Now some Republicans are coming our way."Q. What do you say to the president and vice president, who think you're emboldening the enemy?"It's a smear tactic. A smear tactic questions your opponent's motivation and sometimes his patriotism. Instead of coming to grips with arguments, it's a way of dismissing the argument. And, substantively, it's nonsense. I'll take a back seat to nobody in supporting these troops and pressing for equipment to make them safe."Q. A recent Pew Research Poll found that only 29 percent of Americans see the Democratic Party as friendly to religion. Explain that."Basically, conservative churches -- or a certain number of them -- have cast their lot with the Republican Party and vice versa. (In the 1950s and '60s), most Southern Protestant churches didn't focus on a social message. Most focused on individual morality. A very common criticism, which I shared in, was that that was only part of the gospel. Now, ironically, those churches have mobilized. And not on behalf of the kind of causes that we had in mind."Q. How do you fix the Democrats' image with religious voters?"I don't have to strain to establish a (religious) connection. All I need to do is talk about where I came from and where I am now. And there are millions like me. I often say in a roomful of Democrats, 'What made you a Democrat? What made you politically active?' It often has to do with religious and moral convictions."Q. But there's been a hesitancy among Democrats to talk about that."In this (recent gubernatorial) campaign in Virginia, (winning Democrat) Tim Kaine found a way. It wasn't a matter of his advisers telling him, 'Go out and talk about religion.' Tim Kaine happens to have a story about his mission work in Honduras, and how it changed his life. So he talked about that. We all have our own stories. Especially in the South. I always quote (evangelical writer) Jim Wallis, who said, 'Where would we be if Martin Luther King had kept his faith to himself?' We all need to ask ourselves that question."Q. Your Democratic commission will recommend that two to four states join Iowa and New Hampshire in the early voting. How about North Carolina or South Carolina?"South Carolina would be high on the list. The criteria for choosing will focus on racial, ethnic, regional diversity. South Carolina's already got a good place (a February primary). It may decide that's good enough. Or it might take advantage of this opening."Q. Why should the current calendar be changed? "Because we have two states dominating at the beginning. Both are fine states -- I admire their retail politics tradition and the kind of vetting they give candidates. But they do have something of a monopoly. The idea is to have a more diverse set of states. South Carolina is quite different from Iowa and New Hampshire."Q. Is it frustrating that North Carolina seems to have absolutely no influence on who the presidential nominees will be?"Yes. If North Carolina could look at a single date for both a presidential and a non-presidential primary, we'd be in a stronger position. The other thing we'd like to do on this commission is move the beginning (of voting) from January to March and then get a better spread of contests through the season. A state like North Carolina that didn't want to go at the very front end would still have the prospect of having some impact if it was better paced."
12.05.2005	Washington, D.C. - Today, with public confidence in Congress shaken by recent scandals and after years of watching House good governance rules bent and broken, four leading House Democrats unveiled a reform package.The new package would put Congressional travel off limits to lobbyists, strengthen fiscal responsibility, curb abuses of power, prevent the use of earmarks to buy votes, end the 2 day Congressional work week, prohibit legislation from being voted on without members having time to familiarize themselves with it, and prevent legislative items from being slipped into conference reports between the House and Senate without a full public vote by the conference committee.David Obey (D-WI), Ranking Member of the Appropriations Committee, Barney Frank (D-MA), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, David Price (D-NC), Member of the Appropriations Committee, and Tom Allen (D-ME), Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee unveiled the proposal at a panel discussion at the Center for American Progress. They were joined in the panel discussion by Norman Ornstein, Resident Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute and author of the forthcoming book "Broken Branch", and Scott Lilly, a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress."These reforms are meant to restore checks and balances to the legislative process and to make it harder for lobbyists to put their fingers on the legislative scales," said Obey."This is not simply about parliamentary procedures in the House. Representative democracy is being thwarted by current Republican practice. In particular, they are using their control to allow Republican members to mislead constituents by concealing or misrepresenting their position on important issues," said Frank."There has been a deterioration of both process and performance in Congress over the last several years – changes that have made Congress less accountable to the American people and the American people less confident in Congress," said Price. "We must restore the integrity of the House by curbing abuses of power and ensuring that policies are enacted in the light of day, with time for full and open debate.""As with the adage that absolute power corrupts absolutely, the centralization of authority in the House of Representatives has come at a disastrous cost for democracy, decency and the public interest," said Allen. "The public has awoken to the folly of current leaders' practice of passing bills only with a majority of the majority. The result is votes held open for hours to allow for vote buying; huge bills, with nefarious special interest riders attached, rushed to the floor after midnight so Members and the public can't read them; budget rules routinely waived to permit deficit-adding tax cuts. It's time to put the people's voice back into the People's House."Read an interview with Congressman Price here.Below is an explanation of the bill.AMENDING THE RULES OF THE HOUSE TO PROTECT THE INTEGRITY OF THE INSTITUTIONLIMITING INFLUENCE BY LOBBYISTS1. No member or staff of the House of Representatives may accept travel or lodging or reimbursement for such expenses if he or she has not obtained from the sponsor, and filed with the Clerk of the House, the following declarations:a. that no lobbyists have been invited to travel, lodge or attend meetings with the Member or staff,b. that the sponsor does not conduct lobbying activities as defined in section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code,c. that the sponsor neither employs a registered lobbyist nor contracts for such services nor is it affiliated with such an entity, andd. that the trip was not financed by a corporation unless through contributions deductible under the Internal Revenue Code and the source of all such contributions are disclosed in the declaration.2. Any former Member of the House who wishes to exercise the right to be present on the Floor of the House when the House is in session must sign a declaration stating that the House is not debating or voting on an issue on which the former member has a financial interest and that the former member will not advocate in any way in behalf of or in opposition to any matter before the House while present on the floor.FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY3. A reconciliation measure shall not be in order if it would increase the size of the budget deficit compared to the CBO baseline for the coming or subsequent fiscal years. This rule may be waived only with the consent of the majority and minority leaders and if the House agrees to consider the rule by a 2/3 vote of the House.4. Close the loophole in current rules under which Budget Act points of order do not apply to unreported legislation. Under present rules, amendments to an unreported measure are subject to Budget Act restrictions but the underlying bill is not.CURBING ABUSES OF POWER5. No recorded vote in the House of Representatives or the committee of the Whole House can last longer than 20 minutes without the consent of either both Floor managers or of both Leaders.6. Amend the House Ethics Code to make it an offense for a Member to condition funding for earmarks requested by another Member on how the requesting Member votes on legislation.7. Amend the House Ethics Code to make it an offense for any Member to advocate an earmark unless that Member discloses whether he or she either has a financial interest in the entity or exercises any control over it, such as appointing members of the organization's board.8. If a rule makes in order text that is different from what the committee of jurisdiction has reported, the rule must provide the chairman or ranking minority member, if requested, a preferential amendment – neither divisible nor amendable unless adopted and all necessary points of order waived - to restore the bill (in whole or in part) to its original form.9. A rule may waive points of order against a measure but only if the rule also waives the same points of order for an amendment if requested by the minority leader or designee.ENDING TWO-DAY WORK WEEKS10. Before the House can adjourn at the end of a session, the House must have conducted 20 or more weeks with at least one recorded vote or quorum call on at least four of the five calendar work days.KNOWING WHAT THE HOUSE IS VOTING ON11. Except for measures on the suspension calendar, the House cannot consider legislation unless printed copies of such legislation have been available to all members of the House for a period of 24 hours. This rule can be waived only if two-thirds of the House votes to consider such a waiver.FULL AND OPEN DEBATE IN CONFERENCE12. It shall not be in order for the House to agree to go to conference on a general appropriation bill unless the Senate expresses its differences with the House in the form of numbered amendments.13. It shall not be in order to consider a conference report unless there has been a formal open meeting of the conference at which all provisions on which the two bodies disagree are open to discussion and the resolution of the differences between the two bodies is approved by a recorded vote of a majority of House appointed conferees. The requirement that the discussion and votes stipulated in this rule must be held in open session may be waived for purposes of national security, but such votes and discussions are required in the executive session of the conference. This rule cannot be waived by majority vote but can be waived by unanimous consent.14. It shall not be in order to consider any conference report that is materially different from what was agreed to by a majority of House conferees in an open session of the conference and was not part of the final package on which a favorable vote was cast by a majority of House Conferees. This rule cannot be waived by majority vote but can be waived by unanimous consent.# # #
12.02.2005	Washington, D.C. - The following article was written by Rep. David Price for "Conscience and Courage," the magazine of the Faith and Politics Institute. Access the article as it appeared in print here."... I say to everyone among you not to think of yourself more highly than you ought to think...." (Romans 12:3)Humility is out of fashion these days. Political leaders, advocates, and pundits often display an in-your-face assertiveness, seeming to equate uncertainty or even reflectiveness with weakness and a lack of moral fiber. Much of our nation and its leadership are in no mood to doubt their own righteousness.As the "Power of Pride" bumper stickers proliferate, it may be jarring to recognize that the apostle Paul regarded people's tendency to prideful self-glorification to be the very essence of sin. Interpreting the Pauline view in The Nature and Destiny of Man, Reinhold Niebuhr saw particular danger in spiritual pride: "when our partial standards and relative attainments are explicitly related to the unconditional good, and claim divine sanction.""The worst form of intolerance," Niebuhr went on, "is religious intolerance, in which the particular interests of the contestants hide behind religious absolutes. The worst form of self-assertion is religious self-assertion, in which under the guise of contrition before God, He is claimed as the exclusive ally of our contingent self."Note that Niebuhr did not issue these warnings as a secularist, skittish about the influence faith might have on public affairs. On the contrary, his was a prophetic faith leading him to a lifetime of engagement in the struggle for justice at home and internationally. That faith informed both bold political aspiration and action and an attendant humility, rooted in an understanding of God's transcendence and human sinfulness.Integral to the Jewish and Christian traditions is the recognition that people are inclined to a kind of idolatry whereby they identify their own interest or ideology with God's sovereign will. But that will remains transcendent and is only imperfectly reflected in human endeavors, which are invariably subject to the taint of self-seeking and the will to power. "We must not regard any human institution or object as being an end in itself," wrote Abraham Joshua Heschel. "Man's achievements in this world are but attempts, and a temple that comes to mean more than a reminder of the living God is an abomination."Abraham Lincoln's magnificent Second Inaugural offers a model of conviction and determination devoid of posturing and pride: "Both [sides] read the same Bible, and pray to the same God; and each invokes His aid against the other. It may seem strange that any men should dare to ask a just God's assistance in wringing their bread from the sweat of other men's faces; but let us judge not, that we be not judged. The prayers of both could not be answered – that of neither has been answered fully."Niebuhr once wrote that this passage "puts the relation of our moral commitments in history to our religious reservations about the partiality of our own moral commitments more precisely than, I think, any statesman or theologian has put them." Lincoln expressed the moral commitment against slavery in uncompromising terms, along with the determination to "finish the work we are in." But there followed the religious reservation, the recognition that ultimate judgment belongs to God alone, the refusal, even in this extreme instance, to presume an absolute identification between his own cause and God's will.On another occasion, responding to a clergyman who expressed the hope that the Lord was on the side of the Union, Lincoln reportedly said, "I know that the Lord is always on the side of the right. But it is my constant anxiety and prayer that I and this nation should be on the Lord's side." That is indeed the crucial question: Are we on the Lord's side? We ought never to lose awareness of God's transcendence and of the constant temptation to identify God's will with our own. The humility that resists such arrogance and pretention, in ourselves or in others, is not merely rooted in our commitment to tolerance and pluralism. It is based on the deepest insights of our religious traditions themselves.David E. Price, Representative of the 4th District of North Carolina.
11.29.2005	Cary, NC - The Town of Cary made environmental history today when Rep. David Price, Cary Mayor Ernie McAlister and other officials "pulled the lever" to start the Triangle's first biosolids dryer at the South Wastewater Reclamation Facility in Cary. The $12.4 million modern facility will handle up to 250,000 gallons of sludge a day, which could yield about 50,000 pounds of environmentally safe, high-quality fertilizer per day.Sludge, known in the treatment industry as biosolids, is the remains of organisms that digest the solid matter left over after the water in sewage has been removed, treated, and released into creeks or reused. In North Carolina, wastewater system operators must dispose of the sludge according to strict guidelines, which often results in contracting to have the sludge land applied or having it placed in landfills."The disposal of sludge has become a major challenge in rapidly-developing communities across North Carolina," said Price. "The solution Cary is employing is a terrific one, and I hope others will follow this community's lead in finding innovative means of supporting growth and development in an environmentally-friendly way." Price was instrumental in securing $1.35 million in federal funds towards the total costs of the dryer."Thanks to the combined efforts of our state and federal representatives, along with the hard work of Town staff and contractors, Cary is once again demonstrating how environmental protection is right for North Carolina and how it continues to be one of the hallmarks of Cary's great quality-of-life," said McAlister. "The new facility offers an innovative, economical and efficient alternative in the treatment of solid waste."The dryer will create tiny, round fertilizer pellets that the Town will sell as raw materials to wholesale fertilizer manufacturers.The Town of Cary currently operates two water reclamation facilities that generate about 65,000 gallons of sludge per day. Previously, Cary contracted to have the sludge removed and recycled through land application on farmland in nearby counties. The opening of the biosolids dryer is expected to reduce environmental impacts as well as costs associated with such land application.The Town broke ground on the facility on March 22, 2004. Similar projects have been completed in Boone and Forest City, NC.# # #
11.28.2005	Raleigh, NC - In the United States, blind people have a very tough time finding jobs. In fact 70-percent are unemployed.Monday, the Raleigh Lions Clinic for the Blind recognized one man they said is making a difference, that's Congressman David Price.Congressman Price has championed the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Program, a government-based program that awards government contracts to companies that employ blind people.Kellie Hightower-Spruill said things like this program are nice because those companies involved really understand the needs of the visually impaired."There's a lot of opportunity within these agencies to work in the wider spectrum of the business world. And because these agencies are devoted to hiring individuals that are blind or visually impaired, they understand the accommodations needed and the technology needed in order to help us be successful."The National Industries for the Blind was also represented Monday. The non-profit and its 80 associated agencies currently employ about 5,000 people.Visit http://rdu.news14.com/content/your_news/raleigh/?SecID=17&ArID=77507 for the full story.# # #
11.18.2005	Washington, D.C. - Related DocumentsPrice-Miller Resolution on IraqUS Rep. David Price (NC-04) released the following statement about the House Republican Leadership's eleventh-hour decision to schedule a vote on a distorted version of Rep. John Murtha's (D-PA) resolution on Iraq."This is a desperate attempt by the Republican leadership to keep us from having the debate Americans want us to have."What we need is an honest discussion about how the US was led into war with Iraq – and how we can bring US troops home safely, and in a way that allows Iraqis to take control of their own sovereignty."What we do not need is another deplorable stunt by the Republicans who continue to politicize this debate and smear anyone who dares criticize them."There's a reason the Republicans won't put forth an honest, responsible resolution that calls for an exit strategy or a timetable, such as the measures voted on by the Senate or the resolution I introduced with Rep. Brad Miller. It's because they're afraid. They're afraid it will pass, and they're afraid that the House will echo the Senate in rebuking the Bush Administration and demanding a correction of our nation's course in Iraq."The House Republican leadership should be ashamed. Our troops deserve far better, and so do the American people."# # #
11.15.2005	Legislative Package Based on Input from Tech, Science Leaders, Including North Carolina's RTP OrganizationsWashington, D.C. - Today, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) joined House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi at the National Press Club in Washington for the official launch of the "Innovation Agenda," a legislative package that would make the United States the world leader in business, technology, and science.Price is one of about a dozen members of the House Democratic Caucus who have hosted local roundtable discussions with businesses, organizations, and educational institutions to address the need to make the US more competitive in our global economy. The input of Price and others formed the basis of the Innovation Agenda, which includes, among other things:• An educated, skilled workforce in science, math, engineering, and technology;• Investment in federal research and development;• Affordable access to broadband technology for all Americans;• Tools and incentives for small businesses to encourage entrepreneurship"The spirit Democrats are bringing to this effort today is the same spirit that transformed RTP from tobacco fields to a world-class region for science and development," said Price. "But since the start of the new millennium, our country has fallen behind in the effort to create a new generation of inventors and retain our competitive edge in today's global economy. That's why the Innovation Agenda is so critical: We must make this a bipartisan priority if we want to continue to be the world leader in education, innovation, and technology."Price is a longtime advocate for the efforts outlined in the Innovation Agenda package. He helped found and later strengthen the Advanced Technological Education program, which established a grant program at the National Science Foundation for community colleges to train workers for high-tech fields. His Teaching Fellows Act would expand a North Carolina program to recruit and retain good teachers. Throughout the 1990s, he worked to double federal funding for the National Institutes of Health and the National Science Foundation, and in recent years he has worked hard to fight the cuts in that funding proposed by the President and the House Republican leadership.# # #
11.14.2005	Washington, D.C. - On Saturday, November 19, 2005 at 10 AM, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) will celebrate the last day of the season at the Durham Farmers Market, including a "barn-raising," as part of the effort to build a permanent facility.Price will be joining leaders of the City of Durham and Durham County, plus corporate supporters, local residents and farmers to begin construction of a new pavilion for the Market in adjacent Durham Central Park. The celebration will include local chefs, vendors, and musicians and a parade from the current site of the Market to the new one.This weekend's event also marks the completion of a $350,000 fundraising campaign to build a permanent facility to house the market. The three non-profit partners in this effort are Durham Farmers Market, Durham Central Park, and SEEDS; Price, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, also secured $96,000 to assist in the effort.# # #
11.10.2005	Washington, D.C. - IMPORTANT UPDATE: In the face of staunch opposition to this bill from both Democrats and moderate Republicans, the Republican leadership made the highly unusual move of cancelling the vote on this bill late this afternoon. There is no word on when or if it may be rescheduled.Washington -- In a conference call today, U.S. Reps. David Price (NC-04,) Bob Etheridge (NC-02), and Brad Miller (NC-13) assailed a Republican budget plan to cut over $50 billion from Medicaid, Medicare, student loans, student loans, child-care support, and other initiatives critical to North Carolina."This budget is an example of misplaced priorities," said Etheridge. "Education is the key to a bright future in the 21st century, and without student loans many students will not be able to afford college. We should not be paying millions of dollars to build schools in Iraq and slashing billions of dollars for students here at home."The U.S. House of Representatives is expected to vote today on H.R. 4241. Many Republicans argue that the bill is needed to offset spending from Hurricane Katrina. The bill is part of a reconciliation package that will include a $70 billion tax loophole for wealthy Americans. Democrats are united in their opposition to the bill, and several Republicans remain opposed."This bill isn't really offsetting Katrina, nor is it reducing the deficit, as the Republicans claim," said Price. "Katrina did not create our current fiscal problems; it just laid them bare, just as it laid bare the sorry state of our disaster preparedness and the social and economic inequalities that persist throughout the country. The victims of Katrina deserve better than this bill, and so do the American people.""The cuts to Medicaid will snip some of the last frayed strands of the safety net that President Reagan promised a generation ago would always be there for those who could not fend for themselves. This bill changes the values of our nation from the values of earlier generations," said Miller.Etheridge, Price and Miller were joined by Jim Wallis, a Christian leader, founder of Sojourners and a commentator on ethics and public life. Wallis called budgets moral documents, and expressed the opposition of the faith-based community to this budget.Specifically, the cuts that will affect North Carolina are:-- $14.3 billion for student loans funding. 138,844 students in North Carolina receive student loans. The average student will pay $5,800 more for college.-- $844 million to Food Stamps. 775,000 people in North Carolina put food on the table with the help of food stamps and North Carolina has the 4th highest hunger rate in the country.-- $4.96 billion in child support collections. North Carolina will lose $106 million in federal child support contributions, causing North Carolina's custodial parents to lose $169 million over five years in child support collections.-- $11.9 billion in federal matching payments to Medicaid. North Carolina would lose $372 million.
11.07.2005	Washington, D.C. - Veterans BreakfastBy: Claudine Chalfant & Web StaffPolitics and pork served as the central theme Monday, as our leaders praised our veterans.Congressional officials took time to honor those who fought for our country.Biscuits and gravy made for a sweet breakfast but the icing on the cake at the event was the well-deserved praise veterans received.It's the annual Veterans Breakfast in the Triangle.Congressional officials participated in the annual Veterans Breakfast in the Triangle."I learned a lot of good stuff that I can share with other veterans," Vietnam Veteran Earl Mann explained. "Like, I'm a member of the DAV (Disabled American Veterans) and I can go down and tell them what I've learned out here today and stuff like that."But for Mann and many others, there was more than food on the political plate.The breakfast served as a chance for veterans to voice their concerns about political policies.Congressman Bob Etheridge (D-2nd District) said, "A number of the others have to do with waiting times for getting services. We're working hard to get that down and they're acknowledged that.""The issues tend to focus on veterans' programs, veterans' benefits," David Price (D-4th District) stated. "There are some real streams in the veterans' health care system now. And I think Bob, Brad (Miller) and I dealt with that."While our congressmen are working to improve veterans' affairs, many veterans are thinking about the current war in Iraq and our troops who are serving our country proudly."We got a raw deal when we came home from Vietnam," Mann said. "We didn't get any recognition. But the troops come home now and they get a lot of recognition so the United States and the people should honor and address them."The men and women want us to take some time out Veterans' Day, and remember those who gave their blood, sweat and tears to create the America in which we live today.Veterans' Day is Friday the 11th. Congressmen Etheridge, Price and Brad Miller sponsored Monday's event.
10.25.2005	Joins With Miller in Introducing Joint Resolution TodayWashington, D.C. - Today, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) and US Rep. Brad Miller (NC-13), outspoken critics of the Bush Administration's handling of Iraq, have introduced a joint resolution, directing the President to submit a detailed plan to Congress for ending the occupation of that country, including a near-term initial drawdown of US troops.Price and Miller are making remarks on the House floor, citing today's ratification of the constitutional referendum as "an opportunity that [the United States] must seize."Price will explain that..."while we should never have started this war...and although no ideal option for ending it is available to us now, the October 15 referendum vote offers the best opportunity we are likely to have to begin the process of withdrawal credibly and hopefully – to turn the responsibility for Iraq's future over to the Iraqis themselves and to repair the diplomacy and foreign policy from which the invasion of Iraq has been such a tragic departure for our country."Among other things, the Price-Miller resolution recognizes the valor of US troops, faults the President for poor planning, and affirms the significance of the passing of the constitutional referendum.Price-Miller also calls for the President to accelerate the training of Iraqi security forces and submit a detailed plan to Congress on the remaining goals of the United States mission and the means for achieving them.The full text of Price's remarks follows:Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the Price-Miller resolution, which we have introduced today, to require the President to submit to Congress a plan for the withdrawal of United States troops from Iraq in the wake of the October 15 constitutional referendum, beginning with an initial drawdown.This is not a requirement I propose lightly. As many in this Chamber and in my home State know, I have been an outspoken critic of the Bush administration's policies in Iraq, and I voted against giving the President authority to invade Iraq, regarding it as an abdication of congressional responsibility.I have supported funding for troops in the field and for Iraqi reconstruction, while calling for an exit strategy, including benchmarks to which the administration should be held accountable and major policy changes that would increase the probability of achieving at least some of our goals.But there is no evidence that President Bush has heeded anyone who does not accept his glib assurances and his stay-the-course rhetoric. As a result, the mistakes that have marred this effort from the beginning, poor or nonexistent planning, for example, and weak international participation, have been compounded.Such failures must not become a rationale for extending our occupation of Iraq. In fact, our presence itself is a target of the insurgents and a magnet for international terrorists. And it may be encouraging some elements of the Iraqi leadership to defer essential decisions and compromises that are necessary if their country is to assume responsibility for its own future.So we must leave. How we leave does matter: in a way that spares the lives of American troops and Iraqi noncombatants, in a way that minimizes the chance that Iraq will descend into massacres, ethnic cleansing or civil war, and in a way that maximizes the chances for Iraqi self-defense and self-government.But we must end the occupation, and the approval of the Constitution offers us an opportunity to begin that process. It is an opportunity we must seize. There are no guarantees in this enterprise. Iraq could rise to this challenge with the Kurds and the Shia more fully accommodating the essential interests of Sunnis in changes to the Constitution early next year, based on input from a newly elected Sunni Parliament after December. Or Iraq could further descend into sectarian violence.Our country cannot absolve ourselves of responsibility for creating this quagmire, or for helping avoid the worst-case possibilities going forward. But we must understand, and the President must tell the world we understand, that a sustained American military presence is not part of the solution. It is not feasible, in some ways it exacerbates the difficulties, and it must be ended.Our resolution draws in concept and content on one introduced in the Senate by Mr. Feingold on June 14. It updates that resolution by taking explicit account of the constitutional referendum and proposing an initial immediate drawdown of troops.Mr. Speaker, we should never have started this war. We should have and could have utilized other means of containing and controlling whatever threat Saddam Hussein represented. No ideal option is available to us now in ending it. But the October 15 vote offers the best opportunity we are likely to have to begin the process of withdrawal credibly and hopefully: to turn the responsibility for Iraq's future over to the Iraqis themselves and to repair the diplomacy and foreign policy from which the invasion of Iraq has been such a tragic departure for our country.# # #
10.20.2005	Price: ""The question should be, 'How did this country get in so much fiscal trouble in the first place?"Washington, D.C. - Talking with a Hurricane Katrina SurvivorTonight, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) participated in a "Special Orders" on the House Floor. During this hour, Democrats highlighted a Republican plan to amend the budget resolution with spending cuts even deeper than the budget resolution now requires. (That resolution was later pulled from the floor schedule because Republicans lacked the votes to pass it.)The text of Price's remarks follows:"Mr. Speaker, we are having this debate as yet another potentially catastrophic hurricane churns toward the US mainland."Once again, our country is not prepared. And this time, I'm not just talking about FEMA or the Department of Homeland Security."I'm talking about being unprepared – fiscally."Former National Economic Adviser Gene Sperling put it best when he said recently that the Congressional leadership is asking the wrong question. The question should not be, 'How do we pay for Katrina?'"The question should be, 'How did this country get in so much fiscal trouble in the first place?'"The answer is not 'Katrina,' or 'Rita,' and it won't be 'Wilma.' The costs of natural disaster response are significant, but they are not the cause of our problems."What these hurricanes have done is laid bare not only our country's troubling racial and economic divides, and not only the sorry state of our disaster preparedness, but also the dangerous deterioration of our nation's fiscal health."In the wake of Katrina, our colleagues on the other side of the aisle seem to have 'got religion' on fiscal responsibility."After engineering an unprecedented fiscal reversal of some $9T, from budget surpluses and paying down debt in the Clinton Administration to record deficits and deepening debt under George. W. Bush, our Republican friends are suddenly wringing their hands over the deficit."They are using Katrina as a pretext for doing what they wanted to do all along: cutting the very safety net program on which the victims of Katrina depend."One look at the content of their proposed reconciliation package shows just how much they care about the budget deficit:"To begin with, the reconciliation bill would still increase the deficit by more than $100 billion over five years. This is particularly ironic, given that the reconciliation process was intended to facilitate the passage of deficit reduction measures. Now this leadership has turned the process on its head by using it to push through measures that will only drive us further into debt."The spending cuts called for in the bill will do absolutely nothing to offset the costs of hurricane recovery. From the beginning, the $35 billion in cuts contained in the reconciliation package were intended to partially offset the $106 billion in tax cuts included in the FY06 budget resolution – and $15 billion more will still not make up the difference."Instead, the cuts will threaten vital services that the victims of Katrina are counting on to help rebuild their lives. Food stamps, Medicare and Medicaid, student loans, and low-income energy assistance could all be cut, just to name a few."Wealthy Americans, on the other hand, will get off without sacrificing a dime of the Bush tax cuts. Quite the contrary: the reconciliation bill is being used to fast-track new and extended tax cuts for those who need them least."Is that the Republicans' idea of a 'shared sacrifice?'"The very notion that we should offset the $200 billion it could cost to help millions of American families and communities get back on their feet after a tragic disaster – while not offsetting the nearly $2 trillion cost of the Bush tax cuts, or the $250 billion we are spending in Iraq and Afghanistan – reeks of hypocrisy. And it actually worsens the fiscal meltdown of the last four years."As my colleague Mr. Spratt put it, why should we offset the cost of rebuilding Biloxi but not the cost of rebuilding Baghdad? And even worse, why should we make the very people we are claiming to help bear the lion's share of the costs?"You won't find any honest answers from the leadership of this chamber. You'll just find false promises, deception, and deficits as far as the eye can see. It's disgraceful, Mr. Speaker. Anyone who votes for this bill should be ashamed of themselves for what they're doing to the most vulnerable among us...and to the country's future."Go to Price's issue pages for more on the budget and Hurricane Katrina.# # #
10.19.2005	Raleigh, NC - On Monday, November 7, 2005, US Reps. David Price (NC-04), Brad Miller (NC-13) and Bob Etheridge (NC-02) will host their annual Veterans Breakfast.The breakfast, which is open to the public, is held each year in honor of Triangle veterans and their sacrifices to our country. This year's guest speaker will be the new director of the Durham VA Medical Center, Ralph T. Gigliotti.The breakfast costs $9 per person. Please send your check -- payable to Veterans Breakfast -- to David Price, 5400 Trinity Road, Suite 205, Raleigh, NC 27607. Checks must be sent no later than Wednesday, November 2, 2005.If you have questions about the breakfast or about any veterans' related matter, please contact Price's Durham office at (919)688-3004.LOGISTICAL INFORMATION:Veterans BreakfastMonday, November 7, 20058 AM – 10 AM(breakfast will be available starting at 7:45 AM)Jim Graham Building, State Fairgrounds, Raleigh# # #
10.11.2005	Chapel Hill, NC - Today, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) released the following statement in the wake of last night's forum at Chapel Hill High School entitled, "How Do We Get Out of Iraq?" Below is the text on which Price based a portion of his opening statement at the forum. It gives his thoughts as to how the US should end its occupation."...We must have -- and Democrats must demand -- an exit strategy from Iraq, a strategy for ending the American occupation. The question is not whether but how. The how does matter -- we don't have the luxury of saying things are so bad in Iraq that there's nothing we could do to make them worse. Things can always get worse: we surely have learned to take worst-case scenarios seriously. Think about the Kurds, for example: American policy has twice contributed to a bloody fate for these people, when we embraced Saddam Hussein in the 1980s and when we encouraged a Kurdish uprising and didn't follow through after the first Gulf War. We should take some care to avoid a third such mistake."In exiting Iraq, there are goals and values I believe we share: saving American lives, as the Abercrombie resolution [H.J.Res.55] stresses, but also saving Iraqi lives. Minimizing the chance that Iraq will descend into chaos or become a threat to the region. Maximizing the chance that Iraqis can defend and govern themselves. These goals, and their relation to the facts on the ground, should influence how we leave. But we must leave."I cannot conceive of any situation that would justify a continuing, prolonged presence for US troops in Iraq. For example, I believe the prospects for withdrawing and leaving Iraqis able to defend and govern themselves will be better if the draft constitution is approved and a government with broad legitimacy is elected. What, however, if the constitution is rejected and the country moves toward a three-way breakup? It seems likely that, in that event, public opinion would become even less supportive of a continuing American presence and it would be even less clear what we could achieve."In a comprehensive speech in July and at other times, I have tried to suggest benchmarks to which the administration should be held accountable, and major policy changes that would increase the probability of achieving at least some of our goals. There is not much indication that George Bush is listening, although what some of his generals have said before they were reined in is interesting and perhaps significant. In any event, I and other Democrats have described what we believe is our best shot for ending this misbegotten war. If the President refuses to learn from past mistakes and the quagmire deepens, then our exit will look more and more like merely cutting our losses. That would be regrettable, but it is not a rationale for prolonging the occupation: exit we must. The how matters, and I hope we can discuss that in a way tonight that broadens our understanding and deepens our unity, but exit we must."# # #
10.08.2005	Raleigh, NC -By VICKI LEE PARKER, Staff WriterBusiness SectionSuppose you were reminded every month that it would take 54 years to pay off your $8,000 credit-card balance at 18 percent interest if you only paid the monthly minimum.Then suppose you also were told that such a payment plan would end up costing you $22,931.52. Would that change the way you think about debt?U.S. Rep. David Price, a Democrat from Chapel Hill, hopes it will. That's partly why he introduced a bill last month to make credit-card companies disclose more about the costs associated with making only the minimum monthly payment. "I think there is a lot of evidence that too many Americans are getting in over their heads in credit-card debt," he said."In the end, it's the people's responsibility to avoid that. But there is also the question that they are being lured into this by some over-aggressive marketing and lack of good information about what is required to keep themselves out of too much debt."High energy and borrowing costs have made it harder for people to pay monthly credit-card bills on time, the American Bankers Association said. The group said recently that an all-time high of 4.81 percent of accounts were 30 or more days past due in the April-to-June period.What's next? Price plans to write letters to colleagues to solicit co-sponsorship and help. The bill mirrors a version in the Senate that was introduced by Sen. Daniel Akaka, a Democrat from Hawaii.What are the bill's chances? Price declined to make any predictions but said there is plenty of time to get the bill approved before Congress adjourns next year.What does the credit-card industry think about the legislation? The industry doesn't like it. Tracey Mills, a bankers assocation spokeswoman, said it would be too difficult to calculate the information each month because interest rates and other fees vary over time. She also said that it would be an expensive process.Price begs to differ: "I think it could be easily computerized. They would be adding to information already printed."The bankers association also calls the law unnecessary. Mills said the aim of Price's bill -- to decrease debt -- is already being addressed by a recent law requiring companies to increase the amount of minimum monthly payments.How big a problem is debt? About 35 million households are behind or over the limit on one of their credit-card accounts, said Chris Viale, president and chief executive of Cambridge Credit Counseling Corp., a nonprofit in Agawam, Mass. "That's equivalent to one out of every five households," he said. The average monthly balance for those who carry credit-card debt from month to month is about $15,000, he said.# # #
10.05.2005	Washington, D.C. - Today, Defenders of Wildlife, a leading nonprofit conservation organization, listed the Pocosin Lakes refuge as one of the 10 most endangered national refuges in the country as a result of the US Navy's decision to build an outlying landing field (OLF) there.US Rep. David Price (NC-04), a member of the House Appropriations Committee on Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs, has been outspoken in asking the Navy to consider alternate North Carolina sites, citing the threats that the proposed OLF would pose to the environment and to wildlife."I am glad that Defenders of Wildlife and other organizations are continuing to call attention to the dangers of the Navy's current plan," said Price. "North Carolinians have been raising serious, legitimate concerns about the OLF -- concerns that have been reinforced by the 4th Circuit Court. It's high time that the Navy stop pushing ahead and start working with the state of North Carolina to find an acceptable alternative site."# # #
09.28.2005	Washington, D.C. - Related DocumentsDavid Price: A History of Advocating for First Responders, PreparednessOn the House Floor today, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) spoke out about former FEMA Director Michael Brown and the federal response to the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. Price made his remarks during debate on the Motion to Instruct Conferees on HR 2640, the Homeland Security Appropriations bill.Price is a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations subcommittee, and he has been railing against cuts for first responder funding and natural disaster preparedness for several years.The text of his remarks follows:"Mr. Speaker, I rise today in favor of the motion to instruct conferees to reject Secretary Chertoff's plan to further weaken and gut FEMA."I and many of my colleagues have been raising these concerns about the systematic deconstruction of FEMA and about reduced funding for our first responders for several years now. Current and former FEMA officials told me months ago that FEMA had become a hollowed-out agency, and that it was one major disaster short of collapse. Unfortunately, Katrina was the disaster that substantiated that claim."We should not be satisfied in laying the blame solely on the former FEMA director. Two years ago FEMA put out a warning that two thirds of our fire departments operate with staffing levels that do not meet the minimum safe staffing levels required by OSHA and the National Fire Protection Association. What was the administration's response? It proposed zeroing out the SAFER hiring program for firefighters and proposed massive cuts to FIRE equipment grants, which FEMA officials had publicly called one of the "best bangs for the buck the tax payer gets.""Overall, we are providing less funding for our first responders now through FEMA and the Department of Justice than we did prior to 9/11. When I asked Secretary Ridge two years ago why this administration was cutting funding for police and other first responders, his response was that supporting local law enforcement was not the federal government's responsibility...no matter that they were the lynchpin in all of the Department of Homeland Security's planning."Time and again, we have also warned of the dangers of moving away from an all-hazards approach to preparedness and response, to a terrorism-only approach."FEMA used to be one of the leanest, most effective agencies in the federal government. But then its cabinet-level position was taken away. It was buried under tons of Homeland Security bureaucracy. Its top posts were stripped of experts and filled with campaign workers and friends of people in power. Some of its best programs were taken away and stuffed into other offices in Homeland Security."As Former Director Mike Brown testified yesterday, FEMA was de-prioritized in Homeland Security and lost its political power, access, and funding. Its failure after Katrina was the result of a series of decisions to under-fund key agency functions, to cut key personnel, and to deemphasize preparation for natural disasters. That failure had dire consequences."I'm not saying this to play the political blame game. I'm saying this because we have to understand that this was a consequence of years of neglect of FEMA and our first responders by this administration and this Congress. We need to understand that so we don't repeat those same mistakes."Instead of learning from the mistakes of FEMA, DHS appears intent on plowing ahead with plans to further bury FEMA in the departmental bureaucracy and strip it of its planning and preparedness responsibilities. Republican leaders of this House seem inclined to go along with that, but our vote today will show whether politics and partisanship will trump sound policy."We exist as an institution to do more than stay in power. We have to do what is right for the American people. Further dismantling and burying FEMA is wrong. Further cutting funding and support for our first responders is wrong."When we make decisions that are based on a refusal to admit a mistake -- rather than a determination to learn from one -- Americans suffer and we lose some of our greatness. And so I ask my colleagues to support the motion to instruct."Things are bad enough. We should not make them worse."# # #
09.21.2005	Washington, D.C. - Today, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) introduced legislation that would affect every consumer who uses a credit card.The bill, called the Credit Card Minimum Payment Warning Act of 2005, mirrors a version in the Senate (S. 393) introduced by Senator Daniel Akaka (D-HI). It would require credit card issuers to disclose more information to consumers about the increased costs associated with making only their minimum monthly payment. The bill's personalized, timely disclosures would help over-extended consumers avoid falling into the trap of perpetual debt, in which minimum payments cover only a portion of monthly interest charges and never begin reducing debt principal. Consumers simply deserve to have better information from credit card companies in order to make informed decisions about debt management."Middle class families are carrying record levels of debt, and credit card issuers exacerbate the problem by deliberately lowering their minimum monthly payment requirements," said Price. "Consumers don't realize they could be digging themselves further into debt with each passing month. They should have access to honest information, not deceptively easy terms that will get them into more debt trouble.""Our legislation will provide a wake up call for consumers. It will make it very clear what costs consumers will incur if they make only the minimum payments on their credit cards," said Senator Akaka. "The personalized information they will receive for each of their accounts will help them to make informed choices about the payments that they choose to make towards reducing their balance."The Credit Card Minimum Payment Warning Act would require credit card companies to include five important pieces of information on each customer's monthly statement:1. a warning that making only the minimum monthly payment would increase the amount of interest paid;2. information on how long it would take the consumer to pay off his/her entire balance if making only the minimum monthly payment;3. information on how much it would cost the consumer to pay off his/her debt at the minimum monthly payment rate, including all principal and interest;4. information on how much the consumer would have to pay per month if he/she wanted to pay off the balance in three years;5. a toll-free number that consumers could call for credit counseling. The bill also includes a requirement that the Federal Reserve and the Federal Trade Commission jointly screen credit counseling agencies to ensure that they are trustworthy.# # #
09.16.2005	Washington, D.C. - National Service Day on Capitol HillWashington, Sep 16, 2005 - On Wednesday, September 14, 2005, US Rep. David Price (NC-04), a co-founder of the National Service Caucus, participated in the "Voices for National Service" event on Capitol Hill. His remarks are below:"Good morning! I was glad to participate in the first "Voices for National Service" event a few years ago, and it is a pleasure to be with again you for this year's "Voices" event."The first "Voices" event was born out of a difficult time for the national service community, including funding cuts that had serious repercussions for AmeriCorps programs. We weathered that storm and emerged stronger for it, partly because of your organization's ongoing activities."The group assembled here this morning is a wonderful reflection of the spirit of the Corporation for National and Community Service, its broad spectrum of support, and the difference each of you make in the lives of millions of Americans."I have seen that spirit put into in action countless times in my home state of North Carolina. AmeriCorps has played an important role there, and we have one of the largest number of AmeriCorps members per capita in the country."We especially depend on national service programs and volunteers to mobilize instantly during times of crisis, like the frequent hurricanes my state experiences. Ophelia is forecasted to make landfall on the Outer Banks today, and volunteers there will be ready for it."The importance of your work is already on full display now. Many families along the Gulf Coast, facing poverty and a lagging economy before Katrina, are no longer just struggling to make ends meet. In the wake of this devastating storm, some must rebuild their lives entirely. And they will only be able to do it with you: inspirational people who commit their lives to helping others."But I know you're also making a difference every day, often in much less obvious ways. Learn and Serve America, AmeriCorps, and Senior Corps are all outstanding programs with a proven track record of meeting the critical needs of our communities."In exchange for the selfless work you do, the federal government must hold up its end of the bargain, providing your programs with the resources you need."One of the positive outcomes of the funding troubles AmeriCorps faced a few years ago was the establishment of the National Service Congressional Caucus. I am proud to be one of four co-chairs of that caucus, along with Representative Ford, whom you heard from earlier, and Congressmen Shays and Osborne."AmeriCorps faced a threat earlier this year during consideration of the Labor/HHS/Education Appropriations bill, through which national service is funded, and we were able to head off some serious potential damage. The threat was in the form of an amendment that would have used AmeriCorps as an offset for increased funding for another program, cutting $70 million from the program in FY 2006."The Caucus found out about the amendment only as it was offered, but we quickly sprang into action to rally support for AmeriCorps. And I am proud to say that, with the help of our friends at City Year and others in the AmeriCorps community, we were able to handily defeat that amendment on a vote of 102 to 298. It is my hope that the size of this vote will send a message to members who ought to think twice before seeing AmeriCorps as an expendable budget item."As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting for increased funding for these programs that will give you and our communities the resources they need. And the Caucus will continue to partner with you to advocate healthy program funding and program changes that will strengthen and sustain national service opportunities."I thank you again for your service. And your country thanks you, too."# # #
09.15.2005	Constituents Answer Price's QuestionsWashington, D.C. - US Rep. David Price (NC-04) has released the results of his 2005 Congressional survey. Price had distributed the survey to constituents last month via email and snail mail newsletters. While the survey itself is not scientific, Price values this input from his consituents, and he encourages people to keep in touch on the issues that matter to them.SURVEY RESULTSDo you favor President Bush's plan to partially privatize Social Security?Yes -- 27 %No -- 72 %Looking back, do you think Congress did the right thing when it gave the President open-ended authority to invade Iraq?Yes -- 28 %No -- 71 %Which statement best expresses your present view on military operations in Iraq?"The US should simply stick to its present course." -- 19 %"The US needs a more serious plan for moving Iraq to self-defense and self-rule." -- 52 %"The US should set a fixed timetable for withdrawal." -- 28 %What is the most pressing moral issue facing our country?A. abortion -- 6 %B. health care -- 25 %C. civil rights -- 5 %D. gay marriage -- 4 %E. inequality and poverty -- 16 %F. sex and violence in our culture -- 9 %G. war and foreign policy --19 %H. other -- 14 %President Bush's tax cuts for people making over $250,000/year are set to expire. What should Congress do?Make the tax cuts permanent -- 20 %Use the money to reduce the federal deficit/debt -- 38 %Use the money to invest in education, transportation, housing, and/or health care -- 41 %Should the US be doing the same, more, or less to address global warming?More –- 72 %Less –- 10 %Same -- 16 %
09.15.2005	Washington, D.C. - Today, US Rep. David Price testified with North Carolina Attorney General Roy Cooper at a hearing at the Environmental Protection Agency Headquarters in Washington.Price and Cooper are urging the Administration to impose tougher emission restrictions on air pollution sources in nearby states. Pollution drifting into North Carolina from those sources makes it more difficult to meet our state's federal Clean Air Act requirements.Price, whose district includes a major EPA facility that studies air pollution, has been outspoken in calling for the federal government to be more aggressive in improving air quality.Transcripts of Price's remarks are below:"Good morning. My name is David Price, and I represent the Research Triangle area, Fourth District of North Carolina, in the U.S. House of Representatives. I appreciate the opportunity to join North Carolina Attorney General Roy Cooper in commenting on EPA's response to North Carolina's Section 126 Petition."At issue is EPA's proposal to deny North Carolina's Section 126 petition, based on the premise that emissions reductions required by state implementation plans under the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR), or a proposed back-up federal implementation plan, would make the petition moot."That's a complicated way of saying that while my state is doing its part -- more than its part -- to reduce pollution and protect the health of our citizens, EPA is proposing to let sources in other states continue to send significant air pollution our way for several more years."Before we get into the jargon and the legal-ese that is an inevitable part of this testimony, I'd like to share a few facts with you to drive home the health effects of power plant pollution in North Carolina:According to the Southern Environmental Law Center:• Fine particle pollution shortens the lives of 1,133 North Carolinians each year;• Pollution from power plants causes more than 27,000 asthma attacks each year;• 1,000 of those are so severe that they require an ER visit;• Over 170,000 children in our state suffer from asthma;• It costs the state about $100 Million each year to care for those children;• More than half of all North Carolinians – some 4 million people -- live in counties where the air fails to meet federal standards for human health;"I share these facts with you, to emphasize the consequences of federal and state policies. The pace of improving all of the indicators I just mentioned will be directly affected by EPA's decision in this matter."North Carolina's leaders have taken their public health responsibilities seriously. I'm proud to note that our state has one of the strongest state air pollution laws in the country, the Clean Smokestacks Act, the result of a cooperative effort among state elected officials, the business community, environmental groups, and the major utilities. It requires power plants to reduce their nitrogen oxide emissions beginning in 2007 and by 77% by 2009 and their sulfur dioxide emissions beginning in 2009 and by 73% by 2013. Controlling those emissions is also expected to have the added benefit of reducing mercury emissions by approximately 60 percent, according to some estimates."I am confident that, as a result of my state's efforts, we will significantly reduce nitrogen oxide emissions by the end of the decade. Today, however, 26 whole counties and parts of 6 more counties in North Carolina still are designated non-attainment under the federal clean air standards for ozone due in significant part to pollution crossing our state's borders from upwind states. Section 126 requires EPA to mandate emission reductions in upwind states that significantly contribute to noncompliance in downwind states within a three year period. Simply put, EPA's apparent willingness to jettison Section 126 is contrary to the requirements of the Clean Air Act and is patently unfair."I applaud EPA for implementing the CAIR rule, but it is simply no substitute for what Section 126 requires. The CAIR rule will not be fully implemented for over fifteen years, while Section 126 is focused on reductions in the nearer term, based on significant emission contributions by sources in upwind states that are occurring now and that are significantly contributing to noncompliance now."EPA appears to justify ignoring Section 126 in part because it forecasts that all areas in North Carolina will attain the federal ozone standard by 2010. But as I understand it, this will primarily be the result of North Carolina's own aggressive efforts to curb emissions from in-state sources, and not due to reductions from upwind states."In fact, we cannot necessarily count on upwind sources for making significant emission reductions because the CAIR Rule's interstate trading regime and early reduction credits will make it possible for some sources to avoid making such reductions. Emissions trading can be an efficient and effective way to reduce air pollution, but only if appropriate safeguards are used to prevent regional imbalances."Section 126 was designed to hold upwind contributors accountable, not to let them off the hook when the affected downwind state enacts laws that go beyond federal requirements. The state of North Carolina has taken an aggressive approach to combating air pollution from sources within our borders. EPA should hold out-of-state polluters responsible for their contribution to North Carolina's air problems and grant the state's Section 126 petition."# # #
09.14.2005	Washington, D.C. - Today, US Rep. David Price submitted the following statements to the official Congressional Record:"Our national budget and spending bills reflect our government's values and priorities, and in recent years those priorities have been skewed heavily in favor of helping the rich and eroding protections for the poor. Our country's religious leaders recognize that danger, and for the second time this year have issued statements calling on our government to truly care for the least among us and to abide by a budget and spending plan that reflects the higher values and morals of our country."I would like to submit for the record a letter from leaders of many of the major Protestant churches in our country and another by the National Council of Jewish women calling on Congress not to abandon the poor in the aftermath of Katrina. The budget reconciliation process should not be used to further reduce funding for education, food stamps, health care, and other critical domestic priorities while spending twice that amount in tax cuts for the wealthiest among us."From the Episcopal Church, USA, Evangelical Lutheran Church in American, Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.), United Church of Christ, United Methodist ChurchSeptember 13, 2005Dear Members of Congress:As leaders of our respective denominations, we have long sought an end to the injustices inherent in poverty. We have never seen these injustices born out so vividly in our own country as in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. The devastation wrought by Katrina has exposed the anguished faces of the poor in the wealthiest nation on the planet. These faces, precious in the eyes of God, cause us to remember that racial disparities and poverty exist in almost every community in our nation. They also compel us to set before Congress once again our concerns for the FY '06 federal budget and its impact on people living in poverty. With renewed urgency, we call on Congress to stop the FY '06 federal budget reconciliation process immediately.We believe our federal budget is a concrete expression of our shared moral values and priorities. Congress rightly and quickly responded in appropriating needed funds to ensure an adequate initial response to Hurricane Katrina. Our denominations have mobilized and are responding in prayer and financial support and direct service to those in need. Yet, just as disaster struck the Gulf Coast, the U.S. Census Bureau reported in very particular detail that poverty in the United States is growing. The annual report, Income, Poverty, and Health Insurance Coverage in the United States: 2004 showed that 37.0 million people lived in poverty in 2004, an increase of more than one million people since 2003.In April, during consideration of the budget resolution we wrote to Congress that, "As we view the FY '06 Federal Budget through our lens of faith this budget, on balance, continues to ask our nation's working poor to pay the cost of a prosperity in which they may never share." It is clear that programs such as Medicaid and the Food Stamp Program that were slated for cuts by Congress will in fact have greater burdens placed on them as a result of Hurricane Katrina. These programs are not simply entitlements or "government hand-outs," they represent the deep and abiding commitment of a nation to care for the least among us.Believe us when we tell you that even before Hurricane Katrina or the Census Bureau's report, neither we nor our friends of other faiths had the resources to turn back the rising tide of poverty in this country. The FY '06 reconciliation bill that is working its way through the authorizing committees will send more people searching for food in cupboards that, quite frequently, are bare.We commit ourselves to working for economic policies infused with the spirit of the One who began his public ministry almost 2,000 years ago by proclaiming that God had anointed him "to bring good news to the poor."The Most Reverend Frank T. GriswoldPresiding Bishop and Primate of the Episcopal Church, USAThe Right Reverend Mark HansonPresiding Bishop of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in AmericanThe Reverend Dr. Clifton KirkpatrickStated Clerk of the General Assembly, Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.)The Reverend John H. ThomasGeneral Minister and President, United Church of ChristMr. James WinklerGeneral Secretary, General Board of Church and Society, United Methodist Church
09.12.2005	New York, NY - In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, National Council of Jewish Women (NCJW) President Phyllis Snyder issued the following statement:"We have watched with alarm the tragedy that continues to unfold in New Orleans and the Gulf Coast as a result of Katrina. Our hearts go out to all of the people who have suffered from this disastrous hurricane -- those who have lost loved ones, homes, livelihoods, and their communities."We applaud the efforts of the individuals who have worked day and night to rescue and provide relief to those victimized by Katrina. So, too, we salute the countless volunteers, many of whom are from NCJW, working to assist evacuees who have relocated to their communities."This is a tragedy compounded by the grave mistakes made by the very people and institutions charged with keeping us safe. We urge the establishment of an independent commission of inquiry with adequate budget authority and subpoena power to investigate this catastrophe. It is important that this effort rise above partisan politics in order to determine exactly what went wrong and to make recommendations for the future."Recovering from Katrina will necessitate measures that go well beyond the immediate cleanup and rebuilding tasks. This disaster has exposed the fault lines of race and poverty in our society that we all knew existed but which have been ignored, especially in recent years."NCJW calls upon our leaders and lawmakers to realign their priorities, and we pledge to redouble our efforts to ensure that this happens. We must prioritize funding to address human needs over tax cuts that disproportionately benefit the wealthy and drain vital budgetary resources. We must act to address the vestiges of racism that linger in our society. And we must act to ensure that the communities that rise from the rubble embody a new vision of equality and social justice."NCJW is a volunteer organization, inspired by Jewish values, that works to improve the quality of life for women, children, and families and to ensure individual rights and freedoms for all through its network of 90,000 members, supporters, and volunteers nationwide.# # #
09.08.2005	Washington, D.C. - US Rep. David Price (NC-04) has released the following information about the ways in which 4th District constituents can assist in the Hurricane Katrina relief effort:Local EffortsCitizens in North Carolina who want to donate money to help with relief efforts in other states can call the N.C. Disaster Hotline toll free at 1-888-835-9966 between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. Monday through Friday. The money that is collected will be sent to the other states to use for their immediate needs. The N.C. Helping Neighbors Fund is managed by the Governor's Office in partnership with United Way of North Carolina. There is no administrative cost associated with the fund, and 100 percent of the donated funds will go to the victims. Make checks payable to the N.C. Helping Neighbors Fund and mail to:N.C. Helping Neighbors FundOffice of the Governor20312 Mail Service CenterRaleigh, N.C. 27699-0312If you are seeking assistance for family members or friends that have evacuated to North Carolina from the states impacted by Hurricane Katrina, you can call NC's Careline at 1-800-662-7030 and they will be directed to the appropriate agencies for assistance. If you live in Wake County area, call 919-855-4400.National EffortsThe Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is on the ground in the affected areas coordinating the response and recovery efforts, but there are also a number of nonprofit relief organizations providing aid and comfort to victims of the hurricane.Information on what you can do to help with the recovery effort is available through FEMA's website.The National Voluntary Organizations Active in Disaster has information available on their website, too. Most volunteers who are not already affiliated with a relief organization cannot be sent to disaster areas yet because of safety problems related to sanitation and infrastructure. However, volunteer opportunities will be available soon, so be sure to keep checking for more information.In addition, volunteer agencies provide a wide variety of services after disasters, such as clean up, childcare, housing repair, crisis counseling, sheltering and food. Below is a list of phone numbers set up solely for cash donations and/or volunteers:American Red Cross1-800-HELP NOW (435-7669) English,1-800-257-7575 SpanishSouthern Baptist Convention -- Disaster Relief1-800-462-8657, ext. 6440Salvation Army1-800-SAL-ARMY (725-2769)America's Second Harvest1-800-344-8070Adventist Community Services1-800-381-7171Catholic Charities, USA703 549-1390Christian Disaster Response941-956-5183 or 941-551-9554Christian Reformed World Relief Committee1-800-848-5818Church World Service1-800-297-1516Convoy of Hope417-823-8998Lutheran Disaster Response800-638-3522Mennonite Disaster Service717-859-2210Nazarene Disaster Response888-256-5886Presbyterian Disaster Assistance800-872-3283Union for Reform Judaismhttp://urj.org/reliefUnited Jewish Communitieshttp://www.ujc.orgUnited Methodist Committee on Relief1-800-554-8583
09.06.2005	Washington, D.C. - David Price launches the Democracy Assistance CommissionCongressman David Dreier (R-CA), Chairman of the House Democracy Assistance Commission, and Congressman David Price (D-NC), Ranking Democratic Member, announced today that the House Democracy Assistance Commission has selected the parliaments of Georgia, Macedonia, Kenya, East Timor and Indonesia for legislative assistance programs in 2006.Dreier and Price said that the 16-member Commission intended to host delegations from the five partner parliaments in the United States in January 2006. The Commission will also send Members of Congress and congressional staff to each selected country in 2006 to conduct legislative strengthening programs with each parliament."These parliaments are working to become independent, effective institutions in a democratic system," Chairman Dreier said. "While they vary greatly in their stage of development, all of the selected parliaments requested access to the experience and expertise of House Members and our staffs. The Members of the Commission look forward to working personally with our foreign counterparts to help them build stronger democratic legislatures.""Having worked with a similar parliamentary assistance program a decade ago, I know this effort can generate tremendous goodwill in the countries we assist," said Price, who participated in the activities of the House's Frost-Solomon Task Force in the early nineties. "Since its founding, the United States has championed the development of democracy everywhere. That work has arguably never been more important than it is today."The Commission released its 2005 annual report today, which includes the findings from a six-month study of foreign parliaments, as well as the proposed activities of the Commission in 2006. The report is available on the Commission's new website.The Commission was created by the House of Representatives (H. Res. 135) on March 14, 2005, to strengthen parliaments in emerging democracies. Central to the Commission's work will be the provision of technical expertise enhancing accountability, transparency, legislative independence, and government oversight in those parliaments. The Commission will bring Members of Congress together with their colleagues in the aforementioned parliaments to help strengthen those institutions.In addition to the five initially selected parliaments, the Commission is considering undertaking parliamentary strengthening programs in Lebanon, Afghanistan, Iraq and Ukraine, and may consider an additional five parliaments in 2006.Visit http://www.price.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=27446 for more background on Price's involvement with HDAC.# # #
09.06.2005	Raleigh, NC - Talking with a Hurricane Katrina SurvivorJust before returning to Washington today, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) joined Governor Mike Easley and local officials in welcoming Hurricane Katrina evacuees who have been flown to a Wake County shelter.In addition to expressing support from North Carolinians, Price also called for accountability from the federal government."I'm proud that North Carolinians have opened their hearts to these survivors in their time of need," said Price. "From the governor to local leaders, from the National Guard to the universities, and from large and small businesses to ordinary people: we're all trying to do our part to help our fellow citizens during a time of crisis."Price continued, "I will continue to press this issue back in Washington. As a member of the Appropriations subcommittee that oversees FEMA funding, I will seek a full accounting of the slow response to this disaster and the ways in which the bureaucratization and underfunding of FEMA worsened it, as I have long feared."Price talked at length to one particular evacuee, who explained that he had swum from his home, which was submerged in 20 feet of toxic water. He made it to the French Quarter, where he was picked up by emergency officials and brought to North Carolina. He continues to look for family members whom he has lost contact with since the storm."This gentleman's story is just one of the thousands we're hearing of hope, loss, desperation, and survival," said Price. "They will continue to need our help, long after the water is pumped and the TV crews have left. I'm proud that our state will continue to be part of the effort to help them rebuild their lives."# # #
09.02.2005	Washington, D.C. - Today, US Rep. David Price (NC-04), a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee and a longtime advocate for FEMA and first responders, called for major changes in the way the federal government prepares for natural disasters."Our heartfelt thanks and appreciation go out to our troops, emergency personnel, and volunteers who are on the ground and doing everything in their power to help the victims of Hurricane Katrina. While our focus remains on helping those who so desperately need it, we must also ask some very important questions about the inadequate overall planning for this disaster and the role the federal government has played in it," Price said."When the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) was shifted to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) two years ago, I raised concerns about the possible implications for the response to natural disasters," Price continued. "FEMA was extremely effective and fast-acting in responding to Hurricane Floyd when it hit North Carolina in 1999, and I did not want to see this nimble agency compromised or bogged down in the bureaucracy of a newly-created government agency."In hearing after hearing, including one with DHS Secretary Michael Chertoff just a few months ago, Price also stated that he was deeply concerned about DHS's new trend toward increased funding for urban areas at "high risk" for terrorist attacks, with a decreased emphasis on overall preparedness for hurricane-prone states like North Carolina and the Gulf Coast region. A series of funding cuts by the Bush Administration has seriously undercut support for our first responders in recent years.In an earlier exchange with former DHS Secretary Tom Ridge, Price also questioned whether the Bush Administration was compromising the federal government's ability to prepare for and respond to natural disasters, especially with law enforcement resources. Ridge responded by saying the federal government should have less responsibility when it comes to providing funding for law enforcement, and that the burden should be shouldered primarily by local communities.Price continued, "With our worst fears confirmed, I think it's now time for Congress to reconsider the President's ill-fated decision to shift disaster funding away from our first responders and FEMA and to smother FEMA within the Homeland Security bureaucracy. With hurricane season still ongoing and North Carolina permanently vulnerable to natural disasters, we cannot afford to wait. We must rebuild our capacity to respond and ensure that this never happens again."Additional background on Price's efforts to call attention to FEMA and first responder cuts can be found on the Homeland Security page and its "related documents" section.# # #
08.25.2005	BRAC Commission Strikes DoD's Recommendation, Recognizes Value of ARO's RTP LocationWashington, D.C. - This afternoon, US Rep. David Price (NC-04), a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Quality of Life, hailed the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC)'s Commission's vote against the Department of Defense's recommendations to close the Army Research Office (ARO) in Durham. In an 8-0 vote, the BRAC Commission decided to strike the amendment that would have forced the ARO to move from Research Triangle Park to Bethesda, Maryland, resulting in the loss of more than 100 jobs."This is wonderful news," said Price. "I'm pleased that the BRAC Commission has recognized that the ARO has a close and productive relationship with neighboring universities and research organizations in RTP, and that its location has proved to be of tremendous advantage to the Army's research operation as a whole."Price has been in close contact with state leaders and BRAC staff to emphasize the importance of keeping the ARO in the Triangle. The BRAC Commission's recommendations go next to the President for approval and to Congress later this fall.Durham Community Land Trustees and NeighborWorks® Honor Price for Affordable Housing and Community Development"This award comes from the heart of the people he serves."Washington, Aug 23, 2005 - Today, Durham Community Land Trustees and NeighborWorks® America, which provides financial support, technical assistance and training for communities across the nation, awarded Rep. David Price (D-NC) top honors for his leadership in expanding the affordable housing supply for low- and moderate-income families and strengthening communities."Rep. Price has shown unwavering commitment and focused dedication to affordable housing," said NeighborWorks® America CEO Kenneth Wade. "As a result of his sustained commitment to affordable housing, many people who may not have been able to buy a home of their own have attained the goal of homeownership.""Congressman Price has been a cornerstone for community development in Durham's West End and throughout Durham. This award comes from the heart of the people he serves," said Selina Mack, Executive Director of the Durham Community Land Trustees.It was announced that the Congressman would receive the NeighborWorks® Government Service Award at a ceremony today, held during the NeighborWorks Training Institute in Washington, DC – the largest "school" for homeownership and financial fitness educators and community developers in the nation.The NeighborWorks® America Government Service Award seeks to identify, promote and reward outstanding political leadership that has expanded affordable housing and strengthened communities.More than 235 NeighborWorks organizations located across the country submitted nominations for the federal, state and local NeighborWorks® Government Service Awards. The submissions were evaluated on the basis of achievements in four areas:-- Public policy leadership-- Education and public awareness initiatives-- Increased collaboration and efficiency among government entities-- Innovative programs that strengthen communities and/or expand the affordable housing supply.The award recognizes that all levels of government are involved in expanding affordable housing and strengthening communities."Quality, affordable housing requires solid leadership at federal, state and local government levels," Wade said. "Political leaders like Rep. Price recognize the multiple dividends paid through affordable housing in the form of improved safety, increased property values, economic development and job retention, better schools and more civic involvement."Wade commended Rep. Price for understanding the far-reaching impact of housing issues on individuals, the local economy and the entire nation. For every dollar spent on quality, affordable housing, at least ten dollars are returned in the form of job creation, increased independence and tax contributions, new businesses, and access to higher education.About NeighborWorks® AmericaNeighborWorks® America provides financial support, technical assistance and training for communities across the nation, including the NeighborWorks® network – a nationwide network of more than 235 community development organizations working in more than 2,700 urban, suburban and rural communities across America. These organizations engage in revitalization strategies that strengthen communities and transform lives. In the last five years alone, NeighborWorks® organizations have generated more than $8.5 billion in reinvestment and helped more than 500,000 families of modest means purchase or improve their homes or secure safe, decent rental or mutual housing.# # #
08.25.2005	Washington, D.C. - Price Delivers Speech on IraqChapel Hill, Aug 25, 2005 - On Friday, August 12, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) gave the following address, "The Way Forward in Iraq." The speech was delivered at Binkley Baptist Church Fellowship Hall and was attended by more than 100 constituents. Price had given an earlier version of the speech on the floor of the House of Representatives in late July.Our country is facing a difficult, even desperate, situation in Iraq, with an insurgency that seems to be gaining strength, a reconstruction effort that is lagging, and an international coalition that is deteriorating.President Bush seems determined to put the best face on the situation, but the American people are increasingly pessimistic and distrustful of what they hear. We are overdue for a major course correction. It is my intent today to make the case for such a correction and to outline what its major elements should be.What are our objectives in Iraq? A careful reading of the President's Fort Bragg speech of June 28 reveals a shift in emphasis, from standing up an independently functioning democracy to preventing Iraq from becoming a basing point for international terrorism. This is ironic, for most analysts, including the 9/11 Commission, agree that the Iraqi regime had no discernable link to the perpetrators of 9/11. It is our invasion and its chaotic aftermath that have attracted al Qaeda and other international terrorists to Iraq. In any event, by whatever definition of the American mission one chooses, our effort is falling short, dangerously short, of what it will take for Iraq to achieve self-rule and the capability of self-defense and for the American occupation to end.The news of recent days leaves little doubt that the insurgency, which Vice-President Cheney described as in its "last throes," is anything but. In the last month insurgent attacks have intensified again, with reports of increasing violence against US military forces, Iraqi police and security forces, and Iraqi civilians. Several weeks ago we read of gunmen ambushing a wedding party, killing the bride and wounding the groom, apparently because of his Iraqi army affiliation a heart-wrenching account that underscores the insurgents' brutality and their continuing ability to launch lethal attacks. Security forces in Iraq continue to discover execution-style killings of civilians. Just Wednesday they found three more shot with their hands bound behind their backs. And the attacks on our military forces have taken a dramatic turn for the worse. In just the first ten days of August, we have experienced 44 deaths. If this level of attacks continues – and all indications are it will – then August 2005 may very well be the deadliest month for US troops since this war began, approaching the level of 137 who died in November 2004.General Abizaid, the top U.S. commander in Iraq, recently acknowledged that the insurgency has not diminished. In fact, estimates of the number of hardcore insurgents now range from 20,000 to 40,000 (up from original U.S. estimates of 5,000); attacks now average 70 per day (up from 25 per day one year ago); and car bombs average 135 per month (up from an average of 20 per month last summer). We are getting better at identifying potential attacks; only 25 percent of car bomb attacks are now successful, compared to 90 percent last year. But while we've been able to reduce the insurgents' success rates threefold, they have increased their attacks six fold, so the number of lethal attacks has actually doubled over the last year.How far have the Iraqi police, security forces, and officer corps come toward being able to secure the countryside and control terrorist and criminal activity? "About half of Iraq's new police battalions are still being established and cannot conduct operations, while the other half of the police units and two-thirds of the new army battalions are only 'partially capable' of carrying out counterinsurgency missions, and only with American help, according to a newly declassified Pentagon assessment," the New York Times reports.The Administration claims that approximately 170,000 Iraqis have been trained to assume security responsibilities. U.S. commanders in Iraq have stated that the training is limited, and Joint Chiefs Chairman Myers has publicly said that only about 40,000 are fully capable of deploying anywhere in Iraq. Other estimates go as low as 10,000 Iraqi security forces that are actually trained and capable of performing their security responsibilities.The equipping of these forces is also deficient. According to the Brookings Institution, the Iraqis only have 42 percent of required weapons, 24 percent of required vehicles, 19 percent of required communications equipment, and 29 percent of required body armor. The Iraqis are not now ready to provide their own national security, handle civil policing duties, or deal with a continuing and strong insurgency—nor will they be ready in the near future.What is the state of the reconstruction of Iraq? Successful reconstruction is critical to gaining the support of the Iraqi people and denying the insurgents the benefits of widespread popular discontent. We have made substantial headway in rebuilding bridges, roads and railways, rehabilitating the seaport at Umm Qasr, and installing and repairing telecommunications infrastructure both inside of Baghdad and for the international satellite gateway system.Despite these efforts, we have a long way to go. Nationwide, Iraq is only generating 75 percent of its electricity production goal and the nation only has an average of 12 hours of electricity per day. Oil production has barely reached 80 percent of its prewar levels, and Iraqis are experiencing gas lines up to a mile long. Iraqi government sources cited in the Pentagon's report of July 21, 2005, put the unemployment rate at 28 percent, up from 22.5 percent six months ago; most independent estimates are closer to 40 percent. The top five problems Iraqis identified in an April 2005 IRI survey are inadequate electricity, unemployment, healthcare, crime, and national security – all significant indicators of required major reconstruction needs.Are we on schedule for getting an Iraqi constitution adopted and a legitimate, broadly representative government established? The National Assembly is to draft a constitution by August 15, 2005, to be put to a national vote by October 15, 2005. On May 10, the National Assembly appointed a 55-member committee to begin drafting the permanent constitution. The committee missed its own deadline to produce a preliminary draft by July 15. However, several working drafts have surfaced that have sparked serious complaints regarding constriction of the rights of women and a strict interpretation of Islam as a source of legislation.Despite these conflicts and the missing of the self-imposed deadline, Iraqi leaders say that a draft will be completed by the August 15 deadline. Six subcommittees are working on specific issues of the new constitution, including the thorny questions of Kurdish autonomy and the role of Islam in law. Many other contentious issues remain to be negotiated. If the Assembly cannot complete a draft by the specified deadline, all subsequent stages of the transition could be delayed. On the other hand, producing a draft with major issues unresolved could cause future conflict and jeopardize public approval.Given the enormity of the task we face in Iraq, what is the condition of the "coalition of the willing" on which our efforts depend? The coalition has always been a pale imitation of the one the first President Bush assembled for the first Iraq War. For Operation Iraqi Freedom, the U.S. share of overall troop numbers has never been less than 84 percent. And now the coalition is deteriorating further. Spain's troop commitment has gone from 1,300 to zero. Italy's 3,120 troops will go to zero by early next year, as will Poland's 1,500. Other countries that have withdrawn their forces or are in the process of doing so include Bulgaria, the Dominican Republic, Honduras, Hungary, Moldova, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, the Philippines, Portugal, Thailand, Tonga, and Ukraine. In most cases, these withdrawals have taken place amid overwhelming public opposition in these countries to the war.Troop contingents of 12,000 from the United Kingdom and 2,800 from South Korea remain. But this war and occupation have mainly had an American face, and that has become more and more the case as erstwhile allies have fallen away. American troop strength now stands at about 135,000, and many say that is not sufficient to complete the mission unless the training of Iraqis can be greatly accelerated. American casualties number 15,722, including 1,845 deaths. Of these, 1,701 deaths have occurred since President Bush landed on the aircraft carrier USS Abraham Lincoln to proclaim major combat operations successfully concluded.While there is no definitive source of information, we know the human toll in Iraq is enormous: Estimates of non-combatant Iraqi deaths have reached 25,000, and the Pentagon reports that Iraqi Security Forces (ISF) combat deaths have now exceeded 2,000.As for the budget impact, outlays for Iraq operations are now about $1 billion per week. The cumulative cost of the Iraqi war, occupation, and reconstruction has already exceeded $200 billion.In the face of all this, the American public's confidence is waning. This is not because Americans are cowed by the challenge we face in Iraq. Fully 57 percent in the NBC News/Wall St. Journal poll of July 11 said it was important that America "maintain its military and economic commitment there until Iraq is able to fully govern and police itself." But the public is increasingly skeptical of President Bush's rationale for going to war, they are doubtful that the Administration has a plan for success, and they wonder if they are being told the truth by our country's leaders. More than half say they don't think the war was "worth it." The latest AP-Ipsos poll shows that the public's approval of the President's handling of the war is at its lowest yet, 38 percent, and his overall job approval is only 42 percent. Some 57 percent of Americans say the war has made us "less safe," up from 39 percent two months ago.The President's June 28 speech was widely anticipated as an opportunity for the commander-in-chief to give an honest assessment of progress to date and to chart a realistic and compelling course going forward. The setting of the speech, Fort Bragg, North Carolina, was well-chosen, giving the President the opportunity to express the admiration and gratitude we all feel to "our servicemen and women across the globe... for [their] courage under fire and service to our nation" and for the sacrifices of their families as well.In other respects, however, the speech was a disappointment, offering neither a candid assessment nor a specific strategy for success. The President spoke of "significant progress" while glossing over the state of the insurgency and ignoring the falling off of international support. He furnished fewer details than I have already given in this presentation. He offered no benchmarks by which success might be measured or his administration might be held accountable. He was defensive about past decisions and oblivious to the obvious need for course correction. As others have observed, he exposed the weakness of his arguments by rhetorically falling back on 9/11, despite the lack of any significant al Qaeda connection to pre-war Iraq.The President asked Americans to stay the course, to continue to pay the heavy price of this war, without holding up his end of the bargain. He and his administration owe those brave men and women in uniform, and indeed all Americans, more than glib assurances and exhortations to steadfastness. He owes all of us a plan for success, for turning Iraq over to the Iraqis, avoiding a reversion to tyranny or chaos, and terminating the American occupation.The President's speech has now been supplemented by the Department of Defense's congressionally-mandated report, "Measuring Stability and Security in Iraq," dated July 21, 2005. "The criteria for withdrawing Coalition forces from Iraq are conditions-based, not calendar-based," the report states. "The development of the ISF to a level at which they can take over primary responsibility for their own security is the threshold condition. ISF development in turn, will be helped by progress in political, economic, and other areas."This is only slightly more specific than the standard suggested in the President's speech: "As the Iraqis stand up, we will stand down."Only in limited instances does the report measure present performance against a defined goal, much less specify the conditions under which American responsibility can be scaled back. Moreover, the Pentagon almost always chooses the more optimistic among analysts' conclusions as to the conditions in Iraq and apparently sees no need to defend those choices. Congress has required that this report be updated every 90 days, and our leaders should insist that future reports meet a higher standard of candor and relevance to future policy choices.The coherence of Administration policy was thrown further into doubt in late July by Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld and the commander of U.S. forces in Iraq, General George Casey, in their comments reported from Baghdad. Rumsfeld, who suggested in June that the insurgency might last as many as ten to twelve years, displayed a new urgency about moving the constitutional process and the training of security personnel along. Meanwhile, General Casey emerged from a meeting with Rumsfeld and U.S. Ambassador Zalmay Khalizad to declare that "fairly substantial reductions" in U.S. troop levels might be possible by next spring and summer.President Bush seemed determined yesterday to throw cold water on such expectations. But neither from him nor from the Pentagon do we have what we need: an accounting of the conditions that must be met, and how they are to be met, in order for a policy of phased withdrawal to succeed.The challenge of Iraq calls for leadership of a high order, leadership that is determined and confident but does not mistake confidence for rigidity, or determination for an unwillingness to acknowledge and learn from past mistakes. The Bush Administration's Iraq policy has been plagued by far too many misjudgments and mistakes, and it would compound those mistakes to fail to learn from them now. We went to war with defective intelligence on the threat posed by Iraq, evidence selectively and sometimes misleadingly presented to Congress and the public. We went to war virtually unilaterally, with too few allies and unwarranted disdain for the United Nations program of weapons inspection and destruction. We went to war with unrealistic expectations as to how our occupation would be received and with grossly deficient postwar planning. We undertook a war of choice, allowing ourselves to be diverted from the war on terrorism and other more dangerous international challenges, and foregoing other means for containing and controlling whatever threat Saddam Hussein represented.Our current situation in Iraq bears the marks of these past mistakes, and I believe history will judge George Bush and his administration harshly for them. In much of this Congress was complicit, and I am even more convinced than I was on the day I cast my "no" vote that the House abdicated its responsibility when it gave the President, months in advance, open-ended authority to invade Iraq. But while we must learn from the past, we must face resolutely forward. That means transcending past grievances, rethinking past positions, confronting the unvarnished truth as to our present situation, and weighing our realistic options.What alternative possibilities in fact lie before us? The President has proposed "more of the same:" persevere on our present course, despite abundant evidence that we are falling short. Others are urging a unilateral withdrawal of American forces—some say on a pre-announced, fixed timetable. More and more politicians and commentators are expressing this view. They point out that the presence of American troops is not only challenging the insurgency but is also fueling it. Our alien, "infidel" presence is itself a rallying point for Iraqi insurgents and international terrorists. Moreover, some argue, Iraqis will be more likely to assume responsibility for assembling a workable government and developing their own security forces if they know that their dependence on U.S. troops is coming to an end.These arguments have merit, but they underestimate factors beyond the American military presence that are feeding the insurgency and could plunge Iraq into civil war—or even the conditions of a "failed state"—after we are gone. They also underestimate the danger of encouraging our enemies to wait us out and then to strike with devastating force.There is, I believe, a better way. We should indeed signal that we intend ultimately to bring our troops home and that we expect the Iraqi government to assume responsibility for the country's security. We should make clear that we have no plans for permanent bases or an ongoing military presence in Iraq, as Rep. Tom Allen has proposed in H.R. 3142. But we should also put forward a strategy for success—a plan for course-correction in Iraq, for recognizing and correcting policies that are not working, and for moving Iraq decisively toward self-defense and self-rule.A strategy for success requires benchmarks by which we can measure progress and hold our own government accountable. One useful formulation was suggested by the House Minority Leader as an amendment to the FY 2006 Defense Appropriations bill, but was unfortunately denied a vote by the Republican leadership. The amendment would have required the timely submission by the President to the Congress of a report specifying:(1) The criteria for assessing the capabilities and readiness of Iraqi security forces, goals for achieving appropriate capability and readiness levels for such forces, as well as for recruiting, training, and equipping such forces, and the milestones and timetable for achieving such goals.(2) The estimated total number of Iraqi personnel trained at [these] levels... needed for Iraqi security forces to perform duties currently being undertaken by United States and coalition forces, including defending Iraq's borders and providing adequate levels of law and order throughout Iraq.(3) The number of United States and coalition advisors needed to support Iraqi security forces and associated ministries.(4)The measures of political stability for Iraq, including the important political milestones to be achieved over the next several years.I would augment this list with benchmarks and goals for the reconstruction effort and for the involving of allies and multilateral organizations.What are the other ingredients of a strategy for success? A resolution (H. Con. Res. 184) recently introduced by Reps. Ike Skelton and Jane Harman stresses the need to accelerate the training of Iraqi forces and to utilize NATO and other international organizations in doing so. Senator Joseph Biden, ranking Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, gave a wide-ranging speech on June 21 that highlighted foreign offers to help train Iraqi security forces. Egypt has offered to train Iraqi police, and the Jordanians have offered advanced military training for the officer corps. Even the French have offered to train 1,500 paramilitary police in France and send them back to Iraq. NATO is establishing an ISF training mission, and the alliance and its member states should be encouraged to do more. Senator Biden, for example, proposed a small NATO force dedicated to border patrol and protection.We must have an ongoing crash course in the training and equipping of Iraqi police, security forces, and the officers corps, and the Bush Administration should be far more aggressive in enlisting international partners in these efforts.The same goes for Iraqi political development and reconstruction. The Pentagon's July 21 report commends United Nations support of the constitutional development process and assistance in preparing for approaching referenda and elections. Recent international donors' conferences in Brussels on June 22 and Amman on July 18 made only limited progress in securing financing for Iraqi reconstruction and economic development. Most of the effort was aimed at getting donors to follow through on the approximately $33 billion pledged in 2003 in Madrid. Many potential donors conditioned future support on improvements in the security situation.Unfortunately, both the military and reconstruction efforts continue to bear the marks of the Bush Administration's early unilateralism. This must be overcome, as a matter of burden-sharing and of ensuring the legitimacy and eventual success of the effort.Our reconstruction program should have a steady focus on improving the lives of ordinary Iraqis. This will often require us to emphasize smaller-scale projects that have an immediate local impact and/or that mainly employ Iraqis. It also means we should continue to provide reconstruction funds directly to our mid-level military officers. The Commanders Emergency Response Program (CERP) provided for the disbursement in FY 2004 of $549 million by U.S. commanders at the tactical level. Many members have returned from visits to Iraq, as I did from Kirkuk, impressed by the education and health facilities and other projects these funds have made possible with a minimum of red tape, and the trust and goodwill they have generated.Among the worthwhile Iraqi projects sponsored by the U.S. Agency for International Development, I am particularly familiar with the local governance and civil society work of North Carolina-based RTI International. These projects have been forced to use a substantial portion of their funding to provide security, and some efforts have succumbed in a hostile environment. Yet RTI staff, many of them Iraqis, have helped establish representative and accountable governments in many localities and are currently implementing a training and management program for 150 model health care centers in Iraq. This is difficult but important work, and it deserves our continuing support.In the midst of the challenges in Iraq and the course correction we must undertake there, it is critical that we not lose sight of related undertakings in the region with a direct bearing on our prospects in Iraq. I will here simply mention Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan and the Israeli-Palestinian peace process.Over the past three years, the Afghan mission, directly related to 9/11 and to the denial of a support structure or sanctuary to al Qaeda and other terrorist groups, has suffered by virtue of the President's initial fixation on Iraq and the human and material resources required by Operation Iraqi Freedom. Osama bin Laden and Mullah Omar remain at large, and it has often fallen to the Congress to augment Administration budget requests for Afghanistan. The Taliban has managed to partially reconstitute itself in recent months; insurgent attacks and government offensives since March have killed more than 900. The obvious intent at present is to disrupt the September 18 parliamentary elections, a critical step in Afghanistan's political development.In Afghanistan more than in Iraq, U.S. troops have the benefit of international assistance, and more is on the way. The International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) has operated under NATO command since August 2003, providing security and supporting reconstruction and nation-building activities. NATO has just announced that by early next year, ISAF will take charge of southern Afghanistan, and by the end of next year, ISAF will assume responsibility for security across he country, allowing the Pentagon to bring home many of the 17,600 troops currently there. In fact, an additional 2,000 troops are being brought in right away, in time for the elections next month. ISAF currently numbers at least 8,800 troops from 26 NATO and 11 non-NATO partner countries, including Canada, Spain, France, and Germany— all notably missing from Iraq.The Provincial Reconstruction Teams (PRTs) -- military-led groups that secure enclaves for the work of reconstruction, aid, and Afghan Interior Ministry personnel—also display increasing international participation. Of the 21 PRTs now in operation, 11 are US-run, 10 are run by partner countries, and several US PRTs are slated for takeover by NATO/ISAF.The Kabul government is still far from exercising effective authority throughout Afghanistan, and the Taliban and other enemy forces are displaying a disturbing resilience. Our Afghan mission is under severe challenge, and we must not again be diverted. We must also expand the mission's international character and apply the lessons of multilateralism in Afghanistan to Iraq.Also critical to a strategy for success is determined U.S. diplomacy aimed at the two-state solution President Bush has advocated for the Middle East. The immediate challenge is to make certain the evacuation of Israeli settlers from Gaza undertaken by Prime Minister Sharon comes off successfully and peacefully, despite predictable acts of sabotage from extremists on both sides. This will require redoubled Palestinian efforts to rein in terrorist groups and prevent attacks against Israeli troops and communities. The Israelis must give such efforts a chance and work with the Palestinian Authority to coordinate the logistics of the withdrawal and freedom of movement in and out of Gaza after the withdrawal.Longer-term, the parties must follow the path of mutual accommodation outlined in the Road Map, eventually undertaking final-status negotiations. "Gaza First" must not become "Gaza last." But none of this will be easy, and it is unlikely to move forward without skillful and persistent U.S. diplomacy.The peace process has languished for the last four years, partially because of the disengagement of President Bush and his Administration. This has been terribly costly to the Israelis and Palestinians, who have endured four years of dashed hopes and recurring violence. But it has also been damaging to American interests in the region. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict fuels extremism and anti-American attitudes across the Middle East and greatly complicates our prospects for success in Afghanistan, Iraq and beyond.Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has signaled that the second term will be different. To her credit, she returned to Israel and the West Bank in late July as violent attacks escalated dangerously - a suicide bombing, rocket attacks, retaliatory air attacks—and Israeli tanks were lining up at the Gaza border. It is extremely important that she and the President stay the course, understanding that Israeli-Palestinian peacemaking, important in its own right, is also critical to any strategy for success in the region.In conclusion: the war in Iraq has been terribly costly in terms of lives, resources, and our country's diplomatic and security interests. Our challenge now is not merely to cut our losses, but to extricate ourselves in a way that prevents Iraq from reverting to tyranny or chaos, that denies a basing point to international terrorism, and that leaves the country intact, able to defend and govern itself.We are not now on course to achieve this objective. The Bush Administration neither has a strategy for success nor even acknowledges the need for course correction. We must do better. It is the duty of this Congress to demand candor, accountability, and a strategy calibrated to achieve our goals.We must have an honest accounting of the state of the insurgency, the readiness of Iraqi forces, the progress of the country's reconstruction and political development, and the extent of international collaboration and support. Where there are deficiencies and the deficiencies are serious in all these areas—the Administration must provide benchmarks by which success can be measured and a plan specifying what it will take to reach these goals.Glib reassurances from the President are dangerous—postponing and preventing corrective action and opening wider the credibility gap with the American public. Those who commit troops to battle on behalf of this great country owe them and us an intelligent and realistic plan to succeed. Members of Congress should demand such a plan, and a frequent, truthful accounting of our success in reaching its goals, from the President and his Administration. A mid-course correction in Iraq is worthy of our nation's best efforts, but that window of opportunity is closing.# # #
08.18.2005	San Francisco, CA -By August Cole, MarketWatchLast Update: 8:03 PM ET Aug. 18, 2005SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) -- Moves by the U.S. military to relinquish responsibility to Iraq's security forces raise big questions over who will safeguard the shattered country's reconstruction in what is the biggest effort since the Marshall Plan.The private security companies already protecting American officials and workers throughout the country may find themselves taking up some of the slack as the U.S. looks to bring home some of its 138,000 troops there.Security spending is a windfall for the mostly privately held companies at work in Iraq. At the same time, it's a drain on budgets."One suspects that one way of compensating might be to do more private contracting," said Rep. David Price, D-N.C., author of a bill that seeks greater public disclosure of the stakes involved and oversight of security contracts in Iraq. See full story.After the 2003 invasion, the Bush administration assumed security risks would be relatively short-lived. Instead, persistent insurgent violence and crime have forced civilian agencies and government contractors to turn to private companies to secure their own protection."This has gone far beyond what it has in past conflicts," Price said.According to a July 30 report to Congress from the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, security is gobbling up more and more money otherwise earmarked for rebuilding."Continuing threats require that funds be re-allocated from reconstruction projects to security, thus reducing the potential number of projects that can be completed," the report said. The inspector general also noted in the report that the more than $2 billion that's been estimated by the U.S. for project security costs - nearly twice earlier estimates -- is too small because of delays or the need for far more security forces. See the SIGIR report.Despite the dangers today, work is ongoing throughout the country."We continue to implement the reconstruction of Iraq, the rebuilding roads, schools, infrastructure, getting the electricity generation back up," said Kevin Sheridan, spokesman of the U.S. Agency for International Development."All of the things that it's going to take to make Iraq self sufficient, USAID is doing on the ground in conjunction with the efforts of the military and our contractors."In the power and oil sectors, a lot of work must still be done. The Government Accountability Office said in a recent report that as of May, overall power generation and crude oil production are at lower levels than when the U.S. invaded.Staying safeCompanies and agencies in Iraq who are not part of the massive supply chain needed to fuel and feed the American forces abroad tend to operate out from under the military's protective umbrella.Even if the Army starts to send troops home for good, many private-sector engineers, trainers and non-governmental advisers will likely remain in the country as they go about their work getting Iraq back on its feet.And they will still need protection. How much depends on how safe or dangerous the country becomes."If you pull the military out, then the company has to decide whether it can rely on the remaining force to provide adequate security, or does it need its augment its security with a private force," said Alan Chvotkin of the Professional Services Council, an industry group in Washington that represents government contractors of all kinds.Chvotkin points out that firms working as part of the military's boot print, accompanying forces to and from the battlefield, may find that fewer troops may mean less work."If troops come home, then contractors supporting the military will come home," said Chvotkin, whose group represents companies ranging from Halliburton subsidiary Kellogg Brown & Root (HAL: news, chart, profile) to Accenture (ACN: news, chart, profile) .The rest operate on their own."For those contractors, the presumption is they are responsible for their own security," said Chvotkin.Some prefer armored vehicles like SUVs and heavily-armed guards. Others want a more discreet approach so they can blend in instead of stick out.Many of the companies and organizations that might be expected to remain at work are accustomed to working in hot spots. For them, fluid security situations are part of the job and fewer troops may not change that.Still, either approach can require knowledge or manpower that many organizations don't always have in house.Turning to IraqisThat extra help may come from the companies currently operating in Iraq or new ones that are still being created. They aren't necessarily going to be all-American or British, either.Doug Brooks, who is the head of the International Peace Operations Association, a private security contractor group in Washington, said that a larger trend is at work too that may lead to longer-term changes in Iraq.There are 6,000 to 8,000 non-Iraqis involved in security work with 14,000 to 20,000 Iraqis working for those non-Iraqi companies, Brooks said. There are 16 Iraqi security companies registered with the Iraqi government with 53 that are pending, according to Brooks, with 34 foreign security firms registered and four pending."Clearly, you're going to see more and more Iraqis working for these companies, moving up through management positions. Ultimately, that's the way it should be," Brooks said. Some firms are 90% staffed by Iraqis, he pointed out.If violence in Iraq increases as U.S. troop numbers come down, the companies and agencies working to provide basics like electricity and drinking water or fostering political development could decide it's simply too dangerous and leave. In that case, the opportunities for security companies could start to disappear."If the troops pull out, do the reconstruction companies pull out with them? If they do, then a big chunk of the market goes with them," said Brooks.For the security contractors themselves, hundreds of dollars a day in pay may no longer be worth the risk.That decision is still far off. But it will have to be faced once Iraq's political leadership comes up with a viable government, giving the U.S. military a chance to take some of the security burden off its forces. One outcome might be Iraq's decision to cut back the number of foreign workers it is willing to allow in the country.While no formal death count exists, the Iraq Coalition Casualty Count, which relies on government information and published media reports, reports 255 contractors from around the world have been killed on the job.Nevertheless, the companies involved in both security and reconstruction remain committed to their work there.According to the GAO, the U.S., Iraq, and other nations have allocated more than $60 billion for security, reconstruction and civil services. The contracts, whether to support the U.S. Army as Halliburton does with its mammoth logistics contracts worth billions to Triple Canopy's security services, are an important part of a company's government business group."They're not looking to pull out. Very few of our companies have left Iraq," said Chvotkihttp://www.marketwatch.com/story/us-troop-drawdown-looms-over-iraq-contractors?siteid=google
08.17.2005	Fourth District - Today, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) called for the Bush Administration to rethink its energy policy and give consumers a break from rising gas prices. "Like most Triangle residents, I am frustrated by the prices at the pump," said Price. "The energy bill that was just signed into law does nothing to fix the problem, and the President himself has admitted we can expect no relief any time soon from that legislation. It focuses too much on tax breaks to big companies already enjoying record profits and not nearly enough on conservation, energy efficiency, and reducing our dependence on foreign oil." Gas prices have remained at record levels for about four months – at $2.55 per gallon nationwide. That means national gas prices are 36 percent higher than just one year ago, and eighteen cents higher than last week. These rising prices will force a family of four to spend hundreds of dollars more on gasoline this year than last year. According to AAA, the current average cost to fill up a vehicle with a 15-gallon tank in Raleigh is $34.89, up from $27.64 a year ago. Price continued, "This week, economists are warning that rising gas prices could be a new threat to the U.S. economy – boosting energy costs for industry, and airlines, as well as millions of drivers. If oil prices remain this high, they could gradually erode the economic recovery. What will it take to focus this Administration on the needs of middle-class families?" Price has been calling on the Bush Administration to immediately urge OPEC to increase oil production, and he is advocating for a bipartisan long-term 21st Century energy plan to improve energy security and independence. Price has also joined in the bipartisan call to ask the President stop filling the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR). Bush has refused to do so, even though his father did it in 1990. The SPR has been filled to 99 percent of its capacity, which takes 2 million barrels a month out of the marketplace, driving up costs. Price also believes the Congressional leadership missed a critical opportunity to improve fuel efficiency standards when it passed last month's deficient energy bill. Not only did the bill largely fail to encourage conservation, it also fell far short of the necessary steps to reduce our dependence on foreign oil, through the use of both renewable energy resources and emerging technologies that could increase energy efficiency and reduce overall energy consumption. Finally, Price is also advocating for vigilance on the part of the federal government to prevent price gouging from taking place.
08.15.2005	Chapel Hill, NC - BY ROB SHAPARD, The Herald-SunAugust 17, 2005 8:08 pmAs the town of Chapel Hill resumes its search for a spot along the U.S. 15-501 corridor for a park-and-ride lot, it will have a sizable chunk of federal money in hand to help with the project.An allocation of $1.25 million for the town was included in the federal transportation budget approved by Congress in late July, written into the bill by U.S. Rep. David Price, D-Orange."We're excited," said Kurt Neufang, interim director of the town department that operates Chapel Hill Transit."Those folks traveling in from Durham, or who exit there to get to U.S. 15-501, know first-hand the type of congestion that [they] face trying to get into town from that direction," he said.The federal funds likely won't be enough to buy property, design a lot and actually build it, Town Manager Cal Horton said Wednesday. And he said the town and its partners in Chapel Hill Transit -- UNC Chapel Hill and Carrboro -- would have to provide matching funds for the federal money that could total about $250,000.But the $1.25 million is a major jump-start, Horton said."We need the facility now, [but] it will take several years to make this come to fruition," he said. "The critical part is to get enough cash to get started, and we've got that now."The transit partners have built other park-and-ride lots now served by the bus system, such as those on Eubanks Road and near Jones Ferry Road and Southern Village.But a similar lot for the U.S. 15-501 corridor has remained on the wish list for several years, and the interest has grown along with the escalating traffic volume along that major connection between southern Orange County, Durham and Interstate 40.The town currently doesn't have any parcels in mind to pursue for the future park-and-ride lot, Horton said. Planners will start that search anew.The search could cover vacant parcels as well as those with a relatively low intensity of use, and the search could extend over the county line into Durham, Horton said.He also noted the location wouldn't have to be directly adjacent to the highway, although it would need to be "reasonably accessible" for the commuters looking to use the lot.He gave a rough cost estimate of $10,000 to $12,000 per parking space for building such a lot, but that could change depending on the layout of the site. The town doesn't have a target date at this point."Our experience in this is that you can't set a timeline," the manager said. "The hard part is to reach agreement with the person who owns the property."
08.03.2005	Fourth District - Throughout the month, Congressman David Price will be traveling the Fourth District to speak with constituents and answer questions. Constituents can catch up with Price at one of two town hall meetings, at a budget workshop in cooperation with the Concord Coalition, or at a speech he plans to deliver about the situation in Iraq.Anyone needing special accommodations for any of these events is invited to call Price's Raleigh office at 919.859.5999.TOWN HALL MEETINGSAsk David Price about the issues that are on your mind!Wednesday Aug. 10, 20057 - 8:30 PMNorth Chatham School3380 Lystra Road, Chapel Hill(Take Jack Bennett Road off 15-501; left on Lystra at dead end)Wednesday, Aug. 31, 20057 - 8:30 PMFuquay-Varina Town Hall401 Old Honeycutt Road, Fuquay-Varina(Corner of Judd Parkway and Old Honeycutt Road)SPEECH BY REP. PRICE: "The Way Forward in Iraq"Price makes a major speech about the current situation in Iraq and offers his suggestions for a strategy for success in the reconstruction effort.Friday, August 12, 200511 AMBinkley Baptist Church Fellowship Hall1712 Willow Drive, Chapel HillBUDGET WORKSHOP IN COOPERATION WITH CONCORD COALITIONConstituents get a chance to examine how tax dollars are spent, suggest federal spending priorities and offer recommendations on where to cut spending.Thursday, August 18, 20056:30 PMEast Chapel Hill High School500 Weaver Dairy Road, Chapel Hill
07.29.2005	Washington, D.C. - US Rep. David Price (NC-04) delivered the following speech on the House floor this afternoon:"Mr. Speaker, our country is facing a difficult, even desperate, situation in Iraq, with an insurgency that seems to be gaining strength, a reconstruction effort that is lagging, and an international coalition that is deteriorating. President Bush seems determined to put the best face on the situation, but the American people are increasingly pessimistic and distrustful of what they hear. We are overdue for a major course correction. It is my intent today to make the case for such a correction and to outline what its major elements should be."What are our objectives in Iraq? A careful reading of the President's Fort Bragg speech of June 28 reveals a shift in emphasis from standing up an independently functioning democracy to preventing Iraq from becoming a basing point for international terrorism. This is ironic, for most analysts, including the 9/11 Commission, agree that the Iraqi regime had no discernable link to the perpetrators of 9/11; it is our invasion and its chaotic aftermath that have attracted al Qaeda and other international terrorists to Iraq. In any event, by whatever definition of the American mission one chooses, our effort is falling short, dangerously short, of what it will take for Iraq to achieve self-rule and the capability of self-defense and for the American occupation to end."The news of recent days leaves little doubt that the insurgency, which Vice-President Cheney described as in its 'last throes,'is anything but. In the last two weeks insurgent attacks have intensified again, killing more than 200 people in Baghdad and towns to the south. Last weekend we read of gunmen ambushing a wedding party, killing the bride and wounding the groom, apparently because of his Iraqi army affiliation -- a heart-wrenching account that underscores the insurgents' brutality and their continuing ability to launch lethal attacks. General Abizaid, the top U.S. commander in Iraq, recently acknowledged that the insurgency has not diminished. In fact, estimates of the number of hardcore insurgents now range from 20,000 to 40,000 (up from original U.S. estimates of 5,000); attacks now average 70 per day (up from 25 per day one year ago); and car bombs average 135 per month (up from an average of 20 per month last summer). We are getting better at identifying potential attacks; only 25 percent of car bomb attacks are now successful, compared to 90 percent last year. But while we've been able to reduce the insurgents' success rates threefold, they have increased their attacks six fold, so the number of lethal attacks has actually doubled over the last year."How far have the Iraqi police, security forces, and officer corps come toward being able to secure the countryside and control terrorist and criminal activity? 'About half of Iraq's new police battalions are still being established and cannot conduct operations, while the other half of the police units and two-thirds of the new army battalions are only "partially capable" of carrying out counterinsurgency missions, and only with American help, according to a newly declassified Pentagon assessment," The New York Times reports."The Administration claims that approximately 170,000 Iraqis have been trained to assume security responsibilities. U.S. commanders in Iraq have stated that the training is limited, and Joint Chiefs Chairman Myers has publicly said that only about 40,000 are fully capable of deploying anywhere in Iraq. Other estimates go as low as 10,000 Iraqi security forces that are actually trained and capable of performing their security responsibilities. The equipping of these forces is also deficient; according to the Brookings Institution, the Iraqis only have 42 percent of required weapons, 24 percent of required vehicles, 19 percent of required communications equipment, and 29 percent of required body armor. The Iraqis are not now ready to provide their own national security, handle civil policing duties, or deal with a continuing and strong insurgency -- nor will they be ready in the near future."What is the state of the reconstruction of Iraq? Successful reconstruction is critical to gaining the support of the Iraqi people and denying the insurgents the benefits of widespread popular discontent. We have made substantial headway in rebuilding bridges, roads and railways, rehabilitating the seaport at Umm Qasr, and installing and repairing telecommunications infrastructure both inside of Baghdad and for the international satellite gateway system. Despite these efforts, we have a long way to go."Nationwide, Iraq is only generating 75 percent of its electricity production goal and the nation only has an average of 12 hours of electricity per day. Oil production has barely reached 80 percent of its prewar levels, and Iraqis are experiencing gas lines up to a mile long. Iraqi government sources cited in the Pentagon's report of July 21, 2005, put the unemployment rate at 28 percent, up from 22.5 percent six months ago; most independent estimates are closer to 40 percent. The top five problems Iraqis identified in an April 2005 IRI survey are inadequate electricity, unemployment, healthcare, crime, and national security – all significant indicators of required major reconstruction efforts."Are we on schedule for getting an Iraqi constitution adopted and a legitimate, broadly representative government established? The National Assembly is to draft a constitution by August 15, 2005, to be put to a national vote by October 15, 2005. On May 10, the National Assembly appointed a 55-member committee to begin drafting the permanent constitution. The committee missed its own deadline to produce a preliminary draft by July 15. However, several working drafts have surfaced that have sparked serious complaints regarding constriction of the rights of women and a strict interpretation of Islam as a source of legislation. Despite these conflicts and the missing of the self-imposed deadline, Iraqi leaders say that a draft will be completed by the August 15 deadline. Six subcommittees are working on specific issues of the new constitution, including the thorny questions of Kurdish autonomy and the role of Islam in law. Many other contentious issues remain to be negotiated. There is a provision for a six month drafting extension if the Assembly cannot complete a draft by the specified deadline, but exercising this extension would delay all subsequent stages of the transition."Given the enormity of the task we face in Iraq, what is the condition of the 'coalition of the willing' on which our efforts depend? The coalition has always been a pale imitation of the one the first President Bush assembled for the first Iraq War. For Operation Iraqi Freedom, the U.S. share of overall troop numbers has never been less than 84 percent. And now the coalition is deteriorating further. Spain's troop commitment has gone from 1,300 to zero. Italy's 3,120 troops will go to zero by early next year, as will Poland's 1,500. Other countries that have withdrawn their forces or are in the process of doing so include Bulgaria, the Dominican Republic, Honduras, Hungary, Moldova, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, the Philippines, Portugal, Thailand, Tonga, and Ukraine. In most cases, these withdrawals have taken place amid overwhelming public opposition to the war."Troop contingents of 12,000 from the United Kingdom and 2,800 from South Korea remain. But this war and occupation have mainly had an American face, and that has become more and more the case as erstwhile allies have fallen away. American troop strength now stands at about 135,000, and many say that is not sufficient to complete the mission unless the training of Iraqis can be greatly accelerated. American casualties number 13,657, including 1,790 deaths. Of these, 1,653 deaths have occurred since President Bush landed on the aircraft carrier USS Abraham Lincoln to proclaim major combat operations successfully concluded. While there is no definitive source of information, we know the human toll in Iraq is enormous: Estimates of non-combatant Iraqi deaths have reached 25,000, and the Pentagon reports that Iraqi Security Forces (ISF) combat deaths have now exceeded 2,000."As for the budget impact, outlays for Iraq operations are now about $1 billion per week. The cumulative cost of the Iraqi war, occupation, and reconstruction has already exceeded $200 billion.In the face of all this, the American public's confidence is waning. This is not because Americans are cowed by the challenge we face in Iraq. Fully 57 percent in the NBC News/Wall St. Journal poll of July 11 said it was important that America 'maintain its military and economic commitment there until Iraq is able to fully govern and police itself.'But the public is increasingly skeptical of President Bush's rationale for going to war, they are doubtful that the Administration has a plan for success, and they wonder if they are being told the truth by our country's leaders. More than half say they don't think the war was 'worth it.' Only 40 percent say the Iraq war has made us safer from terrorism; 54 percent say 'less safe.' Nearly 60 percent now disapprove of the job President Bush is doing in Iraq; this has helped drive his overall disapproval rating to 56 percent."The President's June 28 speech was widely anticipated as an opportunity for the commander-in-chief to give an honest assessment of progress to date and to chart a realistic and compelling course going forward. The setting of the speech, Fort Bragg, North Carolina, was well-chosen, giving the President the opportunity to express the admiration and gratitude we all feel to 'our servicemen and women across the globe... for [their] courage under fire and service to our nation' and for the sacrifices of their families as well."In other respects, however, the speech was a disappointment, offering neither a candid assessment nor a specific strategy for success. The President spoke of 'significant progress' while glossing over the state of the insurgency and ignoring the falling off of international support. He furnished fewer details than I have already given in this presentation. He offered no benchmarks by which success might be measured or his administration might be held accountable. He was defensive about past decisions and oblivious to the obvious need for course correction. As others have observed, he exposed the weakness of his arguments by rhetorically falling back on 9/11, despite the lack of any significant al Qaeda connection to pre-war Iraq. The President asked Americans to stay the course, to continue to pay the heavy price of this war, without holding up his end of the bargain. He and his administration owe those brave men and women in uniform, and indeed all Americans, more than glib assurances and exhortations to steadfastness. He owes all of us a plan for success, for turning Iraq over to the Iraqis, avoiding a reversion to tyranny or chaos, and terminating the American occupation."The President's speech has now been improved upon somewhat by the Department of Defense's congressionally-mandated report, 'Measuring Stability and Security in Iraq,' dated July 21, 2005. 'The criteria for withdrawing Coalition forces from Iraq are conditions-based, not calendar-based,' the report states. 'The development of the ISF to a level at which they can take over primary responsibility for their own security is the threshold condition. ISF development in turn, will be helped by progress in political, economic, and other areas.' This is only slightly more specific than the standard suggested in the President's speech: 'As the Iraqis stand up, we will stand down.' Only in limited instances does the report measure present performance against a defined goal, much less specify the conditions under which American responsibility can be scaled back. Moreover, the Pentagon almost always chooses the more optimistic among analysts' conclusions as to the conditions in Iraq and apparently sees no need to defend those choices. Congress has required that this report be updated every 90 days, and our leaders should insist that future reports meet a higher standard of candor and relevance to future policy choices."The coherence of Administration policy was thrown further into doubt this week by Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld and the commander of U.S. forces in Iraq, General George Casey, in their comments reported from Baghdad. Rumsfeld, who last month suggested that the insurgency might last as many as ten to twelve years, displayed a new urgency about moving the constitutional process and the training of security personnel along. Meanwhile, General Casey emerged from a meeting with Rumsfeld and U.S. Ambassador Zalmay Khalizad to declare that 'fairly substantial reductions' in U.S. troop levels might be possible by next spring and summer. That may be a tantalizing prospect politically, but the Pentagon owes the Congress and the public an accounting of the conditions that must be met, and how they are to be met, in order for such a policy to succeed."Mr. Speaker, the challenge of Iraq calls for leadership of a high order, leadership that is determined and confident but does not mistake confidence for rigidity, or determination for an unwillingness to acknowledge and learn from past mistakes. The Bush Administration's Iraq policy has been plagued by far too many misjudgments and mistakes, and it would compound those mistakes to fail to learn from them now. We went to war with defective intelligence on the threat posed by Iraq, evidence selectively and sometimes misleadingly presented to Congress and the public. We went to war virtually unilaterally, with too few allies and unwarranted disdain for the United Nations program of weapons inspection and destruction. We went to war with unrealistic expectations as to how our occupation would be received and with grossly deficient postwar planning. We undertook a war of choice, allowing ourselves to be diverted from the war on terrorism and other more dangerous international challenges and foregoing other means for containing and controlling whatever threat Saddam Hussein represented."Our current situation in Iraq bears the marks of these past mistakes, and I believe history will judge George Bush and his administration harshly for them. In much of this Congress was complicit, and I am even more convinced than I was on the day I cast my 'no' vote that this body abdicated its responsibility when it gave the President, months in advance, open-ended authority to invade Iraq. But while we must learn from the past, we must face resolutely forward. That means transcending past grievances, rethinking past positions, confronting the unvarnished truth as to our present situation, and weighing our realistic options."What alternative possibilities in fact lie before us? The President has proposed 'more of the same:' persevere on our present course, despite abundant evidence that we are falling short. Others are urging a unilateral withdrawal of American forces - - some say on a pre-announced, fixed timetable. More and more politicians and commentators are expressing this view. They point out that the presence of American troops is not only challenging the insurgency but is also fueling it. Our alien, 'infidel' presence is itself a rallying point for Iraqi insurgents and international terrorists. Moreover, some argue, Iraqis will be more likely to assume responsibility for assembling a workable government and developing their own security forces if they know that their dependence on U.S. troops is coming to an end."These arguments have merit, but they underestimate factors beyond the American military presence that are feeding the insurgency and could plunge Iraq into civil war -- or even the conditions of a 'failed state' -- after we are gone. They also underestimate the danger of encouraging our enemies to wait us out and then to strike with devastating force. There is, I believe, a better way. We should indeed signal clearly that we intend ultimately to bring our troops home, that we expect the Iraqi government to assume responsibility for the country's security, and that we have no plans for permanent bases or an ongoing military presence. But we should also put forward a strategy for success -- a plan for course-correction in Iraq, for recognizing and correcting policies that are not working, and for moving Iraq decisively toward self-defense and self-rule."A strategy for success requires benchmarks by which we can measure progress and hold our own government accountable. One useful formulation was suggested by the House Minority Leader as an amendment to the FY 2006 Defense Appropriations bill, but was unfortunately denied a vote by the Republican leadership. The amendment would have required the timely submission by the President to the Congress of a report specifying:(1) The criteria for assessing the capabilities and readiness of Iraqi security forces, goals for achieving appropriate capability and readiness levels for such forces, as well as for recruiting, training, and equipping such forces, and the milestones and timetable for achieving such goals.(2) The estimated total number of Iraqi personnel trained at [these] levels... needed for Iraqi security forces to perform duties currently being undertaken by United States and coalition forces, including defending Iraq's borders and providing adequate levels of law and order throughout Iraq.(3) The number of United States and coalition advisors needed to support Iraqi security forces and associated ministries.(4)The measures of political stability for Iraq, including the important political milestones to be achieved over the next several years."I would augment this list with benchmarks and goals for the reconstruction effort and for the involving of allies and multilateral organizations."What are the other ingredients of a strategy for success? Senator Joseph Biden, ranking Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, gave a wide-ranging speech on June 21 that stressed the need to take advantage of legitimate foreign offers to help train Iraqi security forces and to share responsibility for Iraqi reconstruction internationally. Egypt has offered to train Iraqi police, and the Jordanians have offered advanced military training for the officer corps. Even the French have offered to train 1,500 paramilitary police in France and send them back to Iraq. NATO is establishing an ISF training mission, and the alliance and its member states should be encouraged to do more. Senator Biden, for example, proposed a small NATO force dedicated to border patrol and protection. We must have an ongoing crash course in the training and equipping of Iraqi police, security forces, and the officers corps, and the Bush Administration should be far more aggressive in enlisting international partners in these efforts."The same goes for Iraqi political development and reconstruction. The Pentagon's July 21 report commends United Nations support of the constitutional development process and assistance in preparing for approaching referenda and elections. Recent international donors' conferences in Brussels on June 22 and Amman on July 18 made only limited progress in securing financing for Iraqi reconstruction and economic development. Most of the effort was aimed at getting donors to follow through on the approximately $33 billion pledged in 2003 in Madrid. Many potential donors conditioned future support on improvements in the security situation. Unfortunately, both the military and reconstruction efforts continue to bear the marks of the Bush Administration's early unilateralism. This must be overcome, as a matter of burden-sharing and of ensuring the legitimacy and eventual success of the effort."Our reconstruction program should have a steady focus on improving the lives of ordinary Iraqis. This will often require us to emphasize smaller-scale projects that have an immediate local impact and/or that mainly employ Iraqis. It also means we should continue to provide reconstruction funds directly to our mid-level military officers. The Commanders Emergency Response Program (CERP) provided for the disbursement in FY 2004 of $549 million by U.S. commanders at the tactical level. Many members have returned from visits to Iraq, as I did from Kirkuk, impressed by the education and health facilities and other projects these funds have made possible with a minimum of red tape, and the trust and goodwill they have generated."Among the worthwhile Iraqi projects sponsored by the U.S. Agency for International Development, I am particularly familiar with the local governance and civil society work of North Carolina-based RTI International. These projects have been forced to use a substantial portion of their funding to provide security, and some efforts have succumbed in a hostile environment. Yet RTI staff, many of them Iraqis, have helped establish representative and accountable governments in many localities and are currently implementing a training and management program for 150 model health care centers in Iraq. This is difficult but important work, and it deserves our continuing support."In the midst of the challenges in Iraq and the course correction we must undertake there, it is critical that we not lose sight of related undertakings in the region with a direct bearing on our prospects in Iraq. I will here simply mention Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan and the Israeli-Palestinian peace process. Over the past three years, the Afghan mission, directly related to 9/11 and to the denial of a support structure or sanctuary to al Qaeda and other terrorist groups, has suffered by virtue of the President's initial fixation on Iraq and the human and material resources required by Operation Iraqi Freedom. Osama bin Laden and Mullah Omar remain at large, and it has often fallen to the Congress to augment Administration budget requests for Afghanistan. The Taliban has managed to partially reconstitute itself in recent months; insurgent attacks and government offensives since March have killed more than 800. The obvious intent at present is to disrupt the September 18 parliamentary elections, a critical step in Afghanistan's political development."In Afghanistan more than in Iraq, U.S. troops have the benefit of international assistance. The International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) has operated under NATO command since August 2003, providing security and supporting reconstruction and nation-building activities. ISAF currently numbers about 8,800 troops from 26 NATO and 11 non-NATO partner countries, including Canada, Spain, France, and Germany - - all notably missing from Iraq. The Provincial Reconstruction Teams (PRTs) - - military-led groups that secure enclaves for the work of reconstruction, aid, and Afghan Interior Ministry personnel - - also display increasing international participation. Of the 21 PRTs now in operation, 11 are US-run, 10 are run by partner countries, and several US PRTs are slated for takeover by NATO/ISAF."The Kabul government is still far from exercising effective authority throughout Afghanistan, and the Taliban and other enemy forces are displaying a disturbing resilience. Our Afghan mission is under severe challenge, and we must not again be diverted. We must also expand the mission's international character and apply the lessons of multilateralism in Afghanistan to Iraq."Also critical to a strategy for success is determined U.S. diplomacy aimed at the two-state solution President Bush has advocated for the Middle East. The immediate challenge is to make certain the evacuation of Israeli settlers from Gaza undertaken by Prime Minister Sharon comes off successfully and peacefully, despite predictable acts of sabotage from extremists on both sides. This will require redoubled Palestinian efforts to rein in terrorist groups and prevent attacks against Israeli troops and communities. The Israelis must give such efforts a chance and work with the Palestinian Authority to coordinate the logistics of the withdrawal and freedom of movement in and out of Gaza after the withdrawal. Longer-term, the parties must follow the path of mutual accommodation outlined in the Road Map, eventually undertaking final-status negotiations. 'Gaza First' must not become 'Gaza last.' But none of this will be easy, and it is unlikely to move forward without skillful and persistent U.S. diplomacy."The peace process has languished for the last four years, partially because of the disengagement of President Bush and his Administration. This has been terribly costly to the Israelis and Palestinians, who have endured four years of dashed hopes and recurring violence. But it has also been damaging to American interests in the region; the Israeli-Palestinian conflict fuels extremism and anti-American attitudes across the Middle East and greatly complicates our prospects for success in Afghanistan, Iraq and beyond."Secretary of State Rice has signaled that the second term will be different. To her credit, she returned to Israel and the West Bank last week as violent attacks escalated dangerously -- a suicide bombing, rocket attacks, retaliatory air attacks -- and Israeli tanks were lining up at the Gaza border. It is extremely important that she and the President stay the course, understanding that Israeli-Palestinian peacemaking, important in its own right, is also critical to any strategy for success in the region."Mr. Speaker, the war in Iraq has been terribly costly in terms of lives, resources, and our country's diplomatic and security interests. Our challenge now is not merely to cut our losses, but to extricate ourselves in a way that prevents Iraq from reverting to tyranny or chaos, that denies a basing point to international terrorism, and that leaves the country intact, able to defend and govern itself. We are not now on course to achieve this objective. The Bush Administration neither has a strategy for success nor even acknowledges the need for course correction. We must do better, and it is the duty of this Congress to demand candor, accountability, and a strategy calibrated to achieve our goals."We must have an honest accounting of the state of the insurgency, the readiness of Iraqi forces, the progress of the country's reconstruction and political development, and the extent of international collaboration and support. Where there are deficiencies -- and the deficiencies are serious in all these areas -- the Administration must provide benchmarks by which success can be measured and a plan specifying what it will take to reach these goals. Glib reassurances from the President are dangerous -- postponing and preventing corrective action and opening wider the credibility gap with the American public. Those who commit troops to battle on behalf of this great country owe them and us an intelligent and realistic plan to succeed. Members of this body should demand such a plan, and a frequent, truthful accounting of our success in reaching its goals, from the President and his Administration. A mid-course correction in Iraq is worthy of our nation's best efforts, but the window of opportunity is closing."# # #
07.28.2005	Cary, NC - On Saturday, July 30, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) will host Neighborhood Office Hours at the BJ's Warehouse in Cary.Neighborhood Office Hours are one of the many ways Price keeps in touch with his constituents. All are welcome to stop by and talk to Price about the issues that are on their minds.LOGISTICS:Price's Neighborhood Office HoursSaturday, July 3010:30-12:30 PMBJ's Warehouse2370 Walnut Street, Cary
07.28.2005	Washington, D.C. - Today, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) released a final report on the Pentagon's use of security contractors in Iraq, finding major problems in the lack of data collection on contractors and inadequate communication between contractors and the military. US Rep. David Price (NC-04) requested the report more than a year ago."I am glad that the GAO has shed some light on the current problems with private military contracting in Iraq," said Price. "These findings, while not unexpected, are disturbing. This report underscores the need for legislation to clarify the contracting process, and I hope it will reinforce Congress's determination to address these issues."Earlier this year, Price introduced legislation that would address the very problems highlighted by the GAO report. Price's TASC Act (Transparency and Accountability in Security Contracting) would set standards for contracting and require that the government collect basic information from its contractors, including the estimated cost of the job, the number of people employed by the contract, and the level of training required.In the report released today, the GAO recommended, among other things, that federal agencies start collecting enough data to determine the cost of security contracting, which is still unknown.GAO also faulted inadequate communication between the military and the private security contractors, which has led to confusing and dangerous interactions between the military and security contractors on the battlefield. In the first installments of the report released in April, the GAO found confusion dealing with the contracting process.In addition, the report highlighted the lack of any standards for private military contractor personnel, such as training and experience requirements or weapons qualifications, which has led to the hiring of many unqualified security personnel."The contractors themselves have told us they want more clarity and better guidance as they carry out their dangerous work in Iraq and Afghanistan," continued Price. "From the tragic murder of Blackwater contractors in Fallujah to the national embarrassment of the Abu Ghraib scandal, it is clear that Congress needs to take action, both to protect our contractors and to deal with the few who aren't doing their jobs properly."Price incorporated parts of the TASC Act into the "Contractors on the Battlefield" section of the Defense Authorization Act for FY 2006 (HR 1815), which passed the House in May. These provisions would improve federal oversight and accountability for contractors working in war zones. The Senate has not yet completed consideration of its version of the Defense Authorization bill.Those parts of Price's bill that were not included in HR 1815 would address the GAO's newest findings about the use of contractors, particularly the need to collect better data.In May 2004, Price wrote a letter to GAO, signed by more than 100 Members of Congress, asking for an investigation into the use of civilian contractors in Iraq and elsewhere. GAO agreed to issue this report answering Price's questions, including whether contractors are carrying out security duties beyond the scope of their authority, and whether the federal government is providing contractors the information they need to do their jobs safely and effectively.# # #
07.26.2005	Washington, D.C. - Today, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) unveiled a new website for the House Democracy Assistance Commission (HDAC), which is also known as the Dreier-Price Commission. The Dreier-Price Commission, a 16-member panel of US Representatives working to assist emerging democracies in all corners of the globe, was announced earlier this year.The website will contain regularly updated information on the countries with which the HDAC is presently working and their specific areas of assistance. It also provides the history of the HDAC, including its predecessor organization of the mid-1990s, the Frost-Solomon Task Force.Price, who is officially the Ranking Member of the commission, was the driving force behind it. He and US Rep. David Dreier (R-CA) co-authored legislation, House Resolution 135, which is based on an earlier bill written by Price. H. Res. 135 established this plan to give parliaments in emerging democracies the guidance and assistance they need to function effectively.Constituents can access the website at www.hdac.house.gov/.
07.20.2005	Chapel Hill, NC - On Thursday, August 4, 2005, US Rep. David Price will speak publicly at a Forum to Defend Public Broadcasting in Chapel Hill.Price, a staunch defender of our public airwaves, was at the forefront of the fight against media consolidation in recent years. More recently, he has led the charge against the efforts of the Bush Administration and the Republican leadership to cut funding for public broadcasting. Also participating in the Forum will be Jim Goodmon, President and CEO of Capitol Broadcasting.The meeting is open to the public.LOGISTICS:Thursday, August 4, 20057-9:30 PMThe United Church of Chapel Hill1321 Martin Luther King, Jr. Blvd.(NC-86/Historic Airport Rd.)
07.19.2005	Washington, D.C. -By Alison Lapp,Medill News Service10:25 pmIt took search and rescue teams three days after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks to locate the black box from the airplane that struck the Pentagon, and they were never able to recover black boxes from the airplanes that hit the World Trade Center. As a result, important information about the attacks may have been lost forever.With catastrophic situations such as that in mind, U.S. Rep. David Price introduced a bill Tuesday aimed at improving black box recording technology on new commercial airplanes.The Safe Aviation Flight Enhancement, or SAFE, Act would change the current National Transportation Safety Board requirements for two separate black box systems -- a fixed cockpit voice recorder and a digital flight data recorder -- combining them into one system, located in two places. Each airplane would have a fixed combination system in the cockpit and a deployable combination system at the rear of the aircraft.The deployable technology would allow the black box to separate from the airplane in an emergency to avoid fire and other hazards at the crash site, according to the 4th District Democratic congressman. Unlike black boxes now in use, the new ones would be designed to float and would contain more advanced transmitters to help search and rescue teams find the recorders.Price said the Sept. 11 attacks rendered the improvements critical, though he has been working on enhancing aviation security for nearly a decade."Since 9/11, terrorism is a factor to consider," he said. "In a case where you're not sure why a plane went down, you need to be very, very quick about determining the reason."When drafting the bill, Price consulted 9/11 Commission recommendations and a 2005 report from the Department of Homeland Security and FBI stating that commercial airlines remain susceptible to attack. But he said the inspiration to take on aviation security came from his close personal friend Jim Hall, former chairman of the NTSB.Lauren Peduzzi, spokeswoman for the NTSB, which investigates every civil airplane accident in the United States, said black box "recorder improvements are on one of our most-wanted lists."In 1999, the NTSB issued a list of recommendations to improve black box recorders, including installing cockpit voice recorders that could record for longer spans of time and had their own backup power in case of electrical failure."I hope we're not going to have to have another disaster for people to understand the need for this," Price said of the bill he cosponsored, "because it's pretty easy to imagine."# # #
07.19.2005	Washington D.C. - Today, US Reps. David Price (D-NC) and John Duncan (R-TN) introduced the SAFE (Safe Aviation Flight Enhancement) Act of 2005 to address serious deficiencies in commercial aviation black box requirements."In this post-9/11 world, we have seen many tragic examples that illustrate the importance of accurate evidence in the aftermath of an accident or an attack," said Price, who serves on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. "A commercial airplane's black boxes hold the key to understanding why a plane crash occurs, and the information they provide can help us figure out how to make plane travel more secure."Currently, the NTSB requires all commercial aircraft to have two separate black boxes: a fixed cockpit voice recorder and a digital flight data recorder. The SAFE Act would require the two be combined into one system, located in two places – a fixed combination system located in the front of the airplane and a deployable combination system located in the rear of the airplane. This system, which is already used by the US Military, would greatly improve the chances that black boxes would survive all catastrophic crash scenarios, and it would enhance investigators' ability to quickly recover them, undamaged, following an accident.This deployable technology would allow the black box to separate from the aircraft, thus avoiding the fire and crash accident zone. It is designed to float, unlike current black boxes. It also contains a more advanced Emergency Locator Transmitter, which transmits a signal to search and rescue personnel identifying the location of the recorder unit as well as the last known location of the aircraft in both land and water incidents."I applaud our Congressional leaders for taking the necessary steps to ensure measures are in place to prepare us in the event of another air disaster," said Jim Hall, former Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board. "The FAA has proposed significant recorder upgrades that will greatly improve the amount and quality of data collected by our black boxes. Their upgrades in conjunction with the SAFE Act requirements will not only achieve the goals of improved recorder capability and redundancy the NTSB was seeking, but will also significantly improve access to undamaged flight recorder information more immediately following aviation disasters."Earlier this year, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) issued a report stating that commercial airlines remain susceptible to attack, despite billions of dollars worth of security advances.Additionally, the 9/11 Commission Staff submitted a series of recommendations to Congress which included the need for the Transportation Security Agency (TSA) and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to improve the survivability of black boxes. They noted that while some of black boxes on the 9/11 fight that crashed on September 11th were recovered and found to contain valuable information, others were destroyed, depriving investigators, policymakers and the public of critical information.Price and Duncan previously introduced the SAFE Act in the 108th Congress, and soon afterward, the FAA adopted many of the bill's recommendations for improving black boxes. This new version of the SAFE Act concentrates on the original bill's most important provision, which has yet to be adopted by the FAA: the requirement that all commercial airplanes be equipped with deployable black boxes.# # #
07.13.2005	Washington, D.C. - Today, dozens of Eastern North Carolina residents and activists are talking with lawmakers on Capitol Hill about their opposition to the Navy's proposed site for the Outlying Landing Field in Washington County.The group's day began with a press conference, led by US Reps. David Price (NC-04) and GK Butterfield (NC-01), who have been fighting against the proposed site. Also participating were representatives from the local community, the US Air Force Bird Aircraft Strike Hazard Team, the North Carolina State Audubon Office, and Freedom Works/Citizens for a Sound Economy.An abbreviated version of Price's remarks is below:"It's an honor to be here today among so many people who have worked so hard in their opposition the proposed Washington County site for the OLF, including my colleague, Congressman GK Butterfield."I've been part of this effort through my seat on the House Appropriations Military Quality of Life & Veterans Affairs Subcommittee. And I had the honor of urging the Chief of Naval Operations during a subcommittee hearing to go "back to the drawing board" with the Navy's OLF plan."Some of you may already know how he answered me. He said they're "planning for success" in their appeal of the court decision that went against them."I have to say—that didn't sit well with me. And as a result, I inserted some language into the Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs appropriations bill making clear that the House wants the Navy to reconsider alternate sites."That was a few months ago. Now, the Navy has reluctantly agreed to reconsider those other sites. Granted, they have been pressed by a US District Court decision to do so, and they should really not be limiting their search to only the originally considered sites. But I know that the overwhelming opposition to the current OLF site, led by the people in this room, has played no small role in this possible change of direction."I'll leave it to the experts to share the details of their hard work. But just allow me to say thank you, publicly, for your tireless efforts to protect this community and its wildlife. You are an inspirational example of democracy in action and the power of a few people to make a large difference."# # #
07.13.2005	Washington, D.C. - US Rep. David Price (NC-04) announced today that he intends to vote "no" on the Central American Free Trade Agreement, which was passed by the House Ways & Means Committee and by the full Senate late last month."There are serious arguments on both sides of this issue, and I've listened closely to the constituents who have brought them to me," said Price. "The Triangle region is highly dependent on exports for growth, and we need a trade policy that opens overseas markets while maintaining rules of fair competition."However, good trade agreements must also push our trading partners to raise their labor and environmental standards so that we are not penalized for the high standards we as Americans already maintain. The President has not taken sufficient steps to move Central American countries forward in these areas."In addition, I continue to be concerned about North Carolina communities that are disadvantaged by trade competition. We must strengthen programs that provide short-term financial help and job training for workers (especially those in high-tech and service sectors who currently get no assistance) before moving forward on another trade agreement."With the President's submission of the agreement to Congress late last month, it is clear that no improvements to the agreement can be made. I have determined that I will vote against CAFTA when it comes before the full House."# # #
07.04.2005	Washington, D.C. - By Martin FrostFormer Member, US House of RepresentativesFrom 1990 to 1995, I chaired a special House task force to assist the parliaments of Eastern and Central Europe as they faced the challenge of converting from communism to democracy.It was one of the most interesting things I have ever done and it gives me great pleasure to see that the current Congress has passed legislation resuming this very important work.The new effort is called the House Democracy Assistance Commission (search) and is made up of 16 members who were appointed by Speaker Dennis Hastert and Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi on May 18. The commission will focus on countries from five regions — Africa, the Pacific, Europe, the Middle East including Central Asia, and the Western Hemisphere.The new commission is chaired by Rep. David Dreier, R-Calif., with the ranking Democratic member being Rep. David Price of North Carolina.While not perfect, our Congress is an excellent example of how a democratic parliament can function, and Hastert and Pelosi are to be commended for making the effort to provide real help to fledgling democracies around the world.This all started when the Berlin Wall fell in late 1989. I was a member of the first congressional delegation to Berlin in December of 1989 and was overwhelmed by the historic significance of what was happening in Eastern and Central Europe. Then-Speaker Tom Foley appointed me to head a special House task force to help the countries of the region convert to democracy, and we put together a very successful effort over the next five years. This effort was completely bipartisan and had the full support of both the first Bush administration and the Clinton administration.Work was done in Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Bulgaria, and Albania. We provided computer hardware and software, assistance with parliamentary libraries and parliamentary research institutes as well as training sessions for new members of parliament and parliamentary staff.Congress was uniquely situated to provide this help because of our special relationship with the Congressional Research Service of the Library of Congress that provided much of the technical expertise. This effort created enormous goodwill for the United States and I believe contributed to the willingness of these new democracies to support U.S. foreign policy initiatives during recent years.The new commission initially is considering projects in the former Soviet republic of Georgia, Macedonia, Kenya, Indonesia, and East Timor. The new commission will assist a variety of emerging democracies and not just ones that had previously been under communist rule.Work on projects like this does very little to help members of Congress get re-elected. In most cases, their constituents could care less if they are assisting fledgling democracies around the world. But this work does a great deal for our nation and for promotion of our system of government. Functioning democracies usually are not threats to us militarily and in most cases will be allies for us in the war against terrorism.Much of the actual work will be done by congressional staff and individuals on loan from the Congressional Research Service; however, the role of members of Congress who serve on the commission is of some consequence. Members of Congress will be asked to travel to emerging democracies to meet in-country with parliamentary leaders. This means a great deal to members of foreign parliaments because it demonstrates that elected leaders in the United States care about what happens in their country. Also, commission members will spend time meeting with foreign parliamentary leaders and staff when they travel to Washington for training.In addition to Reps. Dreier and Price, members of the new Democracy Assistance Commission are Reps. John Boozman, R-Ariz., Lois Capps, D-Calif., Tom Cole, R-Okla., Artur David, D-Ala., Jeff Fortenberry, R-Neb., Paul Gilmor, R-Ohio, Rush Holt, D-N.J., Mark Kirk, R-Ill., William Kolbe, R-Ariz., Candice Miller, R-Mich., Silvestre Reyes, D-Texas, Adman Schiff, D-Calif., Allyson Schwartz, D-Pa., and Joe Wilson, R-S.C.Next time you see one of these members of Congress, thank them for spending some of their time doing something to promote democracy, even if it doesn't mean a thing in their next campaign for re-election.Martin Frost served in Congress from 1979 to 2005, representing a diverse district in the Dallas-Ft. Worth area. He served two terms as chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, the third-ranking leadership position for House Democrats, and two terms as chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. Frost serves as a regular contributor to FOX News Channel. He holds a Bachelor of Journalism degree from the University of Missouri and a law degree from the Georgetown Law Center.
06.28.2005	Charlotte, NC - This afternoon, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) will speak publicly at the hearing for the North Carolina portion of the regional Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission hearing in Charlotte, North Carolina. The hearing is designed to gather input and hear concerns from affected communities regarding the Department of Defense (DoD)'s recommendations that are being evaluated by the BRAC Commission.Price will make a public statement criticizing the DoD's recommendation to close the Army Research Office (ARO) in the Triangle. Among other things, Price will highlight that the ARO has a close and productive relationship with neighboring universities and research organizations in Research Triangle Park, and that its location has proved to be of tremendous advantage to the Army's research operation as a whole.The text of Price's statement to the commission, as prepared for delivery, is below:"Members of the Commission: I am David Price, member of the House of Representatives from North Carolina's Fourth District, the proud home of the Army Research Office (ARO). I want to welcome you to North Carolina and thank you for your tireless efforts over these many weeks to devise a base closure and realignment plan that puts our military and our country at maximum strength."I come to you today with an urgent and earnest request: look very, very carefully and critically at the Department of Defense's proposal to relocate the ARO to Bethesda, Maryland. I believe that you will conclude, as I have, that this is a bad idea. I want to assure you that I am speaking not merely as the Research Triangle area's representative in Congress, as proud as I am of the Triangle success story and the ARO's part in it. My main focus – and, I'm certain, yours as well – is rather the quality of the research ARO generates and its payoff for our defense capabilities."The possibility of including ARO in consolidation plans has been considered and rejected in previous BRAC rounds and other reorganization efforts. Fortunately for the soldiers who rely on cutting-edge technologies to maintain battlefield superiority, the quality of research has always trumped any minor financial savings or the desire to tidy up an organizational chart."Now we have a new proposal, put forth under the mantra of "co-location." What we hope to convince you of here today is that ARO already enjoys the co-location that matters most. Co-location with NC State University, Duke University, the University of North Carolina, and other research organizations gives ARO intellectual synergy, joint appointments, collaborative projects, an enhanced ability to recruit and retain the best and brightest program managers, and the opportunity for those managers to keep an active hand in research. Why would anyone want to uproot these highly productive personal and institutional connections? The supposed gains of bureaucratic ARO co-location with the Navy and Air Force research offices in Bethesda cannot hold a candle to the co-location ARO already enjoys."ARO's 114 employees have ready access to, and daily interaction with, world-class researchers and institutions. I don't know where this could be replicated – certainly not in the proposed new location. ARO professionals work with entrepreneurs seeking innovative applications for emerging technologies. They work with top-flight universities – professors and students – on an astounding array of research endeavors. In fact, almost half of the research managers are involved in active research projects with universities in the area. Co-locating the military's premier research organization in a heavily bureaucratic environment would uproot all that, and many of the most creative research managers would choose no doubt to leave the ARO rather than move. It would run counter to the primary purpose of a research organization, damaging the very fiber of innovation and creativity."We have staked our national defense on building a smaller, quicker, more lethal force than our foes. Our technology advantages provide our forces huge tactical advantages. Technology is transforming the battlefield; collection, dissemination, and interpretation of information allows our forces to operate with speed and efficiency; our weapons have previously inconceivable power and accuracy; and medical advances are saving thousands of lives that would have in the past been lost. Maintaining collaboration and synergy on cutting-edge technology is the life blood of a research organization, and research is the lifeblood of the modern military."I would simply conclude by saying 'don't mess with a good thing.' The ARO is a premier research organization, performing its mission admirably. I urge the Commission to analyze carefully the role its present location plays in that performance. If you do that, I am confident you will keep ARO exactly where it is."# # #
06.24.2005	David Price Successfully Wins the Battle to Protect AmeriCorps from Additional CutsWashington, D.C. -Save AmeriCorps Coalition Awards PriceUS Rep. David Price (D-NC), a staunch supporter of national service, led the fight against an unexpected attack on AmeriCorps funding today.This morning, US Rep. Tom Price (R-GA) offered an amendment to the Labor, Health, Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill that would cut AmeriCorps funding by $70M. Thanks in large part to the efforts of Rep. D. Price, that amendment was voted down in a resounding bipartisan vote of 298-102.AmeriCorps was facing funding cuts even before today's move by Rep. T. Price: The House Republican leadership is cutting AmeriCorps by $14M – that's even less funding than President Bush requested in his budget for Fiscal Year 2006.An additional cut of $70 million (17 percent) would have forced many nonprofits — particularly those in rural and low-wealth communities where private sector funding is limited – to discontinue their AmeriCorps programs altogether."AmeriCorps cannot sustain an additional cut," said Rep. D. Price, who is a co-chair of the bipartisan Congressional National Service Caucus and who urged fellow members of Congress to vote against Rep. T. Price's amendment.He continued, "Our AmeriCorps members are recruiting and training more than a million volunteers who do work that is critical to our communities. They help over 10 million Americans a year. The cuts proposed by Tom Price, on top of those already in the bill, would be absolutely devastating."Ironically, Rep. T. Price touts his appreciation for AmeriCorps on his website: he lists AmeriCorps as number 49 on a list of 100 scholarships for students who need help paying for college."I wonder what he would have told those students who asked him why AmeriCorps was no longer offered in their communities," said Rep. D. Price.
06.21.2005	Washington, D.C. - The U.S. has roughly 140,000 troops in Iraq right now -- American forces bound in their conduct by military law and the chain of command. Among them, often doing similar work, are nearly 20,000 private security contractors. These aren't the civilian workers who drive trucks or deliver the mail, but private soldiers who make more money than troops do and operate under different rules.Criticism often focuses on allegations that contracting companies overcharge the military and that contractors have stepped outside the rules of combat, don't coordinate operations with the military or each other and are answerable to no one. In recent weeks, tensions between contractors and enlisted troops have flared into ugly incidents.Outsourcing wartime tasks to private contractors is an integral part of Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld's vision of a leaner, more flexible military. But this flexibility comes at a cost -- in the budget and on the battlefield.Guests:Martin Smith, Frontline correspondent and producer of Private Warriors, a documentary about private contractors in IraqPeter Singer, fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington, D.C., and author of Corporate Warriors: The Rise of the Private Military IndustryDavid Price, U.S. Representative from North Carolina and sponsor of the Transparency and Accountability in Security Contracting Act that passed the House in late MayDoug Brooks, president of the International Peace Operations AssociationVisit http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=4712776 to listen to the interview.# # #
06.16.2005	Washington, D.C. - Today, the US House is expected to pass a $408B Defense Appropriations bill that includes significant funding for the Citizen-Soldier Support Program at UNC Chapel Hill. US Rep. David Price (NC-04), a member of the House Appropriations Committee, was responsible for securing $5M for the program in the spending bill.This funding would allow UNC to expand the Citizen-Soldier program statewide and allow program directors to share the model with other interested states. Citizen-Soldier currently operates in five North Carolina communities."North Carolina is at the forefront of Guard and Reserve deployments, and having spoken personally with the families of Guard and Reserve members, I know that they are facing unprecedented challenges on the home front," said Price. "Many spouses are suddenly finding themselves single parents and breadwinners, while they worry about loved ones overseas. I am hopeful that this program will provide critical support at a time when it's desperately needed."The program, for which Price also secured funding in last year's defense spending bill, facilitates practical and emotional support for North Carolina National Guard and Reserve soldiers and their families as they prepare for and return from deployments. It provides critical local resources to these families, augments existing defense department programs, and brings together employers, schools, child-care providers, health professionals and the faith community to form a broad network of family support. Organizers have received strong positive feedback so far in the communities in which it operates: Asheville, Charlotte, Greensboro, Rocky Mount and Wilmington."North Carolina is one of the most military-friendly states in the country," said UNC-Chapel Hill Chancellor James Moeser. "This collaborative initiative gives communities more ways to support our military men and women and their families. It shows that Carolina and our program partners connect with the citizens of this state and their needs."UNC-Chapel Hill spearheads the Citizen-Soldier Support Program in partnership with N.C. State, Duke, East Carolina, UNC-Charlotte, UNC-Greensboro, Virginia Tech, Bryn Mawr College and UNC-TV.The Defense Appropriations Bill goes next to the Senate for approval.# # #
06.15.2005	Price Urges Support for Small Business Funding AmendmentWashington, D.C. - Today, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) urged support for an amendment to the Science-State-Justice funding bill, which would provide additional support to the Small Business 7(a) loan program. Price, a staunch advocate for small businesses, called on the House to support the measure in a speech on the House floor. The amendment passed 234 – 189.BACKGROUND: As approved by the House Appropriations Committee,, the Science-State-Justice bill once again contained no support for the 7(a) program, which is the Small Business Administration's key lending program. Without this amendment, the 7(a) program would be run solely on the fees charged to small businesses and lenders, causing large fee increases. The amendment offsets its cost by reducing funding for technology upgrades at the departments of Justice and State.The full text of Price's remarks is below:"I rise today in support of the Velazquez amendment because I believe we should be doing more, not less, to help our nation's small businesses."Small business is the #1 engine of job creation in the United States. And a good deal of the fuel for that engine has been provided by the Small Business Administration's 7(a) loan program, which in past years has provided 30 percent of all long-term small business loans--making it the largest source of public or private financing."For years, that public/private partnership and shared risk in the 7(a) program has created millions of jobs in America—with nearly 500,000 created last year alone."And so one would assume that such a proven program would be supported by everyone. But last year we found out what happens when there is a choice between more tax cuts for the wealthy or helping our small businesses. Despite the fact that the House passed a similar amendment last year, the administration and Republican leadership changed the 7(a) program in conference so that all expenses and risks would be born by the small businesses themselves."The result of this change is exactly what we predicted. Fees for smaller loans of less than $150,000 have nearly doubled, and fees for larger loans have risen by $3,000-$5,000. Fifty lenders have dropped out of the program. It is much harder for small businesses in rural areas and small towns to get 7(a) loans. And, most significantly, 7(a) lending has decreased every quarter since the new fees were added; the amount of the average 7(a) loan has dropped by $75,000 since the new fees have been put in place."The facts are clear. We have a serious problem. And the Velazquez amendment provides the obvious answer: restore funding for the 7(a) program. The amendment would provide $79 million for 7(a) loan-loss reserves, which will leverage over $18 billion in small business lending."We hear a lot of rhetoric about the importance of our small businesses. This amendment gives Members the opportunity to show they're willing to do more than talk about the importance of our small businesses. So I encourage my colleagues to put some money where their mouth has been and vote "yes" on the Velazquez amendment."# # #
06.13.2005	Washington, D.C. - With an anticipated above-normal storm season, the Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), is reminding citizens in hurricane prone states to be prepared for the upcoming hurricane season.A recent poll found that a fourth of the people in the 12 east and Gulf Coast hurricane-prone states are doing nothing to prepare for the next hurricane that could hit their area. FEMA urges all Americans to take time to prepare for the next hurricane, now. The three main steps to disaster preparedness are: make a plan, make a kit, and get informed. These simple steps are vital to guarding against injury to life and property that could come from the effects of a hurricane or any disaster.FEMA has additional hurricane preparedness information available, including how to prepare a "go kit" and how to hurricane-proof a home. Radio public service announcements are available for download from this site, and radio and television public service announcements may be requested by e-mailing: fema-studio@dhs.gov. The "Are You Ready" guide is available for downloading in both English and Spanish or you may call FEMA toll free at 1-800-480-2520 for your free copy. You can also visit the Department of Homeland Security website to get a list of what contents should make up your disaster supply kit.Americans living further inland may not realize they could also be at risk from the effects of a hurricane if living on a flood plain or in a flood vulnerable area. Every state is at risk for flooding and homeowners insurance does not cover flood damage. Flood insurance is a cost-effective way to financially prepare for floods. To learn more about your risk and flood insurance, visit www.floodsmart.gov or call (800) 427-4219.FEMA prepares the nation for all hazards and manages federal response and recovery efforts following any national incident. FEMA also initiates mitigation activities, trains first responders, works with state and local emergency managers and managers the National Flood Insurance Program and the U.S. Fire Administration. FEMA became part of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security on March 1, 2003.# # #
06.09.2005	Washington, D.C. -Price Responds To Emails from Constituents in a Live E-Town Hall MeetingToday, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) hosted his first electronic town hall meeting, the topic of which was Social Security. Price took emailed questions from constituents and answered them in a live hour-long online chat. The transcript of the discussion appears below:Greetings to the 4th district!Congressman Price is currently voting on the House floor. However, before he left, he wrote a brief introduction. He also drafted a few responses to emails that have been submitted in recent days. So, we'll start with those questions and answers, and he'll join us live in just about 10 minutes or so.IntroductionGood afternoon, and thank you for joining me here today! This is a "first" for me, as it may be for you. I'm used to answering questions in traditional town hall meetings, in small groups, on the street, or even in the grocery store -- but I don't often answer them in an online chat! I hope that we'll both find this to be an interesting learning experience, and that this will be a worthwhile opportunity to answer the questions of people who don't often get involved in the political process.Before we get started, I'll just start with a quick summary of where I am on the possibility of Social Security reform: I believe Congress should strengthen Social Security without increasing the deficit, harming the middle class, or slashing guaranteed benefits. I think it was a mistake to abandon the fiscal policy that in the late 1990s reserved Social Security surplus revenues to pay down federal debt and prepare for the system's obligations to the baby-boom generation. Finding a solution to the long-term challenges won't be easy, but in order to do it, we must be forthright in outlining what the consequences of each of the proposals may be.Let me also mention, briefly, that we have already received many more questions than I could possibly answer in this hour. We're going to try to answer the questions that reflect the concerns of most people. If we don't get to your question, please go to my website at www.price.house.gov to check out our Issues page on Social Security or to submit your question to me directly. I'll post the transcript there, too.Let's get started!How can the president expect to fix social security by diverting money to private accounts at a time when the system needs it the most? Thanks, David, and keep up the good work!I appreciate the kind words. You raise a good point. The President's "solution" to the long-term solvency problem would actually move up the date by which annual Social Security benefit payments are expected to exceed annual revenues -- by six years. And it would move up the date by which the trust fund would be unable to pay 100 percent of benefits -- by 11 years.I'm in college. Isn't privatization better than nothing? Social Security won't be there for me when I retire.That's just the thing – the President's plan isn't better than doing nothing. In fact, it's far worse than doing nothing, especially for someone your age. Under the president's plan, the average 20-year old would stand to lose $152,000 in promised benefits when he or she retires.Even if we did nothing at all, Social Security would still be there for you when you retire. The Social Security Trust Fund would still be able to pay out about 80% of benefits when you're ready to retire, and there's no reason to believe it would ever go lower than that. Now, I know that's not ideal -- we must ensure that the Trust Fund pays 100% of benefits when you retire! -- but it's a lot better than what the President is proposing. That's why I think we should take the time to come up with the right plan...not rush into this plan.What is "clawback"? What I understand is that when a person selects private accounts, the percent selected is then reduced from the retirees SS benefits. That never seems to be spelled out to all, and in my opinion needs to be for people to make a correct decision. Thanks for you help.You're right. The president's plan for private accounts includes a "clawback," or "tax," as it is also called. It is pretty difficult to comprehend, and most people have not been given the information they need to understand it.Basically, the president's plan requires that workers repay all of the payroll taxes diverted to their private accounts, plus interest, through a further reduction in the worker's guaranteed retirement benefit. In essence, this would be the equivalent of imposing a 50-80 percent "tax" on the value of the private account at retirement, depending on how much the account has earned over time. That means you could end up with as little as 20% of what's in your private account.Why would the President's plan include this provision - why isn't he more straightforward in explaining it? As far as I can tell, it's because his plan is so expensive that the only way he can offset the cost is to try to pass it along to the retiree.It seems to me that allowing people to invest a small part of social Security would be a good thing. What would be the harm? I have always voted for you, and appreciate your work.You're right in that, on the surface, the concept seems perfectly logical. But as the saying goes, the devil is in the details. The reason I and many other members of Congress -- from both sides of the aisle -- oppose private accounts is because they jeopardize both the future of Social Security and our economy. There is plenty of solid, nonpartisan data that has convinced us of this. For example, using the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office's (CBO) risk-based estimate of future returns on investments in stocks and bonds, a private account would leave a retiree no better off than someone who decided not to use them. In fact, it leaves some people significantly worse off, thanks largely to the reduction in guaranteed benefits. Moreover, the president's plan would leave a large hole in the overall federal budget, adding $1.4 trillion to the national debt in the first ten years alone.In your experienced opinion, what is the real chance that SS will be privatized?There are many people in Washington who are wondering the very same thing. The national poll numbers indicate that the more the public hears about the President's plan, the less they like it. But he seems very determined, and I've learned not to underestimate that determination.If a privatization bill does come before the House, I'm sure the White House and the House Leadership will pressure many moderate Republicans to vote for it, even if their constituents don't want them to. I do not believe a pure privatization bill could pass the Senate. But if any bill passes the Senate, a House-Senate conference might be engineered to produce something close to the House bill. That happened once, with an inferior Medicare prescription drug bill, and it could happen again.I'm Back!Hi everyone -- thanks for your patience! I'm back, sitting in front of the computer, taking questions live.What can we do to stop the false and misleading claims the White House is making to undermine Social Security?I'm going to answer this question in conjunction with the next one:I am a 17 year old recent graduate of Orange High School, and among my fellow peers there are several that are deeply concerned about social security. We feel as if our benefits may be scaled back in the future and at the present time we don't exactly know what is going to happen concerning our future benefits. How could social security reform affect us, and how do we make our voices heard?To both of you, and everyone here of all opinions, I say: Ask questions. Get involved. Talk to your friends, your neighbors, members of your community. Write letters to your editor. And demand representation that reflects your values and your interests.And to the 17 year old from Orange High School, congratulations on your recent graduation - and keep up your interest in important issues! I hope the earlier question from the college student (and this discussion in general) has answered your question about how you might be affected.We should be able to do what we want with our Social Security money. Do you Democrats really think the federal government can do a better job planning for our retirement than we can? I don't.The President's plan wouldn't simply allow you to invest your money however you please. You would be forced to choose from a small selection of government-approved funds. Plus, the "tax" that I referred to earlier significantly reduces the amount of money you'll get - especially when you factor in the massive benefit cuts that the President has included in the plan.Another factor to consider is the cost of privatization, which is so significant that it jeopardizes Social Security for everyone, including today's retirees.If Democrats think Social Security works so well, how come Members of Congress don't participate in Social Security?This is one of those "urban legends" that has been making its way across the Internet for years! I am happy to have the chance to debunk it here. Since 1984, all Members of Congress have been required to pay into Social Security. Our payroll taxes and our benefits are calculated precisely the same way they are for all workers.You and the other Congressional Leaders get to put money into the stock market, i.e. "Private Account", instead of Social Security. Why can't myself, and other non-Congressional Leaders, have the same benefits as you and the other Congressional Leaders in regards to Social Security, "Private Account", contributions into the Stock Market?First of all, we do pay into Social Security, as I've stated. Second, I elected to supplement my Social Security income by opening a Thrift Savings Plan account, which is a voluntary savings plan like any other 401(k). Many employers offer similar 401(k) plans, and I support legislation that make it easier for all Americans to save their money in a 401(k) and other retirement accounts. In fact, I believe it's one of the many options Congress should be considering now.What the President is proposing is something different entirely. Instead of making it easier for you to save in addition to your Social Security guaranteed benefit, he wants to drastically reduce your benefit and replace it with a private account plan -- one that leaves you without anywhere near the flexibility or security of a 401(k) and one that may leave many Americans significantly worse off.Social Security was founded during the Depression, which was a result of the Stock Market crash. Its purpose is to sheild us from market instability, and other economic fluctuations. I continue to be amazed that noone ever talks about this huge irony. How can we call attention to the foolhardiness of investing Social Security funds in the stick market?You are correct about much of the thinking that went into Social Security originally. I do not regard careful investment in the stock market as foolhardy, but it is important to diversify one's key investments. So, I oppose replacing Social Security as an anchor for Americans' retirement.Can you explain how the "clawback" could possibly end up costing 50 to 80 percent of the retirees benefit?The "clawback" takes back all the money that was used to start your account, plus 4% interest on that money. So, all you get to keep is the return above 4%. Based on past market rates of return and what is expected over the next 20 years, you would only be able to keep 20-50% of the total amount in your account.It's hard to understand, and even harder to defend. I don't find it surprising that the President is reluctant to talk about it.Democrats always whine that stock market is risky. I personally don't care if the stock market is risky, because Social Security won't be there for me when I retire. Besides, I'm investing in a 401k anyway. My friends and I say taking risks is better than getting nothing at all from a system I've been paying into already.The President has done a great job of convincing younger people that Social Security won't be there for them, as we talked about in the earlier question. The thing is: he's not being straightforward with you. Social Security will still be there for you, even if Congress does nothing at all. Social Security will pay full benefits to everyone until about 2042, and even after that, retirees would take about a 20% benefit cut.I have never whined about the stock market being risky. I invest in the stock market through my 401(k) and otherwise. I want to facilitate such investment for more Americans. But just as a wise investor diversifies his stock and bond portfolio, I would never suggest replacing the basic Social Security package of a guaranteed benefit plus disability and survivors insurance with a "private account." The idea should be to supplement, not supplant, Social Security.Yes, congress does pay social security taxes but how can you really look at the plan with the peoples best interest at heart when you will be receiving your current pay with increases until you die?I don't think I understand what you mean. My pension is calculated like those of other Congressional employees, based on years of service and salary. I will not get my full salary when I retire, not even close. I have, however, planned for my retirement and want to make it easier for all Americans to do the same.Congressman, please spell out that your Thrift account is not part of what you pay into SS. Some people may think it is based on your response.You're right -- my Thrift Savings Plan has nothing to do with what I pay into Social Security. It's just like any 401(k).Are there incentives for greater savings for retirement proposed, that do not involve siphoning off some Social Security contributions? Social Security must not be "privatized." - that would seriously weaken the funding structure for S.S.I agree with you on both counts. I believe that incentivizing savings for retirement is one of several possibilities Congress should consider as part of a possible Social Security reform package. Generally the incentives proposed are tax breaks or, for low-income individuals, governmentally-provided matching funds.Congressman, why didn't you just invite people who shared your opinions to participate? :o)Because I do not regard the President as a role model in this regard!I've heard about taking the cap off SS which I think is an excellent idea. I've heard of the higher incomes paying more SS which I also think a good idea - - any chance either of these suggestions may happen? I do not think the 'savings plan' a viable plan.Many of you have written in with similar comments and suggestions. I agree that raising the earnings cap (the amount of one's income on which the Social Security payroll tax is levied) is one of many options we should consider as part of a bipartisan solution to the long-term Social Security solvency problem. It would not be the first time; the cap has frequently been adjusted in the past.Why not just have the government invest part of Social Security surplus in the stock market.I believe your idea has merit. You may remember that several years ago, President Clinton called for using a limited portion of Social Security's share of then-projected budget surpluses to buy a mixture of stocks and federal securities. I would have liked to see a greater effort by Congress to find a realistic way to make that work. A number of members of Congress, however, expressed concerns about the implications of extensive government ownership of private companies and the dangers of favoritism (or, conversely, the imposing of "politically correct" prohibitions) they saw in such a system.I think your suggestion would definitely be something we should consider as part of a bipartisan effort to address the long-term challenges facing Social Security. The system would have to be carefully designed to avoid undue risk or abuse, but it could increase the rate of return on Social Security revenues without making the downside risk fall on individuals.Are Social Security funds released for concerns other than retirement, survivor and disability benefits. As an example, are these funds available for military spending?Social Security taxes can only be spent to pay benefits. When revenues exceed benefits, the surplus is required by law to be invested in US Treasury bonds at market rates of interest. This, of course, makes funds available to the Treasury to finance other government operations and to reduce borrowing elsewhere. But the US bonds held by the Social Security Trust Fund are the safest form of investment available, and it is irresponsible to suggest otherwise by denigrating them as "IOUs." The US Treasury has never failed to redeem its bonds in our country's entire history.I understand that the expense ratio to administer the current SS Program is about 2%. Under the Administrations plan to privatize SS the expense ratio may climb to 10-12% from information I have received. Is this correct?It's hard to say for sure because the Administration has not offered a complete plan, but your numbers are pretty close to many of the estimates I have seen. Fidelity Investments, an industry 401(k) leader, estimated that the Social Security Administration would need to hire 100,000 additional staff to handle the additional paperwork from the President's proposal. And Wall Street investing firms are expected to get close to half a trillion dollars in fees from private accounts in the next 30 years. So whether the new administrative costs of private accounts are 8% or 15%, there is little doubt that they will be much higher than they are now and that the people who will benefit the most from the President's plan are the investment firms which will handle the accounts.I know the President announced some changes to his proposal not too long ago. How do they work?President Bush has recently revised his benefit cut package to reflect a sliding-scale approach. A sliding scale would result in less dramatic cuts in promised benefits for the average worker than would pure price-indexing (closer to 21% for the average American worker making $35,000 a year, as opposed to 45% under his original plan). But this plan does even less to address the long-term financial shortfall facing Social Security! It would address only 57% of the Social Security shortfall. So, I can't help but wonder...how will he make up the remaining 43%? Reduce benefits? Raise taxes? He has yet to say how he would make up for that shortfall in funding.One more important item to note: Although the poorest Americans would not see their guaranteed benefits reduced under the President's new plan, everyone making over $20,000 a year would still have their benefits cut. In fact, it is the middle class that would lose the largest proportion of their retirement income under the President's new proposal.First--many thanks for all your hard work on our behalf. My question: Specifically, what exactly is happening to us baby boomers? What specifically happens to my benefits and for all of us over 50?Though the President and the House Republican leadership have not released a completely plan, they say it likely "won't affect" anyone over 55. Based on his recent "sliding scale" proposal, people who are about 50 years old, like you, could probably expect some benefit cut -- maybe around 12% -- when you retire.But here's what's even more troubling: The president's plan would also have the effect of adding $1.4 trillion to the national debt over the first ten years of the program, and nearly $5 trillion over the first twenty years. That would result in an unsustainable 70% increase in our current national debt. What makes this even more incredible is that the interest costs of that additional debt alone are more than it would cost to keep Social Security solvent into the next century -- without any benefit cuts.A debt that large will put every single government program at risk immediately - including Social Security.When will the Social Security Fund payout = income. I can't live on S.S. so why not get some Private Acct to suppliment? Why is the return on my S.S. so low? The Stock market usually does better and Bonds almost always! Is the Fund still being used for other purposes?You're right about the overall rate of return, which is one reason for the answer I gave above about having the government invest some portion of the Trust Fund in the equity market. However, the debate is also about risk, about costs to the Trust Fund and the Treasury, about disability and surivivors insurance, and about retirement savings that do not depend on the state of the stock market on the day one retires. I hope this discussion touches on most or all of those matters today.The bottom line, according to most analysts, is that the stock market would have to perform way above historic levels in order for people to break even or make more under the President's plan. That's just not a risk we should be willing to take.Social Security is in good shape for decades, but Medicare and Medicaid are on the brink of failure within the next 10 years. Why not deal with those real problems first?Great question. You're absolutely right – those problems should take priority. But the president and Republican Congressional leadership think otherwise, and their targeting of Social Security for radical change requires us to prioritize that issue.Why not reduce or possibly eliminate disability payments from Social Security?I personally don't think that's a good idea, although the Bush Administration recently said it is a possibility. Disability insurance was added to Social Security in 1956, and although most Americans will never use it, it is an essential component of the safety net. It offers protection that most people would feel it necessary to purchase, were it not available through Social Security. If government offered such protection, should it do so through direct funding at a time of record deficits? Disability insurance as an earned benefit that workers pay for through Social Security makes a lot more sense.Using non-partisan, non-political numbers, tell me how much you really think the President's plan would cost.The president's plan would force the government to borrow $1.4 trillion over the first ten years of the program and nearly $5 trillion over the first twenty years, significantly raising interest payments on the national debt. These statements come from the Social Security actuaries themselves.Why are the Democrats not suggesting that social security be "reinforced" by repealing limited portions of President Bush's tax cuts? This seems to me to be a perfect way to demonstrate that the Democrats are for protecting the middle class and will put the Republicans in the position of having to say that social security should not be "reinforced" if it would harm any of the tax breaks already given out to the wealthy.While I have supported tax cuts targeted toward the middle class, I believe that most of Bush's tax proposals have mainly benefited the wealthiest Americans, have done little to stimulate the economy, and have added trillions to our national debt. For one-third of the revenue lost to Bush's tax cuts, Social Security could be made whole for the next 75 years!An additional thought...One additional thought on that question: there have been numerous efforts to allow portions of the president's tax cut (for people making over $500K a year) to expire, and all have failed because the Republicans have voted them down.I urge you to do something to help Social Security shortfall by trying the private account solution and STOP SPENDING THE SURPLUS!Let me refer you to earlier answers: the private account "solution" would make projected shortfalls come sooner, not later. As for spending the Social Security surplus, I agree. These revenues should be used to pay off debt, as they were in the late 1990s, not for tax cuts or new spending. That would be the best single way to prepare for the baby boomers' retirement. Unfortunately, George Bush abandoned this policy soon after he took office.Don't leave just yet...Folks, we have a few more questions we want to get to, so if you're interested in the discussion, stay with us for another 10 or 15 minutes!What's the point in worrying about Social Security at all? The current administration isn't concerned with public opinion, World opinion or Constitutionality....They're enthusiastically willing to just ignore whatever laws happen to get in the way of achieving such noble goals as finding creative ways to justify & legitimize torture, killing filibusters, interfering with the Schiavos, ignoring the 9/11 commission... I am and have always been proud to be an American. But I am ashamed and embarrassed at the actions of the American government. I applaud Rep. Price's efforts to hold on.Thanks for your support. Many of my constituents have echoed your sentiment that the actions of the president and the House leadership do not reflect their concerns as Americans. As you noted, I've voiced a few reservations about the Administration's policies myself.It seems to me that the Democrats would just try to block whatever the President and the Republicans try to offer.Your email raises an important issue: the disintegration of the relationship between Republicans and Democrats on Capitol Hill. I'm on my ninth term now, and I've never seen it as bad as this.I think I speak for many Democrats when I say that we don't want Social Security to become a partisan issue – just as we didn't want prescription drug benefit legislation, or stem cell legislation, or any number of other important issues to be decided along party lines. As someone who still bears the scars of the budget battles of the early nineties, I mean it when I say that we must work together in order to accomplish anything meaningful. That is how Social Security was fixed in 1983, when its problems were much more severe than they are now.Democrats have been dealt a tough hand in recent years – we've been shut out of important negotiations on the most important bills facing Congress, and the Republican leadership will use arm-twisting and intimidation to get their bills passed, often against the wishes of the moderates of their own party. I appreciate the need for strong parties in the House, but we also need a bipartisan capacity to take on tough issues, and I fear we are losing that.I find very interresting that you would schedule this electronic town hall meeting at a time of day that most tax and SS paying citizens are at work and can't participate in this forum. Please explain. By the way I am 50 years old and support Presidents Bush's proposal for SS changes because our children will not be able to pay the much higher taxes and expect a decent standard of living in the nearer than they expect future.Actually, we gave advance notice for this e-town hall meeting and opened up the website for early submission of questions because we wanted to ensure that everyone would have a chance to participate. We are also hoping that some of you might be catching this chat on a lunch break at your office! I do hope that constituents who couldn't catch the live chat are able to read the transcript later. It will be available on my website, and on this one.Your question assumes that the only way to fix Social Security in the future would be to raise payroll taxes and/or make the benefits less adequate. I don't accept either assumption, for reasons I've explained in previous answers, and don't believe you should either.When will the Democrats propose a plan, or are they waiting to see what the Republicans are going to do? I think it would be in the Democrats favor to get out there with a plan first and get public attention to it.As I hope you've seen in this discussion, there are many things I would consider as part of a bipartisan plan. But for reasons I hope I've explained satisfactorily, I believe private accounts must be off the table, before the elements of a realistic solution are put on the table. Any final plan must not slash benefits while adding trillions to the national debt.It seems to me that President Bush has waffled a lot on this issue. And like in Iraq and with tax cuts, he just twists the facts to mislead the American people and only wants to hear from people who agree with him. Thanks for standing up for us and fighting his crazy privatization plan and having open meetings.Thanks. I believe that a straightforward, honest discussion about the possibilities for - and consequences of - Social Security reform is absolutely essential to understanding this issue. That's why I welcome people of all political stripes to the table as we discuss these challenges. Town hall meetings - be they mine or the President's - should be open for spirited debate, and North Carolinians should have an accurate sense of exactly how they would be affected by the possible plans, be they Democrat or Republican or bipartisan. The President has been less than straightforward about the benefit cuts that workers would ultimately face under his plan, and I think it is Congress's job to keep constituents informed. That's what I've been trying to do, and I appreciate your support.THANK YOU!This was a great discussion everyone! I hope you enjoyed it as much as I did. I only wish we could have gotten to every question, and I hope the answers I provided have been helpful.To read this transcript online, you can also go to the Online Town Hall website.Participate in Price's E-Town Hall on Social Security!
06.06.2005	Washington, D.C. - On Thursday, June 9th, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) will host his first electronic town hall. The topic for this online chat is Social Security, and constituents are welcome to submit their questions via email anytime from now until Thursday.You can participate in the town hall by going to this special town hall website from 1-2PM on Thursday. Visit anytime to submit your question early, and check out the chat to see if your question gets answered.WHAT: E-Town Hall on Social SecurityWHEN: Thursday, June 9, 2005 from 1-2 PMHOW: Just submit your question here anytime from now until Thursday, and join Price for the live chat from 1-2 PM.The transcript will be available after the chat, too.# # #
05.29.2005	Raleigh, NC - Copyright (c) 2005 by The News & Observer Pub. Co.Jordan Lake in Chatham County has almost 14,000 acres of water to slake the thirst of many Central North Carolina residents. But the lake also has serious problems with pollution, much of it caused by treated wastewater dumped into it by cities in the region.The aim ought to be less pollution to better protect this finite public resource.That goal comes closer with a smart pilot project announced by U.S. Rep. David Price of Chapel Hill. Price has secured a $1.5 million federal grant that will help build a pipeline to redirect up to 2 million gallons of treated wastewater a day for use in industrial-sized air conditioning units and for irrigation.The project will make available all of that treated wastewater to irrigate lawns and other landscaping -- natural assets that help filter out the nitrogen and phosphorus that can cause algae blooms in waterways. The water will also be put to use in the chillers of big RTP industrial sites that need water for air conditioning.Taxpayers will save on the expense of reducing pollution in a major drinking water supply. And municipalities will save significantly by not having to provide drinking-quality water just to spray on thirsty lawns. Cary has been saving money with a similar water recycling plan for irrigation since 2001.The total project will cost $15.8 million, to be shared by the federal government, Cary, and Durham and Wake counties.It shapes up as money well spent, with the prospect of immediate environmental benefits and of long-term savings to the public.# # #
05.28.2005	Washington, D.C. - A reminder from US Rep. David Price (NC-04), who has released the following information about the Tobacco Transition Payment signup:The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) has extended the sign-up period for the Tobacco Transition Payment Program (TTPP) through June 17th. To find out more, contact USDA Service Centers or the National Tobacco Call Center at (866) 887-0140.# # #
05.25.2005	Washington, D.C. - On Location with Other Members of Congress in IraqRelated Documents: GAO Report on ContractorsToday, the House of Representatives passed the major elements of US Rep. David Price's TASC Act (Transparency and Accountability in Security Contracting), which would require that the government collect basic but critical information from its security contractors.Price worked with members of the Armed Services Committee to incorporate the major provision of his legislation into the "Contractors on the Battlefield" section of the Defense Authorization Act for FY 2006 (HR 1815). These provisions would improve federal oversight and accountability for contractors working in war zones.Like Price's TASC Act, HR 1815 would require security contractors to report on the number of personnel and their training. The bill would also establish protocols to improve communication between the military and these contractors.The need for Price's legislation was underscored by a recently released Government Accountability Office (GAO) report, which found substantial confusion surrounding security contracts and how they fit into larger military operations. The report also determined that insufficient information exists to permit a substantive cost analysis to determine whether the use of security contractors is cost effective. GAO had agreed to issue a series of reports to answer several questions raised by Price, including whether contractors are carrying out security duties beyond the scope of their authority, and whether the federal government is providing contractors the direction they need to do their jobs safely and effectively.Price is scheduled to make the following remarks related to the "Contractors on the Battlefield" section of the bill on the House floor today:"Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the Defense Authorization Bill. I want to specifically express my support for the "Contractors on the Battlefield" section of the bill, which takes a number of positive steps toward improving federal oversight of contractors providing security services in war zones."Several major incidents last year brought to light the problems and dangers inherent in the federal government's use of security contractors, including the Abu Ghraib scandal and the brutal murder of four Blackwater contractors in Fallujah."A year ago, more than 100 members of Congress joined me in writing to the GAO to request an investigation into the use of security contractors in combat zones. Last month, GAO confirmed many of our fears, releasing a report that found substantial confusion surrounding these contracts and how they fit into larger military operations."I have been working with Congressmen Spratt, Waxman, Cramer, and Snyder -- and with the various security contractor groups -- to develop legislation that would address these problems and help rationalize the security contracting system."Last month, we introduced a bill based on those efforts, the Transparency and Accountability in Security Contracting Act, and we have been working with the Armed Services Committee to incorporate the major elements of our bill into the Defense Reauthorization legislation we are considering today. I am grateful for the support that Representatives Hunter and Skelton have provided in addressing these issues."There were some items of our bill that I would have preferred be included in the measure now before us, but I understand there are some jurisdictional issues that would have complicated that. Nevertheless, the provisions that are part of the Defense Authorization bill are a solid first step, and I am pleased with this bipartisan accomplishment."To date, federal government has had no precise estimate of the number of armed contactors working in Iraq and, as a result, the Defense Department has had no systematic way to communicate with them, putting both contractors and troops at risk."The Defense Authorization bill would address that problem by requiring DoD contractors to provide information on their personnel who carry weapons, including the exact location where they are working. They would also be required to certify that those personnel have received the necessary training to do their jobs safely and effectively."The bill also would require combat commanders to establish protocols to improve communication between military personnel and contractor personnel. And it would require the Pentagon to establish guidelines for contractors as to the type of weapons they may use and the amount of training required to use them."These provisions would help keep our troops and contractors safe, and they should improve the effectiveness of contractors in Iraq and other areas of conflict. And after two years of being in the dark, this bill would also provide us with the information we need to provide appropriate oversight of contractors in war zones. I urge my colleagues to support this bill."# # #
05.23.2005	Historic Project Brings Together Several Communities, Including Wake and Durham Counties, Town of CaryFourth District, NC - David Price Makes an Important Announcement at a Triangle Wastewater PlantToday, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) joined elected officials from the Town of Cary and from Wake and Durham Counties in announcing major funding for the historic Wake-Durham-Cary Water Reclamation Project. The project will both improve water quality in Jordan Lake and help sustain the Triangle's future growth in an economic, environmentally-friendly way.Price, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, secured a $1.5M Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) grant as part of last year's funding process. In addition, the Town of Cary and both Wake and Durham Counties are contributing another $1.2M to complete the first phase of the project."One of the biggest challenges to continued growth in the Triangle will be meeting the demand for clean water," said Price. "I'm proud that the communities of the Fourth District are meeting this challenge head on: they're forming an effective partnership to create innovative, forward-thinking, environmentally friendly ways of sustaining growth."The joint project, announced at a news conference today at the Durham County Triangle Wastewater Treatment Plant, benefits several communities by making highly treated wastewater available for irrigation and commercial uses in Research Triangle Park (RTP). This will help reduce the demand for potable water, which will no longer be needed for irrigation during dry summer months. It will also foster growth in currently undeveloped areas of RTP."As the first community in North Carolina to provide reclaimed water services, Cary is proud to be a partner in this important and historical regional reuse effort," said Cary Mayor Ernie McAlister.Wake County Board of Commissioners Chair Joe Bryan added, "This partnership will foster sustainable growth and responsible economic development in our region while protecting our water supply and water quality.""This is a win-win project that could serve as a model for the rest of the state," Durham County Board of Commissioners Chair Ellen Reckhow said. "Through this regional partnership, we will reduce nutrient loading to Jordan Lake while reducing the demand for treated water."How it WorksThrough the partnership, Durham County will upgrade its wastewater treatment facility, enabling it to produce treated water that is clean enough to be used for non-drinking water purposes. Instead of being discharged into the New Hope arm of Jordan Lake, as is the current practice, some of the reclaimed water will instead be transported to Cary and Wake County for irrigation and commercial uses. Cary will construct water lines from the Wake/Durham County line to the intersection of Kit Creek Road and N.C. 55, and Wake County will link to those lines to serve the developed Wake County portion of RTP.HistoryA Water Reclamation Plan developed in 2003 examined the feasibility of implementing a reclaimed water distribution system in the southern portion of RTP, which includes Wake County. The study recommended the upgrades to the Durham wastewater treatment plant and new water lines to Cary and Wake County as a first phase, with a total estimated design, permitting and construction cost of $8.35 million. Future phases would be contingent on further development in and around RTP.Looking AheadWhen completed in 2008, the system will reduce phosphorus and nitrogen loading in Jordan Lake, consistent with the N.C. Department of Environment and Natural Resources' desire to implement a voluntary nutrient management strategy. Nutrients degrade water quality by contributing to the growth of algae. This project could keep up to one-third of the Durham plant's treated wastewater from being discharged into streams during summer, when Jordan Lake is most vulnerable to algal blooms.
05.22.2005	News & Observer Editorial: "Price Boosts Democracy"Copyright (c) 2005 by The News & Observer Pub. Co.Democracy can be a joyous but fragile thing. Doubters need only look to Baghdad as a not-so-shining example. So U.S. House Speaker Dennis Hastert and Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi made an enlightened decision when they named Rep. David E. Price of Chapel Hill as the ranking Democrat on a U.S.-funded international commission to help foreign nations set up new democratic governments.Price's selection is fitting. He was a Duke University professor of political science before being elected to Congress, and he has a well-grounded understanding of the challenges and advantages in America's form of government. The commission also is a direct result of legislation Price introduced without success in the past, but which passed this year with co-sponsorship by Rep. David Dreier, a California Republican. Price has made it a focus during more than 15 years in Congress to visit and encourage emerging democracies, including work on a task force in the early 1990s that offered advice, equipment and training to new legislatures in Central and Eastern Europe.So will the new 16-member House Democracy Assistance Commission, which will give emerging democracies insight but also tools to put their governments on a solid footing. President Bush is correct that people yearn for the right to choose their leaders, just as America's founders properly noted that government is best when placed in the hands of the governed. Price's bill, and his place on the new commission, advance those visionary purposes.# # #
05.18.2005	Announcement Made Today at Press Conference by Speaker Hastert, Leader PelosiWashington, D.C. - David Price launches the Democracy Assistance CommissionToday, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) was named the top Democrat on the House Democracy Assistance Commission, a 16-member panel of US Representatives who will work directly with international leaders who are working to establish democracies.Price, who is officially the Ranking Member of the commission, was the driving force behind it. He and US Rep. David Dreier (R-CA) co-authored legislation, House Resolution 135, which is based on an earlier bill written by Price. H. Res. 135 established this plan to give parliaments in emerging democracies the necessary advice and tools to set up their governments. This includes resources and insight to oversee military operations and to improve their capabilities in the areas of constituent services, committee operations, and research."Since its founding, the United States has championed the development of democracy everywhere," said Price. "That work has arguably never been more important than it is today. We must continue to serve not just as a model, but as a partner in the effort to strengthen democracy across the globe."At the press conference today, Speaker Dennis Hastert and Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi applauded Price's dedication to this bipartisan effort, highlighting the experience, knowledge, and leadership that he and Dreier will bring to the commission.Price had introduced the earlier version of this bill with former US Rep. Doug Bereuter (R-NE). Price and Bereuter had been inspired to introduce the initiative as a result of their involvement in a task force during the early 1990s that provided assistance, equipment, and training to new parliaments in Central and Eastern Europe.The commission includes 9 Republicans and 7 Democrats. The list follows.Rep. David Dreier (R-CA), ChairmanRep. David Price (D-NC), Ranking MemberRep. John Boozman (R-AR)Rep. Lois Capps (D-CA)Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK)Rep. Artur Davis (D-AL)Rep. Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE)Rep. Paul Gilmor (R-OH)Rep. Rush Holt (D-NJ)Rep. Mark Kirk (R-IL)Rep. William Kolbe (R-AZ)Rep. Candice Miller (R-MI)Rep. Silvestre Reyes (D-TX)Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA)Rep. Allyson Schwartz (D-PA)Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC)
05.17.2005	Washington, D.C. - This afternoon, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) delivered the following remarks on the House floor during debate of the Homeland Security Appropriations bill."Mr. Speaker, I'm grateful to my colleagues, Mr. Rogers and Mr. Sabo, for their conscientious and cooperative efforts reflected in this bill."This bill would provide much needed additional funding to protect our borders. It would also boost DHS's efforts to track down potential terrorists and criminal aliens that are already in our country."It would shorten the backlog for people seeking to legally live in this country as permanent residents or citizens. And it would help protect our ports and chemical and nuclear facilities."Given the very limited funds Mr. Rogers and Mr. Sabo had to start with, theirs was not an easy or enviable task, and they have done an exceptional job with the poor hand they were dealt."BUT...I've said before, and I'll say it again: we can do better. We must do better. And we would do better, if we made better budget choices."The vote today does not exist in a vacuum. During recent funding debates, we have heard the Republican leaders say there "simply are no funds available" to provide what is needed. I suspect we'll hear them say it again today."What you WON'T hear them say is that since 9/11, we have spent 20 times as much on tax cuts, mainly benefiting the wealthiest Americans, as we have on protecting the American people from terrorist attacks. And just the other week, we passed another tax cut that will only benefit people inheriting estates that are worth millions of dollars. And so we go over the cliff fiscally, and our Republican friends try to pin the blame on discretionary domestic spending, including spending for security. We pass budget resolutions that fall far short, so that by the time we try to write appropriations bills within their limits, we have nothing left to talk about. All we can do is lamely speak of the things we just aren't able to do in this bill because we do not have the funds."Well, we chose not to have those funds. And, to name one conspicuous example, for the second year in a row, we will cut the FIRE grant program—one of the most successful federal programs we have."And despite the fact that a recent FEMA study showed that 2/3 of our fire departments operate with staffing levels that do not meet the minimum safe staffing levels required by OSHA and the National Fire Protection Association, we are again badly under funding the SAFER program, which assists understaffed departments hire additional personnel."We pass bills authorizing improvements and grants. But when it comes time to pay for these programs, we'd rather put the country's money toward tax breaks for the wealthy than for police officers who are protecting our communities. Trillion-dollar tax breaks get rammed through Congress, but in this bill, the leadership says we have 'no choice' but to cut state block grants by 14%."Today our choices are indeed limited, although I'm hopeful we can make some improvements at the margins, for example by passing Mr. Sabo's first responder amendment."At the end of the day, we should pass this bill, and I am hopeful colleagues on both sides of the aisle will support it. But we should understand why the bill, despite our subcommittee's best efforts, falls short. And we should resolve to fix our country's budget policy so that at long last our nation's people and their security can come first."# # #
05.16.2005	San Francisco, CA - Related Documents: GAO Report on ContractorsBy August Cole, MarketWatchAs the rising death toll of hired security contractors in Iraq and other hotspots heightens attention, lawmakers are calling for greater disclosure about how these private firms carry out military-type missions.For Rep. David Price, D-N.C., the grisly killings in Fallujah last year of four contractors from North Carolina-based Blackwater USA helped show the need for oversight and debate about an industry that has rapidly risen to take on frontline work for the United States.Last month, Price reintroduced the proposed Transparency and Accountability in Security Contracting Act, which would set disclosure guidelines and standards for private security firms. The first version of the bill failed last year during the presidential campaign at a time when the Republicans were especially sensitive to questions about U.S. operations in Iraq.Price's legislation encompasses companies whose workers carry weapons for their contracts or are involved in security, training and logistics duties. "The bill encompasses anything that would be regarded as a military function," he said.Divulging details like costs, training, insurance, pay, benefits and other logistics would in most cases be required by the legislation. So would reports of casualties.In Iraq, private contractors' duties range from bodyguard services for high-ranking officials to police training to interrogation. Security personnel make up a major part of the estimated 20,000 American contractors now working in the country.Although these are government contracts, critics say it's hard to get a clear picture of how much money is being directed to these firms since much of the work is farmed out to subcontractors.Private contractors have also been involved in the interrogation of prisoners, a hot-button issue following the Abu Ghraib prisoner abuse scandal. And they have suffered plenty of casualties, including the very public deaths at the hands of a mob in Fallujah.In Afghanistan, even the security of the country's president was entrusted to DynCorp International, through a State Department contract. That catapulted heavily armed Americans into the spotlight alongside the country's new leader.It is high-profile and often dangerous work, frequently employing former soldiers for jobs the military is otherwise too busy or does not have the expertise to perform."Around the world in dangerous situations, when there is a need for protection of diplomats or facilities or activities and people connected with the U.S. government, we routinely hire contractors to provide that security," Adam Ereli, a State Department spokesman, told reporters last month.His comments came shortly after six contractors from Blackwater, a privately-held firm, were killed in Iraq when their chartered helicopter was shot down.Price asserted that the legislation isn't meant to limit use of private security firms. "This isn't an anti-contracting bill," he said.Industry officials have said they're interested in crafting rules that would help ensure high professional standards by weeding out unqualified contractors and, in the process, reduce casualties.To that end, Price said he worked with security firms on the new legislation and hopes that it will be incorporated into the defense authorization bill this year."We support all the transparency and accountability bits that are in the bill," said Doug Brooks, head of the International Peace Operations Association, which counts firms like L-3 Communications' (LLL: news, chart, profile) MPRI, Blackwater and ArmorGroup International PLC (UK:AMR: news, chart, profile) among its members.The organization has its own guidelines that members adhere to covering ethics, insurance, human rights, transparency and accountability, among other areas.# # #
05.13.2005	Other NC Communities Also Seriously Affected by BRAC RecommendationsWashington, D.C. - Today, US Rep. David Price (NC-04), a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Life, received the Department of Defense's recommendations to the Base Realignment and Closure Commission. Among other things, they include the transferring of the more than 100 civilians from the Army Research Office in Durham to Bethesda, Maryland, resulting in the closing of the Durham office."I'm disappointed by the recommendation to close the Army Research Office (ARO) in the Triangle," said Price. "We've successfully staved off such efforts in the past, and for good reason: the ARO has a close and productive relationship with neighboring universities and research organizations in RTP, and its location has proved to be of tremendous advantage to the Army's research operation as a whole."Price continued, "We were given no reason to believe that this would or should be part of the current realignment effort, and I will do everything I can to ensure that the BRAC Commission takes a critical second look at this recommendation."The recommendations also include the transferring of more than 4,000 personnel from Pope Air Force Base, combined with the addition of a smaller number of Reserve and active duty units. In addition, some Special Forces will be moved from their longtime base in Fort Bragg. The Navy Reserve Center in Asheville will also be closed, as will the US Army Reserve Center in Albermarle.The North Carolina Congressional delegation will be working closely with local and state leaders, such as Lt. Governor Beverly Perdue, to ensure that the BRAC Commission is made aware of the economic impact of its recommendations statewide.The BRAC Commission will seek input from interested parties and make a final decision in September.
05.12.2005	Washington, D.C. - Fallen Firefighters Memorial"Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of HR 1544. This bill significantly improves the Homeland Security application and funding process by restructuring it in a way that my home state of North Carolina predicts will shorten the time it takes funds to get from the federal to local levels by close to six months."This bill also significantly improves how we assess threat by taking the decision out of the hands of DHS and creating a Task Force made up of experts from the federal, state, local, and first responder community to develop a comprehensive means of assessing risk."And so I feel that this bill has a great deal of potential and could be a very important step in the right direction. But I warn my colleagues that we will fail in our efforts to protect the homeland if we do not take additional steps to avoid a trade-off between protecting ourselves against terrorists attacks and preparing for and responding to natural disasters."As we vote on this bill, we have a Presidential budget that would slash federal funding for our local police by close to 40% through massive cuts in Homeland Security and Justice grant programs."The Bush administration continues its trend of shifting money from natural and general disaster preparedness programs. For example, the Appropriations committee was recently forced to cut FIRE grants, one of the most successful federal grant programs in existence, by over $100 million at a time when our nation is expecting more than ever from our understaffed and ill-equipped fire departments."And so while I applaud the committee for their work in crafting a strong bill, I want to make clear to my colleagues that voting for this bill is not enough. When it comes time to make some harder choices and budget and pay for these first responder programs we happily authorize, we will need the same bipartisan support for those on the front lines that we see today."# # #
05.09.2005	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David PriceBy Rep. David PriceSpecial to Roll CallWhen I first ran for Congress in 1986, I was not inclined to emphasize my previous career as a professor of political science and public policy at Duke University. But when I finally got together enough money to take a poll, I found that voters thought well of Duke and ranked teaching and writing about Congress highly as preparation for serving there. So I switched my strategy and cut an ad showing me at the blackboard!While this experience says a great deal about the Research Triangle district I represent, the perception about political science was largely correct. I had some advantages that others lacked. I taught in departments where public service was viewed positively, and I had areas of study — American political thought, the ethics of policy choice, and American government — which all were relevant in their own way.It was not political science, however, that steered me into politics. What drew me to both study and activism was the formative experience of the civil rights movement. The climactic moment came in June 1964, when I crowded into the Senate gallery and witnessed a dying Senator being wheeled into the chamber to ensure passage of the Civil Rights Act. I have never since doubted that enough good people working together can right ancient wrongs, or that politics is an essential instrument of our common purpose.At that time, I was focused on Congressional politics and policymaking, drawing on my graduate school summers as an aide to Sen. E.L. "Bob" Bartlett (D-Alaska). Using his help to get interviews with one-third of his colleagues, I wrote a doctoral dissertation on legislative initiative in the Senate.These were the Great Society years, characterized by strong presidential leadership. But it was also a time marked by important changes in the Senate: the decline of the institutional folkways that had inhibited legislative activity down through the ranks and the emergence of a new breed of activist Senators such as Philip Hart (D-Mich.), Edmund Muskie (D-Maine), and Jacob Javits (R-N.Y.). My focus was on the "policy entrepreneurship" of such Members and their staffs, how it was encouraged or discouraged by conditions on various Senate committees, and how it shaped even major administration initiatives.Eighteen years later, I was trying to become a policy entrepreneur myself, as a new Member of the House Banking Committee. What I had learned greatly influenced the way I deployed staff and sought a policy niche.There have been other times when my political science background either drew me into something or influenced how I handled it. One was helping lead the successful 2000 effort to defeat biennial budgeting. Another was the press commentary and reform proposals that flowed from the 2000 Florida recount debacle. And the work we undertook in the early 1990s through the Frost-Solomon Task Force to extend support and assistance to the emerging parliaments of Central and Eastern Europe after the fall of communism was a political scientist's dream — and a moving human experience as well. I am now preparing to help lead the Democracy Assistance Commission, recently established by the House, which will enable us to extend support to a new set of emerging democracies.My approach to partisanship in the House was also shaped by my academic past. I drew on my experience as executive director and chairman of the North Carolina Democratic Party and as staff director of the Democratic National Committee's Commission on Presidential Nomination (the Hunt Commission) in writing "Bringing Back the Parties" in 1983-84. This left me with American political science's affinity for "responsible party government" pretty well internalized. I have understood the value of party discipline and have tried to help achieve it among Democrats, mainly through the whip organization.The developments of recent years have given me pause, however — and not simply because I now find myself in the House minority. Unified party control of the organs of government has proved no panacea. We Democrats tried hard to make it work in 1993-94 with mixed results; the 1993 deficit reduction package was no doubt our greatest achievement, but it was a difficult and politically costly victory.In recent years, unified Republican control has facilitated passage of large tax cuts, a Medicare drug benefit of sorts, and various anti-abortion measures. But the list of failures is also long, including in the last Congress major transportation and higher education authorizations — measures which in years past were easily shouted through.Moreover, the 2001 and 2003 tax measures are an unsettling reminder that unified party control is no guarantee of either coherence or fiscal responsibility. What then-Office of Management and Budget Director David Stockman famously said of the budget process after Ronald Reagan's first term is also true of unified party control and other systems often favored by champions of government efficiency: They can in fact magnify the effects of irresponsibility and error if badly used.I have also come to understand Congress' need for a bipartisan as well as a partisan capacity. Political scientists have written insightfully about the increases since 1970 in the homogeneity and organizational strength of each of the Congressional parties, but less about the dangers of more recent partisan excesses.The greatly increased incidence of completely closed rules (from 9 percent in the Democratic 103rd Congress to 22 percent in the Republican 106th and 107th), the exclusion of Democrats from House-Senate conferences, the leadership's commandeering of committee operations — such tactics go far beyond the normal partisan tit for tat, and they have resulted in extreme polarization. Can anyone imagine today's Congress concluding anything like the 1990 bipartisan budget agreement, even though our long-term budget situation is far more threatening?Congress needs strong parties, but it also needs the capacity to deal with budget and entitlement challenges that are likely beyond the reach of pure partisan exertion. It is on this question of partisan excess, perhaps more than any other, that the perspectives of my two careers converge: as a Member looking for a fair shake for my ideas and the people I represent, and as a political scientist and citizen concerned that real and lasting institutional damage is being done. We simply must do better.# # #
05.05.2005	Washington, D.C. - Today, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) has released the following statement on today's observance of the annual National Day of Prayer."On today's National Day of Prayer, I am struck by the fact that personal faith and political agendas are intertwined more closely now than at any other time in recent history."Our country's political discourse and debate are enriched by discussions of the political implications of our faith traditions, whether they are taking place in our communities, at our dinner tables, or in our places of worship. Personal faith can be a powerful force for public good, and it is my hope that many North Carolinians will take this opportunity to reconnect with their faith today."I hope today will also serve as a reminder of the humility encouraged by our religious traditions. We have all witnessed the power of religion to exclude and divide, and many have been tempted to identify God's will with their own beliefs. I believe we must seek God's will, never presuming to identify it with our own program or power."Honest discussions -- even and perhaps especially on topics about which we disagree -- can help us resist hypocrisy and arrogance. They can also help us live up to the basic ideals, such as liberty and justice for all, on which our country was founded."# # #
05.01.2005	Washington, D.C. - By Kris KittoThe Herald-Sun Washington BureauDonald Barringer never realized his childhood dream of becoming a pediatrician.But the 24-year-old Durham resident found what he might say is an even better way to work with children every day.The second-grade teacher at Pearsontown Elementary School remembers the day he first considered teaching as a career option. A fellow student-council member at his Charlotte high school had just won a college scholarship to study education through the North Carolina Teaching Fellows program."I was like, 'Whoa, that was just a sign,' " he said.Barringer said he saw in the program an opportunity to pay for college and begin a career that would make a difference in children's lives.He won the same scholarship the following year and headed to N.C. Central University to begin his four-year preparation for the classroom.The program responsible for guiding Barringer, who was recognized as the Durham Public Schools' employee of the month for April, now may become the model for an effort to get young people to fill the growing number of vacancies in America's schools.U.S. Rep. David Price, D-4th, has introduced a federal bill modeled after the North Carolina program, which offers $26,000 college scholarships to high school seniors who will commit to teaching in the state's public school system for four years.Jo Ann Norris, the NCTF administrator, said the 19-year-old program has provided the state with more than 4,700 highly coveted teachers.Principals, she said, like hiring NCTF teachers, who benefit from an innovative, comprehensive curriculum. This year's coursework includes a summer road trip for the program's sophomores.The cross-state excursion will provide the future educators a lesson in North Carolina history and culture, as well as job prospects."On this bus trip, many of them will get offers, even though graduation is three years away," Norris said.Wake County, she said, employs the most NCTF alums, with 338 in its ranks.With the national No Child Left Behind Act's looming teacher-quality deadline, the popularity of the NCTF teachers doesn't come as a surprise.Under federal law, all public school teachers must have full certification, a bachelor's degree and demonstrated competence in their subject matter by the end of the 2005-2006 school year.According to Norris, North Carolina has about 9,000 teachers who do not meet these standards."We have too many children being taught by long-term substitutes," she said.Schools often throw substitutes into classrooms because new teachers don't stick around for their second year.Melinda Anderson at the National Education Association said the attrition rate for new teachers always has been high."Almost half of all teacher turnover is due to dissatisfaction or teachers seeking better careers," she said via e-mail.Keeping teachers in the classroom, then, may be just as important as recruiting new ones.Price said he hopes the proposed national teaching fellows program would address teacher retention."The whole idea of the program is not just to give them a scholarship but to give them a professional identity and some support," he said.Price said the national effort would include mentor programs and mid-career educational opportunities for teaching-fellows teachers.Most teachers in the North Carolina program make a long-term commitment to education, Norris said. About 82 percent of NCTF teachers return to the classroom after their fourth year, when their commitment has been fulfilled, she said.Like North Carolina, many states already have teaching fellows programs in place. Price said the national plan would allow existing programs to grow and new programs to start.Barringer said that, while he has trouble finding time to tackle the mountains of paper work his job requires, he has enjoyed professional growth and the family-like atmosphere at Pearsontown.Only in his third year, he already helps train other second-grade teachers.He said he sees the importance in what he's doing and the continued need for good teachers."When you think about education, we all had to go to school," he said, "and we wouldn't be where we are today if it wasn't for a teacher."
04.29.2005	Washington, D.C. - In response to a major report issued by the General Accounting Office (GAO) today, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) has reiterated his call for an overhaul in the way the federal government oversees contractors in Iraq and elsewhere.Price, who requested the GAO report, also introduced a bill late Thursday that would require federal the government to give better guidance to contactors and to collect information on cost, personnel, and casualties. These requirements address concerns raised by the contractors themselves, and they were highlighted in the GAO's report."The conclusions reached by the GAO about the contracting process are deeply troubling," Price said upon being briefed by GAO investigators. "They have confirmed our concerns: there is confusion about the tasks assigned to contractors, a lack of oversight to ensure their safety, question as to their chain of command, and inadequate information on their cost and effectiveness. I hope this report spurs Congress and the Bush Administration to finally deal with this issue."Last night, Price re-introduced the TASC Act (Transparency and Accountability in Security Contracting), which was revised to address the problems highlighted by the GAO report. TASC would set standards for contracting and require that the government collect basic information from its contractors. This information would include the estimated cost of the job, the number of people employed by the contract, and the level of training required.In May 2004, Price wrote a letter to GAO, signed by more than 100 Members of Congress, asking for an investigation into the use of civilian contractors in Iraq and elsewhere. GAO agreed to issue this report answering Price's questions, including whether contractors are carrying out security duties beyond the scope of their authority, and whether the federal government is providing contractors the information they need to do their jobs safely and effectively.The first installments of the report, issued by GAO this morning, find confusion dealing with contracts and a lack of information available to conduct a substantive cost analysis. This summer, GAO will issue further installments addressing the jobs of private security contractors and their chain of command.In the last Congress, Price had introduced a companion bill to the TASC Act, along with Congressman Chris Shays (R-CT). This second bill closed glaring legal loopholes in the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act (MEJA). It was incorporated into the Department of Defense authorization bill and signed into law late last year.
04.27.2005	Washington, D.C. - uring this afternoon's floor debate on H. Res. 22, the Small Business Bill of Rights, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) urged the House Republican leadership to "put their money where their mouth is" and start showing real support for North Carolina's small businesses.In particular, Price focused on the Bush Administration's zeroing out of the subsidies for the very successful 7(a) small business loan program, which has generated billions of dollars in jobs and growth for our economy.The President and House Republican leadership eliminated federal subsidy funding for this loan program last year, opting instead to pass costs along to small business owners with significant increases in fees. This is proving to be a hardship for North Carolina small business owners:-- Last year, the Small Business Administration (SBA) approved 1,264 7(a) loans in North Carolina. This year, only 437 North Carolina businesses are approved for loans. That means that our state will likely receive a third fewer loans this year. Small businesses owners have told Price that the primary reason for this drop off is the new fees.-- For smaller loans, the administration has raised upfront fees by nearly $1,500. For the largest loans, fees are now over $50,000.The text of Price's remarks follows:Mr. Speaker, it is ironic -- or perhaps "hypocritical" is the right word – to be passing a "Small Business Bill of Rights," when in fact, our Republican friends are gutting the very programs that support small businesses.We will likely pass this so-called "bill of rights," but the danger in this Congress is that this will become a smokescreen for inaction, or worse.The Bush Administration can find a trillion here and a billion there for tax cuts of questionable benefit to our economy.But they can't find the funds necessary to help our small businesses that have, time and again, proven their power to create jobs and spur economic growth.The SBA budget proposed by President Bush would provide the SBA with just over half the funds they had during the final year of the Clinton administration. That's like taking money right out of the pockets of our small business owners.One out of every three small business loans has been provided under 7(a). Last year, the Bush Administration eliminated funding to subsidize this critical program, and for the life of me, I cannot figure out why.The return on this government investment has been staggering. In 2004, 7(a) loans returned an estimated $12 billion dollars on an $80 million investment. That is more than a hundred-fold return to the economy. It does not take a genius to recognize that is good business -- and good sense.But despite this, the President thinks it's not the government's job to support this program. Instead, he's passing the cost along to small business owners, significantly raising the fees they pay to use it – up to $50,000 in some cases! That's quite ironic, coming from a President who claims that any change in his tax policy will stall our economic recovery!Mr. Speaker, Democrats understand small businesses and their need for accessible capital. In vote after vote, we are willing to support this vital sector of our economy.If the Republican leadership of this body feels the same, I suggest they stop wasting time with feel-good resolutions...and start putting their money where their mouth is.# # #
04.25.2005	Washington, D.C. - David Price Reads to SchoolchildrenUS Rep David Price (NC-04) has reintroduced his "Teaching Fellows Act," which would expand a North Carolina teacher recruitment and retention program to the national level."The impending teacher shortage is the most critical education issue we will face in the next decade," said Price. "We've talked a lot about education reform here in Congress. But education reform won't work without quality teachers in our classroom. This legislation will help us attract the best and the brightest college students to the teaching profession."During the last session of Congress, the major provisions of Price's Teaching Fellows Act were incorporated into legislation, called the Ready to Teach Act, which sought to strengthen teacher training programs in order to meet the demands of No Child Left Behind. As the first in a series of bills to reauthorize the broader Higher Education Act, the Ready to Teach Act passed the House in 2003, but Congress failed to agree on any additional bills, and it was not signed into law.This year, both the House and Senate are expected to take up the Higher Education Act, and Price will push to ensure that the Teaching Fellows components are included in the final package.The Teaching Fellows Act is modeled on a North Carolina program that is successfully recruiting and retaining top-notch teachers. Specifically, it would:-- Support state scholarship programs for high school seniors and/or college sophomores who want to become teachers-- Provide fellowships to enable teacher assistants and community college students to earn their four-year teaching certificates-- Offer these student teachers and new teachers access to mentors and extra-curricular programs designed to hone their teaching skills-- In exchange, scholarship and fellowship recipients would be required to teach in a public school following graduation.# # #
04.24.2005	Washington, D.C. - By Kris Kitto, The Herald-Sun Washington Bureau8:18 pm"I approved this message!" may be a new Internet pop-up window on your computer screen, if Rep. David Price has his way.Price, D-4th District, and Republican Rep. Michael Castle from Delaware have introduced a bipartisan "Stand by Your Ad Act," which would require that political advertisements appearing online be held to the same standards as those on television and radio.Under federal law, traditional campaign ads must include an appearance or voice-over of the sponsoring candidate expressing approval of the message.Price said the legislation is designed to keep campaign ads truthful. He thinks the Internet will become a more popular way for candidates to communicate with voters."We're trying to anticipate here what these new campaign media look like," he said.If last year's presidential race is any indication, future campaigns will continue to integrate the Internet into their communications strategies.Former presidential candidate Howard Dean, now chairman of the Democratic National Committee, gained prominence by creating a campaign Web log, www.blogforamerica.com.Dean's online efforts inspired the formation of more than 400 political community groups, some of which still meet today.Julie Barko-Germany, deputy director of the Institute for Politics, Democracy and the Internet at The George Washington University, said Dean's campaign deftly used a communications medium that most other politicians still are learning."Even though the Internet, we believe, is a great tool to motivate people ... it is still slightly unknown territory," she said. "[Candidates] tend to stick with what's safer and what works."The most measurable impact the Internet made on last year's political campaigns, she said, was through fundraising, along with a less noticeable voter organization.Though Barko-Germany remembers seeing Internet ads from presidential candidate John Kerry and even a few messages featuring first lady Laura Bush, she said the candidates spent a small 0.33 percent of their combined $2.22 billion campaign expenses on Internet ads.Mike Ashe, director of the Durham County Board of Elections, said many local candidates used Web sites in the last round of elections. But he said he had yet to see Internet ads on a county level.In 2002, Price helped put into law the original "Stand by Your Ad Act" to regulate television and radio campaign ads. He said he took up the issue of political advertising responsibility after North Carolina passed a similar state law in 1999."It struck me for years that the little postage stamp-size picture and the fine print you can't read on the TV screen was highly inadequate," he said.The new legislation also would require candidates to express their approval on "robo-calls" -- pre-recorded telephone messages -- and e-mail.Barko-Germany said she expected to see more Internet ads and other online activity in coming political endeavors.
04.19.2005	House Announces Formation of Future of American Media CaucusWashington, D.C. - With Congress and the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) currently debating how to overhaul the nation's media policies, six Members of the U.S. House of Representatives today announced the formation of the Future of American Media (FAM) Caucus.Chaired by Congressman Maurice Hinchey (D-NY) along with co-chairs Congressman Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Congressman David Price (D-NC), Congressman Jay Inslee (D-WA), Congressman Sherrod Brown (D-OH), and Congresswoman Louise Slaughter (D-NY), the FAM Caucus will provide a venue where reasoned debate, expert analysis, and diverse points of view can come together to address critical media policy issues."A small handful a media conglomerates have come to control the majority of our media outlets, threatening the fundamental values of decency, localism, competition and diversity that are essential to our democracy," said Price. "Americans have told us in overwhelming numbers that they want their local media back. This caucus will be an important part of that fight.""In order to have a well-informed society, it is imperative that the public has access to diverse sources of information. The same holds true for Congress, which is why we formed the Future of American Media Caucus," Hinchey added. "As Congress looks to rewrite the laws that will shape media in America for the next two decades, the Future of American Media Caucus will be there every step of the way to educate Members of Congress and their staff about these issues and how they will impact our constituents."The FAM Caucus is composed of House Members who believe in an accountable, diverse, fair, and independent media. The Caucus is open to Members of both parties and it neither supports nor opposes any particular industry stakeholder. Currently, the FAM Caucus consists of 12 House Members. The FAM Caucus' goal is to educate Members and staff about media issues before Congress and to ensure that all parties - especially the American public - have a chance to participate in the vital debate over media policy.Beginning in May, the FAM Caucus will host the first in what will be a series of briefings on contemporary media issues.• On Thursday, May 12 at 2pm, the Caucus will host a briefing on the Future of American Media and the role of Congress.• On Tuesday, May 24 at 4pm the Caucus will host an event featuring one of the most recognized and respected journalists in America, Bill Moyers, who will offer his views on the state of the media industry.# # #
04.14.2005	Washington, D.C. - Related Documents: CRS Report -- Bankruptcy ReformFollowing House approval of the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 (S. 256) by a vote of 302-126, U.S. Rep. David Price has released the following information on the bill, which passed the Senate by a vote of 74-25 last month."Many constituents have contacted me, wondering how this bill could potentially affect low-income people," said Price. "There are important provisions in place to protect them, and filing for bankruptcy would continue to be an option for the overwhelming majority of people who need it."S. 256 would require some debtors with incomes higher than the state median income to file for Chapter 13 bankruptcy protection. Chapter 13 differs from Chapter 7 protection because it requires filers to enter into a payment plan to repay a portion or all of their debt based on their ability to repay. It is estimated that approximately 10 percent of existing Chapter 7 filers would be affected by the bill. The remaining 90 percent of filers would still be eligible for relief through Chapter 7, which eliminates debts but requires filers to give up most of their assets.It is important to note that filers with incomes below the median would not be affected by the bill. According to the US Census Bureau, the NC state median income information (3-year average from 2000-2002) was $38,432.Specifically, S. 256 would establish a means test to determine debtors' eligibility for relief. Under the means test, the debtor's current monthly income would be determined by:• averaging the debtor's monthly income for the 6 months prior to filing, excluding Social Security benefits;• health expenses;• additional allowance for food, clothing, rent, car maintenance and household supplies; expenses to support an elderly, chronically ill, or disabled family member; expenses for home energy costs;• monthly payments for secured and priority debts; and• expenses for elementary or secondary private or public school tuition.Debtors whose monthly income meets the means-test monetary threshold and whose remaining income after allowable expenses are deducted is sufficient to pay at least $6,000 over a 5-year period (or $100 a month for 60 months) would enter the Chapter 13 repayment plan. However, S. 256 would also provide a "safe harbor" to debtors who earn less than the state median income. The safe harbor provision would prevent creditors from forcing debtors to convert to a Chapter 13 repayment plan."Bankruptcy filings have increased by 400 percent in the past two decades, and filings continued to grow even during the period of high economic growth in the 1990's," said Price. "I am concerned about protecting the bankruptcy system against abuse, and I believe we should restore the system to its original role: providing a clean slate for consumers in legitimate and serious financial trouble, while easing the transition of others to financial solvency and enabling them to fulfill their obligations when they can."# # #
04.13.2005	Washington, D.C. - Reps. David Price (D-N.C.) and Mike Castle (R-Del.) introduced a bill Tuesday that would require Internet campaign ads to contain the same "I approved this message" tagline that television and radio ads must include.Price authored the original Stand By Your Ad Act, which was rolled into the 2002 Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act, mandating that candidates affirm their approval of TV and radio ads paid for by their campaigns. The new legislation would extend that requirement to all Internet communications, including e-mail, as well as to pre-recorded telephone calls.Price said in a statement that he was prompted to revise the original provision due to the rise in Internet advertising, particularly video ads transmitted over e-mail and then rebroadcast by TV media.In addition to the bill he introduced with Castle, Price also introduced another piece of legislation Tuesday that would provide additional time for conducting recounts in presidential elections. Price drafted a similar version of the Count Every Vote Act last year.Under current law, states must certify their election results at least six days before the meeting of the Electoral College in mid-December. Price's bill would move the date for the meeting of state electors from mid-December to Jan. 2. Federal law stipulates that Congress count the votes Jan. 6.In a press release, the Tar Heel State lawmaker said the election reform bill is designed to give states as much time as possible to complete recounts, without delaying the transition of power from outgoing to incoming federal officeholders.But his proposal would serve another purpose: dramatically reducing the vulnerability in presidential continuity during the time between when the electors meet and when Congress counts their votes by shortening the period between the two. The winning ticket is not officially the president- and vice-president-elect until Congress certifies the electoral votes, so if something were to happen to the winners before then, the results of the election could be undone. How Congress would handle the death of both winners is not outlined in either the Constitution or federal law.Price believes the current December meeting of the Electoral College is relatively arbitrary, and he has said that he doesn't see a downside to moving the date closer to Inauguration Day."These new bills contain critical changes that will help restore and maintain the faith of our citizens in our democracy," Price said.— Suzanne Nelson
04.12.2005	Stand By Your Internet Ad Act, Count Every Vote Act Would Make Major Changes for 2006, 2008 ElectionsWashington, D.C. - Today, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) will introduce two bills aimed at reforming the campaign and election process, the "Stand By Your Internet Ad Act" and the "Count Every Vote Act." Both bills draw from the lessons learned in 2000 and 2004 elections.Stand By Your Internet Ad Act, which Price is introducing along with US Rep Mike Castle (R-DE), is the follow-up to the "Stand By Your Ad" initiative that Price wrote into the Bipartisan Campaign Finance Reform law of 2002. "Stand By Your Ad" – more commonly known as the "I approved this message!" tagline – requires candidates for federal office to take responsibility for their election ads. This new version would apply the current Stand By Your Ad requirements for radio and television ads to Internet audio and video communications, including email; and to pre-recorded telephone calls, or "robo-calls."The Count Every Vote Act would provide additional time for conducting recounts in presidential elections. Under current law, states must certify their election results at least six days before the meeting of the Electoral College in mid-December. The Count Every Vote Act is designed to give states as much time as possible -- without delaying a transition of power -- to complete recounts. The bill would move the date for the meeting of state electors from mid-December to January 2nd (or January 3rd, when January 2nd falls on a Sunday).Developments in the 2004 election inspired Price to introduce new versions of both bills. "Despite recent reforms, loopholes in our current laws continue to exist," explained Price. "These new bills contain critical changes that will help restore and maintain the faith of our citizens in our democracy."The rise in Internet advertising, particularly those video ads transmitted over email and rebroadcast by the television media, prompted Price to revise "Stand By Your Ad." And the close election results in several states in 2000 and 2004 are an important reminder that extra time may sometimes be needed to certify election results.Price has a long history of advocating for campaign and election reform. In addition to writing the original Stand By Your Ad bill, he also introduced the Protect American Voters Act in 2003 to correct the problem of voters being mistakenly purged from the voting rolls, as they were in Florida in 2000. In 2003, he and Castle led a bipartisan group of nearly two dozen members of Congress in filing an amicus brief in support of the campaign finance reform law when it came before the US Supreme Court.# # #
04.07.2005	Washington, D.C. - By Bree HockingRoll Call StaffIn his second inaugural address, President Bush emphasized the importance of strengthening democracy around the globe.Now Congress is getting into the act.Shortly before leaving Capitol Hill for the spring recess last month, the House passed a resolution creating a commission aimed at assisting parliaments in emerging democracies.The commission, to be made up of a yet-to-be specified number of House Members appointed by Speaker Dennis Hastert (R-Ill.) and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), is expected to be chaired by Rep. David Dreier (R-Calif.), who introduced the measure. The primary Democratic co-sponsor, Rep. David Price (N.C.), will likely become the panel's ranking member."There is nothing that quite fills the bill in terms of direct parliament-to-parliament, member-to-member involvement with these emerging democracies," said Price, who also participates in the U.S. delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. "What's unique is that direct Member outreach."The announcement of the commission's members, who will serve terms consistent with the Congress in which the appointment is made, could come as soon as this month. The size of the commission will be determined based on Member interest, said Hastert spokesman Ron Bonjean.The commission is modeled after a House effort in the 1990s known as the Frost-Solomon Task Force, which provided equipment and technical assistance to the parliaments of the newly independent Eastern and Central European countries.While the goals of the new commission fit comfortably within the vision articulated by Bush in his inaugural address, the idea for a commission was actually conceived long before the January 2005 speech, Price said. Price, along with then-Rep. Doug Bereuter (R-Neb.), introduced two versions of a similar measure in the 108th Congress.Still, the resolution, which passed the House March 14, references the commission's consistency with what Bush in his address termed "the idealistic work of helping raise up free governments."The commission will enable Members, staff and Congressional support agencies, such as the Library of Congress, to advise the parliaments of a select number of geographically diverse emerging democracies. It will facilitate visits of parliamentary members from these nations and make recommendations to the administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development regarding the allocation of material assistance, such as information technology and library supplies.In support of this work, the commission will carry out an annual study looking at, among other things, the role of the parliament in the legislative process and government oversight, the usefulness of Congressional expertise on issues ranging from constituent services to budget process, and the parliament's information-technology needs. Assistance will be contingent on the nation's expressed interest in receiving such aid.Each year, a report detailing the results of the study and the activities of the commission will be submitted to the Speaker, the House Minority Leader, the International Relations Committee and other appropriate House committees, the USAID administrator, and the House Office of Interparliamentary Affairs no later than Sept. 30, until the panel sunsets in 2009.The move comes at a time when democracy promotion has taken on new urgency on Capitol Hill. Legislation aimed at bolstering democracy throughout the world is pending in both the House and Senate. And interest in parliamentary exchange is rising, said a senior Democratic aide on the International Relations Committee, pointing to the creation of the chamber's interparliamentary affairs office.That office was created in fiscal 2004 to facilitate interparliamentary and overseas travel services for Members and foreign governments, among other duties. It is currently in the process of preparing for the annual meeting of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe Parliamentary Assembly, which is scheduled for July in Washington.The commission, which will be primarily staffed and funded through the International Relations panel, currently has one aide, John Lis, a committee staffer, who is taking the lead in organizing the initial studies of possible participant countries. About five nations will likely be selected to participate in the program beginning in fiscal 2006.Although the first batch of new democracies has yet to be decided, Rep. Mark Kirk (R-Ill.) — a co-sponsor of the resolution who hopes to join the commission — said he would like to see the parliaments of Egypt, Iraq, Afghanistan and possibly the Palestinian territories considered for assistance.The panel's work, he added, will also help shore up U.S. national security."Democracies do not attack each other," he said.
04.06.2005	Washington, D.C. - David Price and the 2005 NCAA Men's Basketball ChampionsUS Rep. David Price (NC-04) gave the following speech on the House floor today:"Mr. Speaker, how fitting it is today that the skies are Carolina blue. We are still basking in the glory of the University of North Carolina's crowning as the 2004-2005 NCAA Division I Men's National Basketball Champions."All season long, the Tar Heels were touted as the most talented players in the country, but some questioned whether the team could win it all. Monday night they proved any remaining doubters wrong. After playing 40 minutes of inspired basketball, the Tar Heels showed that they have the heart, the team spirit, and the determination of true champions."North Carolina established itself long ago as one of the elite programs in college basketball history. But with their fourth national chairmanship win on Monday, the Tar Heels proved they are back among today's elite."We hope and expect this year's run will be the first of many under native son Coach Roy Williams, who led the Tar Heels back to victory in just his second year back at his alma mater."The victory was especially sweet for North Carolina's three seniors, who have helped lead an impressive comeback from their freshmen year challenges to the glory of their final game."Three ACC schools, Mr. Speaker, are located entirely or partly in North Carolina's Fourth District, so I am no stranger to divided loyalties! But last night's victory is something all North Carolinians can feel proud of. That include this proud alumnus, and my staffers, who are still radiating Carolina blue, thanks to an inspirational team who has made us all proud. Go Heels!"# # #
04.05.2005	Chapel Hill, NC - University of North Carolina at Chapel HillRelated Documents: Resolution Honoring the Tar HeelsThis morning, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) made the following statement in response to the University of North Carolina's 75-70 victory over number-one-ranked University of Illinois in the NCAA Men's Basketball National Championship last night:"College basketball fans across North Carolina and the country are celebrating with the Tar Heels today, after their fourth national championship win, and first under Coach Roy Williams."All season long, the Tar Heels were touted as the most talented players in the country, but some questioned whether the team would win it all. Last night, they proved all of their doubters wrong, playing forty minutes of inspired basketball and showing the heart, team spirit, and determination of true champions. There are more than a few staffers in my office today wearing Carolina Blue and beaming with pride!"As a UNC alumnus and former Duke professor, I have sometimes been asked whether I have divided loyalties when it comes to ACC basketball. But I think last night's victory is something all North Carolinians can feel proud of. In the words of tarheelblue.com writer Adam Lucas: 'We didn't all get a piece of the net...but we're all touching a piece of the title." True words indeed. Go Heels!"
04.02.2005	Raleigh, NC - Fallen Firefighters MemorialI'm honored to be with you this morning for this important statewide observance and to pay special tribute to the firefighters and firefighters' families here today.The memorial for which we are about to break ground is a powerful reminder of your commitment and dedication to service and of the risks you face every time you respond to a call.These days, in Washington circles, there is much talk about terrorism and the role our first responders play in preventing and responding to possible attacks. But I am afraid that sometimes the official tributes fall short. For one thing, the rhetoric is not matched by resources. Our local first responders are actually getting less support from Washington than they were before 9/11. That is not acceptable and I have made it my first priority as a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee to change it.There is also the danger that amid the rhetoric, the stories of everyday heroes get lost. We know that we must prepare in new ways to confront the threat of terrorism, and you are doing that. But we need to remember that you have been there all along – running into burning buildings, dealing with hazardous chemicals, helping people during an ice storm or a hurricane, and doing the work of paramedics before an ambulance gets to the scene.In short, we owe you. We owe you a huge debt. You put us first, every day.And to those of you here who have lost a firefighter, I realize that our words, our concern, this memorial will not give you back your loved one and will barely touch your sadness. But please hear our "thank you" and know that we recognize the courage it took for YOU to live with someone who put his or her life on the line every day.I hope that people will come to this memorial and find it to be a quite place of reflection....a place where they can remember loved ones and colleagues or a place where they can honor firefighters they will never know....but who are there for them anytime they are called.I, for one, look forward to returning to this memorial when it's completed later this year. I know many others will do the same, and we thank all of those who have made this day and this memorial possible.
03.24.2005	Fourth District, NC - Answering QuestionsUS Rep. David Price (NC-04) will host two town hall meetings next week, one in Durham and one in Chapel Hill. Constituents are invited to attend and ask Price questions about the federal issues that matter to them.Price regularly hosts town hall meetings and office hours as part of his commitment to keeping in touch with the 4th District. Last month, he hosted a special town hall meeting in Wake County dedicated to Social Security.DURHAMTuesday, March 29, 20057-8:30PMMuseum of Life and Science433 Murray Ave., DurhamCHAPEL HILLThursday, March 31, 20057-8:30PMChapel Hill Town Hall306 N. Columbia Street, Chapel Hill
03.17.2005	Washington, D.C. - Answering QuestionsToday, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) will vote against the House Republican budget, which slashes funding for North Carolina programs while continuing to create record deficits with its large tax breaks to the wealthiest 1% of Americans.Price will instead support a fiscally responsible Democratic alternative, which maintains support for the critical programs and initiatives that Triangle families rely on.Below are the remarks Price made on the House floor last evening during debate of the budget resolution."Mr. Speaker, colleagues will remember the biblical story of the prophet Nathan coming to the mighty King David. Nathan told David a story about a rich man who had many sheep but who took the one little ewe lamb of a poor man to feed a visiting friend. David flew into a rage at the rich man and proclaimed that anyone who would do such a thing deserved to be put to death for abusing his power and showing so little compassion. And Nathan said to David, 'YOU are that man.'"This story should lead us to look into the mirror: are we in danger of becoming 'that man?' The Republican budget removes support for housing, education, Medicaid, community development, and small business lending. It raises taxes on the poor. And it does all this so the Republicans can afford new tax cuts for the wealthiest among us. If there was ever a moral issue before this Congress, it is that one."One might expect that these cuts would at least result in significant decreases in the deficits. But this is not the case. We continue to face a 'worst of both worlds' scenario, in which we suffer both devastating cuts and dangerous increases in the deficit. We continue to borrow from our children to pay for tax cuts, the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the president's Social Security privatization."As Members of Congress, we have a responsibility to be good stewards of the resources of our government and not simply look to our immediate desires but also to the needs of our children and our children's children, including their need to be free of a crippling debt."Republicans claim to be the party of moral values, but their budget belies their claim. The Democratic alternative maintains current funding levels for our county's critical domestic and security programs while also providing meaningful tax relief for middle class Americans. Furthermore, the Democratic budget recognizes that fiscal responsibility is also a moral value by reinstating a real pay-as-you-go rule and by balancing our budget within seven years. The Republican budget, on the other hand, continues to run up record deficits for as far as the eye can see."Mr. Speaker, the budget process provides each party with a chance to put its money where its mouth is and to act on the rhetoric we hear all year long. A budget is a statement of moral priorities. I hope and pray that we will do justice to those imperatives in the votes we cast today."
03.15.2005	Washington, D.C. - This essay appeared in a recent issue of "Blueprint," the magazine of the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC). Please find a print-ready version here.The Bible harshly admonishes leaders who declare "Mission Accomplished" prematurely. The relevant passage is Jeremiah's condemnation of prophets and priests who "deal falsely": "They have treated the wound of my people carelessly, saying 'Peace, peace' when there is no peace." Or, as a contemporary translation has it: "They act as if my people's wounds were only scratches. 'All is well,' they say, when all is not well," (Jeremiah 6:14).What a text for our times! I had occasion to recall this and to remind others of it during the 2004 campaign. How the admonition resonates when we think not only of President Bush, dressed in a flight suit declaring victory in Iraq, but also of his complacency in the face of economic distress, pulling the plug on extended unemployment benefits in 2003. Bush's hope seemed to be that no one would notice that the jobs were not coming back and thousands were still exhausting their benefits every week. "All is well," he said, in effect, when all was manifestly not well.I made this point in different campaign contexts, sometimes framing it with the scriptural reference, sometimes not. My audiences always understood the message and were receptive to it. Yet I was struck by how much more engaged and enthused they were when I first reminded them of the familiar phrase, "'Peace, peace' when there is no peace."Although I did not set out to conduct an experiment, my experience demonstrates how speaking in the religious idiom connects with many audiences, relating contemporary reality to truths and stories that are part of their personal history. Such references should be accessible and inclusive; they must fit the situation and not be contrived or strained. But political discourse that shows an easy familiarity with our faith traditions and draws on religious teachings has a unique power to instruct and inspire.I have participated in numerous post-election discussions of how our values and aspirations as Democrats can be shown to relate to our own convictions as people of faith, and to those of the voters. Making this connection is not solely a matter of the terminology we use or the analogies we draw. We must explore and share the wellsprings of our political commitments and ask how our deepest values should shape public policy.I have some sense of irony as I hear Democrats being urged to be more forthright in relating faith to politics. My own religious convictions and the broadening they underwent in the context of the civil rights movement had a great deal to do with my becoming a Democrat in the 1960s. Civil rights protests in North Carolina also gave me my first serious interfaith experience; like many others before and since, I discovered that one could bring one's deepest convictions to political advocacy and at the same time make common cause with people whose theological and philosophical perspectives differed greatly -- and sometimes did not have conventional religious roots at all.This is not to say that translating religious and moral convictions into social action is always simple or straightforward. Prior to World War II, for example, theologian Reinhold Niebuhr challenged those who interpreted the Christian ethic of love to counsel non-resistance and pacifism. Such a view, he said, owed more to Enlightenment notions of human perfectibility than to biblical faith. In taking full account of human sin and the will to power, Niebuhr argued, "Christian realism" recognized "that justice [could] be achieved only by a certain degree of coercion on the one hand, and by resistance to coercion and tyranny on the other hand."Such matters deserve searching, respectful exploration within and among religious communities. It is erroneous to assume that a committed Christian or Jew will have a fixed or formulaic view on capital punishment, abortion, same-sex relationships, the alleviation of poverty, war and peace, and many other issues. The insularity of our religious communities -- and, often, of the political circles we move in -- discourages dialogue and debate. And no doubt there is a human tendency to limit the agenda of issues to which we apply religious principles, giving short shrift to those which we find unsettling. It was difficult for the white church in the 1960s to move beyond an individualistic understanding of faith to appreciate its prophetic and social dimensions. Today's challenges often seem murkier, resistant to tidy prescriptions, but it is no less important to discern and discuss the implications of faith for them.Political leaders should attend to and participate in such discussions, though we may seldom be in a position to lead them. Agreement will not come easily, nor should we expect perfect agreement. Not all religious communities, for example, approach or understand Scripture in the same way. Most of us understand, at least in theory, the pitfalls of selective interpretation. We must guard against picking only those teachings that we find convenient or useful. But some selective application is inevitable, whether it be of the codes of Leviticus or the counsels of perfection of the Sermon on the Mount.What guides such judgments? How do we understand the admonitions throughout the Hebrew prophets and the New Testament that we should attend less to the minutiae of the law than to the broader obligation to "do justice and to love kindness" and to love God and our neighbor? Relating faith and politics is not merely a matter of referencing scriptural commands. It requires ongoing efforts to mine the riches of our faith traditions and to apply them to new and challenging circumstances. This might range from subjecting military interventions to "just war" criteria to evaluating presidential budget requests as statements of moral priorities.We will also debate when and how to attempt to translate religious and moral precepts into civil law. Few would now argue that religion should be relegated to a solely personal and private sphere, or that the separation of church and state requires such a "privatization" of faith. As the author Jim Wallis asks, "Where would America be if the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. had kept his faith to himself?"Religious faith is a critical source of political motivation, and religious convictions shape our advocacy. But as people of faith enter the political arena, we will necessarily seek understanding and agreement across communal lines. We will invoke commonly held values and the shared aspirations of the wider community. Rather than viewing our religious convictions as a debate-stopper, we must follow Isaiah's injunction: "Come now, let us reason together."There may be situations where religiously-based disapproval of certain behaviors (for example, same-gender sexual relations) comes into conflict with shared democratic values such as civil liberty and nondiscrimination, which themselves have a strong religious pedigree. Sometimes, religiously grounded precepts may not find broader agreement. In such instances, the best course may be to stop short of codifying specific religious and moral precepts into civil law, leaving the individual and communal expression of conscience free.Religious conservatives often bridle at counsels of restraint, complaining of being asked, as my colleague Rep. Mark Souder (R-Ind.) puts it, "to check my Christian beliefs at the public door." There is also a tendency to belittle the search for common ground as leading to a mere "common denominator" that lacks specificity or force. That, I believe, greatly underestimates the power of the fundamental principles of our constitutional democracy, which have deep religious roots but also find broader resonance. Certainly it would have come as news to Frederick Douglass and Martin Luther King as they invoked the Declaration of Independence to combat slavery and segregation, that making a universalistic appeal diluted their passion or the force of their argument.We also need to understand two critical facts about the U.S. Constitution's prohibition of the "establishment" of religion. As noted, it does not require the "privatization" of faith. And secondly, its defense is not only that religious coercion must be avoided but that religious liberty must be protected. The First Amendment, in other words, protects not only civil liberty but also religious faithfulness. The most powerful argument against the tendency of some conservatives to transgress constitutional boundaries is in fact a religious one, as became clear when the "Religious Freedom Amendment" to the Constitution, heir to the earlier school-prayer amendments, was defeated in the House in 1998.Finally, our religious traditions teach us humility, and that, too, should influence our politics. This is the point of the familiar story of Abraham Lincoln's response during the Civil War to a clergyman who expressed the hope that the Lord was on the side of the Union. "I know that the Lord is always on the side of the right," Lincoln said. "But it is my constant anxiety and prayer that I and this nation should be on the Lord's side."When Sens. John Kerry (D-Mass.) and John Edwards (D-N.C.) cited that story during the 2004 campaign, I found voters taking note and appreciating the insight. After all, like Lincoln's masterful second inaugural address, it draws on the fundamental religious understanding that our own will and striving are always subject to God's judgment. As Abraham Joshua Heschel wrote, "We must not regard any human institution or object as being an end in itself. Man's achievements in this world are but attempts, and a temple that comes to mean more than a reminder of the living God is an abomination."Integral to the Jewish and Christian traditions is the realization that people are inclined to a kind of idolatry whereby they identify their own interest or ideology with God's sovereign will. Like "God-fearing" people of all ages, Niebuhr wrote, we "are never safe against the temptation of claiming God too simply as the sanctifier of whatever we most fervently desire." Note that, once again, the most powerful argument against religious pretension is not secular but theological. Claiming divine sanction for our own power or program does not merely undermine American pluralism; it also flies in the face of our religious understanding of human sinfulness and divine transcendence.So let us engage: our country needs the full-throated advocacy of "liberty and justice for all" -- of policies that realize opportunity, responsibility, and community -- that only Democrats and progressives are likely to make. We can engage far more effectively by taking explicit account of the faith traditions which provide most Americans with their personal and moral frames of reference. This is partly a matter of communicating effectively, but also of understanding more fully what is required of us and our society as heirs to these riches. A more deeply rooted politics will enable us to make a more authentic and persuasive case for a just society, even as it equips us to resist political arrogance and pretension and to defend the American constitutional order.David E. Price is a nine-term representative from the 4th district of North Carolina.
03.14.2005	Washington, D.C. - Late Monday, the US House of Representatives passed a resolution authored by US Reps. David Price (D-NC) and David Dreier (R-CA) to establish a House commission that will provide assistance to parliaments in emerging democracies worldwide.House Resolution 135 establishes a House Democracy Assistance Commission to better prepare parliaments in emerging democracies to oversee governmental expenditures and military operations, and to improve their capabilities in the areas of constituent services, committee operations, information services, and research. Price is expected to take a leadership role on this new effort."Since its founding, the United States has championed the development of democracy everywhere," said Price. "That work has arguably never been more important than it is today. We must continue to serve not just as a model, but as a partner in the effort to strengthen democracy across the globe."Price had introduced an earlier version of this bill a year ago, during the 108th Congress, with former US Rep. Doug Bereuter (R-NE). Price and Bereuter had been inspired to introduce the initiative as a result of their involvement in a task force during the early 1990s that provided assistance, equipment, and training to new parliaments in Central and Eastern European countries.Excerpts of Price's remarks from the Floor debate are found below:"Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the Dreier-Price Democracy Assistance Commission Resolution. H. Res. 135 will establish a Commission in the House charged with helping parliaments in emerging democracies play a more independent, transparent, and representative role."I am also pleased that Chairman Dreier will be taking the lead role on the Commission, and I look forward to working closely with him to make this commission a success, and a worthy successor to the Frost-Solomon Task Force, which helped build the capacity of new parliaments in Central and Eastern Europe between 1990 and 1996."The Frost-Solomon Task Force, under the leadership of our colleagues Martin Frost and the late Gerry Solomon, went in at the ground level with ten parliaments from former Soviet and Warsaw Pact states, providing them with the kind of basic resources and technological infrastructure required for any legislature to play a meaningful role in an emerging democracy – things like computers and other office equipment, and reference materials for parliamentary libraries – and helping them establish the systems and procedures necessary to create an efficient and well functioning legislature...."I had the opportunity to participate in the activities of that task force, and to witness first hand the positive impact it had, not only on the maturation of parliaments receiving assistance, but also in engendering a positive image of the United States, and of the U.S. House of Representatives, abroad. It was one of the most worthwhile and rewarding experiences I have had as a member of this body."The spread of democracy is continuing, and the U.S. Agency for International Development and its partners in the non-profit world have been active in assisting new parliaments all around the world. Many other developed democracies have also gotten into the act of providing assistance to parliaments in emerging democracies."But there is still an important role for the U.S. House to play – in fact, there is a role I would argue that the House is uniquely positioned to play."The U.S. House is the oldest, directly-representative democratic body in existence, one of two chambers in the oldest democratic federal legislature in existence. We have been doing something that the world admires for quite a long time. We should pass along the benefits of our experience to our colleagues in emerging democracies abroad, always in the spirit of realizing that, for all of us, the fullness of democracy is still a work in progress."Our knowledge and experience as members and support staff of this great institution are something we can share directly with our counterparts in emerging democracies, helping build their capacity to better perform the essential role that legislatures must play in democratic government – through oversight of governmental expenditures and military operations, constituent services, committee operations, information services, and research...."Over the course of the next several months, the Commission will be appointed by the Speaker and Minority Leader, and the staff will be evaluating candidate countries from around the world for potential participation in the Democracy Assistance Program."The Commission will eventually narrow that list down to five countries that will be invited to participate in the program beginning in fiscal year 2006."Assistance will be provided through visits by Commission members, other interested members, and staff to participating countries, and members and staff of those parliaments will also have an opportunity to come to the United States to become more familiar with both state and federal legislative institutions and practices...."This is an exciting endeavor, and one that I am looking forward to helping move forward. I hope that many of my colleagues will agree and find some way to contribute to the work of the Commission, to help support the spread and consolidation of democracy around the world. The passage of H. Res. 135 is the essential first step, and I urge its adoption."
03.10.2005	Five Triangle Projects Funded in House Transportation BillWashington, D.C. - Announcing Funding for New BusesUS Rep. David Price (NC-04) has secured key federal support for five Triangle initiatives in the Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (TEA-LU), which the House passed this afternoon."I'm pleased that so many Triangle constituents will directly benefit from the funding included in TEA-LU," said Price. "This is an important step forward in our efforts to meet the transportation needs of our rapidly-expanding communities."Price, a long-time advocate of funding for our highways and mass transit, has secured $18M in funding for projects in the 4th Congressional district in TEA-LU, including:-- $11 million for construction of I-540 from NC 55 South near Holly Springs to NC 55 North near Morrisville.-- $2 million for the American Tobacco Trail in Durham and Chatham counties-- $2 million for the purchase of two rail corridors in Durham for future use as bicycle and pedestrian paths-- $1.5 million for continued development of Cary pedestrian bike paths-- $1.5 million for construction of a park and ride lot in Chapel HillTEA-LU also would reauthorize the Triangle Transit Authority's regional rail project, allowing Price to continue his strong support for additional federal funding though his position on the House Appropriations Committee.TEA-LU is the follow up to the Transportation Equity Act of the 21st Century (TEA-21), which expired in 2003, and has been extended while Congress has continued to debate new funding levels. Because of TEA-LU's larger funding level, our state stands to gain an additional billion dollars more under TEA-LU than it would have received under TEA-21.Highway and transit programs are financed through the Highway Trust Fund, which comes from gasoline taxes. North Carolina gets back a smaller percentage of the funds being distributed to states than the percentage it contributes to the Highway Trust funds. However, TEA-LU does not fully address the "donor state" problem. Price has been working with a coalition of these "donor states" to improve our rate of return.# # #
03.10.2005	North Carolina - By BILL SANDIFERStaff WriterFourth District U.S. Rep. David Price, a Democrat from Chapel Hill, has entered the outlying landing field fray, calling on the Navy to go "back to the drawing board."According to a news release issued late Wednesday by 1st District Rep. G.K. Butterfield's office, Price's comments were made during a "sharp exchange" at an afternoon House Appropriations subcommittee hearing.Price couched his remarks in the context of a recent federal ruling by Eastern District Judge Terrence Boyle that has halted Navy OLF work until the military branch either wins on appeal or redoes much of its environmental study, which Boyle pronounced flawed and incomplete in his court ruling on Feb. 18."There is a strong consensus at the state level," said Price, "that the Navy's site is problematic, and that feeling has been affirmed by Judge Boyle's decision. But I also believe that there is a strong consensus that an alternative can be found, and the state is ready to help find another site. Is the Navy exploring one?"Navy officials, according to the release, replied the Navy was not "extensively" considering alternatives, would appeal Boyle's ruling and were "planning for success" in their appeal.Price reportedly expressed disappointment the Navy was going ahead with the appeal, despite the gathering weight of public opinion against the project."This is not just a legal question about process," said Price. "It is about the legitimate concerns that have been raised by stakeholders. In light of the judge's ruling, this issue is absolutely ripe for reconsideration."The release says Butterfield praised Price for calling on the Navy to work with North Carolina in finding a solution."The Navy needs to understand that the opposition is centered on the site, not on the need for an OLF," said Butterfield. "We believe that if everyone could get behind another site we could quickly move this forward together."In his new role as a member of the House Armed Services Committee, Butterfield, on Wednesday, spoke with Adm. William J. Fallon, former Atlantic Fleet Forces commander and a key figure in the OLF process. Butterfield asked Fallon, now head of the Pacific Command, about the Navy's OLF plans in the wake of the ruling. Fallon, says the release, confirmed the Navy would appeal the ruling and would consider no other sites, describing the Washington County site as the best available.The news was not received well in Washington County."I am encouraged to see true statesmanship in both Congressmen Butterfield and Price," said Jennifer Alligood, North Carolinians Opposed to the OLF director. "The Navy's documents openly indicate that they filled in holes in (environmental studies) to placate the dictates of powerful politicians. And why they are so sure of winning their appeal makes me wonder what they have up their sleeves in the Virginia courts."The appeal would be heard by the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond, Va. Only one North Carolina judge sits on that bench."It is frightening that the military is expecting the citizenry to become increasingly more subservient to their dictates -- and refuses to consider the voice of the people for whom they work."Roper Mayor Bunny Sanders has been a vocal opponent of the OLF, voicing fears that OLF flights will lead to a repeat of an incident in the late 1990s in which a military jet crashed just short of the downtown part of her community."I appreciate the fact that (Butterfield and Price) are willing to ask the Navy the hard questions about their total disregard for the concerns of North Carolinians, about the negative impact of their ill-advised decision," said Sanders. "I also hope that the governor and the North Carolina General Assembly will recognize how impotent the state looks in the national arena, as it allows Sen. (John) Warner of Virginia to impose his desire to mitigate noise in Virginia by forcing an unnecessary OLF in an area of our state that the entire leadership of the state of North Carolina claims they object to."If the state of North Carolina aggressively opposes the Navy decision and utilizes everything in its power to stop it, (the OLF) will not happen. My daddy used to say that power ain't power until you use it," she added.Warner, a longtime Republican member of the U.S. Senate, is chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee.Despite the Navy's announced intentions to appeal, it appears no court papers have been filed yet.# # #
03.09.2005	Washington, D.C. - In a sharp exchange during an Appropriations subcommittee hearing this afternoon, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) urged Admiral Vern Clark, Chief of Naval Operations, and the Honorable BJ Penn, Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Installations and the Environment, to go "back to the drawing board" with the Navy's plan for an Outlying Landing Field (OLF) in Eastern North Carolina.Referencing a recent US District Court ruling, Price asked, "I understand that Judge Boyle ruled last month that the Navy did not fulfill its obligations under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) ...before making its decision to construct an Outlying Landing Field...How does the Navy plan to respond to the federal judge's decision?"He continued, "There is a strong consensus at the state level that the Navy's site is problematic, and that feeling has been affirmed by Judge Boyle's decision. But I also believe that there is a strong consensus that an alternative can be found, and the state is ready to help find another site. Is the Navy exploring one?"Clark responded that the Navy is not extensively considering alternatives, that they're appealing the Judge's decision, and that they're "planning for success" in their appeal.Price told Clark that he was disappointed that the Navy was pressing ahead without regard for the concerns of so many North Carolinians. "This is not just a legal question about process," he said. "It is about the legitimate concerns that have been raised by stakeholders. In light of the Judge's ruling, this issue is absolutely ripe for reconsideration."Price has been part of the congressional delegation's effort to get the Navy to respond to North Carolinians who are concerned about the environmental impact of the proposed OLF site or who live nearby.As a member of the new Military Quality of Life Appropriations subcommittee, Price asks Administration officials to justify the President's budget requests for the Army, the Navy, Veterans' Affairs, and other agencies – especially as they relate to North Carolinians.
03.08.2005	Raleigh, NC - "Good morning! It is good to see so many familiar faces here today to discuss important agricultural issues."I look forward to this breakfast every year because it gives me the opportunity to recognize all of you and the critical contributions you make to the agricultural interests of North Carolina and this nation."I believe this is the longest running event of this kind and was started when Representative Ike Andrews represented Wake County."And of course, it is hard to ever have a farm breakfast or gathering of any sort in the North Carolina farming community without thinking about Jim Graham. He never missed one of our breakfasts!"Last year I stood before you and stated that the tobacco buyout was THE most important issue faced by North Carolina growers as well as growers from every other tobacco-producing state."Well, I am glad to stand before you today to let you know that we all stood together, we all fought long and hard, and that buyout IS a reality, at long last."But there are other battles ahead."Some of you know I'm on the House Appropriations Committee, and I bear the scars of more than a few budget battles on Capitol Hill."And boy, have we got a big one on the horizon."Our guest speaker, who is the Ranking Member on the Committee on Agriculture in the House, will get into the nitty-gritty."But in short:"The Administration wants to make some pretty steep cuts in the programs that affect everyone of us here today."Specifically, discretionary budget items would be slashed by 12 percent from last year. There are proposals to reduce mandatory spending as well. That means farm commodity programs, food stamps, rural development, and conservation, to name a few of the areas affected."I, for one, am outraged that they would attempt to balance the budget on the backs of North Carolina farmers. It's wrong."We could eliminate every penny of discretionary spending – every new highway, every affordable housing program, all the money for our schools – and they STILL we would not be able to balance the budget."Why? Because quality programs like the ones you rely on are not the reason why the country's going broke! It's because of misplaced priorities and fiscal irresponsibility, not because of the much-needed support we give to farmers and other critical American programs."And that's what brings me to the good news:"There is some very good work going on right here in the Triangle – work that has a direct impact on our agriculture community."In this year's agriculture funding bill, we got increased support for food fermentation (our pickle research - $370,000), regional grains genotyping ($630,000), and soybean research – ($420,000)."We were also able to continue to secure federal funding through the NRCS to provide technical assistance to farmers on nutrient management ($450,000) and the Animal and Poultry Waste Management Center ($470,000)."And yesterday, my colleagues and I attended a terrific event with the USDA to announce federally-funded initiative to help protect food safety. The Food Safety Research and Response Network, will experts from 17 colleges and universities. The team will study the pathogens that lead to food poisoning, including those associated with agricultural bioterrorism."I, for one, am not going to stand for the elimination or cutting of any of these important programs, and I hope you won't either."We're going to take the same bipartisan determination that went into this tobacco buyout and fight for the support you need."# # #
03.03.2005	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David PriceRelated Documents: First Responders: Underfunded, UnpreparedDuring an Appropriations Homeland Security subcommittee hearing, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) has again pressed top Bush Administration officials to justify the drastic cuts they are planning for North Carolina's first responders for the second consecutive year.During questioning yesterday, Price grilled Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff about the administration's proposed slashing of state block grants, FEMA (Federal Emergency Management Agency) preparedness programs, firefighter grants, and COPS (Community Oriented Policing) initiatives.The President's budget would cut national funding for police overall by nearly 40% and firefighter grants by 30%. During the hearing, Price also continued his criticism of the administration's post-9/11 policy to shift funds to "high-risk" areas, like New York City and Los Angeles, at the expense of overall preparedness. Two-thirds of firefighters, nationwide, don't have the resources to meet minimum staffing requirements as mandated by OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Administration)."Not only are our first responders ill-equipped and understaffed to handle potential attacks," Price said to Chertoff. "But they're also struggling to respond to the everyday crises of crime, accidents, fires, and natural disasters."Chertoff asserted support for first responders and general preparedness, but after the hearing, Price noted, "Once again, officials from this Administration refuse to put money where their mouth is. Publicly, they say they support our local first responders and reiterate how critical they are to the fight on terrorism. But their budget recommends outrageous cuts in the funding our police and firefighters desperately need -- cuts that would put our communities at risk. It just doesn't add up. Our police and fire departments are getting far less federal support than they were before 9/11."The President's budget would slash funding for the COPS program, which has put 2,934 cops on the street in North Carolina, by 96 percent. It would cut over $26 million from homeland security formula grants to North Carolina, which police, firefighters and emergency management teams rely on for the training and equipment they need to keep communities safe.Price, a long-time advocate of local first responders, is widely recognized as the Appropriations Committee's most vocal proponent of support for local police and firefighters. Dozens of North Carolina departments have expressed deep concerns about the ways in which funding cuts are compromising their ability to keep communities safe, and Price continues to bring those concerns to Washington where he confronts Bush Administration officials and works to restore funding to critical first responder programs.# # #
03.01.2005	Raleigh, NC - US Rep. David Price (NC-04), along with US Reps. Bob Etheridge (NC-02) and Brad Miller (NC-13), will host their annual Farmers' Breakfast on Tuesday, March 8, 2005 from 8:00-10:00 AM at the Jim Graham Building, State Fairgrounds, Raleigh.All our farmers and their spouses are encouraged and welcomed to attend. Breakfast is $8 and checks may be made payable to "Farmers' Breakfast." If you have not already sent your check, please call Price's Raleigh office at 859.5999 to reserve your meal by Thursday, March 3.# # #
02.18.2005	Chapel Hill, NC - Hosted by: Dick GordonWhen members of Congress are sworn in, they usually do it with one hand on the Bible and the other raised in a pledge to uphold the Constitution. Once they take office, there is an expectation that they will pay more attention to the Constitution than to the Bible. But as the debate over religion and politics goes on in churches, city halls, courtrooms and classrooms all over this country -- so it goes on in the halls of the U.S. Congress.Today a conversation with two of the people's representatives: Mark Souder, a Republican from Indiana whose Christian faith motivates everything from how he votes on the budget to where he stands on foreign policy, and David Price, A Democrat from North Carolina, who says that keeping his personal faith separate from his public role as a legislator, is the key to democracy. Having faith in the halls of power.# # #
02.15.2005	Washington, D.C. - On Location with Other Members of Congress in IraqToday, US Rep. David Price (NC-04), a member of the House Appropriations Committee, landed a position on its new Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs subcommittee. The new responsibility will allow Price to help protect North Carolina's military bases, advocate for the needs of North Carolina's National Guard and Reserves, and push for health research funding in the Triangle."This new assignment will enable me to look out for the brave North Carolinians who are putting their lives on the line to protect our country," said Price. "From working to reduce wait times at the VA Hospitals to advocating for better pay for our Guard and Reserves, I'll continue my efforts on behalf of 4th District troops and veterans."Price moved to the new slot after House Republican leaders reorganized the Appropriations Committee, dismantling two of the subcommittees on which he served: Veterans Affairs-Housing and Urban Development (VA-HUD) and Legislative Branch. Through VA-HUD, Price had been able to secure support for key Triangle initiatives, such as Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) water treatment projects and economic development initiatives. Jurisdiction for those funding programs has been switched to three other subcommittees which collectively oversee funding for the Departments of Interior, Commerce, Justice, State, Transportation and Treasury."I will continue to advocate for affordable housing, research, and other former VA-HUD areas, although this will now take place at the full-committee level," Price noted.Price will also continue to serve as second-ranking Democrat on the Homeland Security subcommittee, which is unaffected by the reorganization. From that post, he has been a strong advocate for more support for North Carolina's emergency needs and first responders.# # #
02.11.2005	Miller, AARP, and College Students To Join DiscussionRaleigh, NC - Answering QuestionsOn Wednesday, February 23, 2005, US Reps. David Price (NC-04) and Brad Miller (NC-13) will host a special town hall meeting on Social Security. The public is invited.The forum, to be held at Meredith College in Raleigh, will bring together constituents, college students, and seniors. The consequences of the President's plan to privatize Social Security would be far-reaching, and even the most conservative, non-partisan analyses reveal that they would ultimately involve major benefit cuts for younger workers who are currently paying into the system. Price and Miller believe it is important for all constituents to understand the details of the plan and they way it would affect North Carolinians.All are encouraged to attend and bring their questions.Logistics:Wednesday, February 23, 200510AMMeredith College Cate CenterRaleighAnyone who has questions or needs special accomodations can call the Raleigh office at 919/859.5999.
02.10.2005	Washington, D.C. - BY ALEXIS GRANTThe Herald-Sun Washington bureau8:16 pmPresident Bush misled North Carolinians about the severity of the nation's Social Security problems and "ought to be ashamed of himself," Democratic Rep. G.K. Butterfield said Thursday.Butterfield, Rep. David Price and three other North Carolina Democrats chided Bush for his remarks within hours after the president's visit to Raleigh."We face some very long-term challenges with Social Security," said Price, D-4th District. "But there is no crisis. Ironically, what the president wants to do with his privatization scheme would make these challenges far worse."Under Bush's proposal to create private investment accounts, young workers would be most negatively affected, he said."People should get back the money they pay into the system and they should have the kind of benefits they were promised," Price said.His fellow Democrats were no less critical."It's a ridiculously complicated system that would leave workers much [worse] off," Rep. Brad Miller, D-13th District, said of Bush's proposal to allow Americans to invest a portion of the Social Security taxes into private accounts.Social Security will be bankrupt by 2042, Bush told 1,700 invited guests Thursday at a downtown Raleigh performing arts center."Younger workers ought to be allowed to set up a personal account and invest in stocks and bonds so that their money can increase faster, at a faster rate than that which their money increases in the Social Security system," he said.But Democrats challenged Bush's bankruptcy claim and said the proposal misleads many young people who think it is similar to a 401(k) plan."It is your money, but you cannot get at it and you don't get to control it," Miller said."If everything went right, you would just barely keep up or stay even with someone who hadn't gone into the plan," he said.Instead, Bush should provide tax incentives to encourage young and low-income workers to save, said Rep. Bob Etheridge, D-2nd District. One suggestion would be to put a portion of each worker's income tax refund into a savings plan for retirement.The administration also should be focusing on helping the economy grow and getting the deficit under control, Etheridge said.
02.07.2005	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David PriceToday, US Rep. David Price (NC-04), a former member of the House Budget Committee and current co-chair of the Democratic Budget Group, issued the following statement on President Bush's 2006 budget proposals:"If I were still working as a college professor, I would give this budget an 'F.'"First, the budget is an accounting failure. The $5.6 trillion ten-year surplus inherited by this Administration — which could have been used to strengthen Social Security — has been replaced with record deficits for as far as the eye can see."Second, it's a moral failure. This President is placing the burden of our astronomical debt squarely on the shoulders of our children and grandchildren. His budget also cuts funding for first-responders and forces veterans to pay more for the health care they have earned. It maintains the pretense that domestic priorities -- from highway construction to scientific research -- are responsible for our budget woes, rather than the President's own fiscal and economic policies. It squanders trillions of dollars on tax breaks for the wealthy and slashes billions in education, health care, housing, and environmental programs."Finally, this budget is a failure of honesty. The two issues that dominated the President's State of the Union Address -- Iraq and Social Security -- are nowhere to be found in this budget. We know that military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan will cost us billions this year alone, and the President's proposal to privatize Social Security will cost trillions in coming decades."I ask this President: What will it take for you to own up to the consequences of your budget proposals and share the true cost of your plans with the American people?"# # #
02.02.2005	Washington, D.C. - US Rep. David Price (NC-04) has issued the following statement in response to tonight's State of the Union Address:"Tonight, I hoped to hear honesty from the President: a straightforward account of the situation in Iraq, a real plan to balance the budget, and a realistic projection of his Social Security plan. I am disappointed on all three counts."This President has yet to own up to his mistakes in Iraq: the mistakes that drove him to invade, the mistakes that he made in post-war planning, and the mistakes he continues to make in downplaying the role of insurgents and the threats our troops face."This President is not being straightforward about the impact of his Social Security privatization plan on the average worker. Working Americans will end up with less money under his plan, not more. And for many, the cuts will be draconian."Finally, this President is deluded if he thinks he can balance the budget while giving tax breaks to millionaires, fighting a war, and tacking a costly Social Security privatization plan on top of that. His plan adds $2 trillion to the national debt, making the 'voodoo economics' of the 80s seem like sound fiscal policy. His fiscal recklessness will ultimately drive interest rates through the roof, affecting the lives of every North Carolinian."It's high time the President levels with the American people. All is not as he would have you believe tonight. I fear we will suffer the consequences of his policies for generations to come."
01.31.2005	Durham, NC - North Carolina Central University Funding AnnouncementToday, US Rep. David Price (NC-04) joined North Carolina Central University (NCCU) Chancellor James H. Ammons in announcing federal grants to benefit several programs at the university. Price, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, secured a total of $967,000 in funding for the two initiatives in the FY 05 Omnibus Appropriations bill, which was signed into law late last year."These initiatives share one thing in common: a commitment to community," said Price. "NCCU's leaders have taken this commitment and put it into action, working with their neighbors to provide cleaner air, better schools and support for local families."Details of the initiatives are listed below:NCCU Environmental Science Program - $843,000.This grant is part of a continuing research program to determine pollutant exposures and environmental risks in several North Carolina minority and disadvantaged communities.The Saturday Academy - $124,000.This program provides academic enrichment and life skills training for at-risk students and their parents, who learn about such topics as literacy, nutrition, and job skills."I applaud the efforts of Congressman Price and the Environmental Protection Agency in helping NCCU to secure renewed funding for our program to assess environmental risks in minority communities," said Chancellor James H. Ammons. "Our students are gaining valuable experiences in environmental research and at the same time providing much-needed support to communities that have a strong desire to improve their environment. Through our Saturday Academy, which also received federal funding, we have been able to expand our outreach effort targeted at closing the achievement gap."At the press conference, representatives both programs spoke publicly about the significance of this federal funding, and students personally attested to the programs' impacts on their lives.# # #
01.29.2005	Chapel Hill, NC - By CHERYL JOHNSTON, STAFF WRITER, Chapel Hill NewsSenior citizens at The Cedars in Meadowmount raised as many concerns about Medicare and Iraq as they did the future of Social Security during a visit from U.S. Rep. David Price on Friday afternoon.Several of the more than 50 residents who gathered to hear the congressman's views asked Price how they could get more attention turned to Medicare funding rather than the privatization of Social Security."This Social Security is not going to affect any of us. Medicare really could be a greater problem for people our age," said Kenneth Hoffman, after the event.Price spoke with Chapel Hill senior citizens at both The Cedars and the Carol Woods Retirement Community to express his views on Social Security at a time when some Republicans support privatization of the system.Price told the seniors that Social Security is not nearly in the crisis that his political opponents are describing.Price cited two dates, 2018 and 2052. In 13 years, Social Security will cease to take in more money than the system distributes, he said. And in 40-plus years, there could be a shortfall as high as 20 percent, Price said."That's a challenge, not a crisis," Price said.Some of his audience voiced agreement when it came time to pass the microphone. No one disagreed.Ina Evans likened the talk of a Social Security crisis to the level of concern the nation's leader and citizens gave to possible weapons of mass destruction in Iraq leading up to the war there."The thing that's been bothering me is I feel that the priority I feel is being put on the Social Security problems is like the weapons of mass destruction," Evans said.Price acknowledged Evans' sentiment, but explained that with Social Security on the president's agenda, the talk of a crisis should be clarified rather than ignored."I think this is going to have to play out, really," Price said.When asked why Democrats aren't talking more about shortfalls in funds for Medicare, Price said it would take a bipartisan commitment to contain the problem."I do not know exactly what the formula is going to be for Medicare," Price said.Tax cuts, Veteran's Affairs, and the Senate confirmation of Alberto Gonzales for attorney general were other issues that the senior citizens raised.Price also heard from a couple of constituents concerned about the president's request for billions more to be spent in Iraq."I'm concerned about the deficit and how we can go about reducing the deficit and at the same time support our troops in Afghanistan and Iraq," said Davis Bingham.# # #
01.20.2005	Press Release By Orange Water and Sewer AuthorityOrange County, NC - Thanks to the efforts of Congressman David Price, Congress has approved a $644,605 grant to the Orange Water and Sewer Authority (OWASA) to help pay for a water reuse project that OWASA is developing in partnership with the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.The reuse system will provide non-drinking water to certain facilities such as chiller plant(s) where the University now uses OWASA drinking water for cooling tower make-up water.It will enable the future reuse of highly treated ("reclaimed") water from OWASA's Mason Farm Wastewater Treatment Plant, which is on the southeast side of Chapel Hill, starting in 2007. In May, 2004, a three-year, $50 million improvement project began at the Mason Farm plant that will in part enhance the treatment process to meet State standards for water reuse."As new residents are drawn to the Triangle and the many advantages it offers, we must work to ensure our water and wastewater treatment capacity keeps pace with population growth," said Price. "Leaders in Orange County are responding with innovative, environmentally-friendly and cost-effective solutions to these challenges, and I'm proud to help further those efforts.""We deeply appreciate Congressman Price's support of the water reuse project and his work to secure this funding," said Mark Marcoplos, Chair of the OWASA Board of Directors."The reuse of highly treated wastewater will be a very important part of our community's strategy to meet long-term water needs in a more economical and sustainable manner. Reuse will help us cope with future droughts and meet our future water needs with our high quality, locally protected, and locally controlled reservoirs," he said.Carolyn Elfland, the University's Associate Vice Chancellor for Campus Services, said "The University is pleased to be a partner in this win-win project, which provides a drought-tolerant source of water to meet Carolina's critical chilled water requirements and eliminates the need for capital improvement projects to expand the community's potable water system, a savings for every customer."Background informationThe University estimates that the water reuse system may initially reduce drinking water demand by about 0.6 million gallons a day, or about 7 percent of the community's average daily drinking water demand. In the long term, reclaimed water use could help meet more than 2.5 million gallons a day, or about 15 percent, of the community's water demand.The reuse system will also reduce the discharge of nutrients from the Mason Farm plant to Morgan Creek, which flows into Jordan Lake. This will provide water quality benefits because nutrients encourage growth of algae in Jordan Lake.The reuse system could also be extended in the future to serve additional locations outside the UNC main campus where and when it is feasible to do so. Because a reuse system requires the installation of a separate set of pipes, it is usually not cost-effective to extend reclaimed water service to existing residential developments. However, as many other communities around the country have found, it may be cost-effective to install reclaimed water lines in new development.The planned reuse system will involve installation of a pumping station, storage tank and piping to carry the reclaimed water from the Mason Farm plant to the University campus. The first phase of the water reuse system is now estimated to cost about $9.8 million, and will include about 14,000 feet of reclaimed water pipes.Detailed design work and other engineering work for the reuse system will be funded from a $1.866 million grant to OWASA in July, 2004 from the NC Clean Water Management Trust Fund. Together, the Federal and State grant funds will help cover about one-fourth of the initial cost to design and build the system.OWASA and University representatives agreed in a letter of understanding in February, 2004 to plan the reuse system, and have begun drafting a water reuse system contract. OWASA's construction, maintenance, operating, administrative and other costs of the reuse system will be fully covered from reclaimed water fees and charges to be paid by the University and any other future users of the system.
01.17.2005	Washington, D.C. - It is an honor to be with you today, and it is encouraging to see the number and variety of King events being held across the Triangle.I value the opportunity this holiday gives us to reflect upon Dr. King's work.Among the many profound things he said was that "the ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort and convenience, but where he stands at times of challenge and controversy."What do you suppose he would say about today's challenging and controversial times? As Bishop Curry said this morning [at the Triangle Interfaith Prayer Breakfast], we are in a "season of struggle."There is continuing violence in the Middle East. There is devastation in South Asia. At home, we have only recently emerged from one of the bitterest campaigns in history.There is much talk about the poisoned political atmosphere in Washington that is filtering down to our communities, coloring them "red" or "blue."But there is much to fight about – we hear cuts are on the way that go to the very basics of life...decent housing, available and affordable health care, educational opportunity.There is also much talk about faith ...but not nearly enough action in applying that faith to our communities' challenges.Dr. King lived what he preached. "Life's most persistent and urgent question is: What are you doing for others?" he said.It is a question we should ask ourselves.What are we doing for the millions in our country and abroad who are living in poverty? The millions without health care? The millions who don't have access to good schools? The millions who need work?What are we doing for the men, women, and children who have suffered devastating losses in Asia? What are we doing for the men and women whose loved ones are on the front lines of battle? Whose husbands, wives, sons and daughters return with life-altering injuries...or never return at all?As citizens, we must not give up or give in; we must continue to fight hard for leadership and policies that will open up opportunity, do justice, and make peace. As individuals, congregations, and local communities, we have responsibilities too, to reach out wherever we are – indeed, to create our own opportunities – to make a difference.Dr. King would quote Mark 9:35, the scripture in which Jesus tells James and John "...whosoever will be great among you shall be your servant; and whosoever among you will be the first shall be the servant of all."On this Martin Luther King Day, may we incorporate those words into our daily lives, and strive for that combination of determination, courage, and humility that Dr. King exemplified.Even in a time of struggle, we can find common ground. May we continue to strive for "liberty and justice for all," standing by those who needs us most, and standing up for the values of which this day reminds us.
01.17.2005	Speeches Delivered at First Annual Celebration in Holly Springs, NC and Unity March Program in Durham, NCWashington, D.C. - It is an honor to be with you today, and it is encouraging to see the number and variety of King events being held across the Triangle.I value the opportunity this holiday gives us to reflect upon Dr. King's work.Among the many profound things he said was that "the ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort and convenience, but where he stands at times of challenge and controversy."What do you suppose he would say about today's challenging and controversial times? As Bishop Curry said this morning [at the Triangle Interfaith Prayer Breakfast], we are in a "season of struggle."There is continuing violence in the Middle East. There is devastation in South Asia. At home, we have only recently emerged from one of the bitterest campaigns in history.There is much talk about the poisoned political atmosphere in Washington that is filtering down to our communities, coloring them "red" or "blue."But there is much to fight about – we hear cuts are on the way that go to the very basics of life...decent housing, available and affordable health care, educational opportunity.There is also much talk about faith ...but not nearly enough action in applying that faith to our communities' challenges.Dr. King lived what he preached. "Life's most persistent and urgent question is: What are you doing for others?" he said.It is a question we should ask ourselves.What are we doing for the millions in our country and abroad who are living in poverty? The millions without health care? The millions who don't have access to good schools? The millions who need work?What are we doing for the men, women, and children who have suffered devastating losses in Asia? What are we doing for the men and women whose loved ones are on the front lines of battle? Whose husbands, wives, sons and daughters return with life-altering injuries...or never return at all?As citizens, we must not give up or give in; we must continue to fight hard for leadership and policies that will open up opportunity, do justice, and make peace. As individuals, congregations, and local communities, we have responsibilities too, to reach out wherever we are – indeed, to create our own opportunities – to make a difference.Dr. King would quote Mark 9:35, the scripture in which Jesus tells James and John "...whosoever will be great among you shall be your servant; and whosoever among you will be the first shall be the servant of all."On this Martin Luther King Day, may we incorporate those words into our daily lives, and strive for that combination of determination, courage, and humility that Dr. King exemplified.Even in a time of struggle, we can find common ground. May we continue to strive for "liberty and justice for all," standing by those who needs us most, and standing up for the values of which this day reminds us.
01.11.2005	Washington, D.C. - The Internal Revenue Service alerted taxpayers who itemize deductions that they may claim on their 2004 tax returns charitable donations made during Jan. 2005 for relief of the victims of the Indian Ocean Tsunami.The new law enacted on Jan. 7 allows these donations to be deducted as if they were made on Dec. 31, 2004.The new law only allows for cash contributions. The contributions must be made specifically for the relief of victims in areas affected by the Dec. 26, 2004, tsunami in the Indian Ocean. The new law gives taxpayers the option of deducting the contributions on either their 2004 or 2005 returns, but not both.US Rep. David Price (NC-04) has released detailed information addressing last month's tsunami, which can be found here.The IRS advises taxpayers to be sure their contributions go to qualified charities. Taxpayers who have a specific charity in mind can make sure that it is a qualified charity by doing a search on IRS.gov. Some organizations, such as churches or governments, may be qualified even though they are not listed on IRS.gov.The IRS reminds donors that contributions to foreign organizations generally are not deductible.When donors make contributions to assist the victims of the tsunami, they should notate their records to that effect. Donors may want to notate the memo field of checks they send that it is a contribution to help tsunami victims.
01.10.2005	Washington, D.C. - US Rep. David Price (NC-04), along with US Reps. Bob Etheridge (NC-02) and Brad Miller (NC-13), will host their annual Farmers Breakfast on Tuesday, March 8, 2005 (CHANGED from March 1), from 8:00-10:00 AM at the Jim Graham Building, State Fairgrounds, Raleigh.All our farmers and their spouses are encouraged and welcomed to attend, and more details will be posted soon.
01.10.2005	Price, Miller, Etheridge Announce Change of Date for Annual EventWashington, D.C. - US Rep. David Price (NC-04), along with US Reps. Bob Etheridge (NC-02) and Brad Miller (NC-13), will host their annual Farmers Breakfast on Tuesday, March 8, 2005 (CHANGED from March 1), from 8:00-10:00 AM at the Jim Graham Building, State Fairgrounds, Raleigh.All our farmers and their spouses are encouraged and welcomed to attend, and more details will be posted soon.# # #
01.03.2005	Washington, D.C. - US Rep. David Price (NC-04) released the following statement and information about the tsunami relief effort today:"Our deep condolences go out to the people of South Asia and to everyone around the world who experienced the loss and heartbreak of the tsunami this week. Our thoughts and prayers are with them and their families, and we stand ready to help provide the assistance and support to help with this enormous tragedy, both from the 4th District and across the country."U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), an independent federal government agency, is the principal U.S. agency to extend assistance to countries recovering from disaster. USAID's web site contains a list of relief agencies helping with the earthquake and tsunami disaster. Visit the USAID.GOV website for Earthquake and Tsunami Relief.Visit the State Department's website.U.S. CitizensFor information about U.S. citizens, family members should contact the U.S. Department of State Office of Overseas Citizens Services at (888) 407-4747 or (202) 647-5225. Please note that these lines are frequently busy during the first few days after a large disaster.If you are unable to reach the State Department or do not receive necessary information, you should also contact the U.S. Embassy in the affected country. Click here to go to the State Department's list of U.S. Embassies worldwide.Non-U.S. CitizensFor information about non-U.S. citizens, please contact the country's respective consulate.You may also visit the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC). The site offers family members an opportunity to search for missing relatives' names. If inquirers cannot locate missing people on the site, they can post their own name or the name of the missing family member. The information is not verified or tracked by either the ICRC or the American Red Cross but is offered by the ICRC as a stand-alone internet tool for inquirers to use on their own.Below, in countries where available, are special hotlines and instructions:IndiaThe Indian Ministry of External Affairs has set up control rooms with hotline phone numbers in New Delhi to respond to calls regarding the disaster. This information is posted on the Ministry of External Affairswebsite.Ministry of External Affairs,New DelhiPhone: 011-91-11-2301-1954, 011-91-2301-2292, 011-91-11-2301-7160Fax: 011-91-11-2301-3945, 011-91-2301-0889E-mail: asad@mea.gov.in pasad@mea.gov.inThailandFamily members living in the US are encouraged to visit the Royal Thai Embassy. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Thailand and the Ministry of Interior has set up a Coordinating Center for people in Thailand affected by the Tsunamis. The Center will operate 24 hours a day.BangkokThere are several phone numbers provided for the Coordinating Centers in Bangkok: Ministry of Foreign Affairs Coordinating CentrePhone: 011-66-2643-5262 or 011-66-2643-5000 Ext. 5003 or 5502Fax: 66-2643-5256PhuketPhone: 076-220-361Fax: 076-220-361MalaysiaFamilies should contact the government of Malaysia's 24-hour crisis hotline at the Royal Malaysian Police Headquarters.Tel: 011-60-3-2262-6555 or fax 011-60-3-2691-0707. Families can also send an email to rmp@rmp.gov.mySri LankaThe Ministry of Foreign Affairs has established a 24 Hour Assistance Unit to assist with queries from the Sri Lankan expatriate community and foreign nationals regarding the whereabouts of friends/relatives in Sri Lanka or those presently visiting the country. Two short Emergency Information Forms have been designed to be completed by those seeking information regarding their friends/relatives. One form is for Sri Lankan Nationals and the other for Foreign Nationals. Find the relevant form and other helpful information on the Sri Lanka Embassy website.24 Hour Assistance:94-11-239-2047 94-11-254-2871 94-11-234-7615Fax: 94-11-243-7017 94-11-232-1404IndonesiaOffice of the Coordinating Ministry of Social WelfarePhone/Fax: 011-62-21-345-3676 or 011-62-21-345-9102
01.03.2005	Washington, D.C. - US Rep. David Price (NC-04) released the following statement and information about the tsunami relief effort today:"Our deep condolences go out to the people of South Asia and to everyone around the world who experienced the loss and heartbreak of the tsunami this week. Our thoughts and prayers are with them and their families, and we stand ready to help provide the assistance and support to help with this enormous tragedy, both from the 4th District and across the country."U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), an independent federal government agency, is the principal U.S. agency to extend assistance to countries recovering from disaster. USAID's web site contains a list of relief agencies helping with the earthquake and tsunami disaster. Visit the USAID.GOV website for Earthquake and Tsunami Relief.Visit the State Department's website.U.S. CitizensFor information about U.S. citizens, family members should contact the U.S. Department of State Office of Overseas Citizens Services at (888) 407-4747 or (202) 647-5225. Please note that these lines are frequently busy during the first few days after a large disaster.If you are unable to reach the State Department or do not receive necessary information, you should also contact the U.S. Embassy in the affected country. Click here to go to the State Department's list of U.S. Embassies worldwide.Non-U.S. CitizensFor information about non-U.S. citizens, please contact the country's respective consulate.You may also visit the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC). The site offers family members an opportunity to search for missing relatives' names. If inquirers cannot locate missing people on the site, they can post their own name or the name of the missing family member. The information is not verified or tracked by either the ICRC or the American Red Cross but is offered by the ICRC as a stand-alone internet tool for inquirers to use on their own.Below, in countries where available, are special hotlines and instructions:IndiaThe Indian Ministry of External Affairs has set up control rooms with hotline phone numbers in New Delhi to respond to calls regarding the disaster. This information is posted on the Ministry of External Affairswebsite.Ministry of External Affairs,New DelhiPhone: 011-91-11-2301-1954, 011-91-2301-2292, 011-91-11-2301-7160Fax: 011-91-11-2301-3945, 011-91-2301-0889E-mail: asad@mea.gov.in pasad@mea.gov.inThailandFamily members living in the US are encouraged to visit the Royal Thai Embassy. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Thailand and the Ministry of Interior has set up a Coordinating Center for people in Thailand affected by the Tsunamis. The Center will operate 24 hours a day.BangkokThere are several phone numbers provided for the Coordinating Centers in Bangkok: Ministry of Foreign Affairs Coordinating CentrePhone: 011-66-2643-5262 or 011-66-2643-5000 Ext. 5003 or 5502Fax: 66-2643-5256PhuketPhone: 076-220-361Fax: 076-220-361MalaysiaFamilies should contact the government of Malaysia's 24-hour crisis hotline at the Royal Malaysian Police Headquarters.Tel: 011-60-3-2262-6555 or fax 011-60-3-2691-0707. Families can also send an email to rmp@rmp.gov.mySri LankaThe Ministry of Foreign Affairs has established a 24 Hour Assistance Unit to assist with queries from the Sri Lankan expatriate community and foreign nationals regarding the whereabouts of friends/relatives in Sri Lanka or those presently visiting the country. Two short Emergency Information Forms have been designed to be completed by those seeking information regarding their friends/relatives. One form is for Sri Lankan Nationals and the other for Foreign Nationals. Find the relevant form and other helpful information on the Sri Lanka Embassy website.24 Hour Assistance:94-11-239-2047 94-11-254-2871 94-11-234-7615Fax: 94-11-243-7017 94-11-232-1404IndonesiaOffice of the Coordinating Ministry of Social WelfarePhone/Fax: 011-62-21-345-3676 or 011-62-21-345-9102
12.22.2004	Wake County, NC - From Staff Reports.Copyright (c) 2004 by The News & Observer Pub. Co.RALEIGH -- The Wake Education Partnership announced Tuesday it has received a $225,000 federal grant to promote educational leadership and enhance teacher quality in Wake County and the region.The grant will provide money to extend the work of the Wake Leadership Academy and implement programs to cultivate teacher leadership and quality teaching.It will also support the Kenan Fellows Program, an initiative of The Kenan Institute for Engineering, Technology and Science at N.C. State University that addresses teacher recruitment and retention by offering quality professional development fellowships for science and math teachers.The grant was secured by U.S. Rep. David Price, with the help of U.S. Reps. Bob Etheridge and Brad Miller.The Wake Education Partnership is an independent public education advocacy organization that links community resources to strengthen public schools and improve academic achievement for all students.
12.22.2004	Wake County, NC - From Staff ReportsCopyright (c) 2004 by The News & Observer Pub. Co.RALEIGH -- The Wake Education Partnership announced Tuesday it has received a $225,000 federal grant to promote educational leadership and enhance teacher quality in Wake County and the region.The grant will provide money to extend the work of the Wake Leadership Academy and implement programs to cultivate teacher leadership and quality teaching.It will also support the Kenan Fellows Program, an initiative of The Kenan Institute for Engineering, Technology and Science at N.C. State University that addresses teacher recruitment and retention by offering quality professional development fellowships for science and math teachers.The grant was secured by U.S. Rep. David Price, with the help of U.S. Reps. Bob Etheridge and Brad Miller.The Wake Education Partnership is an independent public education advocacy organization that links community resources to strengthen public schools and improve academic achievement for all students.
