01.14.2019	As Prepared for Delivery Madam/Mr. Speaker: I rise today to address what I will call a tale of two kings. One, a member of this body, who wondered out loud to the New York Times why the terms white nationalism and white supremacy are offensive. I would say to my colleague that the terms are offensive because the concepts are evil. And we have been counselled by Edmond Burke that, “all that is required for evil to triumph is for good men to do nothing.” I have just introduced a resolution to express this august body’s disapproval of Mr. King’s comments and condemnation of white nationalism and white supremacy in all forms. So today I denounce the words of Representative Steve King, and I do so invoking the words of another King, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. who, if he had been allowed to live, would be celebrating his 90th birthday on tomorrow. Dr. King counselled that, "we are going to be made to repent, not just for the hateful words and deeds of bad people, but for the appalling silence of good people." I call on my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join me in breaking the deafening silence and letting our resounding condemnation be heard.
01.09.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Tomorrow U.S. House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn and senior members of the Whip team will hold a press availability after the Whip meeting to answer reporter questions. This will be the first Whip meeting of the 116th Congress. WHO: U.S. House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn (D-SC) Congressman Cedric Richmond (D-LA) Congressman G.K. Butterfield (D-NC) Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL) Congressman Dan Kildee (D-MI) WHEN: Thursday, January 10, 2019 @ 10 AM WHERE: Center Steps Stakeout (around the corner from HC-5)
01.09.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today U.S. House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn appeared on CNN’s “New Day” to discuss “smart wall” border security and respond to the President’s oval office address last night. Below are excerpts from the interview and a link to the full interview: On the Border Wall: “Well, I would love to spend money on what I call a ‘smart wall,’ rather than a concrete edifice. We cannot protect the border with concrete. We can protect the border using the technology that's available to us to wall off intrusions by using that technology. So, a ‘smart wall’ is what we Democrats have been talking about. We will give the president what's required to erect such a ‘smart wall.’” Crisis at the border: “Absolutely not. We have a challenge. All our humanitarian issues are challenges for us. But no crisis. Six apprehensions do not make a crisis when you have thousands and thousands of encounters.” In response to the President’s speech last night: “We saw a reckless President morph into a feckless presidency.”
01.07.2019	Columbia, S.C. – U.S. House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn (SC-06) announces the president has signed into law Congressman Clyburn’s bill designating the U.S. Post Office located at 226 West Main Street in Lake City, South Carolina, as the Postmaster Frazier B. Baker Post Office. Frazier B. Baker was the first African American appointed to serve as postmaster at the Lake City Post Office in 1897. Baker and his family were tormented for his refusal to give up his position. After the Lake City post office was burned to the ground by those who opposed his appointment, Baker moved the operation into his home on the outskirts of Lake City where, on Feb. 22, 1898, he and his infant daughter were shot and killed by a white mob and his wife and five other children barely escaped. “This post office naming ensures the story of Frazier Baker will no longer be lost to history,” Whip Clyburn said. “As a former history teacher, I believe it is our duty to heed the words of George Santayana, ‘those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it.’” The post office renaming has the support of the local community. “This will be a great honor for Postmaster Frazier B. Baker who gave his life serving the citizens of this community,” Mayor of Lake City Lovith Anderson said. “Let’s not ever forget cost of the opportunities we have today.” "As a family, we are very happy that the elected officials are willing to recognize and commemorate the memory of Frazier B. Baker. We would be remiss if we didn't recognize that we are coming close to 121 years since the painful event against Frazier and the other members of the family. We, as a family, are glad that the recognition of this painful event finally happened. It's long overdue," said Postmaster Baker’s great-niece Dr. Fostina Baker. "Renaming the post office will give me an opportunity to revisit and memorialize on a personal basis. Being able to see the name Frazier B. Baker on the post office will bring me relief. For my relatives that are younger, I think that they will feel a part of Lake City when they see the name on the post office." “With the enactment of this law, our country has repaired a fault and acknowledged the sacrifices of Frazier Baker and so many others who stood up against injustice and intolerance,” continued Whip Clyburn. “By paying tribute to his memory through the establishment of the Postmaster Frazier B. Baker Post Office, we will continue to honor the actions of this brave American hero and take one small step toward creating a more perfect Union.” A ceremony will be planned to dedicate the Postmaster Frazier B. Baker Post Office at a later date.
01.06.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn issued the following statement today on plans for the House to vote this week on individual appropriations bills to reopen vital government services and getting federal employees back to work: “It is unconscionable that Senate Leader McConnell would block votes on these bills to reopen the government that received overwhelming bipartisan Senate support just a few months ago. Not only are 800,000 federal employees’ livelihood in the balance, millions of Americans are suffering the consequences of this Trump Shutdown. Loans for small businesses and farmers are already impacted, food stamps and income tax refunds will be next unless the Senate, a co-equal branch of government elected by the people to serve the people, steps up and does its job. “The American people ought not be the president’s hostages over his ill-advised and ill-defined border wall. He is demonstrating with every day that passes that he is ill-equipped to negotiate his way out of this self-imposed crisis, and the American people are paying the price over his inability to govern. It is time for the Senate to do its part to reopen the government and tell this president that enough is enough.”
01.03.2019	Columbia, S.C. -- Today, Majority Whip James E. Clyburn (SC-06) announced Rachel Stein is joining his staff as District Press Secretary. Stein will manage and coordinate media activities for the Congressman in South Carolina. Stein most recently served as the campaign coordinator on Dick Harpootlian’s successful South Carolina state senate race. Previously, Stein was the intern coordinator at the South Carolina Democratic Party. Before beginning her professional career, she interned at EMILY’s List and in Congressman Clyburn’s Washington D.C. office. “I am honored to have a public servant like Rachel join our team,” said Congressman Clyburn. “Her talent and energy makes her a valuable asset to my staff and advocate for South Carolina’s 6th district and the American people.” Raised in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Stein moved to Columbia to attend the University of South Carolina where she graduated magna cum laude with a Bachelor of Arts in Journalism and Mass Communications Public Relations.
01.03.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today U.S. House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn announced longtime Communications Director Patrick J. Devlin, Sr. plans to retire in the New Year after three decades of Congressional service to explore new opportunities. “I appreciate Patrick’s contributions to this office and to the country,” Whip Clyburn said. “He has been an important member of my staff, and I wish him well in his new endeavors.” Hope Derrick, who served as Mr. Clyburn’s Communications Director in the district for 18 years, will be taking on the duties of Communications Director in the Majority Whip’s office in the 116th Congress. She can be reached at Hope.Derrick@mail.house.gov or 202-226-3210.
01.03.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today U.S. House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn announced the Whip office staff for the 116th Congress. “This remarkable team of dedicated professionals reflects the diversity of the Democratic Caucus, and they are committed to serving the American people and upholding the values that led to the sweeping changes in this new Congress,” Whip Clyburn said. “Many of the Whip staff have served this office in the past or bring fresh perspectives and outside experiences that will enhance our operations.” These are the bios of the new Whip office senior staff. Yelberton Watkins, Chief of Staff Yelberton “Yebbie” Watkins, Mr. Clyburn’s long-time Chief of Staff, will serve in that role for Office of the Majority Whip. A native of Columbia, South Carolina, he grew up in the 6th Congressional District. He joined Mr. Clyburn’s office in 1993 and has served continuously since then. Yebbie is a graduate of Duke University and Georgetown University Law School. He is an Aspen Institute Liberty Fellow, and a member of the District of Columbia Bar. Lindy Birch-Kelly, Senior Advisor A South Carolina native, Lindy Kelly has spent more than two decades in the halls of Congress. She most recently served as the Deputy Chief of Staff for Mr. Clyburn’s Washington office. Lindy has worked for Mr. Clyburn throughout her tenure in Washington, with the exception of one year she was in the United Kingdom as an Ambassadorial Scholar. She has served in the offices of the 6th Congressional District of South Carolina, the House Democratic Caucus, and the Office of the Majority Whip. For many years she worked as Director of Special Projects handling all things organizational including special events, CODELS, day to day operations, and strategic scheduling. Michael Hacker, Senior Advisor Michael Hacker will serve as Senior Advisor to the Majority Whip. In this role, he will advise on Whip Office operations, policy, communications, outreach, coalitions and Member services. Mike is a seasoned legislative and public affairs professional with more than 20 years of experience providing Washington counsel to Members of Congress and business leaders and NGOs. He previously served on Mr. Clyburn’s staff from 2006-2011 as Deputy Floor Director and Director of Coalitions. Ashli Palmer, Director of Floor Operations Ashli Palmer will serve as Director of Floor Operations for the Majority Whip. In this capacity, she will be responsible for the day to day operations of floor activity. She is an experienced and widely respected legislative and public affairs executive with public and private sector experiences. Throughout her nearly two-decade career, Ashli has advised and counseled high-ranking members of Congress and their staffs; corporate executives; and worked as a Chief of Staff in the Obama Administration. She previously served on Mr. Clyburn’s Assistant Democratic Leader staff from 2014-2017 as Policy Director. Craig Link, Deputy Floor Director and General Counsel Craig Link will serve as Deputy Floor Director and Counsel to the Majority Whip. He has been Legislative Director and Counsel to Congressman Clyburn since 2015. A native of Columbia, South Carolina, he started his career on Capitol Hill with Mr. Clyburn as an intern in 2005 while an undergraduate at the University of South Carolina and joined the staff the following year. After a break to attend law school at the University of South Carolina, Craig returned to the Hill in 2011 to resume his service for Mr. Clyburn. Tamika Mason, Director of Technology for Floor Operations Tamika Mason will serve as the Director of Technology for Floor Operations for the Majority Whip’s office. In this capacity, she will be responsible for all technology used by the floor team to Whip votes. In addition, she serves as the Congressman’s policy advisor on faith and religious issues, and the Democratic Faith Working Group, chaired by Mr. Clyburn. A native Marylander, she is a graduate of Bowie State University. Tamika started her Capitol Hill career in 2007 as a Staff Assistant during Congressman Clyburn’s previous tenure as Majority Whip. Since that time, she has served as Special Assistant to the Assistant Democratic Leader. Wintta Woldemariam, Policy Director Wintta Woldemariam joins the Office of the Majority Whip from King & Spalding LLP, where she was served as Counsel. Before her time in private practice, Wintta served as Ethics Counsel to President Barack Obama in the Office of the White House Counsel and as an Attorney Advisor in the Department of Justice. Prior to her roles in the Obama Administration, she served as counsel to Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY). Earlier in her career, Wintta worked for Representative Hank Johnson (D-GA), and in the Texas State Legislature for Senator Rodney Ellis (D-Houston). Wintta is a graduate of Duke University and earned her law degree at the University of Texas. Matthew Ellison, Deputy Policy Director Matthew Ellison is rejoining Mr. Clyburn’s office, where he served as a Staff Assistant in the Office of the Majority Whip in 2010-2011 and as a Legislative Assistant in the Office of the Assistant Democratic Leader in 2011-2016. In the years since, he served as Policy and Communications Director of the South Carolina Democratic Party and Legislative Director for Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz. Matthew is a native of Charleston, South Carolina. He earned his undergraduate degree from Yale University and his law degree from the Georgetown University Law Center. Hope Derrick, Communications Director Hope Derrick brings 20 years of political communications experience to the role of Communications Director for the Majority Whip. She served as the South Carolina Democratic Party’s first communications director and joined Mr. Clyburn’s staff as Communications Director based in the district in 1995, a position she held for 18 years. Hope returns to political communications after five years at the University of South Carolina working in strategic communications and project management. She is a graduate of Boston University, and began her career as a radio and television reporter in Columbia, South Carolina. Ryan Daniels, Deputy Communications Director Ryan Daniels joins the Office of the Majority Whip staff after serving nearly two years as a Director in the Communications Practice at the Raben Group, where he provided thought leadership and strategic communication counsel to executives and senior leadership from the non-profit, foundation, corporate, and political sectors. Before joining the Raben Group, Ryan held several positions in the Obama Administration, including Press Secretary for the U.S. Department of Transportation, Spokesperson at the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and finally as an Associate Director of Communications for the Office of Public Engagement and Intergovernmental Affairs in the White House. He began his political career in 2007 as a press intern and then press assistant in Mr. Clyburn’s Majority Whip office. Morgan Butler, Digital Director Morgan Butler will be joining Majority Whip’s communications team as the new Digital Director. Originally from Dallas, Texas, she is a magna cum laude graduate of Grambling State University where she obtained a Bachelor of Arts degree in Mass Communication. Upon graduating, Morgan joined the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies as their Communications Coordinator. From there, she made the jump to Capitol Hill where she’s served as the Digital Press Secretary for the Joint Economic Committee and the Deputy Digital Director for Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer and the Senate Democratic Caucus.
12.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – House Majority Whip-Elect James E. Clyburn released the following statement regarding new Chief Deputy Whips for the 116th Congress: “I am pleased to announce that Representatives John Lewis (GA-05) and Jan Schakowsky (IL-09) are continuing on the Whip Team in the 116th Congress and will serve as Senior Chief Deputy Whips. Other returning Chief Deputy Whips are Representatives Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), G.K. Butterfield (NC-01), Peter Welch (VT-AL), and Terri Sewell (AL-07). They will be joined by Representatives Shelia Jackson Lee (TX-18), Dan Kildee (MI-05), Pete Aguilar (CA-31), and Henry Cuellar (TX-28). “I am thrilled that Representative Jan Schakowsky has agreed to serve alongside Representative John Lewis as a Senior Chief Deputy Whip. Jan’s strong legislative record and progressive values will serve our Whip team well. She has been a Chief Deputy Whip since 2003. I will call on her experience often as we face the historic challenges and opportunities in the 116th Congress. “In my campaign for Majority Whip, I promised to involve every segment of our Caucus and empower the next generation of leaders as integral parts of the Whip team. In keeping with that commitment. I have named Representative Cedric Richmond (LA-02) Assistant to the Majority Whip. In the coming days, I will announce a history making staff to further undergird that commitment. I am very excited for the diverse set of experiences and talents these members and staff will bring to the table. “As we fill out the rest of the Whip team in the coming days and weeks we will seek input from across the Caucus including many of the Caucus’s younger members and our historic incoming freshman class to ensure their voices are heard.”
12.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement about his legislation the House passed today: “I am very pleased the U.S. House of Representatives today passed H.R. 7230, a bill I sponsored to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 226 West Main Street in Lake City, South Carolina, as the “Postmaster Frazier B. Baker Post Office”. This bill pays a tribute to a true American hero. “Frazier B. Baker was appointed Postmaster of Effingham, South Carolina in 1892 by President Benjamin Harrison, and in 1897, he was appointed Postmaster of Lake City, South Carolina by President William McKinley. “After Baker was appointed Postmaster of Lake City, local citizens in the predominantly white community subjected his family to months of hostility. The post office mysteriously burned down, and multiple gunshots were fired at him. Residents filed numerous complaints regarding his performance as postmaster, but federal postal administrators determined the allegations were unsubstantiated. “After relocating the post office to his family’s home following the previous arson, a lynch mob set fire to it the morning of February 22, 1898. The mob aimed their guns at the home, killing Baker and his two-year-old daughter Julia and injuring his wife and three of his five surviving children. The attack sparked media attention, public uproar, and fundraising efforts on behalf of the Baker family. “Although the state of South Carolina failed to prosecute the mob, federal prosecutors and postal administrators took on the murder investigation. Thirteen men were arrested and charged with twenty-four criminal counts including “a conspiracy to injure and oppress Frazier B. Baker in the free exercise” of his civil rights. The trial began on April 10, 1899 in Charleston, South Carolina with an all-white jury which acquitted three and deadlocked on the remaining accused. The judge declared a mistrial and federal prosecutors did not reopen the case. “Justice was never served for Frazier B. Baker and his family. Designating the U.S. Post Office located at 226 West Main Street in Lake City, South Carolina in his honor is a fitting tribute to his memory. “I thank my colleagues in the South Carolina delegation and the entire House for their unanimous support of this bill to honor this outstanding South Carolinian and great American.”
11.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman James E. Clyburn released the following statement after the House Democratic Caucus unanimously elected him by acclamation to be Majority Whip in the 116th Congress: “I thank all my House Democratic colleagues for the faith and confidence they have expressed in me to serve as Majority Whip in the 116th Congress. I am deeply honored to have the support of our Caucus and humbly accept this position with a clear understanding of the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead. “As I said to my colleagues today, America is already a great country: our challenge is to make its greatness apply fairly and equitably to all of its people. As the only Member of elected Leadership from a red state and largely rural district, I will work tirelessly to be a voice for the millions of Americans who feel left out and communities that are too often left behind. I am committed to staying connected to all of our Caucuses and regions and building a whip operation that is reflective of the diversity of our Caucus and that empowers a new generation of Members to have a voice in our legislative process.” Clyburn was nominated to be the U.S. House Majority Whip for the 116th Congress by Congressman G.K. Butterfield (NC-01) and Congressman Cedric Richmond (LA-02). His nomination was seconded by Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Congressman Dan Kildee (MI-05) and Congresswoman-Elect Lucy McBath (GA-06).
11.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (SC) today released the following letter to his incoming Democratic colleagues announcing his run for Majority Whip: Dear Democratic Colleague: Congratulations on your election to the 116th Congress! Last night, the American people sent a clear and powerful message, electing a democratic majority with a mandate to restore the fundamental goodness of our government. The primary goal of our new majority is to make America’s greatness apply fairly and equitably to all Americans. With this singular goal in mind, I am declaring my candidacy for Majority Whip and asking for your support. The Members of the Democratic Caucus are up to this challenge. We will stop the assault on our democratic norms, our institutions and the rule of law. We will faithfully execute our Constitutional duties and restore the system of checks and balances that the Founders designed and that our Republic requires. The men and women of the 116th Congress will be the most diverse ever, with more women, people of color and LGBTQ colleagues taking the oath of office than ever before. The talents and life experiences that you bring to the House of Representatives will build a representative government that is of the people, by the people and for the people. Throughout my life, I have been fighting for an America that lives up to its founding ideals. Throughout this cycle, I have invoked the words of Alexis de Tocqueville, who wrote in his great work, Democracy in America; “The greatness of America lies not in being more enlightened than any other nation, but rather in her ability to repair her faults.” Throughout this campaign, I have had conversations with our colleagues, as well as with nearly all of the newly elected Freshman class. In these discussions I have heard a strong desire for bold, decisive leadership to “repair our nation’s faults:” End the corrosive influence of money and special interests on our democracy; Break the gridlock in Congress, make the Rules of the House more open, transparent and inclusive for all Members and to build bipartisan support for our agenda when possible; Empower Chairwomen, Chairmen, Freshmen and everyone in between to be legislators and change agents, rather than simply voters; Oppose the President when he is wrong, and work with him when we can find common ground to strengthen our country; and Most importantly, implement a strong, compelling Democratic agenda that resonates with all Americans. I am prepared to work with every corner of our diverse Caucus to shape policies that allow us to achieve consensus. As the only member of leadership from a red state and a largely rural district, I am uniquely positioned to help bring our caucus together, to marry strong progressive values with pragmatic solutions that can cross our ideological, geographic and cultural divides. The American people are demanding solutions on healthcare, an inclusive economy, student debt and many other pressing challenges. However, the overriding concern I have heard on the campaign trail is that the fundamental goodness and decency of America is under threat. Our victory on Tuesday night was about restoring the goodness of America to our government. The goodness of America is her greatness. This is our charge, and my challenge to you. I look forward to speaking with you about my candidacy and receiving your perspectives on the opportunities that lie ahead. But for now, enjoy and savor this tremendous victory! Welcome to the 116th Congress. Let’s make history together. With kindest regards, I am Sincerely, James E. Clyburn
10.03.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (SC) today announced introduction of a major new bill that will expand the successful 10-20-30 anti-poverty formula to a significantly larger group of federal accounts to ensure more funds are targeted to persistent poverty communities without raising taxes or adding to the deficit. The bill, titled An Act Targeting Resources into Communities in Need, also ensures federal investment in all high-need communities by targeting funding into high-poverty census tracts. Companion legislation to the new Clyburn bill is being introduced in the Senate by Senator Cory Booker (NJ). Clyburn also released a new report documenting the widespread success of the 10-20-30 formula in targeting federal resources into persistent poverty communities across the United States. The report, Combatting Persistent Poverty, 10-20-30 Works, highlights the more than 2,800 projects funded with the help of 10-20-30 for a total investment of more than $1.6 billion last year. Click here to read the report. “For far too long, families in communities in need have suffered from neglect and indifference,” Clyburn said. “This exciting new legislation employs proven anti-poverty tools to target federal funds where they are needed most and where they will do the most good. Congress must act on this urgent priority.” Senator Booker said, “While genius is spread equally across the country, opportunity is not. By more strategically targeting limited federal resources to the places that need them the most, we can bring investment to communities that for too long have been left behind.” An Act Targeting Resources into Communities in Need expands the 10-20-30 formula which requires a minimum of ten percent of federal funds of a particular federal spending account go to communities in which the poverty level has been twenty percent or higher over the past thirty years. The formula was successfully applied to three accounts in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, fifteen accounts in the omnibus appropriations law for 2017 and fourteen for 2018. This new bill expands the number of federal accounts using the formula to distribute more funds to targeted persistent poverty communities. To ensure federal investment reaches all high-need communities, including smaller pockets of deep poverty and those communities experiencing more recent economic downturns, the bill would also require certain federal agencies to target resources to census tracts (a geographic designation significantly smaller than counties) with poverty rates currently exceeding twenty percent. Agencies would be instructed to direct five percent more of their funding into high-poverty census tracts, relative to the preceding three years’ share. For more information, click here: Bill Text - HR. 7009 - An Act Targeting Resources into Communities in Need Fact Sheet - An Act Targeting Resources into Communities in Need
08.16.2018	COLUMBIA, SC – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (SC) today released the following statement about the passing of Aretha Franklin: “I am deeply saddened by the news that Aretha Franklin has died. Not only was she the biggest artist of our time; she was a legendary activist and leader for civil rights. Her singing enriched our hearts, and her stature strengthened us all. I hope the Queen of Soul will rest in peace.”
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (SC) today released the following statement after introducing the Restoring Tax Credits for Affordable Housing Act and cosponsoring a package of affordable housing bills. The Restoring Tax Credits for Affordable Housing Act will restore the 235,000 affordable housing units projected to be lost over the next ten years as a result of the GOP Tax Scam, and the package of bills would dramatically improve access to affordable housing across all income groups. Specifically, the Restoring Tax Credits for Affordable Housing Act increases the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) allocation and improves the credit percentage formula to promote affordable housing. “Just when we thought America’s affordable housing crisis couldn’t get any worse, Republicans picked up their shovels and kept digging. Their tax scam is projected to cause 235,000 fewer affordable housing units to be built and 262,000 jobs to be lost over the next ten years. With an existing shortage of more than 7 million units, we simply cannot allow this crisis to go on unabated,” Clyburn said. “After hearing from hundreds of constituents at an affordable housing town hall in North Charleston last month, I am pleased to introduce the Restoring Tax Credits for Affordable Housing Act and offer my support for this package of bills. If enacted, they will dramatically increase access to affordable housing across all income brackets, but particularly for extremely-low, low and middle-income families struggling to find and keep a roof over their heads,” Clyburn continued. “With evictions happening at a rate four times higher than the national average, steady foreclosures, insufficient affordable housing options and wages that have not kept pace with living expenses, far too many South Carolinians are struggling to make ends meet. Home ownership and safe and secure housing are central to stabilizing and maintaining healthy communities and building family wealth. I hope my colleagues from both sides of the aisle will join me in addressing America’s affordable housing crisis head on,” Clyburn concluded. Congresswoman Suzan DelBene (WA-1) said, “In their rush to pass a behemoth tax giveaway for the wealthiest corporations, Republicans made a number of serious missteps that are hurting American families. One of those was weakening the Low Income Housing Tax Credit, a proven incentive that has helped families across the country get access to safe, affordable housing. The Restoring Tax Credits for Affordable Housing Act would remedy that damage, ensuring that families will not lose the opportunity to find stable housing. “The tragedy is that instead of building on LIHTC like my Access to Affordable Housing Act proposes, the GOP tax bill took us backward. Here in Washington state, we have seen firsthand that housing options are not keeping pace with demand. That’s why I’m grateful to work with Mr. Clyburn on this important effort, and I’ll continue to work on legislation that helps address the housing crisis in our region and in communities across the country,” Congresswoman DelBene concluded. Assistant Democratic Leader, James E. Clyburn also announced his cosponsorship of the following bills: H.R.1146, Equal Opportunity for Residential Representation Act, which creates a new pilot program at the Department of Housing and Urban Development to provide grants for legal and support services to low-income families facing evictions, tenancy or fair housing disputes; H.R.1661, the Affordable Housing Credit Improvement Act of 2017, which strengthens the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit by giving states greater flexibility, making financing more predictable, improving development in rural communities, increasing the ability to serve extremely low-income tenants and supporting the preservation of existing affordable housing; H.R.4185, the Access to Affordable Housing Act, which increases the state allocations for the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit; H.R.4999, Stopping Abuse and Fraud in Electronic (SAFE) Lending Act, which cracks down on some of the worst abuses of the payday lending industry to ensure that consumers have control of their own bank accounts and money, increases transparency and prohibits anonymous payday lending; and H.Con.Res.74, Affirming the right of all renters to a safe, affordable and decent home, which is a concurrent resolution expressing support for fully funding affordable housing efforts across Federal agencies, strengthening fair housing laws, expanding renters’ rights and affirming that housing is a basic human right. Click HERE for bill text.
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.- U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (SC) released the following statement today after introducing the “Stop the Tax Hike on Charities and Places of Worship Act". The“Stop the Tax Hike on Charities and Places of Worship Act” will repeal the provision of the Republican Tax Scam which applied a 21 percent tax on nonprofit entities that provide their employees “fringe benefits.” “The GOP Tax Scam gave more than a trillion dollars in tax breaks to corporations and the ultra-rich on the backs of America’s working families. It is making healthcare more expensive, encouraging companies to ship jobs overseas and threatening the future of Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. “Republicans appallingly taxed places of worship and nonprofit organizations to help pay for their massive giveaway to large corporations and wealthy individuals. I am pleased to introduce legislation today to repeal the new 21 percent tax on nonprofits. “Just as our country’s history is steeped in volunteerism and philanthropy to aid the less fortunate, so too is our tax code. Congress should not force nonprofit organizations to foot the bill for their massive corporate giveaway. I hope every Member of Congress from both sides of the aisle will join me in correcting this egregious new policy.” Click HERE for bill text.
05.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (SC) today released a Democratic Staff Report on the specific effects of the new Republican tax law on homeowners in South Carolina. According to today’s report compiled by the Democratic staff of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, “the new tax law imposes significant new financial penalties on American homeowners across the country, while essentially using the funds raised by these tax increases to help pay for lucrative new tax breaks for real estate developers.” According to the report: None of the approximately 1,258,700 homeowners currently living in South Carolina will be allowed to claim deductions for interest on home equity loans they used for any purposes other than home improvement. Beginning in 2018, about 146,000 homeowners in South Carolina with existing home equity loans will not be allowed to claim full home equity interest deductions as they did in the past. Although 514,500 homeowners in South Carolina used to be able to deduct their full property taxes, about 116,800 no longer will be allowed to do so. “The fact of the matter is the Republican tax bill is a massive windfall for the wealthiest few at the expense of working people,” Clyburn stated. “This new report clearly shows the Republican tax law is really a tax scam. It will harm many homeowners in South Carolina and make our affordable housing crisis exponentially worse.” “Under the new tax law, homeowners are now prohibited from deducting interest on home equity loans if they use those funds for unexpected medical emergencies, to pay for college education, or for any purpose other than home improvement,” the report states. Meanwhile, “real estate developers are now allowed to take new deductions on pass-through income, pay dividends that are taxed at reduced rates, take advantage of an exemption from a provision that otherwise limits businesses from deducting interest, and utilize another exemption to avoid paying taxes on property exchanges.” “President Trump and Republicans in Congress made a clear choice last year when they enacted their tax bill,” the report concludes. “They chose to take away longstanding tax deductions that American families have relied on for decades while at the same time creating new tax breaks on real estate developers. Although some may reap large financial windfalls as a result of the changes in the new tax law, many American families will be penalized despite their ongoing efforts to faithfully invest in their single biggest asset—their home.”
05.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman James E. Clyburn (SC-06) today announced the recipients of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Public Housing Capital Fund grants for Fiscal Year 2018. There are 9 institutions serving communities in South Carolina’s Sixth Congressional District receiving these awards totaling more than $12 million. These awards are made to public housing agencies across the country. Housing authorities may use these grants for development, financing, modernization, and management improvements. Recipient Award Amount Housing Authority of the City of Charleston $3,116,903 Housing Authority of the City of Columbia $4,386,070 Housing Authority of Sumter $821,956 Housing Authority of Beaufort $665,419 SC Regional Housing Authority NO 3 $1,965,192 Housing Authority of Kingstree $327,646 Charleston County Housing & Redevelopment Authority $663,434 Housing Authority of North Charleston $19,817 Housing Authority of the City of Cayce $93,485 Total $12,059,922 “I am pleased that these housing agencies in South Carolina will be receiving funding through the Public Housing Capital Fund grants,” Congressman Clyburn said. “I believe it is a basic human need for everyone to have access to housing. These grants will improve South Carolinians’ living conditions, develop more housing for people in need, and will put them on the path for better lives and success in the future.”
04.10.2018	WASHINGTON -- As part of the supplemental disaster recovery funding following Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria, which was passed in February, Congress included additional disaster mitigation funds for South Carolina communities from 2015’s flooding caused by Hurricane Joaquin and 2016’s Hurricane Matthew. The total amount of funding is $213,224,000. The funds are available from the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Community Development Block Grant – Disaster Recovery program. “Many communities in South Carolina are still grappling with the effects of the devastating floods from 2015 and Hurricane Matthew’s impacts in 2016. Today’s announced funding will help these communities rebuild and better prepare for future disasters. I will continue to fight for the federal investments in mitigation and resilient infrastructure that our state needs,” Clyburn said. The funding will be available to the following entities: State of South Carolina - $157,590,000 City of Columbia - $18,585,000 Richland County - $21,864,000 Lexington County - $15,185,000
03.28.2018	Columbia, South Carolina – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (SC) published today the following op-ed in the Sumter Item of Sumter, South Carolina: More than six decades after her death, May 18, 1955, Sumter County native Mary Jane McLeod Bethune is making history, again. The Florida legislature recently passed, and its Governor signed into law, legislation providing that a statue in the likeness of Ms. Bethune be placed in the United States Capitol building. When that happens, she will become the first African American so honored by a state. Currently, there are statues of Fredrick Douglass, Sojourner Truth, and Rosa Parks, and a bust of Martin Luther King, Jr., in the Capitol building. But they were all put there by acts of the United States Congress. It is not generally known, but each state gets to place two statues of its choosing in the United States Capitol Building. One of Florida’s statues is that of a Confederate General that will be relocated to Florida and replaced with a likeness of Ms. Bethune. The Florida proponents of this history-making gesture were incented to do so by the tragic events at Charleston’s Emanuel AME Church. In the nearly three years since, many jurisdictions have begun placing historic symbols and figures in their proper perspectives and more appropriate locations. Born near Mayesville, SC, July 10, 1875, Mary Jane was the 15th of 17 children born to former slaves. She became a pioneering educator and fearless civil and human rights activist. An advisor to several United States presidents, she was a member of President Franklin Roosevelt’s unofficial “black Cabinet.” Her relationships with President Roosevelt and First Lady Eleanor, placed her at the very highest levels of government. President Harry Truman appointed Ms. Bethune an Envoy to Liberia. Mary Jane McLeod attended church-sponsored grade schools in Sumter County (SC) before graduating from Barber Scotia College in Kinston, North Carolina. She returned to Sumter and taught at the grade schools she had attended. She later worked as a Social Worker in Savannah, Georgia, for a year before becoming a teacher at a school in Augusta, GA. The Presbyterian Church transferred her back to Sumter to teach at Kendall Institute, which was located on Watkins Street near South Harvin Street. In 2006, the Sumter County Historical Commission placed a marker at the site. Mary Jane McLeod married fellow teacher Albertus Bethune and they subsequently moved to Florida where she founded - what is now - Bethune Cookman College. She was active with the National Council of Colored Women and Girls Clubs, but found them to be too docile. Her activism led her to the founding of the National Council of Negro Women which is still active today and headed by one of my favorite contemporaries, Ingrid Saunders-Jones. My late mother was an especially enthusiastic fan of this trailblazing leader and insisted that I learn everything I could about Ms. Bethune, a picture of whom adorns a wall in my Congressional office in Washington. It was partly as a tribute to my mother that I kinetically lobbied Governor John Carl West to support Senator Theo Mitchell’s legislation to place a portrait of Mary McLeod Bethune in the South Carolina State House. He did, the legislature responded positively, and Ms. Bethune became the first black person in South Carolina’s history to be so honored. Her portrait was unveiled on July 10, 1976. We cannot change history and we should not try. Nor should we attempt to revise or distort events with misguided tributes to defenders of human bondage or protectors of the status quo. Although much work remains to be done, throughout her life Mary McLeod Bethune truly did her part to advance the cause of forming ‘a more perfect Union.’
03.22.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (SC) released the following statement today: “I was pleased to support the FY2018 Omnibus Appropriations Act, which is a clear rejection of the draconian Trump budget. It makes robust investments in our communities, our country and our children’s futures. While this bill is far from perfect and leaves out several of my priorities, it is the result of bipartisan compromise and, on the whole, a bill I support. “The bill includes my “10-20-30” provision, a formula that targets funding to persistent poverty communities. This provision will be applied to 12 accounts in four different federal agencies. These communities are some of the poorest in our nation and have languished from underinvestment for more than thirty years. “The bill also provides additional funds to the Rural Energy Savings Program, which I authored, to allow rural consumers to upgrade the energy efficiency of their homes. It also includes robust funding for historic preservation grants for African American civil rights sites and historic buildings and sites on the campuses of Historically Black Colleges and Universities to preserve many of those endangered cultural treasures. “Moreover, the bill increases discretionary funding for Community Health Centers by $135 million, in addition to the $200 million increase in mandatory funding that was included in last month’s budget bill. These funds, along with a $100 million increase to the National Health Service Corps, will allow additional medical services in underserved communities where doctors are scarce. The Omnibus Appropriations Act also: increases investments in transportation infrastructure, including $1 billion for TIGER grants and funding for drinking and wastewater systems; increases funding for Army Corps of Engineers harbor dredging projects, which are critical to South Carolina; increases Head Start funding by $610 million and the Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDBG) by $2.37 billion; increases Pell Grant and public service loan forgiveness money; invests in affordable housing with the first increase in the low-income housing tax credit in more than a decade; increases funding for Veterans Affairs by $7 billion; includes a long-overdue 2.4% pay raise for the military and 1.9% pay raise for civilian federal employees; increases election security with $380 million in state grants; and protects the Johnson Amendment, which ensures that tax-exempt organizations do not endorse political candidates. “The bill also includes some important provisions regarding the gun violence epidemic like lifting the ban on Centers for Disease Control research. While the Fix NICS Act is included and will help improve the background check system, it will not give adequate protection to the American people until the ‘Charleston loophole,’ the gun show loophole and internet sales loophole are closed. “Of course, I am deeply troubled by the continued refusal of Republican leadership to allow a vote on a path forward for Dreamers, those undocumented individuals who came to this country as children. I will continue to relentlessly fight for a vote on the Dream Act. I am also disappointed that the bill fails to include legislation protecting the independence of the Special Counsel’s ongoing investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election. The American people demand action, and I hope in the weeks ahead the Republican leadership will finally allow the U.S. House of Representatives to vote on these critical issues.”
02.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. James E. Clyburn (SC-06), launched a discharge petition that would force a vote in the U.S. House of Representatives on the Background Check Completion Act. This bill closes the so-called "Charleston Loophole," which simply requires all background checks be completed and approved prior to the sale of a firearm. While the vast majority of required criminal background checks for gun sales at licensed firearm dealers are completed within minutes, if the National Instant Criminal Background Check System has not completed its background check after three business days, irrespective of the reason, the dealer is allowed to proceed with the sale. "It has been more than two years since the racially motivated attack at Emanuel A.M.E. Church in Charleston, South Carolina took nine lives and injured three others. As we discovered after the tragedy, the assailant used a firearm that was purchased through a loophole in our background check system, and thousands of weapons slip through this loophole each year. Congress must act to close this loophole immediately," said Clyburn. “Today, I filed a discharge petition on H.R. 3464, the Background Check Completion Act that would close the so-called 'Charleston Loophole' and strengthen the background check system in our nation. This bill should have a vote immediately.” A discharge petition is a procedure that will force an immediate vote on the House floor upon being signed by a majority of members of the House. This procedure allows the House to take up bills that are supported by a majority of members but blocked by Republican leadership. Click the image below to watch my floor statement.
02.09.2018	COLUMBIA, S.C. – Congressman Clyburn will participate in the groundbreaking ceremony of the Dorchester Reach of the Lake Marion Regional Water System. He will be joined by officials from the Lake Marion Regional Water Agency, Dorchester County, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and Santee Cooper. The program will be held on Monday, February 12th at 10:00 am at the First United Methodist Church in Harleyville, S.C. WHO: U.S. Congressman James E. Clyburn Mr. Johnnie Wright, Chairman, Lake Marion Regional Water Agency Mr. Willie R. Davis, Vice Chairman, Lake Marion Regional Water Agency Mr. Jay Byars, Chairman, Dorchester County Council Mr. Jason L. Ward, Dorchester County Administrator Mr. Jim Brogden, Interim President & CEO, Santee Cooper LTC Jason A. Legro, Acting Commander, Charleston District, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Rev. Kelly Snelgrove, Pastor, First United Methodist Church WHAT: Dorchester Reach Groundbreaking Ceremony WHEN: Monday, February 12, 2018 at 10:00 am WHERE: First United Methodist Church 135 East Main Street Harleyville, SC 29488 CONTACT: Jason Ward, Dorchester County Administrator (843) 563-0100
02.09.2018	COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA -- Congressman James E. Clyburn will serve as the 2018 Black History Month speaker at New Light Beulah Baptist Church in Hopkins, S.C. on Sunday, February 11, 2018. The church’s morning worship service will be held at 10:00 am. WHO: U.S. Congressman James E. Clyburn WHAT: Black History Month Speech WHEN: Sunday, February 11, 2018 at 10:00 am WHERE: New Light Beulah Baptist Church, Hopkins, S.C.
02.09.2018	COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA -- Congressman James E. Clyburn will moderate a forum on the life of Benjamin F. Payton, former President of Benedict College and Tuskegee University. The forum will be held on Saturday, February 10, 2018 at 1:00 pm at the Barbra A. Vaughan Fine Arts Center at South Carolina State University in Orangeburg, S.C. WHO: U.S. Congressman James E. Clyburn, other panelists WHAT: Forum on the life of Benjamin F. Payton WHEN: Saturday, February 10, 2018 at 1:00 pm WHERE: Barbara A. Vaughan Fine Arts Center, SC State University, Orangeburg, S.C.
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (SC) delivered the following statement today (as prepared for delivery): “Mr. Speaker, Republicans control the House, the Senate and the White House. The responsibility to govern rests squarely on their shoulders. Democrats stand ready to keep government open, but neither Speaker Ryan nor Leader McConnell seem interested in finding bipartisan solutions. Maybe they are adhering to President Trump’s admonition that we need a ‘good government shutdown.’ “House Democrats wholeheartedly disagree. We ought to work together in a bipartisan way to help our veterans, to fight the opioid epidemic, to protect millions of workers’ pensions and to help the DREAMers. “Today’s CR is the fourth kick of the can. Once again Republicans are engaging in legislative sleight of hand, shamefully using low-income children as political pawns. “The Children’s Health Insurance Program provides health insurance for 9 million low-income children. Every Democratic Member of this body supports it. “Republicans allowed it to expire more than four months ago and have refused to bring it up on its own until they could get something in return. That is wrong. What good is health insurance if you have nowhere to go when your child is sick? Republicans leave Community Health Centers and Disproportionate Share Hospitals out of their temporary authorization. “Mr. Speaker, we would save $6 billion if we permanently authorize CHIP. We should fund Community Health Centers and protect Disproportionate Share Hospitals for two years. We should permanently repeal the cap on therapy services for seniors in Medicare. We should fund the highly successful home visiting program for five years. “We could do all of that by passing Representative Donald McEachin’s ‘Advancing Seniors and Kids Act.’ I urge my Republican colleagues to stop playing politics with CHIP. Reject this grotesque political calculation, and let’s work in a bipartisan way to keep government open.”
12.19.2017	Video: WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (SC) delivered the following statement during debate on H.R. 1 (as prepared for delivery): “Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to the Ryan/McConnell tax scam bill. This bill should be named, “the Republican Donor-Class Relief Act.” Because that’s what it is, and several of my Republican colleagues and many in the media have publicly admitted as much. This tax-scam bill represents a grotesque set of priorities revealing deep depravity of American values. One of the first principles of our Judeo/Christian value system is grounded in what we do “for the least of these.” From the outset, this bill violates that principle by lowering the marginal rates on the wealthiest among us by 2.6 points; while raising those rates on “the least among us” by 2 points. This tax-scam bill adds insult to that injurious act by doubling the estate tax exemption from $11 million to $22 million. The Republicans add further insult to injury by lowering the tax rates for corporations by 14 points while raising taxes on 86 million middle income families. It makes the tax cuts for corporations permanent and the miniscule individual cuts temporary, while also kicking 13 million people off their health insurance and increasing premiums for millions more. This tax scam caps deductions for state and local taxes, and home mortgages; and adds over $2 trillion dollars to the deficit. Our children and grandchildren will be left with the bill. Mr. Speaker, history will not treat kindly the crass cruelty of this so-called Christmas “gift” to hard-working Americans.”
12.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (SC) released the following statement today on the passing of Justice Ernest Finney: “I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Justice Ernest Finney, Jr. He was a pioneering advocate for social justice who had an enormous impact on South Carolina. The first African American Chief Justice of the state Supreme Court, Justice Finney blazed a trail like few others. In the civil rights activities of the 1960s, Finney, then a local attorney in my hometown of Sumter, represented freedom fighters and Freedom Riders who were arrested, detained, and tried throughout South Carolina. I will miss my friend. My wife Emily and I want to express our deepest sympathies to his family and friends.”
11.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (SC) released the following statement for the record on H.Res.630: “Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.Res.630, which would require each Member, officer and employee of the House to complete anti-discrimination and anti-harassment training. Enacting this legislation ought to be a first step toward affirming with one voice that there is absolutely no place for discrimination nor harassment of any kind in the halls of Congress. But we must also do more than agree to mandatory training. “As elected officials, we ought to be held to a higher standard. Congress must review and improve the current administrative procedure for victims to come forward. All harassment and discrimination allegations must be taken seriously. After enacting this measure, Congress must streamline the process, protect victims that wish to be protected, and ensure all allegations of wrongdoing are investigated with professionalism, urgency and due process. “I urge all of my colleagues to support this legislation and encourage the House to take whatever administrative steps are necessary to make it easier for victims to come forward. More importantly, I respectfully ask all of my colleagues to take a close look inward at themselves and their offices and to put an immediate end to the cultural climate that has allowed harassment and discrimination to tarnish the institution of Congress. We can do better and we must. “Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I yield back.”
11.07.2017	Mr. Speaker, I rise to alert the American people to the tax scam that is the Republican "tax reform" proposal, unveiled last week. It is reported that President Trump wanted to call this bill, "cut, cut, cut." That would have been apropos. The first cut is for him and his family members, the second cut is for his wealthy friends and acquaintances, and the third cut is for large corporations classified as LLCs. It certainly does not cut taxes for middle income families or most small businesses. In fact, it does just the opposite. It is crystal clear who gets the cuts and who gets to pay more. First and foremost, the GOP tax plan eliminates inheritance taxes. This tax only applies to estates of over $11 million and only affects two tenths of one percent of families in America, those who wish to pass along their wealth, unearned and untaxed. Why are Republicans doing this? Because it's a huge priority for some of their biggest donors. In fact, this cut is not even about the 0.2 percent--it's really about two families--the Mercers and the Kochs. The bottom line is that America's hard-working low, moderate and middle-income families will be asked to pay for this $172 billion dollar give away to the super rich. At the heart of this scam is the GOP pretense not to be cutting taxes for the super-rich by maintaining the top rate of 39.6 percent. However, it increases the income level that the 39.6 percent applies to; from $470,000 to $1 million. These proposed rate changes will cost over $1 trillion. This cut also goes to those who make far more than $1 million as well. Whether your income is $1 million, $10 million, or $100 million, this provision alone gives you an extra $25,000 a year. Mr. Speaker, many South Carolinians I represent do not make $25,000 in a year. The GOP tax plan also features a special rate for the owners of "pass-through" businesses at a cost of $448 billion. These are LLCs and partnerships, who pay zero corporate tax, and whose owners' income is treated the same as anybody else's. The Republicans claim that giving these owners a special lower rate will help small businesses, but nothing could be further from the truth. LLCs and other types of pass-throughs make up 95 percent of all the businesses in the country. In fact, some of the largest businesses like Koch Industries, Chrysler, and of course, most of the entities owned by the Trump Organization, are LLCs. Pass-throughs that are truly small businesses are not currently subject to the highest individual rates, and already pay 25 percent or lower. The National Federation of Independent Businesses opposes this provision for this very reason. It delivers a special low tax rate to wealthy owners and will not help the small businesses they claim that it will. Mr. Speaker, most of us, especially those who have worked in State governments, view our states as the best laboratories for the development of good ideas and best practices. This pass-through idea was the centerpiece of Governor Sam Brownback's tax overhaul in Kansas just five years ago. The Governor promised it would yield massive economic growth. And what happened? Kansas was plunged into a massive budget deficit and forced to make draconian cuts to education, infrastructure, and the rest of the state's operations. This year, the Kansas legislature overrode Governor Brownback's short-sighted experiment. I urge my colleagues not to make the same mistake. This scam will subject the good people of this country into a second great recession in a single decade. Let's take a look at who pays more while the President and his wealthy friends and acquaintances pay less. Middle income families will pay more because the GOP plan eliminates deductions on state and local taxes. This includes millions of Americans and over 500,000 South Carolinians. Middle income families who itemize deductions will pay more because the elimination of the personal exemption will cost their households $4,000 per member. Middle income families who utilize the mortgage interest deduction will pay more because the GOP plan lowers the cap, costing millions of Americans more. Middle income families with children in college or recent graduates will pay more because the GOP plan eliminates the deduction for interest on student loans. Middle income families that are victims of natural disasters will pay more because the GOP plan eliminates the casualty loss deduction. Middle income families who adopt children will pay more because the GOP plan eliminates the adoption tax credit. Middle income school teachers will pay more because the GOP plan eliminates their ability for to deduct for supplies they may purchase for their classrooms. Middle income families struggling to pay costly medical bills will pay more because the GOP plan shamefully eliminates their deductibility. Mr. Speaker, paying for pass-through gimmicks and tax giveaways to multi-millionaires by raising taxes on moderate and middle-income Americans is reprehensible. Democrats are ready to do real tax reform on a bipartisan basis. But not once in this process, has the other side attempted to negotiate. In fact, they have publicly made it abundantly clear that they want a bill that only Republicans will support. Bipartisan tax reform should lower taxes for working people, not raise them. Bipartisan tax reform should end incentives for offshoring jobs and level the playing field for American corporations. Bipartisan tax reform should expand the Earned Income Tax Credit for single filers and the Child Tax Credit to help families. Real bipartisan tax reform would not increase the deficit, add to the debt and pass the bill on to our children and grandchildren. I know many of my colleagues share these values. Let's set aside this partisan process and do something worthwhile for the American people. Until then, the Democratic Caucus will be resolute in our opposition to ramming through tax increases for middle income Americans and massive giveaways for the rich.
08.29.2017	COLUMBIA, August 29, 2017 – Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn will join leaders of the Electric Cooperatives of South Carolina to celebrate the recent announcement of $13 million in federal funds from the Rural Energy Savings Program (RESP) to weatherize more than a thousand homes in rural South Carolina. Who: Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn Electric Cooperatives of South Carolina, Santee Electric Cooperative What: Press conference and tour of one of the homes included in ECSC’s “Help My House” pilot weatherization program. Where: 873 Sumter Highway, Kingstree, SC When: Wednesday, August 30, 2017 – 2:00pm Contact: Lou Green, 803-739-3042, lou.green@ecsc.org Lindsey Smith, 803-331-5934, lindsey.smith@ecsc.org About the Rural Energy Savings Program: First introduced in Congress by Rep. James E. Clyburn in 2010, the Rural Energy Savings Program is a national initiative that provides loans to electric cooperatives and other utilities which they use to then lend to consumers for energy efficiency improvements to their homes. Consumers repay the loan through the savings on their electric bill. The bill passed the House of Representatives in 2010, but never passed the Senate. The next Congress, in 2012, RESP passed the Senate as part which never passed the House. Finally in 2014, RESP passed both chambers and was signed into law. The program received its initial funding in 2016, and in May announced its first round of loans, which included $13 million to electric cooperatives in South Carolina.
06.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn delivered the following statement during House debate of H.R. 1135 which would reauthorize the HBCU Historic Preservation program for seven years. The bill passed the House unanimously. (as prepared for delivery): “Mr. Speaker, as a student and former teacher of history, I have worked during my tenure in Congress to preserve and protect our nation’s historic treasures. Historically Black Colleges and Universities, commonly called HBCUs, are some of the most important historic educational institutions in our country. “There are over 100 HBCUs in the country and eight of them are in South Carolina. I proudly represent seven of them and am a graduate of one. Many of them have buildings and sites on their campuses that have existed for over a century, and are of great historical significance. Unfortunately, many of the historic buildings and sites on these campuses have deteriorated over the years and are at risk of being lost completely if not preserved and protected. “In 1998, at the request of the Congressional Black Caucus, the U.S Government Accountability Office (GAO) surveyed 103 HBCU campuses to identify the historically significant sites on these campuses and project the cost of restoring and preserving these properties. The GAO identified 712 historic buildings and sites, and projected a cost of $755 million to restore and preserve them. Each of these sites has national significance to American history, and I believe we have an obligation to be stewards of these cultural treasures. “In 2003, working with our former colleague Jim Hansen of Utah and our current colleague, and my friend, Jimmy Duncan of Tennessee, Congress expanded the program and authorized expenditures of 10 million dollars annually for five years. I have seen the results firsthand. Last year, Allen University rededicated the historic Chappelle Auditorium on its campus in Columbia, South Carolina, which was painstakingly restored thanks to funding from this program. Originally built in 1925, this building was central to the cultural life of African Americans in South Carolina for generations. “In 1947, Rev. Joseph A. DeLaine attended an NAACP event at Chappelle Auditorium that inspired him to organize Black families in Clarendon County to petition their school district to provide buses for black students who, at the time, were forced to make a daily walk of 9.4 miles to school. “The legal case that grew from this petition, Briggs v. Elliot, precipitated the frontal attack on segregation in the country and was later combined with four other later cases that became Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas at the U.S. Supreme Court. Overturning the “separate but equal” fallacy, Brown ended legal segregation throughout America. “This is just a singular example of the history living on HBCU campuses. Because of our past efforts, historic buildings and sites at 59 HBCUs in 20 states have received funding from this program. However many historic structures are still endangered. “Consequently, in the omnibus appropriations bill for 2017 passed earlier this year, Congress included $4 million for HBCU Historic Preservation. H.R. 1135 continues the progress Congress has made in preserving these unique treasures. “Last year, the House passed this bill unanimously, but it was not taken up by the Senate. I thank Chairman Bishop and Ranking Member Grijalva for supporting it again today. This bill is supported by the United Negro College Fund, the Thurgood Marshall College Fund, and the National Trust for Historic Preservation. The HBCU Historic Preservation Program serves an essential purpose to HBCUs, which have a special place in the fabric of American history, culture and education. Countless individuals have worked tirelessly to cultivate HBCUs, and their legacy is seen in graduates whose achievements adorn the pages of American history. From Booker T. Washington to Mary McLeod Bethune; W.E.B. DuBois to Martin Luther King, Jr., HBCU visionaries and graduates have set powerful examples of leadership. “The legacy of historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs) is one of significant courage and steadfast determination. The structures on these campuses across the country are living testaments to African American history and deserve to be stabilized and restored. HBCUs are among America’s national treasures that must be preserved and protected for future generations. “Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I urge all my colleagues to support this needed legislation.”
06.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn delivered the following remarks today on the Clyburn-Sanders Community Health Centers Bill (as prepared for delivery): “I am pleased to join Senator Sanders to introduce the Community Health Center and Primary Care Workforce Expansion Act. “Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. famously said in 1966, ‘Of all the forms of inequality, injustice in health care is the most shocking and inhumane.’ “I have often described the Affordable Care Act as the Civil Rights Act of the 21st Century, because it banned many forms of discrimination in the healthcare system. The ACA made great strides towards the long- held goal of universal health insurance coverage for all Americans. Equally important, however, is insuring universal access to healthcare in every community throughout the country. The ACA dramatically expanded the federally funding for community health centers and the National Health Service Corps which in tandem provide health care facilities and providers in underserved communities, both urban and rural. This is key to connect health insurance coverage to actual health care. I believe Congress should act to build on the steps taken by the ACA to further expand community health centers to ensure that there are adequate facilities and qualified providers available to every person in America, no matter where they live. “Senator Sanders and I championed a provision in the ACA that created the Community Health Center fund. It provided mandatory funding of $9.5 billion over five years to expand community health centers operations and $1.5 billion for construction and renovations of Community Health Center facilities. The fund also provided mandatory funding to expand the National Health Service Corps. While this funding was originally scheduled to expire after 2015, we were able to successfully secure a two year extension of the fund. Unfortunately, this vital funding expires on September 30th of this year. We must address this funding cliff and we need to expand the funding to provide 100 percent coverage of community health centers because they fill such a vital role in our health care system. They serve communities that few other providers serve. “As we are now dealing with ad hominem attacks on the Affordable Care Act, Senator Sanders and I are introducing this legislation to expand and make permanent community health center funding and programs that were created in the ACA. Specifically, this bill will increase the funding for Community Health Centers from $5.1 billion in fiscal year 2018 to $12.5 billion in fiscal year 2027. This would allow health centers to serve twice as many people in 2028, from 25 million today to 50 million. “We need to build on the success of the ACA, not turn back the clock. This bill does just that. The Trumpcare bill on the Senate floor this week goes in the opposite direction, turning back the clock and ripping away coverage and protections from millions of Americans. It is immoral and Congress must reject it.”
06.26.2017	ADVISORY: Sanders and Clyburn to Announce Act to Expand Community Health Center Funds WASHINGTON, June 26 – Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Rep. James Clyburn (D-S.C.) will announce legislation today to dramatically expand and make permanent Community Health Center funding and programs that were created in the Affordable Care Act. Who: Sen. Bernie Sanders and Rep. James Clyburn What: Press conference to introduce the Community Health Center and Primary Care Workforce Expansion Act Where: Senate Swamp When: Monday, June 26, 4:00 p.m.
06.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement on the second anniversary of the massacre at Mother Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina: “In the wake of last Wednesday’s shooting, my thoughts and prayers continue to be with House Majority Whip Steve Scalise and all the victims and their families. “I will be in Charleston tonight to help commemorate the second anniversary of the massacre at Mother Emanuel AME Church. The Charleston community has demonstrated great strength and faith but the healing will be slow. As we honor the memory of the lives lost and celebrate the resiliency of the survivors, we are reminded that much work remains to be done. Their legacy of faith and service must become our own as we continue to pursue a more perfect Union.”
06.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, Assistant Democratic Leader, delivered the Weekly Democratic Address. In this week’s address, Assistant Leader Clyburn wished House Majority Whip Steve Scalise and those involved in the Alexandria baseball practice shooting a complete and speedy recovery. Clyburn also called on Republicans in Congress to work with Democrats to deliver accessible, affordable health care to all Americans. Video and audio of the Weekly Democratic Address can be downloaded here. Below is a full transcript of the address: “Hello. I’m Congressman Jim Clyburn. I proudly represent the 6th Congressional District of South Carolina and serve as the Assistant Democratic Leader in the United States House of Representatives. “Let me begin by wishing House Majority Whip Steve Scalise a full and speedy recovery. I also wish the same for Matt Mika, the former staffer and volunteer who was also shot in last Wednesday’s senseless and cowardly attack. “I cannot find sufficient words to express thanks and appreciations to Special Agents David Bailey, Crystal Griner and Henry Cabrera, members of the Dignitary Protection Corps, for their brave and sacrificial actions which contained and eliminated a clear and present danger to only God knows how many dedicated public servants. Having spent several years under their watchful protection, I know first-hand of their hard work and dedication. I wish for them speedy recoveries as well. I’m keeping them and their families in my prayers. “No issue is more important to the people of America than their health, and the health of their families. And in my opinion, no issues are more important to the health care of Americans than accessibility and affordability. The ACA repeal legislation recently passed by House Republicans – without a single Democratic vote – would have devastating effects on families all across the country. President Trump pushed hard and relentlessly for its passage. Recently, however, he called the bill ‘mean.’ “When President Obama proposed the ACA, he hosted a bi-partisan, bicameral town-hall type roundtable in the Blair House. It was broadcast, in real time, by C-SPAN, and when the bill was introduced in the House, it went to three committees that debated its pros and cons extensively. Republicans and Democrats offered scores of amendments and many of them were accepted. “I was serving as House Majority Whip at the time, and when the bill was debated on the floor, I called it the Civil Rights Act of the 21st century. I gave it that moniker because the ACA outlaws many forms of discrimination in health care. It outlaws discrimination against women who were often charged more for health care coverage than men. It outlawed discrimination against people with pre-existing conditions. “The ACA repeal bill that House Republicans passed and sent to the Senate would rip away health care from 23 million Americans, and raise costs and roll back protections for millions more. “Now, Senate Republicans are working in secret on their own Trumpcare bill. They won’t tell you what it is, but they want you to believe it’s more moderate. There’s nothing moderate about undermining protections for people with pre-existing conditions by repealing the essential health benefits protections. There’s nothing moderate about gutting Medicaid by $834 billion and in the same bill give $900 billion in tax giveaways to a few wealthy families, and insurance and drug companies. Repealing the ACA would once again institutionalize the kind of discrimination against the sick and aged that has plagued hard-working families for generations. Passing the Republican bill would turn the clock back on civil rights and humaneness. “It does not have to be this way. Democrats are eager to work with our Republican colleagues to deliver accessible and affordable quality health care to all Americans, but Republicans must set aside their repeal efforts. It is my fervent hope that this is the path we choose going forward. “Thank you for listening and God bless.”
05.25.2017	Washington, DC – Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement on Army Corps of Engineers Funding Announcements: “Yesterday, the Army Corps of Engineers announced its allocations of the funds provided in the omnibus appropriations bill for 2017, passed earlier this month. I am pleased that $4.66 million is included to expand the Lake Marion Regional Water Agency. These funds, combined with significant state and local funding, will extend the agency’s reach to Ridgeville, South Carolina in Dorchester County. The WIIN Act, passed last year, authorized the expansion of this project, which will eventually serve the new Volvo site in Berkeley County. The Volvo manufacturing facility is expected to create over 4,000 new jobs and is one of most significant economic development project for South Carolina in decades. Without critical infrastructure like the Lake Marion water agency, companies like Volvo would locate elsewhere. “Additionally, the Corps is allocating $17.5 million to begin the Charleston Harbor Deepening project, one of the most important infrastructure projects for South Carolina and the entire Southeast region. While this funding is welcome news and will allow the project to begin, I am concerned about future funding of the project. President Trump’s budget request for 2018, released this week, fails to include any funding for the Charleston Harbor Deepening, instead prioritizing funding for harbor and navigation projects elsewhere. To ensure its expeditious completion, adequate funding in 2018 and subsequent years will be needed. “Finally, yesterday’s announcement included an additional $7.2 million for beach restoration at Myrtle Beach, South Carolina following erosion and damage from Hurricane Matthew. Myrtle Beach is a tourism and economic engine that benefits our entire state, and maintaining it is vitally important to communities all over South Carolina. “The omnibus appropriations bill for 2017, that funded all of these projects, was a win for South Carolina and the nation. Congress negotiated a bipartisan agreement that rolled back many of President Trump’s proposed cuts. Unfortunately, President Trump’s draconian budget for next year would not only be devastating for families and communities across the nation, it also turns its back on South Carolina’s critical infrastructure needs. I will continue to fight in Congress to support our state’s infrastructure like the Charleston Harbor, the Lake Marion Regional Water Agency, the new Volvo facility, and the Grand Strand.”
05.23.2017	Washington, DC – Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement on President Trump’s budget request for fiscal year 2018: “Budgets are about much more than dollars and cents. They are value statements, American values. Today Donald Trump has once again shown us where his are. He talks about improving our infrastructure, but his budget slashes billions of dollars from federal infrastructure funding. For middle income Americans and those struggling in poverty, his budget proposes to slash billions from safety net programs they depend on; nursing home care, affordable health care, food and heating assistance and legal aid. This budget is an attack on seniors, students, low-income families, and rural communities. “For South Carolina, the Trump Budget would be a disaster if enacted. Eliminating most of the Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development programs cuts off the lifeline rural counties depend on. This office funds schools, water systems, and supports rural housing and businesses. Eliminating the Community Development Block Grant program cuts the main source of federal funding for municipalities to provide critical infrastructure and housing support. The budget also proposes to eliminate funding for the National Heritage Areas through the National Park Service, which would decimate the two in our state, the South Carolina National Heritage Corridor and the Gullah-Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor.”
05.16.2017	Growing up in a church parsonage, the eldest son of a fundamentalist Christian minister, grounded me securely in faith and family. My dad’s sermons, which were based in Old Testament scriptures as often as they were in the New Testament, offered up pretty big doses of Judeo-Christian doctrines that still guide me today as Chair of the Democratic Faith Working Group (DFWG) in the United States House of Representatives. The Old Testament lesson found in Micah 6:8 calls upon the reader to do justice, be merciful and walk humbly. In Matthew 25:45 the reader is instructed that we are judged by the way we treat, “the least (among us).” These are the principles that guide the members of the DFWG. We are composed of significant strains of the great diversity of faiths across our nation and in our Caucus. Our values reflect these faiths, and our faith perspectives are the lenses through which we see the great challenges of our times. Whether the issues are combatting poverty, providing accessible, affordable health care; creating jobs that pay livable wages, rebuilding our infrastructure, tax fairness, environmental stewardship, comprehensive immigration reform, or any other matters important to the common good of our people, the members of the DFWG are utilizing our faith-based perspectives in our pursuit of “a more perfect Union.” The members of the DFWG are actively opposing Republican efforts to “repeal and replace” the Affordable Care Act. Repealing the Affordable Care Act would have devastating effects on “the least of these.” It would violate the golden rule of “do(ing) unto others as you would have them do unto you.” The Republican bill—that was passed by the House on Thursday, May 4—would exacerbate the widening income gap in our society by lavishing massive tax breaks on the wealthiest few at the expense of working people. There is not justice, mercy or humbleness in such action. In my home district alone, more than 270,000 South Carolinians under Medicare age have pre-existing conditions. Repealing the Affordable Care Act would subject this population to higher costs and loss of care. According to a recent Joint Economic Committee Report, the Republican Plan will cause 104,954 South Carolinians to lose private coverage in 2018, with their premiums increasing by $727 to $970. Additionally, we would see increased costs of over $94 million in uncompensated care to hospitals in South Carolina. The plan also includes a big transfer of wealth from low to middle income Americans to the wealthiest of Americans. It provides $274.9 billion in tax cuts for the highest income Americans, with over half of the tax cuts going to millionaires. In 2020, 61 percent of the cuts go to those earning more than $1 million a year. To pay for this, Republicans cut Medicaid by more than $880 billion. To add insult to injury, health care CEOs are big winners in this legislation; it cuts taxes by $400 million for insurance company executives. I have long maintained that the Affordable Care Act is the Civil Rights Act of the 21st Century, basically because it outlaws discrimination against sick people, most especially those with pre-existing conditions. Repealing the ACA and putting discrimination back into the health care system is a step history will not forgive. Public policies that do not square with the admonition of Micah 6:8 or the lesson of Matthew 25:45 are offensive to our moral responsibility to do the most good for the most people. The members of the DFWG will continue to use our shared values found in the fundamentals of our faiths to inform and guide us in our efforts to keep the public informed as we address the most pressing issues confronting our nation.
05.11.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement on the signing of an executive order establishing a Presidential Advisory Commission on ‘Election Integrity’ and Russian meddling: Clyburn statement: “President Trump’s ‘Election Integrity’ Commission is an obvious attempt to stop the freefall his Administration is in as a result of his firing of FBI Director Comey and the ongoing investigation into his Administration’s ties to Russia. It is worth noting that nothing in the executive order will address the very real influence that Russia had on our election. “While I was troubled by Director Comey’s handling of the investigation into Secretary Clinton’s email server last year, I respect the need for law enforcement to be independent from political influence. Whether true or not, President Trump, Attorney General Sessions and Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein have created the dangerous appearance that they are trying to stifle the investigation. To remove all appearances of impropriety, Congress should swiftly pass legislation creating an independent commission to fully investigate Russia’s intervention in our electoral process. The American people deserve the truth, and they deserve to have confidence in the independence of the officials charged with finding it. “Moreover, it is sad that President Trump is so obsessed with his own popularity that he’s willing to ignore facts, waste valuable resources and shake public confidence in our democracy in order to stroke his own ego. More than a dozen recent nonpartisan investigations have found no evidence of widespread voter fraud, making this so-called ‘commission’ totally unnecessary. With one of the architects of voter suppression, Kris Kobach, as Vice Chair, President Trump’s ‘commission’ lacks all credibility. Republicans have used the myth of voter fraud to restrict voting rights for a very long time. At a time when our democracy is fragile and under constant threat, I will fight any attempt to nationalize voting rights discrimination.”
05.10.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Utilities Service announced the initial awards of funding from the Rural Energy Savings Program. This program was created by legislation included in the most recent Farm Bill, signed into law in 2014. It was originally introduced by Congressman Jim Clyburn in 2010, when it passed the House of Representatives. Through the program, the Rural Utilities Service makes loans to electric cooperatives and other utilities which they use to then lend to consumers for energy efficiency improvements to their homes. Consumers repay the loan through the savings on their electric bill. The program first received funding in the omnibus appropriations bill for 2016, and was again funded in the most recent omnibus appropriations bill Congress passed last week. Clyburn statement: “High electric bills are one of the largest burdens to working families, especially in small towns and rural communities where much of the housing is either old or mobile homes which are particularly inefficient. Investing in energy efficiency can make a significant impact but is unfortunately out of reach for the people that need it the most.” “South Carolina’s electric cooperatives will receive $13 million to lend to their members to invest in energy efficiency improvements. This will reach an estimated 1,250 families across the state. In many of South Carolina’s rural counties where often over one third of the housing is mobile homes, electric bills can be hundreds of dollars more than they should be due to inefficiency.” “Today’s announcement means savings for families in South Carolina who need it most, jobs for contractors in rural communities to do this work, and reductions in electricity consumption to cut pollution and help the climate.” “I want to thank the Electric Cooperatives of South Carolina for leading the way on energy efficiency and providing a model that we have now taken nationwide. I look forward to continuing to work with them to expand the program to reach every person that suffers from high energy bills in South Carolina and across the nation.”
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (SC) delivered the following statement during debate on H.R. 1628 (as prepared for delivery): “Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to the Republicans’ Pay More, For Less Health Care Plan. I often repeat the 1966 observation of Martin Luther King, Jr. that, “Of all the inequalities that exist, the injustice in Health Care is the most egregious and inhumane.” On the day it was passed, I observed that the Affordable Care Act is the Civil Rights Act of the 21st Century. Repealing the ACA would be inhumane and put egregious forms of discrimination back into our health care delivery system. “My Republican colleagues and President Trump have promised more coverage and less costs for everyone. However, this Republican plan would allow all states to eliminate Essential Health Benefits, such as maternity and newborn coverage, prescription drugs, hospitalization, emergency coverage, and mental health services. It would also allow states to tax older Americans 5 times more than younger Americans. “Republicans are reneging on their promises to protect Americans with pre-existing conditions. Without essential health benefits standards, protections for those with pre-existing conditions would exist in name only. Repeal of essential health benefits would drive a race to the bottom, with insurers dropping coverage for everything from chemotherapy to high-cost drugs. “It would precipitate a proliferation of junk policies that have historically plagued unsuspecting low income communities. People with pre-existing conditions – who need these and other costly services – wouldn’t be able to find the coverage they need at any price, much less an affordable one. “When my mother was diagnosed with Multiple Myeloma in the month of January doctors told us she had only 8 months to live. She had insurance. But her insurance ran out before her 55th birthdate, 2 months later. To keep her comfortable for the last few months of her life, we spent every dime she had spent a lifetime saving. “We took a giant step away from such with the ACA, but this Republican bill takes us back to that era, an era where people with pre-existing conditions are left in the cold. “Adding money to a state slush fund is not a solution. If this were to pass Americans would jump from state to state depending on which states they perceive as having the better plans. Make no mistake, insurance companies would once again be allowed to sell, what could only be called “junk policies.” This would be a giant step backward. “Repealing the ACA would once again institutionalize the kind of discrimination against the sick and aged that has plagued hard working families for generations. Passing this bill would turn the clock back on civil rights and civility.”
02.16.2017	*****MEDIA ADVISORY***** FOR PLANNING PURPOSES February 16, 2017 Congressman Jim Clyburn Affordable Care Act Listening Session (Columbia, SC) -- Congressman Jim Clyburn will hold a listening session this Saturday, February 18 at 2pm at the William L. Yates Conference Center of the South Carolina Hospital Association (SCHA) to discuss the future of the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Congressman Clyburn’s listening session will focus on current ACA repeal proposals and the impact those proposals will have on Medicaid, insurance subsidies and all the provisions provided by the law. He will share the latest news from Washington and give hospital representatives and other health care stakeholders the opportunity to provide input on the effect on South Carolina. The William L. Yates Conference Center is located at 1000 Center Point Road, Columbia, SC 29210. WHO: Congressman Jim Clyburn South Carolina Hospital Association South Carolina stakeholders WHAT: Affordable Care Act Listening Session WHEN: Saturday, February 18, 2017 at 2pm WHERE: 1000 Center Point Road, Columbia, SC 29210 CONTACT: Rozalynn Goodwin 803-744-3532
01.25.2017	UNITED STATES CONGRESS For Immediate Release January 25, 2017 Contacts: Jennifer Werner (Cummings): 202-226-5181 Jamie Fleet (Brady): 202-225-2061 Patrick Devlin (Clyburn): 202-226-3210 Cummings, Brady, and Clyburn Demand Proof of Unsubstantiated Republican Claims of Voter Fraud In Letters to Top Election Officials of All 50 States and DC, Members Request Incidents of Actual, Confirmed Voter Fraud This morning, President Trump tweeted: “I will be asking for a major investigation into VOTER FRAUD, including those registered to vote in two states, those registered to vote who are dead (and many for a long time). Depending on results, we will strengthen up voting procedures!” His tweet follows reports that he stated during a meeting with congressional leaders on Monday that “millions of unauthorized immigrants had robbed him of a popular vote majority.” After being pressed by members of the White House press corps yesterday, White House press secretary Sean Spicer defended the President’s claim, stating: “He believes what he believes based on the information he was provided.” He added: “The president does believe that, he has stated that before. I think he’s stated his concerns of voter fraud and people voting illegally during the campaign and he continues to maintain that belief based on studies and evidence people have presented to him.” Spicer went on to cite a study “that came out of Pew in 2008 that showed 14% of people who have voted are non-citizens.” That claim itself has also been thoroughly debunked by the Washington Post, PolitiFact, and NPR. In November, weeks after winning the election, President Trump tweeted: “In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally.” When pressed by George Stephanopoulos to explain the tweet, Counselor to the President Kellyanne Conway said: “To your question, the president-elect has been talking to different people, including Kris Kobach of Kansas, about voting irregularities or the number of illegal votes that may have been cast, and I believe that he based his information on that.” Kobach served as secretary of state of Kansas, and in June 2016, Cummings, Brady and Clyburn launched an investigation into an Election Assistance Commission action to amend the federal voter registration form to require proof of citizenship in Alabama, Georgia, and Kansas. In September, a federal judge blocked the action after finding that it would disenfranchise legitimate voters. Click here or read below for one sample letter. January 25, 2017 The Honorable John H. Merrill The Honorable Luther Strange Alabama Secretary of State Alabama Attorney General P.O. Box 5616 Office of the Attorney General Montgomery, AL 36103 P.O. Box 30015 Montgomery, AL 36130-0152 Dear Secretary of State Merrill and Attorney General Strange: Thank you for your service in the critical work of helping ensure that elections across the country are free, fair, and administered in a way that upholds the fundamental tenets of the United States Constitution. We are writing given recent claims of voter fraud and its potential impact on our nation’s elections. To investigate these claims, we are seeking information regarding confirmed incidents of voter fraud. To assist in our inquiry, we request that you provide a list of all specific cases in which either of your offices has determined that an individual who cast a vote in the federal elections held in November 2016 was legally prohibited from doing so. For each specific case, please include the following information: 1) the identity of the individual who cast the prohibited vote; 2) the date on which the prohibited vote took place; 3) the polling place where the prohibited vote occurred; 4) the specific legal reason the individual’s vote was prohibited; and 5) the result of the individual’s prosecution, if any. Please include in this list all cases in which the state has determined that a prohibited vote was cast, regardless of whether a prosecution was initiated or concluded. Please feel free to provide joint or separate responses. We request this information by February 22, 2017. Please contact Karen Kudelko of Ranking Member Cummings’ staff at (202) 225-5051, Khalil Abboud with Ranking Member Brady’s staff at (202) 225-2061, or Amy Miller Pfeiffer with Assistant Democratic Leader Clyburn’s staff at (202) 226-3210 with any questions. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Robert A. Brady James E. Clyburn Ranking Member Ranking Member Assistant Democratic Committee on Oversight and Committee on House Leader Government Reform Administration cc: The Honorable Jason Chaffetz Chairman, House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform The Honorable Gregg Harper Chairman, Committee on House Administration
01.17.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (SC) published the following op-ed in the Charleston Post and Courier today: BY JAMES E. CLYBURN This week we are observing Martin Luther King Jr.’s birthday. Many of us are celebrating by defending the Affordable Care Act (ACA), our nation’s attempt to end discrimination against people who are born sick, or get sick. King once said, “Of all the forms of inequality, injustice in health care is the most shocking and inhumane.” I often refer to the ACA as the Civil Rights Act of the 21st Century. History will not forgive our putting disparate treatment back into and insurance companies back in charge of, our healthcare delivery system. Repealing the ACA would be devastating to our economy. Experts predict that a total repeal would increase the national debt and explode the federal deficit, $320 billion over ten years. Are we really willing to mortgage the future of our children to achieve an ill-fated partisan goal of cutting off health care for millions of Americans? During the eight years prior to President Obama’s administration, health care costs increased by 80 percent. During the nearly eight years of the Obama administration healthcare costs have increased only 30 percent. Repealing the law could reverse this historic trend and endanger the health and welfare of millions of individuals and families throughout the country. In my home state of South Carolina, 417,000 individuals have gained coverage under the ACA including 107,000 children. All of them are at risk of having their coverage rolled back. Those 35,000 young adults in South Carolina who are able to stay on a parent’s health insurance plan - thanks to the ACA - would lose coverage if the Republican-led Congress eliminates the requirement that insurers allow children to stay on their parents’ plans until age 26. But the ACA is not just about children and young adults. Nearly 100,000 senior citizens who are saving an average of $1,088 each, as a result of closing the Medicare prescription drug “donut hole” gap in coverage, stand to lose this critical help going forward. Roughly 822,000 individuals in the state who have pre-existing health conditions would be at risk of having their coverage rescinded, or being denied coverage, or being charged significantly more for coverage if the ACA is repealed. In addition, 1.9 million individuals in South Carolina who now have private health insurance that covers preventive services without any co-pays, coinsurance, or deductibles stand to lose this ability if Congress eliminates the ACA provisions that require health insurers to cover important preventive services without cost-sharing. Women who can now purchase insurance for the same price as men will be at risk of being charged more for insurance if the ACA’s ban on gender rating in the individual and small group markets is eliminated. Before the ACA, women paid up to 53 percent more than men for their health insurance. But there are other significant parts of the ACA that seldom get talked about. Parts that affect all citizens irrespective of income, gender or ethnicity. One of them is the elimination of annual and lifetime caps on benefits. I will never forget the lady from Florence, S.C., who told me that she was ecstatic over the ACA’s passage because she had just been informed by her insurance provider that - because of her eight year old daughter’s cancer treatments – her family had reached their lifetime limit of coverage. Another seldom mentioned, but significant benefit, is the requirement that insurance companies return at least 80 percent of the premiums they collect to their policy holders. And if their annual audits indicate that they failed to do so, they must send rebates to those policy holders. Repeal of the ACA without a sensible, affordable alternative would be devastating to individuals and families throughout South Carolina and the country. James E. Clyburn, a Democrat, represents South Carolina’s 6th District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement regarding President Barack Obama’s proclamation establishing the Reconstruction Era National Monument. The monument will become a unit of the National Park Service consisting of historic sites from the Reconstruction Era (January 1, 1863 – March 31, 1877) in St. Helena Island, Beaufort, and Port Royal, South Carolina. “I want to thank President Obama for establishing the Reconstruction Era National Monument. For a long time, this period of history has been ignored and is often misunderstood or misrepresented. Beginning January 1, 1863 and continuing until March 31, 1877, newly freed slaves were guaranteed civil rights by the 13th, 14th, and 15th amendments to the United States Constitution. They bought property, founded communities, built schools and organized churches, and were elected to political offices. “Reconstruction had some of its earliest and most significant impact in Beaufort County, South Carolina. For the last two decades, many communities in Beaufort County have worked to recognize and preserve their Reconstruction heritage and to create a unit of the National Park Service linking these historic sites together. Today’s announcement is a great tribute to their years of work and sacrifice on this endeavor. “Penn Center, originally called Penn School, was established in 1862 as the first school in the South for former slaves. It moved to its current campus, now part of the national monument, in 1864 and continues there to this day. The Board of Trustees has donated Darrah Hall, the oldest building on Penn Center’s campus, to the National Park Service to be used as an interpretive center. I extend my thanks to Chairman Clifford Bush, Executive Director Rodell Lawrence, and the entire Board of Trustees and staff for their contributions to this important cause. “Brick Baptist Church, adjacent to Penn Center, was built in 1855 by slaves who were relegated to its balcony out of the sight and presence of white worshipers. Following the Battle of Port Royal in 1861, slaves assumed control over the church. Before Penn School expanded to its current location, early classes were held in the Brick Baptist Church building, which still stands today. Under the leadership of Rev. Abraham Murray, the church is now part of the national monument, and the congregation donated a historic preservation easement to the National Park Service to ensure this structure will be preserved in perpetuity. “Downtown Beaufort features many historic sites from the era, and the national monument will include the old firehouse building to be used as a visitor center for the many significant Reconstruction Era sites in the area. I want to thank Mayor Billy Keyserling for his family’s donation of the building and for all of his advocacy and efforts to galvanize community support for this designation. “The monument also features the Camp Saxton Site in Port Royal where on January 1, 1863, Union General Rufus Saxton assembled 3,000 slaves from the surrounding Sea Islands to read the Emancipation Proclamation, the first such reading in the South. On the grounds of the U.S. Naval Hospital Beaufort, this site will be opened up to the public once an agreement between the Navy and the National Park Service is finalized. “Importantly, today’s announcement is not a final product, but a first step in protecting and preserving the many Reconstruction Era sites in Beaufort County. While sites like Mitchelville on Hilton Head Island, the first self-governed freedmen’s town, and the various sites associated with the life and career of the legendary Robert Smalls are not part of today’s announcement, I am committed to continue working to ensure that all of the deserving sites are given their due. “In addition to President Obama, I would also like to thank Interior Secretary Sally Jewell, National Park Service Director Jon Jarvis, and the entire staffs from the Department of the Interior and the National Park Service for their efforts to make this long-held dream a reality. Finally, I would like to thank former Secretary Bruce Babbitt and the Conservation Lands Foundation for their steadfast support of this effort.” Click here to read President Barack Obama's proclamation:
12.20.2016	Clyburn statement on the President signing the Water Infrastructure Improvements Act for the Nation (WIIN) Act, which includes the new Water Resources Development Act: “The WIIN Act includes provisions that will expand the Lake Marion Regional Water Agency. This longstanding initiative I have championed currently provides almost 300 million gallons of clean drinking water annually in three rural counties, Calhoun, Orangeburg, and Dorchester, and has additional capacity used to recruit industry. The bill increases the cap on the Agency’s authorization to allow it access to be expanded to serve additional rural communities. This bill extends the agency’s authority to include Berkeley County, which will allow it to serve the site of the new Volvo Cars manufacturing facility and adjacent supplier facilities. The Volvo development is a $500 million investment which is expected to create 8,000 jobs within the next decade and contribute $4.8 billion annually to the South Carolina economy.” “The WIIN Act also authorizes the Charleston Harbor Deepening Project, which will deepen the channel depth in the harbor to 52 feet and to 54 feet at the entrance. I have worked diligently with President Obama and the South Carolina Congressional Delegation to expedite the project’s feasibility study so that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Chief’s Report could be submitted to Congress in 2015, making the project eligible for inclusion in this legislation. The bill authorizes federal investment of over $231 million for the harbor deepening project. The Port of Charleston already has a $53 billion impact on our state’s economy, affecting 187,000 jobs. This deepening project will increase both, creating jobs and growing the economy of the state.”
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C – Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today announced that National Park Service Director Jonathan B. Jarvis will travel to South Carolina to visit proposed sites that are under consideration to be included as part of a Reconstruction Era national monument and to attend a public meeting hosted by Rep. Clyburn to hear feedback from the public on the proposal. “I am thrilled that Director Jarvis will be coming to visit Penn Center, Brick Baptist Church, and other historic sites from the Reconstruction Era in Beaufort and Port Royal. Our country desperately needs to better understand this era of our history, and including these sites in the National Park System is critical to this effort. We must preserve these places and stories for future generations as well as make them accessible to the public. The National Park Service is entrusted with stewardship of our nation’s most sacred historic places, and I hope to include these sites in the system. I also thank Captain Korsnes for his participation and the U.S. Navy’s interest in the preservation of these sites.” WHAT: Public meeting with federal and local officials and community leaders to discuss Reconstruction Era national monument proposal. WHEN: Thursday, December 15, 12:00 P.M – 2:00 P.M. WHERE: Brick Baptist Church, 85 Martin Luther King Drive, St. Helena Island, SC 29920. WHO: Local elected officials and community leaders will provide information regarding the proposal. Federal officials attending to hear comments from the public include: · Director Jonathan B. Jarvis, National Park Service · Captain Jeffrey Korsnes, Commanding Officer, U.S. Naval Support Facility Beaufort Below link is the public notice of the meeting · Public Meeting Notice Below link is a map and description of the five proposed sites: · Map & Site Descriptions Earlier this year, Congressman Clyburn wrote to President Obama requesting he use his authority under the Antiquities Act to designate Penn Center and other Reconstruction Era sites as a national monument. He also introduced model legislation on May 26, 2016 to establish the Penn School – Reconstruction Era National Monument.
11.30.2016	Congressman James E. Clyburn released the following statement after the House Democratic Caucus elected him by acclamation to another term as Assistant Democratic Leader: “I thank all my House Democratic colleagues for the faith and confidence they have expressed in me to serve as Assistant Democratic Leader in the 115th Congress. I am deeply honored to have the unanimous support of our Caucus and humbly accept this Leadership position with clear eyes and understanding of the challenges and opportunities ahead. “As I said to my colleagues today, our experiences are what make us who and what we are. Our diversity – of experiences, backgrounds, ethnicities and constituencies – remains our greatest strength. As the only Member of elected Leadership from a deep red state and largely rural district, I will work tirelessly to stay connected to all of our Caucuses and regions and to give voice to the concerns of our diverse communities. “Looking forward, I want my grandchildren to grow up in a world where they do not have to fear the next decision of the Supreme Court of the United States for the impact it could have on their lives and communities. I want them to grow up where people in elected office are people they can look up to and emulate. Together, we can do something about that.” Clyburn was nominated to be the Assistant Democratic Leader by Congressman Cedric Richmond (LA-02) and seconded by Congresswoman Grace Meng (NY-06), Congressman Pete Aguilar (CA-31) and Congressman Peter Welch (VT-At Large).
11.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (D-SC) released the following statement today: “Donald Trump’s recent staffing and nomination announcements are a sad but predictable continuation of his spiteful, divisive campaign,” said Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn. “Steve Bannon has taken pride in giving voice and an online home to radical white-supremacist groups. There should be no place in the White House for his brand of misogynistic, bigoted, anti-Semitic and xenophobic normalcy. “Senator Sessions has faced serious allegations throughout his career and was rightly rejected for a federal judgeship because of them. His civil rights record is appalling and should disqualify him from Senate confirmation. “Together the Bannon appointment and nomination of Senator Sessions for Attorney General represent a frightening return to a dark and dangerous past for minority communities in Donald Trump’s America. They threaten the civil rights progress we’ve made and are significant roadblocks to healing the racial divisions laid bare by the recent election. I firmly oppose both and urge Donald Trump to rescind the appointment of Steve Bannon as Chief Strategist and the nomination of Senator Sessions for Attorney General.”
11.16.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (D-SC) today is sending a letter to Democratic colleagues announcing his intention to run for Assistant Democratic Leader in the 115th Congress. Below is the text of the letter. Dear Democratic Colleague: I write to respectfully ask for your vote and support to continue serving as Assistant Democratic Leader in the 115th Congress of the U.S. House of Representatives. Over the past several days, we have engaged in a great deal of introspection. The conversations and discussions I have had with many of you have been instructive and constructive. We must continue those discussions and we need to do so on a much more frequent and inclusive basis. We must start by advancing a bold vision for a 21st century economy that is worthy of America’s working men and women. And we must develop ways to express that vision in words and phrases that are understandable and complimentary. It is overused but true, our diversity is our greatest strength. We must find ways to more effectively help each other and the means to more efficiently recruit others to join us. We must champion the causes of those whose votes we seek and stand up to the most extreme elements of the Republican agenda. We must stand for opportunity, equality and justice for all in our society. A former Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, Chair, Vice Chair, and Majority Whip of the House Democratic Caucus, I am the only Member of our Leadership from a red state and mostly rural district. I work to stay connected to all of our Caucuses and regions and give voice to the concerns of our diverse communities. I had the experience in 1970 of having been declared the winner in my campaign for the South Carolina legislature on Tuesday evening, and being told the next morning that in adding up the votes someone had failed to carry a one. Therefore, rather than winning by 500 votes I lost by 500 votes. I did not quit then, and I will not quit now. I am committed to redoubling my efforts to move the country and our Caucus forward. I want to be a strong voice for our values, constituents and Members, and with your support, I will. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, James E. Clyburn
10.26.2016	WASHINGTON - U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (SC) published the following op-ed on the Diverse Issues In Higher Education today: The legacy of historically Black colleges and universities (HBCUs) is one of significant courage and steadfast determination. HBCUs are among America’s national treasures that must be preserved and protected for future generations. HBCUs are some of the most important historic educational institutions in our country. Many of them have buildings and sites on their campuses that have existed for over a century. Unfortunately, many of the historic buildings and sites on these campuses have deteriorated over the years and are at risk of being lost completely if not preserved and protected. In 1998, at the request of the Congressional Black Caucus, the U.S Government Accountability Office (GAO) surveyed 103 HBCU campuses to identify the historically significant sites on these campuses and project the cost of restoring and preserving these properties. The GAO identified 712 historic buildings and sites, and projected a cost of $755 million to restore and preserve them. Each of these sites has national significance to American history, and I believe we have an obligation to be stewards of these cultural treasures. Congress first authorized grants to HBCUs for historic preservation in 1996. In 2003, Congress expanded the program and authorized $10 million annually for five years. Last month, the House passed legislation to extend that authorization at the same level for an additional seven years. These historic preservation grants have had transformative effects on HBCU campuses across the country. Arnett Hall at Allen University in Columbia, South Carolina, was designed by an African American architect and constructed by the university students themselves in 1891. Before being restored, Arnett Hall had been boarded up for nearly 40 years. Testifying before the Committee on Natural Resources earlier this year, Claflin University’s President, Dr. Henry Tisdale spoke of the tremendous impact the restorations of Ministers and Tingley Halls have had on his institution. Last June, Allen University rededicated the historic Chappelle Auditorium on campus, which was painstakingly restored thanks to funding from this program. Originally built in 1925, this building was central to the cultural life of African Americans in South Carolina for generations. In 1947, Rev. Joseph A. DeLaine attended an NAACP event at Chappelle Auditorium that inspired him to organize Black families in Clarendon County to petition their school district to provide buses for black students who, at the time, were forced to make a daily walk of 9.4 miles to school. This case, Briggs v. Elliot, precipitated the frontal attack on segregation in the country and was later combined with four other cases that became Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas at the U.S. Supreme Court. Overturning the “separate but equal” fallacy, Brown ended legal segregation throughout America. Historic buildings and sites at 59 HBCUs in 20 states have benefitted from this program. However, the threat to the historic legacy of HBCUs persists. Despite the need, since 1996, only $60 million in federal support has been provided through the HBCU Historic Preservation Program. Moreover, since 2009, no dedicated federal support has been provided at all for this purpose. Thus, the federal government’s investment to date represents a small share of the documented need. The House-passed legislation will renew our nation’s commitment to the stewardship of this critical aspect of American history. When the Senate returns after the elections, it must pass legislation to provide at least $5 million for HBCU Historic Preservation. UNCF has long said that “a mind is a terrible thing to waste.” So too, our nation must not let the historic legacy of HBCUs go to waste. We urge Congress to preserve HBCUs, America’s national treasures, by funding the HBCU Historic Preservation Program. Click here to see the article on the Diverse Issues In Higher Education website.
09.30.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement on the Senate passage yesterday of H.R. 3004, a bill to extend the authorization of the Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor Commission. The Commission was originally created by Congressman Clyburn’s legislation, passed in 2006, which created the Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor. It is tasked with managing the Corridor in partnership with the National Park Service and dedicated to the preservation and interpretation of Gullah and Geechee history and culture. The Commission’s authorization was set to expire in October. “Gullah/Geechee is a blend of African and European culture and traditions developed by former slaves living in isolation in the Sea Islands of the Carolinas, Georgia, and Florida. I was proud to get legislation passed creating a Commission to preserve and protect the Gullah/Geechee culture, which is increasingly endangered and deserving of protection. I am extremely pleased that the Congress has agreed to a five year extension of the Commission,” Clyburn stated. “I began my career as a high school history teacher in South Carolina’s Low-Country, and I believe we have an obligation to preserve the rich history of this country. I have dedicated much of my tenure in Congress to ensuring this nation’s rich historical and cultural resources are protected for future generations. The Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor is a unique effort dedicated to preserving not just a historical resource, but a living, breathing culture.”
09.12.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (SC) delivered the following statement during debate on H.R. 295, which passed the House unanimously by voice vote (as prepared for delivery): “Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 295, my bill to reauthorize the Historically Black Colleges and Universities Historic Preservation program. This bill has been cosponsored by my colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus and is broadly supported by all of our colleagues. It received a unanimous vote in the House Natural Resources Committee earlier this year, and I thank all of my colleagues for their support. “As a former high school history teacher, I have worked during my tenure in Congress to preserve and protect our nation’s historic treasures. Historically Black Colleges and Universities, commonly called HBCUs, are some of the most important historic educational institutions in our country. Many of them have buildings and sites on their campuses that have existed for over a century. Unfortunately, many of the historic buildings and sites on these campuses have deteriorated over the years and are at risk of being lost completely if not preserved and protected. “In 1998, at the request of the Congressional Black Caucus, the U.S Government Accountability Office (GAO) surveyed 103 HBCU campuses to identify the historically significant sites on these campuses and project the cost of restoring and preserving these properties. The GAO identified 712 historic buildings and sites, and projected a cost of $755 million to restore and preserve them. Each of these sites has national significance to American history, and I believe we have an obligation to be stewards of these cultural treasures. “Congress first authorized grants to HBCUs for historic preservation in 1996. In 2003, working with our former colleague Jim Hansen of Utah and our current colleague, and my friend, Jimmy Duncan of Tennessee, Congress expanded the program that was originally championed by our former colleague Bob Clement, also of Tennessee. $10 million was authorized annually for five years. “The bill before us today extends that authorization at the same level for an additional seven years. I have seen the transformative effect of these historic preservation grants on HBCU campuses in my district and across the country. Arnett Hall at Allen University in Columbia, South Carolina, was designed by an African American architect and constructed by the university students themselves in 1891. “Before being restored to the Secretary of Interior’s standards, Arnett Hall had been boarded up for nearly 40 years. Testifying before the Committee on Natural Resources earlier this year, Claflin University’s President, Dr. Henry Tisdale spoke of the tremendous impact the restorations of Ministers and Tingley Halls have had on his institution. “Last June, I spoke at the rededication of historic Chappelle Auditorium, on the campus of Allen University which was painstakingly restored thanks to funding from this program. Originally built in 1925, this building was central to the cultural life of African Americans in South Carolina for generations. “In 1947, Rev. Joseph A. DeLaine attended an NAACP event at Chappelle Auditorium that inspired him to organize black families in Clarendon County to petition their school district to provide buses for black students who, at the time, were forced to make a daily walk of 9.4 miles to school. This case, Briggs v. Elliot, precipitated the frontal attack on segregation in the country and was later combined with four other cases that became Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas at the U.S. Supreme Court. Overturning the “separate but equal” fallacy, Brown ended legal segregation. “Historic buildings and sites at 59 HBCUs in 20 states have benefitted from this program. Their stories are similar to those in my district that I have just shared. “There are many more buildings and sites on these campuses that are in dire need of restoration and preservation. H.R. 295 will renew our commitment to the stewardship of this critical aspect of American history. “Although it will not provide all of the funding the GAO estimated is needed to preserve every threatened site, H.R. 295 will continue the progress Congress has made in preserving these unique treasures. “I thank Chairman Bishop, Subcommittee Chairman McClintock, and Ranking Members Grijalva and Tsongas for their support of this important legislation. I urge all of my colleagues to support this bill. Thank you.”
09.07.2016	Columbia, S.C. – The U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Office of Rural Development has announced approval of a direct loan through its community facilities program of $38 million for a new K-8 school, renovated high school, athletic facilities, and district administrative offices in Denmark, South Carolina to serve the Denmark-Olar School District (Bamberg School District 2). In response to the above announcement Congressman Jim Clyburn released the following statement: “At the request of officials and representatives of Denmark-Olar School District, I was pleased to work with USDA in support of their application. Schools are the anchors of our communities and provide the foundation our children need to secure a productive future.” Clyburn continued, “The state of disrepair in many of South Carolina’s rural schools has been well documented. When completed, this facility will be a state of the art investment in Bamberg County’s children.” The loan USDA is offering would be paid back over 40 years at 2.75 percent interest. For more information, contact: Michele J. Cardwell, USDA Rural Development, Community Programs Director, Acting State Director. Phone: 803-253-3645 Dr. Thelma F. Sojourner, Denmark-Olar School District. Phone: 803-793-2032
09.02.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (SC) published the following op-ed on the Huffington Post today: Democrats v. Republicans on the Economy: It is Not a Close Call If our history were not so instructive about the catastrophic consequences that often flow from sophisticated campaigns of misinformation, I would probably be amused by the half truths and untruths that are being tossed around during this election season. Democrats in general and President Barack Obama in particular are being blamed for everything that has gone wrong with our country’s economy over the last generation. President Obama, our nation’s first African American President, is being viciously blamed by a few uninformed and misguided souls for all the maladies being experienced by black Americans. It is very clear, however, that over the last 35 years the American economy has fared much better under Democratic presidents than it has under Republican presidents. And all Americans - particularly black Americans - have seen their fortunes dramatically improved under President Obama’s Administration. According to a February 2016 report by the Joint Economic Committee on analysis of economic performance since World War II under Democratic versus Republican presidents, “data show[s] that the economy has performed much better during Democratic administrations. Economic growth, job creation and industrial production have all been stronger.” Also, a recent study by Princeton University professors Alan Blinder and Mark Watson concluded: “The superiority of economic performance under Democrats rather than Republicans is nearly ubiquitous; it holds almost regardless of how you define success.” It is often stated that all of us are entitled to our opinions, but there can be only one set of facts. And when we look at the facts on job creation, employment levels and deficit reduction under the most recent five presidents, it is not a close call. Job Creation: Since 1981, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, more jobs have been created during Democratic presidencies (33 million) than Republican presidencies (20 million), despite the fact that Democrats governed for four fewer years during that time. Let’s take a look at a few facts: During President Ronald Reagan‘s eight years, 1981 – 1989, 16.1 million jobs were created. During President George H. W. Bush’s four years, 1989 – 1993, 2.6 million jobs were created. During President Bill Clinton’s eight years, 1993 – 2001, 22.9 million jobs were created. During President George W. Bush’s eight years, 2001 – 2009, 1.3 million jobs were created. During President Barack Obama’s seven years, 2009 – today, 10.4 million jobs were created. Employment Levels: When President Reagan assumed office, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, unemployment for all Americans was 7.5 percent, for black Americans it was 14.6 percent. When he left office 8 years later, it was 5.4 percent for all Americans and 11.8 percent for black Americans. President George H. W. Bush succeeded Reagan. When he left office 4 years later, total unemployment was 7.3 percent, but for black Americans it was 14.1 percent. President Bill Clinton inherited President Bush’s 14.1 percent black unemployment rate when he took office in 1993. When he left office 8 years later, the unemployment rate for blacks was 8.2 percent and 4.2 percent for all Americans. President George W. Bush succeeded Clinton, and seven years later our economy was in a free fall. The automobile industry tanked. The country entered a “Great Recession,” and black families lost 50 percent of their wealth. When George W. Bush left office in 2009, our economy was losing 800,000 jobs a month and the unemployment rate for all Americans was 6.1 percent. For blacks, however, it was 12.7 percent. That is what confronted President Barack Obama when he assumed office in 2009. Today the nation’s unemployment rate is down to 4.9 percent, and the black unemployment rate has dropped to 8.4 percent. Deficit Levels: Republicans rail a great deal about the perils of budget deficits. Yet the record demonstrates a lack of creditability on the subject. The last President to balance the federal budget was a Democrat, Bill Clinton. According to the Office of Management and Budget, President Barack Obama has reduced the deficit he inherited by 68 percent. The facts are clear. The budget deficit ballooned under Reagan by 110 percent, and under his successor, George H.W. Bush, by 87 percent. George W. Bush inherited a balanced budget from President Clinton and blew the deficit through the roof with massive tax cuts for corporate special interests and the wealthiest few and uncontrolled spending on misguided foreign adventurism. Our nation’s second President John Adams once observed, “Facts are stubborn things; and whatever may be our wishes, our inclinations, or the dictates of our passions, they cannot alter the state of facts and evidence.” Adams was right. And when you look at the facts about whether Democrats or Republicans are better on the economy, it is not a close call.
08.18.2016	(Columbia, SC) - Congressman Jim Clyburn released the following statement on the South Carolina Department of Transportation Commission’s vote on repurposing federal funds for local highway projects: “I support the S.C. Department of Transportation Commission’s action today to re-purpose certain federal highway funds to make critical investments in communities in the 6th Congressional District. Today’s action will create jobs, improve infrastructure, enhance public safety and contribute to essential community development and revitalization. Many of the communities that will benefit from this action have suffered decades of neglect. I was proud to work with local elected officials and community leaders to repurpose these funds for projects they have championed for decades and are prepared to meet the 20% match requirement. Consequently, these projects - which meet the legal requirement of being within a 50-mile radius of the original site - will not cost South Carolina taxpayers any additional funds or take away any state resources from other highway projects.” List of projects receiving these re-purposed federal funds: Manning Ave./N. Main Corridor Revitalization (Sumter) - $11,491,338 – Requested by City of Sumter Russell Street/Magnolia Street Revitalization (Orangeburg) - $6,500,000 – Requested by Orangeburg County S. Main Street (Columbia) – $3,027,789 – Requested by the University of South Carolina Zan Street (Orangeburg) - $500,000 – Partnership between SCDOT, City of Orangeburg, Orangeburg County, and the Lower Savannah Council of Governments Today’s action by the Commission is in accordance with Public Law 114-13, the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2016.
07.11.2016	MEDIA ADVISORY **Happening Thursday** Contact: Candace Randle Person (CBC) (202) 593-1331 Brenda Jones (Lewis) (202) 225-3801 Patrick Devlin (Clyburn) (202) 226-3210 Democrats to Hold ‘Lighting the Way’ National Speak Out: The Path Forward on Gun Violence WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Thursday, July 14th at 7:30 p.m. EDT, Democrats will hold a national speak out on gun violence in America. This event is open press. WHO: Representative John Lewis (D-GA) Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (D-SC) Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Members of the House Democratic Caucus WHAT: Ensuring Comprehensive Background Checks H.R. 1217, Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act Enacting No Fly, No Buy H.R. 1076, Denying Firearms and Explosives to Dangerous Terrorists Act Closing the Charleston Loophole H.R. 3051, Background Check Completion Act Barring Firearm Sales to Hate Crime Offenders H.R. 4603, Hate Crimes Prevention Act WHEN: Thursday, July 14, 2016 at 7:30 p.m. EDT WHERE: West Lawn of U.S. Capitol Building
06.28.2016	One day after the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history killed 49 people and nearly a year after nine prayerful souls were gunned down at Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, SC I sought recognition from the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives attempting to raise a Parliamentary Inquiry. I wanted to inquire as to when we might be able to expect a vote on several pieces of legislation that would make our communities safer, our families more secure ‎ and our gun ownership laws more sensible. My Inquiry was not responded to, and I was ruled out of order. The so-called “No Fly, No Buy” bill, H.R. 1076, would deny gun purchases to individuals on the terrorist watch list who are prohibited from flying. H.R. 1217, sponsored by Representatives Mike Thompson and Peter King, would‎ require universal background checks for gun purchases. Representative David Cicilline’s bill, H.R. 4603, would prevent those found guilty of hate crimes from purchasing a firearm. My bill, H.R. 3051, would close the so-called “Charleston loophole,” which allows for the sale of a gun to be consummated after three days, even if the background check has not been completed. That loophole allowed the confessed killer of the “Emanuel 9" to purchase a firearm which, if the background check had been completed, he would not have been allowed to buy. Tuesday of last week I made a second attempt to inquire about the four bills discussed above, and the result was the same. I was silenced by the rules of the House. But this time, John Lewis, my friend of over 55 years, and colleague in the US House of Representatives for the last 23 years, responded by leading an unprecedented “Sit-in” on the House floor. He was assisted in this effort by John Larson of Connecticut, Katherine Clark of Massachusetts, Robin Kelly of Illinois and David Cicilline of Rhode Island. More than 200 House Members and Senators supported this unprecedented event, and we occupied the House Floor for more than 25 hours. Although House Republicans adjourned the session and cut off the House’s cameras and microphones, Democrats refused to be silenced. Led by Scott Peters and Eric Swalwell of California, and Beto O’Rourke of Texas, social media were utilized to spread the word to the American people. The response has been fantastic. We have engaged people all over the country who have added their voices to our call for common sense gun violence prevention. The final hours of our occupation were managed by Steve Israel of New York who called on me to present John Lewis for closing comments as we brought our unprecedented action to a climax. In presenting John, I reminisced about the first time he and I met, which was also my first meeting with Martin Luther King, Jr. I remarked about the irony of our 1960 meeting and this 2016 sit-in both being about the right to vote. John and I have internalized much from our experiences with Dr. King‎. One of them re-enforced a constant refrain my father often used to impress upon my siblings and me the importance of activism, “Silence gives consent.” Dr. King re-enforced that notion in his letter from the Birmingham City Jail when he wrote, “we are going to be made to repent in this generation, not just for the vitriolic words and deeds of the bad people, but for the appalling silence of the good people.” We Democrats have broken our silence on these nonsensical gun ownership laws that are clear and present danger to the safety and security of our fellow Americans. Doing so has brought me a threat of physical rebuke by a pseudo-newsperson that has me trembling in my boots and prompted an editorial writer of a mainstream newspaper to call our peaceful, non violent protest disgraceful. I have read that we may be in a little trouble with the Speaker for having broken some House Rules. But as John Lewis often intones, “sometimes we need to get in the way, get in a little trouble, good trouble.” I agree with John, and I have never felt better about being in a little trouble.
06.17.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement on the first anniversary of the Charleston Massacre: “Today marks the first anniversary of the Emanuel AME Church massacre in Charleston, South Carolina. This heinous crime was deeply impactful, and the response of the families and community has been even more impactful. “As an AME congregant, a former resident of Charleston and Representative of the Low-Country in the U.S. House, I feel a deep and abiding connection to Charleston and the Low-Country. The victims of that horrific crime were our friends and neighbors and my constituents. Their deaths pained me in profound and personal ways and the wounds to our community will take time to heal. “On the night of June 17, 2015, my friend and Co-Worker Reverend Clementa Pinckney left his service in the state senate to travel to Charleston to fulfill his calling of tending to his flock at Mother Emanuel AME Church’s regular Wednesday night Bible study. Rev. Pinckney was a tremendous leader in our community. Several weeks prior to that night, I had been with Rev. Pinckney at a service in North Charleston after the police shooting of an unarmed black man, Walter Scott. Rev. Pinckney’s ministry at that event made a tremendous difference in defusing a very tense time and helped restore calm and allow the local authorities to exert justice on a most unjust situation. Into that Bible study entered an uninvited outsider. Though he was a stranger, he was embraced by the worshippers who welcomed him into their weekly exploration of their faith. Yet that hate-filled young man shunned their neighborly embrace and conducted an act of violence so heinous the horror has been immeasurable. “I have been extremely proud of the resilience and compassion shown by the people of Charleston and South Carolina following the horrific attack at Mother Emanuel on June 17 last year. The survivors of the attack and the families of the victims have been an inspiration to their communities, our state and the whole nation. While the Charleston community has rallied together, as we approach the first anniversary of the Emanuel AME church massacre, we must stay vigilant and continue providing the proper support for the survivors and victims.”
06.02.2016	Columbia, S.C. – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement on the Department of Justice’s announcement of a $3,611,088 grant through the Office for Victims of Crime Antiterrorism and Emergency Assistance Program to the Medical University of South Carolina’s National Crime Victims Research and Treatment Center to support victims of the June 17, 2015 attack at Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina. “I have been extremely proud of the resilience and compassion shown by the people of Charleston and South Carolina following the horrific attack at Mother Emanuel on June 17 last year. The survivors of the attack and the families of the victims have been an inspiration to their communities, our state and the whole nation. While the Charleston community has rallied together, we must stay vigilant and continue providing the proper support for the survivors and victims.” “I am pleased that the Department of Justice has awarded this grant to help MUSC and their partners, the City of Charleston and other local governments, deal with the continuing needs in the community as we approach the first anniversary of this horrible chapter in our lives.” “I want to thank Attorney General Loretta Lynch, for expediting this award, and all of my colleagues in the South Carolina congressional delegation for supporting MUSC’s request.”
06.02.2016	ColumbiA, S.C. – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement after introducing the “Penn School – Reconstruction Era National Monument Act.” The bill would designate the historic Penn Center campus (formerly known as Penn School) on St. Helena Island, South Carolina, as a National Monument. The National Monument would be dedicated to the history of the Reconstruction Era and managed by the National Park Service. He was joined by Rep. Mark Sanford as an original cosponsor. “Penn Center is one of the most significant historical institutions in America. Founded during the Civil War as Penn School, it was one of the first schools built in the South to educate newly freed slaves. Throughout the Reconstruction Era, Penn School helped African Americans of the Sea Islands of South Carolina thrive and take advantage of opportunities denied to them by slavery.” “After local governments began to operate public schools for African Americans, Penn reorganized as Penn Center, a community organization dedicated to civil rights, preservation of Gullah history and culture, and providing critical services and resources to the community on St. Helena. Penn Center continues its mission today, operating on the same historic campus continuously since the Civil War.” “This bill would establish a National Monument dedicated to the history and interpretation of the Reconstruction Era, a period of history underrepresented in the National Park System. For generations, the story of this era was intentionally manipulated, to downplay the civil rights and economic gains made by African Americans following the Civil War and the pernicious efforts by white Southerners to disfranchise them.” “The site of Penn School is the ideal location for a National Monument dedicated to the Reconstruction Era, as its history is one of the best examples of the stories of the period. Importantly, enacting this legislation will not detract from Penn Center’s ongoing operations. The National Park Service would partner with Penn Center to manage the National Monument, but Penn Center will continue their mission on their historic campus as they have for over 150 years.”
05.18.2016	Clyburn op-ed: Republicans’ Feckless Policies and Reckless Politics WASHINGTON – Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (SC) published the following op-ed on the Huffington Post today: Republicans’ Feckless Policies and Reckless Politics 05/18/2016 11:57 am ET Rep. James E. Clyburn Representing South Carolina’s 6th Congressional District Despite several flirtations over the years, Donald Trump did not burst onto the political scene until 2011, when he began viciously questioning the birthplace and academic record of our nation’s first black president. He has blasted his way to presumptive nominee by leveling irresponsible attacks against his opponents, nativist attacks against immigrants, cowardly attacks against American prisoners of war, sexist attacks against women, bigoted attacks against Muslims, and chilling attacks against the free press. Republican voters seem to be responding to this ruinous recklessness. Trump has defended his shameful rhetoric by decrying “political correctness,” insisting ludicrously that the very offensiveness of his rants is proof of their validity. The so-called Republican establishment shouldn’t be surprised. Trump’s ascendance is a predictable consequence of the reckless course the Republican Party has been on for a long time. The base of today’s Republican Party was formed in large measure by voters who left the Democratic Party in droves in response to President Harry Truman’s “Fair Deal” policies, and the national Democratic Party’s embrace of civil rights. They aligned themselves with Barry Goldwater’s candidacy and opposition to the Civil Rights Act in 1964 and Richard Nixon’s “Southern Strategy” in 1968. Many of these voters flocked to Ronald Reagan in 1980. They became known as Reagan Democrats, in part because of their Reagan’s derision of “welfare queens” and “strapping young bucks.” Reagan’s first speech after his nomination in 1980 was delivered in Philadelphia, Mississippi, a place that became internationally known because of the brutal murders of three civil rights workers just 16 years earlier. There, the newly-minted nominee recklessly declared, “I believe in states’ rights.” The right-wing Republican coalition that prevailed in seven of the ten presidential elections between 1968 and 2004 was fragile. The party’s policies did not benefit their working class voters. To keep these voters in the fold, they stoked their fears with reckless speeches insulting to blacks, Hispanics and other minorities. In 1988, Lee Atwater, on behalf of George H.W. Bush, recklessly exploited racial fears with the Willie Horton ad. Newt Gingrich and Frank Luntz recklessly exploited fears over gun safety in 1994, and Karl Rove, on behalf of George W. Bush, recklessly exploited fears of marriage equality in 2004. From the Reagan Administration through the second Bush Administration, incomes and wealth increased dramatically for those at the top of the economic spectrum, but flattened for everyone else. And in September 2008, the economy crashed, jettisoning 800,000 jobs a month. The night before President Obama’s inauguration in January 2009, Republican officials and operatives met over dinner and doubled down on their feckless trickle-down fantasy, and recklessly plotted to block the new president at every turn, regardless of the merit of his proposals or the consequences to our nation’s welfare. Republican obstructionism reached the peak of its recklessness on the issue of the Affordable Care Act, an Act modeled after the state of Massachusetts’ health plan, a plan proposed by their 2012 nominee, Mitt Romney. It included an individual mandate, which originated with the conservative Heritage Foundation and was supported in the 1990s by Republicans, including Newt Gingrich. But if Barack Obama supported something, Republicans had to oppose it, and have done so in recklessly apocalyptic terms. When Republicans took control of the House of Representatives in 2011, they failed to offer anything but more feckless trickle-down doggerel and reckless demonization of President Obama. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell frankly admitted that Republicans’ main goal was to make President Obama a one-term president. And when that failed, they recklessly shut down the government. Donald Trump’s Republican primary campaign was successful for several reasons, most attributable to his feckless proposals and reckless rhetoric. First, Trump more effectively unleashed the rage that Republicans before him ignited and inflamed, although several of his 16 primary opponents tried. For example, Jeb Bush advocated religious discrimination against Syrian refugees, Ben Carson compared the Affordable Care Act to slavery, Marco Rubio accused President Obama of intentionally trying to weaken the United States, and Ted Cruz ostracized transgender Americans. Trump’s success also came in part because he aggressively acknowledged the failure of the Republican establishment to improve the lives of their lower-income voters. None of his opponents who were also elected officials could make this case because they bore responsibility for those failures. Although Trump was able to identify and benefit from the problem, he has not offered any substantive solutions. The proposals he has put forth are substantively feckless and dangerously reckless. One would have thought that Congressional Republicans would reject Trump’s recklessness, but unfortunately, they are embracing him. Hopefully voters at large will not allow Trump’s divisive policies and hackneyed rhetoric to find solace in decries of political correctness.
05.17.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn delivered the following statement at today’s meeting of the Rules Committee considering amendments to the National Defense Authorization Act (as prepared for delivery): “Thank you, Mr. Chairman and Madam Ranking Member, for the opportunity to testify before you today on the Clyburn-Smith amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act. “This amendment would prohibit senior ROTC programs at any institution that displays the Confederate battle flag in a location other than a museum exhibit. This objectionable banner, which was never the official flag of the Confederacy, is a symbol of hate, racial oppression, resistance to the rule of law, and white supremacy. Any doubt as to the flag’s meaning was erased by the perpetrator of the horrific shootings at Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina on June 17 of last year. “Regrettably, the Confederate battle flag still flies in my congressional district at The Citadel, just two miles away from Mother Emanuel. The Citadel is the alma mater of one of the Emanuel victims, and six employees lost family members in the attack. This flag must come down. “While The Citadel’s Board of Visitors has taken a symbolic vote expressing support for the flag’s removal, the Board members believe that they are barred from actually removing it until the South Carolina state legislature acts to revise or repeal the so-called Heritage Act. I happen to disagree with this legal judgment, but regardless, the flag still flies. “The bill as reported by the Armed Services Committee uses the Board’s hollow gesture to allow The Citadel to continue receiving federal funds for its ROTC program indefinitely, with no further action required to actually take the flag down. But the bottom line is clear: the Confederate battle flag will not be removed from The Citadel until pressure is brought to bear on those with the authority to remove it. And Americans’ tax dollars should be directed to institutions free of symbols of hatred. “In recent days, Citadel alumni have reached out to me to express their support for this effort. One of these alumni, Dr. Larry Ferguson, was a member of The Citadel Class of 1973, which was the first class with more than one African American. Dr. Ferguson desegregated The Citadel’s Regimental Band Company but was subsequently kicked out of the band for refusing to play the song ‘Dixie’ and refusing to wave the Confederate battle flag at sporting events. “Dr. Ferguson writes, ‘50 years ago it took external pressure to make The Citadel desegregate its Corps of Cadets. This legislation will exert appropriate pressure on state authorities so that the Confederate flag will be removed from Summerall Chapel.’ “I received another letter from a group of 17 alumni from the 1980s and 1990s. They write that the Confederate battle flag ‘is representative of an ideology of hate, privilege and an abuse of power that still persists in the life of the school and in the state’s halls of power and influence. The fact that in 2016 the Confederate Naval Jack Flag hangs in a public space of worship, on the campus of a public college, and is protected by an unjust law is clear evidence of this reality. While we continue to work energetically to have the flag removed immediately from the chapel premises, we remain in support of your efforts to address this at the federal level of government.’ “I urge my colleagues to heed the voices of these Citadel alumni so that no more cadets will have to struggle in the shadow of this oppressive banner. “It is important to note that even if the Clyburn-Smith amendment is enacted into law, no current student would be affected. All current students would be allowed to keep their ROTC scholarships, complete their programs, and receive their commissions. “In spite of the Administration’s expression of concern to the contrary, this measure is constitutional, as is the underlying text of the bill, under the military deference doctrine. “Explaining the reasons for this doctrine, under which military regulations are given greater deference than those in a purely civilian context, the Supreme Court has observed, ‘To accomplish its mission, the military must foster instinctive obedience, unity, commitment, and esprit de corps.’ Without a doubt, the Confederate battle flag undermines unity and esprit de corps. “For this reason, the military constitutionally restricts displays of the Confederate battle flag by service members on active duty. Similarly, it is unquestionably constitutional for the military to require that any institutions that train its officers not display this hateful banner. “The policy advanced by the Clyburn-Smith amendment received bipartisan support among members of the Armed Services Committee. I respectfully urge this committee to make the Clyburn-Smith amendment in order so that all members of the House can have the opportunity to consider this important issue.”
04.28.2016	WASHINGTON – Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement on the House Armed Services Committee Republicans’ rejection of Ranking Member Adam Smith’s amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act: “I am greatly disappointed that a majority of Republican members of the House Armed Services Committee have voted to keep the Confederate battle flag flying in a place of worship at The Citadel. Their action nullified a bipartisan effort to remove that flag from Summerall Chapel. There is nothing reverent or unifying about that banner. “The Confederate battle flag is a symbol of hate, repression, and resistance to the rule of law. It should only be displayed in a museum. Americans’ tax dollars should not be directed to institutions where it is flown, regardless of whether the decision to fly it is done under the color of state law. “Almost 30 years ago, The Citadel and South Carolina’s leadership were confronted with a similar situation. We worked together at that time to do the right thing. In the coming weeks and months, I plan to give House Republicans additional opportunities to do the right thing in this instance.”
04.27.2016	WASHINGTON – Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement on the House Armed Services Committee’s markup of the National Defense Authorization Act: “I strongly support Ranking Member Adam Smith’s proposed amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act to bar federal funds for senior ROTC programs from being used by institutions that display the Confederate battle flag. Unfortunately, this objectionable banner currently flies at The Citadel in my congressional district. “Ranking Member Smith’s amendment has been crafted to exempt all current students at The Citadel and any other institution that might be affected. Consequently, all current students would be allowed to keep their ROTC scholarships, complete their programs, and receive their commissions. “This flag, which never was the official flag of the Confederacy, is a symbol of hate, racial oppression, and resistance to the rule of law. It did not fly at The Citadel immediately after the Civil War but was raised to its current location in Summerall Chapel in 1939, and it was placed in its current position by the institution. It has been used for over a century as a symbol of southern defiance and white supremacy; it was viewed as such by the perpetrator of the horrific shootings at Emanuel AME Church in Charleston on June 17 of last year. One of the victims of the Emanuel attack was a Citadel graduate, and six of its employees lost family members in that attack. “Following those tragic, racially motivated shootings, I joined Governor Nikki Haley; Senators Lindsey Graham and Tim Scott; Representatives Mark Sanford, Mick Mulvaney, Joe Wilson, and Tom Rice; and a host of other elected officials and citizens in calling for the removal of the Confederate battle flag from the grounds of the South Carolina State House. The Board of Visitors of The Citadel joined us, voting 9-3 on June 23, 2015 to remove the Confederate battle flag from Summerall Chapel. “But while the South Carolina General Assembly voted to remove the Confederate battle flag from the State House grounds, the Attorney General has opined that The Citadel is barred from removing the flag from a prominent place on its campus by the so-called Heritage Act, which the General Assembly passed in 2000. While I personally question whether or not a gift from an alumnus is covered by that ill-advised Act, our state legislators acted honorably in removing the Confederate battle flag from the State House grounds and should do so again in this instance. Americans’ tax dollars should be directed to institutions free of symbols of hatred. “I urge the members of the House Armed Services Committee and my colleagues in the South Carolina Congressional Delegation to support Ranking Member Smith’s amendment. Any vote to block or weaken the amendment is a vote to support the continued display of the Confederate battle flag at The Citadel and across the country.”
02.18.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 18, 2016CONTACT: Patrick Devlin, 202-226-3210 CLYBURN TO HOST CONGRESSIONAL CIVIL RIGHTS PILGRIMAGE TO SOUTH CAROLINA MARCH 18-20 WASHINGTON – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (SC), along with Senators Tim Scott (R-SC) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Representative John Lewis (D-GA), will host a Congressional Civil Rights Pilgrimage to South Carolina on March 18-20, 2016. The Faith and Politics Institute, which is leading the pilgrimage, released the following statement today: Congressional Civil Rights Pilgrimage to South Carolina March 18-20 Delegation to Explore Civil Rights History in Journey Toward Reconciliation with Stops in Columbia, Orangeburg and Charleston WASHINGTON – The Faith and Politics Institute will lead a bipartisan Congressional Civil Rights Pilgrimage to South Carolina on March 18-20, 2016. A delegation of up to three dozen members of Congress will take part in a journey that explores the unique role of faith and the civil rights history of South Carolina. The pilgrimage will make stops in Columbia, Orangeburg and Charleston and listen to the stories of civil rights luminaries, religious leaders and historians. U.S. House of Representatives Assistant Democratic Leader Jim Clyburn (D-SC) and U.S. Senator Tim Scott (R-SC) along with Lindsey Graham (R-SC), and civil rights movement icon U.S. Representative John Lewis (D-GA) will co-host the pilgrimage the weekend of March 18-20, 2016. Participants will learn about South Carolina civil rights pioneers such as Septima Clark and about the 400-year old Gullah Geechee cultural heritage. The delegation is scheduled to visit such historic sites as Zion and Brookland Baptist Churches and that of the Orangeburg massacre where three students were killed on February 8, 1968 while demonstrating against segregation. Participants will also discuss the impact of the 2015 Charleston killing, and the reactions of the victims’ family members on the community, South Carolina and nation. The pilgrimage culminates in a Sunday worship service at the historic Mother Emanuel AME Church in Charleston. The murders of nine people of faith at Mother Emanuel AME church in Charleston is a cornerstone of the pilgrimage that will connect participants to the ongoing conversation of racial healing and reconciliation in America today. In the wake of the massacre, the faith and courage demonstrated by the survivors, members of the victims’ families and the Mother Emanuel AME church allowed the nation to witness the power of love and forgiveness, which holds open the door to increased understanding and reconciliation. On this journey, many who led the civil rights movement and lived its history will lead efforts to support effective government by bringing members of Congress together in a spirit of openness, honesty and reconciliation across lines of race, religion and political affiliations for the purpose of working together in service to our nation and the world. The leaders of the pilgrimage will hold media briefings during the course of the weekend. Since 1998, The Faith and Politics Institute has led annual bipartisan Congressional Civil Rights Pilgrimages to five southern states affording hundreds of members of the U.S. House and Senate an experiential journey through the American civil rights movement as well as international trips. Described by some members as one of the most valuable experiences of their time in Congress, the bipartisan pilgrimages offer opportunities for engaged and reflective dialogue that transcends politics. For more information, contact The Faith and Politics Institute at (202) 546-1299 or email info@faithandpolitics.org. For media queries, please email josh.taylor@faithandpolitics.org. Visit The Faith and Politics Institute at www.faithandpolitics.org and on Twitter and Facebook. -30- -30-
10.16.2015	(Columbia, SC) – Congressman Jim Clyburn will host a Disaster Relief Forum on Monday, October 19 in one of the hardest hit communities in South Carolina, Kingstree, in Williamsburg County. The public is invited to attend. WHO: Congressman Jim Clyburn South Carolina Emergency Management Division Federal Emergency Management Agency WHAT: Disaster Relief Forum WHEN: Monday, October 19 at 11:00 a.m. WHERE: Alex Chapman Complex-Auditorium 147 West Main Street Kingstree, S.C. 29556 CONTACT: Amanda Loveday – Amanda.Loveday@mail.house.gov
10.08.2015	I am saddened by the loss of life, property and infrastructure in our state of South Carolina of “smiling faces and beautiful places.” However, I want to update you on FEMA assistance and other information regarding disaster relief. First, I am thankful that President Obama and FEMA expedited the major disaster declaration. It is clear that we will need significant federal assistance to recover from this disaster. I have been working closely with the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA to add more affected counties to the disaster declaration. Last night, FEMA added Sumter, Clarendon, and Berkeley counties to the other eight declared for individual assistance. There are still counties in dire need of assistance, however, and I am working to bring them to the attention of federal authorities. To start the process of getting aid from FEMA, individuals should contact 1-800-621-FEMA (1-800-621-3362) or online at www.disasterassistance.gov. FEMA has staff on the ground ready to begin inspecting home damages to process payments for repairs. Individuals anywhere in South Carolina, even in counties that are not currently covered by the individual assistance declaration should start the process of getting registered with FEMA, documenting their losses, and submitting that information to FEMA. This way, once counties are added to the declaration for individual assistance, the paperwork will be done. The SCEMD hotline for questions regarding disaster relief is 866-246-0133. SCEMD has a map of projected flood areas on their website as more flooding is expected as the water makes its way to the coast. http://www.scemd.org/ Individuals can begin to clean debris and damaged property out of their homes; FEMA will provide reimbursement to covered counties for debris pickup from the curb. Several South Carolina volunteer organizations expect to be deployed soon to begin helping individuals with this process. I have attached some other necessary tips. Be strong. We are some resilient people and are stronger when we work together. With kindest regards, Congressman Jim Clyburn Downloads » FEMAIND.pdf
09.14.2015	Columbia, S.C. – South Carolina Congressman James E. Clyburn announced today an almost $9 million grant awarded to Orangeburg-Calhoun Technical College from the Economic Development Administration. This award’s initial investment amounts to $1.9 million with the total project award totaling over $8.8 million. This investment supports construction of a new workforce training facility for health sciences and nursing programs on the campus of Orangeburg-Calhoun Technical College. When completed, the facility will provide accessible skills training programs that will enable individuals to acquire competitive training and employment opportunities in the health care industries. This project is also projected to create over 300 jobs. “I am thrilled for Orangeburg-Calhoun Technical College and the surrounding community on the announcement of the grant awarded to develop a new workforce training facility,” Congressman Clyburn said. “I believe the health science sector is imperative to our community and this new facility will help train individuals and assist in obtaining relevant job opportunities. I am excited to see how this project grows the Orangeburg workforce community.”
09.14.2015	Columbia, S.C. – Congressman James E. Clyburn joins in the announcement that the Army Corps of Engineers has signed the Chief of Engineers Report for the Post-45 Charleston Harbor Deepening Project and submitted it to Congress for authorization. Congressman Clyburn released the following statement in response to this announcement: "I am thrilled that the Army Corps of Engineers has issued its final Chief's Report. More than 187,000 jobs in South Carolina are tied to the Port, which has a $53 billion economic impact on the state each year. I have worked with the Obama Administration to ensure that funds have been provided annually to carry out this review process. Now that the project has its final approval, I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to provide the authorization and funding necessary to deepen the harbor to 52 feet. This project will create good jobs and generate economic growth and opportunity throughout the state."
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (SC) delivered the following statement on the Iran nuclear deal on the House floor today: “I rise today in strong support of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action negotiated between the United States, the permanent five members of the UN Security Council plus Germany, the European Union, and Iran. I support this deal because it is the best available option to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon, an outcome that all of us agree must be prevented. “The opponents of this agreement say that Iran supports terrorism. I don’t disagree with that. This deal, though, is about only one issue—the issue that the entire world agrees is by far the most pressing—preventing Iran from getting a nuclear weapon. It is precisely because Iran is so nefarious that this deal is so important. Dangerous as Iran is and may remain, Iran would be far more dangerous if they acquired a nuclear weapon. This deal is the best way to prevent that unacceptable outcome. “The opponents of this agreement say that we can’t trust the Iranians to abide by the agreement’s strict restrictions on their nuclear program. That may be true, and I wouldn’t be supporting the agreement if it required us to trust the Iranians. But it doesn’t. This deal is built around the strictest verifications ever devised. If Iran tries to dash toward a bomb, we will be much more likely to catch them using the verification procedures under the deal than we would be without a deal. “With this deal in place, if we do catch Iran dashing toward a nuclear weapon, all options will be on the table to stop them. But military force must always be a last resort. I have not heard any of the opponents of this agreement present any realistic diplomatic alternative that would be anywhere near as likely to stop Iran from getting a nuclear weapon. If we reject this deal, military action will become more likely. “Whenever we send Americans into harm’s way, we must be able to look them and their families in the eye and honestly tell them that we exhausted every other option. This deal is a diplomatic option we must exhaust. The deal’s opponents present no other. “The late Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin said, ‘You don’t make peace with friends. You make it with very unsavory enemies.’ We are now faced with three choices: this deal, a drastically increased likelihood of military confrontation, or a nuclear Iran. I support this deal. I urge my colleagues to join me.”
08.21.2015	Columbia, S.C. – Yesterday, the White House Initiative on Historically Black Colleges and Universities (WHIHBCUs) announced its 2015 HBCU All-Stars, recognizing students for their accomplishments in academics, leadership and civic engagement. There are seven South Carolina students who received this award. A full list of the South Carolina students honored is listed below. There are 83 students nationwide who were selected from a pool of over 450 students who submitted applications that included a transcript, resume, essay, and recommendation. Over the school year, the HBCU All-Stars will serve as ambassadors of the WHIHBCUs by providing outreach and communication with their fellow students about the value of education and the role of the Initiative as a networking resource. Congressman James E. Clyburn released the following statement in response to the announcement of the HBCU All-Stars: “I am delighted to see seven South Carolina students chosen as 2015 HBCU All-Stars,” Congressman Clyburn said. “I believe it’s extremely important for students to demonstrate their leadership and talent to other current and potential HBCU students across the country in order to advance academic excellence and student leadership. I congratulate all of those chosen for this incredible honor and look forward to seeing their future accomplishments.” Name Home Town School Lamar Butler Society Hill, S.C. Alabama State University Samuel Cole Orangeburg, S.C. South Carolina State University Kimesha Cooper Hemingway, S.C. Claflin University Tyler Duncan Winston-Salem, N.C. Vorhees College Vi’Dual Futch Macon, G.A. Benedict College Kareem Heslop Orangeburg, S.C. Claflin University Patrick Outler Augusta, G.A. Morris College
08.06.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (SC) released the following statement on the 56th anniversary of the Voting Rights Act of 1965: “On this day fifty years ago, surrounded by leaders of both political parties, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act. It was a moment worthy of both celebration and reflection. Today, we stand at a similar crossroads. “The right to vote is the cornerstone of democracy and the foundation upon which all other rights are built. Nearly a century after the ratification of the 15th Amendment, which protected the franchise in theory but not in fact, the world watched as peaceful protesters were brutally attacked and beaten by police while marching for voting rights on the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama. Just five months later, the Voting Rights Act was signed into law, and millions of African Americans were finally able to exercise their right to vote. “Sadly, in 2015, this fundamental right is under threat yet again. Two years ago, the Supreme Court gutted a key component of the Voting Rights Act and made it easier for states to discriminate against minority, elderly and disabled Americans by deliberately making it harder for them to exercise their right to vote. Republican leaders in Congress have thus far refused to take up bipartisan legislation to restore the Voting Rights Act, as states continue to erect new barriers to the ballot box. “Today, as we celebrate the proud legacy of the Voting Rights Act and reflect on symbolic victories like the furling of the Confederate battle flag in my home state of South Carolina, we must also take substantive action to restore the Voting Rights Act. I call on my Republican colleagues in Congress to do more than issue statements celebrating the past—I urge them to look to the future and work with us to protect the voting rights of all Americans for the next fifty years and beyond.”
08.03.2015	(Columbia, SC) - South Carolina Congressman James E. Clyburn released the following statement on the release of the EPA’s final Clean Power Plan rule: Today’s rule is the most significant step ever taken by the United States to reduce carbon emissions causing harmful climate change. In the face of overwhelming evidence and extreme weather, we know we must act. The U.S. Supreme Court in 2007 affirmed the Executive Branch’s obligation under the Clean Air Act to regulate harmful greenhouse gas emissions. In 2009, as Majority Whip, I helped ensure House passage of a comprehensive climate bill, which unfortunately never became law. In the face of congressional inaction, the Obama Administration was legally required to take meaningful steps to address this global challenge. Today’s final rule makes important improvements over the proposed rule with respect to nuclear power, treating it the same as other clean energy sources like wind and solar. It is appropriate to treat these energy sources the same because, for purposes of combating climate change, they are the same—all emit zero greenhouse gases. These changes will ensure that this rule is fair for my home state of South Carolina and other states that have already adopted clean nuclear power. I would like to personally thank Administrator McCarthy for her willingness to make these modifications. South Carolina will still have to make reductions, but its emissions target is now equitable and achievable. I applaud the EPA for allowing states to chart their own course in achieving emissions reductions, and I look forward to working with South Carolina officials to craft a successful state implementation plan that will meet the required targets.
07.27.2015	It was a great day in South Carolina—and the nation—when the Confederate battle flag was removed from the grounds of the State House. The battle flag has historical significance and should be dealt with accordingly. Unfortunately, it was unfurled in the 1930s and ’40s, and gained prominence and prevalence in South Carolina and throughout the South in the 1950s and ’60s as a symbol of massive resistance. I hope its removal from any aura of sovereignty and officialdom ushers in a new chapter in our state’s pursuit of “liberty and justice for all.” While we have made significant progress over the past half century, much remains to be done. I hope we will begin our next chapter by providing affordable health care and restoring unfettered access to voting for thousands of South Carolinians and millions of Americans. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. once said, “Of all the forms of inequality, injustice in health care is the most shocking and inhumane.” When I spoke in favor of passing the Affordable Care Act, I quoted Dr. King and referred to it as the Civil Rights Act of the 21st century. Despite more than 50 failed attempts in Congress to eliminate or undermine the law and two U.S. Supreme Court determinations that it is constitutional, massive resistance to its implementation continues. Because the Supreme Court left it up to the states to decide whether to expand Medicaid, governors and legislators in South Carolina and across the country have launched a campaign of massive resistance to this landmark and much-needed law. Expressing her resistance to the law, Gov. Nikki Haley declared, “not now, and not ever.” But our state’s motto, Dum Spiro Spero (while I breathe I hope), is always in the forefront of my thoughts and wishes. Consequently, I am hopeful that Gov. Haley and our legislators will cease their resistance to Medicaid expansion. If embracing the Affordable Care Act is a bridge to far, doing something akin to what is being done in Arkansas and Kentucky might be administratively feasible and politically plausible. Medicaid expansion would provide health-care coverage to thousands of South Carolinians and bring billions of dollars into our state’s economy. A recent report projects that if Medicaid is not expanded, 200 South Carolinians will die unnecessarily every year while our tax dollars help pay for health care in other states. One of the strongest advocates for Medicaid expansion in South Carolina was the late Sen. Clementa Pinckney. He represented some of the poorest counties in our state and knew how important health care and environmental issues were to his constituents. Perhaps even more regrettable was the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in Shelby County v. Holder, which gutted the 1965 Voting Rights Act that was enacted to protect voters and potential voters from poll taxes, literacy tests and other insidious schemes. Republican-controlled legislatures immediately began enacting laws to make it harder for minorities, students and elderly voters to cast unfettered votes, as the S.C. Legislature already had done. Symbols are powerful, and furling the Confederate battle flag was an important gesture. But symbolic gestures are no substitute for substance. I hope the Legislature will codify the stipulations the state made to the court in order for it to uphold the state’s voter identification law. In addition, I call upon Congress to accept the Supreme Court’s invitation to update the formula and restore the Voting Rights Act to full strength. As a former teacher and current student of history, I believe there are appropriate times and places to honor heritage and display memorabilia. I do not believe in whitewashing historical events or blackening out cultural displays. Our history is what it is. But I believe the time has come to cease the massive resistance to affordable health care and unfettered voting rights. It is time to honor our nation’s motto, E Pluribus Unum (out of many one). It is time to work together to ensure that South Carolinians breathe more hopefully and all Americans participate more fully in our pursuit of a more perfect union.
07.15.2015	Columbia, S.C. – South Carolina Congressman James E. Clyburn announces the recipients of the U.S. Department of Education new Fiscal Year 2015 grants. It is anticipated that the grants will be for a total of five years. There are 21 institutions in South Carolina receiving these awards totaling more than $5 million annually. These awards were given to schools looking to build their TRIO Student Support Services. TRIO programs are designed to identify and provide services for students from disadvantaged backgrounds. The recipients have presented potential programs that will serve students with intensive academic support, tutoring, counseling, career and cultural enrichment. They also offer services for graduate school planning, financial and economic literacy and assistance with financial aid applications. “I am pleased that so many colleges and universities in South Carolina will be receiving funding to develop their TRIO programs,” Congressman Clyburn said. “I believe it’s imperative for our colleges and universities to assist low-income individuals, first generation college students and individuals with disabilities. These grants will allow schools to focus on providing important services, which will offer essential opportunities for success.” School Award Amount Northeastern Technical College $253,676 Orangeburg-Calhoun Technical College $292,336 Trident Technical College $330,133 University of South Carolina – Lancaster $256,809 University of South Carolina – Columbia $334,448 Winthrop University $231,103 Florence-Darlington Technical College $231,103 Central Carolina Technical College $231,103 Midlands Technical College $281,511 Lander University $224,372 University of South Carolina – Sumter $281,511 University of South Carolina – Upstate $281,510 Technical College of the Lowcountry $281,511 Morris College $282,124 Greenville Technical College $391,057 South Carolina State University $247,582 University of South Carolina – Salkehatchie $240,064 Clinton College $129,967 Claflin University $281,510 York Technical College $284,743 Spartanburg County Commission for Technical and Community Education $276,570
07.15.2015	WASHINGTON – Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn yesterday introduced the Background Check Completion Act in the U.S. House of Representatives. Under current law, the Charleston shooter should have been barred from purchasing a firearm from a licensed dealer. But a procedural loophole allowed him to get around the law to buy the gun that he used to murder nine people at Mother Emanuel AME Church in Charleston on June 17. The Background Check Completion Act closes this loophole so that criminals forbidden by law from buying guns are not able to buy guns. “The Background Check Completion Act will guarantee that no gun is sold by a licensed dealer until a background check is completed,” Clyburn said. “Tragically, the Charleston shooter was allowed to purchase a gun even though the FBI had not completed his background check. This should never be acceptable. My bill is a commonsense fix to our nation’s gun laws, and I call on my colleagues in Congress to move it immediately towards passage.” Many retailers, including Walmart, have already voluntarily agreed to make this practice standard, to only allow gun sales to customers who have been approved through completed background checks. This bill will mandate that practice. The Background Check Completion Act does not replace the need for the King-Thompson Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act, H.R. 1217. King-Thompson would improve and streamline reporting to the FBI so that mistakes happen far less often. It would also require background checks at gun shows and for online sales, closing other loopholes to ensure that all gun purchasers undergo required background checks.
06.20.2015	The tragedy that occurred Wednesday night in Charleston, S.C., has engendered many personal emotions about race and reopened a conversation about a controversial and divisive symbol. Let us begin with several little-known but well-documented facts about that flag currently flying in front of the statehouse. It is not the Confederate flag. It is the Confederate “battle flag.” Second, the version of that flag that flew on the statehouse dome from 1962 until 2000 was an elongated version of the battle flag and is also known as the “Tennessee flag.” In fact, it is the flag that Nathan Bedford Forrest used as a rallying symbol when he founded the Ku Klux Klan, and was popularized by that iconic movie, “Gone With the Wind.” The real Confederate flag commonly known as the “Stars and Bars” contained a circle of 13 stars and three bars. For years, advocates tried to get the “battle flag” adopted as an official symbol but it was always rejected, even by the Daughters of the Confederacy. Another little-known fact is that most South Carolinians who fought in the Civil War never fought under that flag. Many fought under the Citadel Flag which was similar to our current flag, but with a red rather than blue field, and a white crescent and palmetto tree. So this notion that thousands of South Carolinians fought and died under that flag flying in front of the statehouse is a myth. Our legislators would do themselves and our state great proud if they would furl the “battle flag,” place it in a museum so all South Carolinians can become unified around symbols in which all of us are invested and to which all of us can pledge allegiance.
06.18.2015	CHARLESTON – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement today about last night’s shooting at Emanuel AME Church: It is with great sadness that I heard of the unspeakable tragedy that occurred in Charleston last night. My heart goes out to the victims, including State Senator Clementa Pinckney, their friends and family and members of Emanuel AME Church. I am distraught that this kind of hate still exists in our country and specifically in my home state of South Carolina. I'm reminded of the words of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., "The ultimate tragedy is not the oppression and cruelty by the bad people but the silence over that by the good people." We must take these horrific crimes that are happening across our states and teach our neighbors that hate is not the answer. Please pray with me today for the Charleston community as they begin the healing process.
06.15.2015	Columbia, S.C. – The House of Representatives today passed H.R. 2131, a bill to designate the Federal building and United States courthouse located at 83 Meeting Street in Charleston, South Carolina, as the "J. Waties Waring Judicial Center." The following statement by South Carolina Congressman and Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn in support of the bill was entered into the record: Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2131, a bill to rename the federal courthouse in Charleston, South Carolina in honor of Judge J. Waties Waring. This bill is a tribute to two men, two outstanding South Carolinians. The first, Judge Waring, for whom the bill will name the courthouse, was a federal judge in South Carolina during the 1940s and 50s who made landmark and courageous rulings on civil rights. The second is known to many in the Congress, Senator Ernest F. “Fritz” Hollings whose name is currently on this courthouse, and who has requested it be changed as a long overdue honor to Judge Waring. The son of a confederate soldier, Julius Waties Waring, was born July 27, 1880 in Charleston, and graduated from the College of Charleston in 1900. He became an attorney and after practicing in Charleston for several decades was nominated by President Franklin Roosevelt to the U.S. District Court in 1941. While there was little in his background that foretold an evolution on the issue, soon after ascending to the bench, Waring would become an iconoclast and an outcast in his hometown because of his rulings on civil rights cases. In the 1944 Duvall v. School Board decision, Judge Waring ordered equal pay for teachers, regardless of race. In 1947, in Elmore v. Rice, Judge Waring struck down South Carolina’s all-white Democratic primary. In 1952, in his most famous opinion, Judge Waring dissented from the ruling in Briggs v. Elliott, arguing that “separate but equal” was unconstitutional. While a dissenting opinion at the time, on appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court, his opinion would form the basis of the unanimous decision in Brown v. Board of Education, which struck down racial segregation in all public schools in America. For my entire tenure in Congress, these words from Judge Waring’s dissent have been on the wall of my Congressional Office: “They showed beyond a doubt that the evils of segregation and color prejudice come from early training…and that is an evil that must be eradicated.” Taking these stands in the 1940s and 50s was not without consequence. His experiences gave currency to the biblical admonition that “a prophet is not without honor save in his own homeland.” Waring was ostracized in Charleston and endured harassment and attacks on his home. He retired from the bench in 1952, left his hometown and moved to New York. He had made his mark, however, and his legacy endures. I recall attending his graveside services in 1968, which was sparsely attended except for several of Charleston’s African American community and a few whites who stood off at a distance. Thankfully, history has given Judge Waring the favorable recognition denied to him during his life, and passage of his bill will rightfully add to this acclaim. It is often stated that “the difference between a moment and a movement is sacrifice.” Judge Waring’s sacrifices put him at the forefront of a movement. His courage in standing up for what was right, will endure in our nation’s memory as a powerful example of statesmanship that must continually be sought, regardless of the issues of the day. Of course, none of this today would be possible were it not for Senator Ernest Frederick Hollings. Fritz Hollings’ record is familiar to all of us here. Throughout his career, as Governor of South Carolina when Clemson University was integrated and in the United States Senate, when Fritz saw a problem he set about to solve it. When the plight of the poor was exposed to him in the late 1960s, he authored the book, The Case Against Hunger. He led hunger tours to highlight the problem, and ultimately championed the successful Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children or WIC. As Chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, he helped usher in a generation of landmark social policy, providing aid of the needy and protecting our environment. He was never afraid to make difficult choices, or to change positions when he thought it warranted. In the 1980s, Fritz helped secure funding to build the annex to the Courthouse that is the subject of this legislation, and the entire facility was subsequently named in his honor. Never content to allow past injustices to go unaddressed, however, he has publicly called on Congress to replace his name on the building, with that of the highly deserving, long unheralded, J. Waties Waring. This selfless act of statesmanship is just the most recent example of Fritz’s visionary leadership. I thank my colleagues in the South Carolina delegation for their unanimous support of this bill. I urge its passage by the House to honor this outstanding South Carolinian and great American.
06.05.2015	Columbia, S.C. - Congressman Clyburn announced today that South Carolina has received over $3 million in AmeriCorps funding from the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS). These grants will put 116 AmeriCorps members on the ground to serve with 2 organizations. AmeriCorps members will tackle some of the toughest problems in the 6th Congressional District including tutoring and other academic services including social and emotional learning curriculum to help children improve their performance in school. “AmeriCorps members are an indispensable resource for nonprofits, communities, and the individuals they serve,” said Congressman Clyburn. “Community service is an essential part of the solutions to many of the challenges South Carolina faces, and AmeriCorps members are able to bring the country together by uniting individuals behind a common goal. I congratulate City Year Columbia and WINGS for Kids for receiving these grants, and thank all those who have answered the call to service by joining AmeriCorps.” “AmeriCorps members make a powerful impact on the toughest challenges facing our nation,” said Wendy Spencer, CEO of the Corporation for National and Community Service. “Building on South Carolina’s strong tradition of neighbor helping neighbor, AmeriCorps members will improve lives and strengthen communities across South Carolina. While they serve others, AmeriCorps members will also expand opportunity for themselves - gaining skills and experience to jumpstart their careers. I salute AmeriCorps members for their dedication, and thank our outstanding partners who make their service possible.” The current year’s AmeriCorps grant cycle was highly competitive, due to the strong demand by organizations seeking AmeriCorps resources. The 2015 competition prioritized investments in economic opportunity, education, veterans and military families, disaster services, and continued a new initiative for governors and mayors. CNCS will provide an $1.9 million in Segal AmeriCorps Education Awards for the AmeriCorps members funded by these grants. After completing a full term of service, AmeriCorps members receive an award of $5,645 that they can use to pay for college or to pay off student loans. AmeriCorps engages more than 75,000 members in intensive service annually to serve through nonprofit, faith-based, and community organizations at 25,000 locations across the country. These members help communities tackle pressing problems while mobilizing millions of volunteers for the organizations they serve. Since 1994, more than 900,000 Americans have provided more than 1.2 billion hours of service addressing critical challenges from poverty and hunger to disasters and the dropout crisis. AmeriCorps is administered by the Corporation for National and Community Service, a federal agency that engages more than five million Americans in service through AmeriCorps, Senior Corps, the Social Innovation Fund, and the Volunteer Generation Fund, and leads the President's national call to service initiative, United We Serve. For more information, visit www.NationalService.gov .
06.03.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman James Clyburn (D-SC) will hold a media conference call Friday, June 5 at 9:15 a.m. EDT to announce new grants for South Carolina that will support AmeriCorps members serving the community with local organizations. Rep. Clyburn will be joined by Wendy Spencer, CEO of the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS), the federal agency that administers AmeriCorps. CNCS engages more than 5 million Americans in service each year through its AmeriCorps, Senior Corps, Social Innovation Fund, and Volunteer Generation Fund programs, and leads the President's national call to service initiative, United We Serve. Over the past two decades, more than 900,000 men and women have served in the AmeriCorps program, providing more than 1 billion hours of service to address critical challenges from poverty and hunger to disasters and the dropout crisis. Who: Rep. Jim Clyburn Wendy Spencer, CEO, Corporation for National and Community Service What: Media Call Announcing AmeriCorps Grants for South Carolina When: Friday, June 5, 2015 9:15 a.m. EDT Attendees are encouraged to dial into the call early, allowing time for the Operator to place them into the conference call Number: 888-989-6494 PASSCODE: 4130 Please RSVP to pressoffice@cns.gov with “CLYBURN CALL” in the subject line. For more information about the Corporation for National and Community Service and AmeriCorps, visit NationalService.gov. For more information about Rep. Clyburn and his work in Congress, visit Clyburn.House.gov.
05.14.2015	(Columbia, SC) –South Carolina Congressman James E. Clyburn today announced Jestine Aho, a 12th grade student at Battery Creek High School in Beaufort, is the winner of the 2015 Sixth District Artistic Discovery art competition. The winning artwork is an graphite piece entitled Praise House. A picture of the artwork is attached to this release. Artistic Discovery is an annual art competition conducted by Members of Congress. The winner in each Congressional district will have their artwork hung for the next year in the Cannon Tunnel that connects the House office buildings with the U.S. Capitol building. The winning student will also receive two airline tickets to attend the unveiling of the exhibit and a reception for all winners in Washington, D.C. next month. All district winners are also eligible to receive a college scholarship. “I continue to be impressed with the artistic talent I see from young people in the Sixth Congressional District,” Congressman Clyburn said. “Despite the exceptional competition, Jestine's graphite piece stood out from the rest. I look forward to seeing her artwork displayed on Capitol Hill.” The competition is open to any high school student living in the Sixth Congressional district.
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement after joining the entire South Carolina Congressional delegation in introducing a bill to designate the Federal building and United States courthouse located at 83 Meeting Street in Charleston, South Carolina, as the “J. Waties Waring Judicial Center”: “I want to thank my colleagues in South Carolina’s Congressional delegation for working together to honor the memory of Judge J. Waties Waring, a great South Carolinian and American hero who paid a heavy price in his pursuit of racial justice. In his 1944 Duvall v. School Board ruling, Judge Waring ordered the equalization of teacher pay in South Carolina. In the 1947 Elmore v. Rice decision, Judge Waring struck down South Carolina’s white-only Democratic primary. Judge Waring’s best known opinion, a dissent in Briggs v. Elliott arguing that ‘separate but equal’ was unconstitutional, laid the groundwork for the U.S. Supreme Court to adopt his reasoning unanimously in the landmark Brown v. Board decision, which struck down racial segregation in all public schools in America. “Thankfully, history has given Judge Waring the favorable recognition denied to him during his life, and passage of this bill will rightfully add to this acclaim. His courage in standing up for what was right, even at the cost of social ostracism, will endure in our nation’s memory as a powerful example of statesmanship that must continually be sought, regardless of the issues of the day. “Former United States Senator Ernest F. Hollings has been the leading advocate for this change, even though it will remove his own name from the facility. This selfless act of statesmanship is just the most recent example of Senator Hollings’ visionary leadership in a stellar decades-long career in public service. “It is often stated that ‘the difference between a moment and a movement is sacrifice.’ I cannot think of a more fitting example of that maxim than the life and legacy of Judge J. Waties Waring. Judge Waring was at the forefront of a movement, and I urge my colleagues to pass this bill expeditiously. It honors Judge Waring’s extraordinary life and elevates him and Senator Hollings as public servants we should all strive to emulate.” Companion legislation to the House bill is being introduced by South Carolina Senators Lindsey Graham and Tim Scott.
04.22.2015	In 1965, the 89th Congress and President Lyndon Johnson produced landmark laws that made education more attainable, health care more affordable, voting more accessible, housing more available, immigration more equitable, and the environment cleaner. The results were dramatic. The poverty rate went down, and graduation rates went up. Citizen participation increased and our environment got cleaner. Our nation was reinvigorated by new immigrants, and the golden years of our senior citizens were enriched. Fiftieth-year celebrations are known as golden anniversaries, but recent court decisions and legislative enactments have casted us into something that seems more akin to a gilded age. Although our economy is recovering for those at the very top, far too many hardworking Americans struggle to stay afloat. Although the Affordable Care Act extended health insurance to millions of Americans, millions more go uninsured as Republican-controlled legislatures around the country refuse to expand Medicaid out of partisan spite and zealous ideology. Although more young people are graduating high school and pursuing post-secondary education and training, college costs are skyrocketing and our elementary and secondary schools differ widely in quality. Although the value of new immigrants is clear and convincing, reforms to our immigration system remain blocked by Republicans hostilities. We are at a crossroads. The Republican budget seeks to destroy the legislative legacy of 1965 that made great differences in the lives of so many ordinary people. Democrats must defend our proud legacy and fight against the efforts of those who seek to devalue the worth of hardworking Americans. Fifty years ago, Democrats launched Head Start, created the Elementary and Secondary Education Act and passed a Higher Education law. Today, Republicans in Congress are proposing to cut Head Start and Early Head Start by $19 billion between 2016 and 2024 and cut Pell Grants by $145 billion over this same period. Democrats are fighting to fully fund Head Start, expand universal pre-K, and make college education and training more affordable through student aid and Pell Grants. Fifty years ago, a Democratic Congress created Medicare and Medicaid to make health care available and affordable for millions of Americans. Five years ago, Democrats passed the Affordable Care Act (ACA) to expand that coverage for senior citizens and to people with pre-existing conditions. Today, Republicans repeatedly vote to repeal the ACA, undermine Medicare, and deny Medicaid to low-income citizens. Fifty years ago, Democrats in Congress honored the contributions of hardworking law-abiding immigrants by eliminating discriminatory immigration quotas. Today, the Republican-controlled Congress continues to vilify immigrants while refusing to bring forth a bill to comprehensively reform our immigration laws and bring millions out of the shadows. Fifty years ago, Democrats passed the Voting Rights Act to prevent discrimination and expand access to the franchise. Today, while we continue to fight for protecting every eligible American's right to vote, Republican legislatures are passing laws to restrict access to the franchise and diluting minority votes by packing and bleaching legislative and Congressional districts. Fifty years ago, a Democratic-controlled Congress passed the Motor Vehicle Air Pollution Control Act and the Water Quality Act to clean up our air and water. Today, we continue to fight for the future of our planet while Republicans fight and pass laws against the Environmental Protection Agency and deny the basic science of climate change. In addressing these challenges, the principles that guided us in 1965 remain as relevant as ever. The most fundamental of these is the belief that our country is stronger when more people participate in the democratic process. The right to vote is preservative of all other rights. The diversity of opinion in our country is best reflected in our government when all eligible Americans are able to register unrestrained, vote unencumbered and have their votes counted fairly and accurately. Sadly, over the last several years, we have seen widespread and coordinated efforts to impede access to the ballot box. Onerous and unnecessary restrictive voting requirements and proof of citizenship requirements, curtailing early voting, and removing people from the voter rolls are just a few of the devious tactics that Republicans across the country are using to disenfranchise people of color, seniors, disabled, young and low-income people. For fifty years, the Voting Rights Act of 1965 stood as a bulwark against these insidious schemes. But when the Supreme Court disabled Section 5 of the Act in 2013, the Justice Department was no longer able to stop voter discrimination before it went into effect. In response to this unfortunate circumstance, Democrats and Republicans crafted a bipartisan bill to restore the Voting Rights Act more than a year ago, but Republican Leaders have refused to bring it up for a vote. In 1967, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. wrote a book entitled, Where Do We Go From Here: Chaos or Community? I believe we stand at a similar crossroads today. Our country will not prosper to its fullest until all citizens are able to reach their fullest potential. By fighting for these timeless Democratic principles -- which are core American principles -- we will embrace America's future and pursue a more perfect Union for the next 50 years and beyond.
03.24.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn delivered the following statement today on the Capitol steps about the fifth anniversary of the Affordable Care Act: “Speaking at an international health care conference in 1966, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. said: “Of all the forms of inequality, injustice in health care is the most shocking and inhumane.” I profoundly agree with that view. Affordable access to quality health care should not depend on the circumstances of one’s birth. “More than five years ago, during House debate on the Affordable Care Act, I labeled it “the Civil Rights Act of the 21st Century,” and I am pleased and very proud that the law is living up to that moniker. “Under the ACA, insurance companies can no longer discriminate against the 129 million Americans who have pre-existing conditions. 105 million Americans no longer have a lifetime limit on their health coverage. No longer can women be penalized by insurance companies simply for being women. Thanks to the ACA, 16 million Americans who were previously uninsured finally have the security of health insurance for their families. “Despite repeated Republican claims that the ACA would kill jobs, our economy is creating jobs at the fastest rate since the 1990s. So, as we gather to celebrate the fifth anniversary of the Affordable Care Act, I’ve got a message to our Republican friends: The Affordable Care Act is the law of the land. Let’s work together to make it better.”’
03.19.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, lead sponsors Rep. John Lewis (GA-5), House Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer (MD-5), Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (SC-6), Rep. John Conyers (MI-13), Rep. Robert Brady (PA-1) and more than 170 Democrats reintroduced the Voter Empowerment Act in the House of Representatives. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand of New York will introduce a companion version in the Senate. The Voter Empowerment Act will help ensure equal access to the ballot for every eligible voter, will modernize our voter registration system to help more Americans participate, and will take steps to eliminate deceptive practices and voter fraud that deter voters from casting their ballots. On March 21, 1965, thousands of protestors left Selma, Alabama and marched all the way to Montgomery to underscore the need for voting rights legislation which assured access to the ballot box for millions of Americans. Sponsors offer the VEA today as a continuation of the ongoing effort to ensure that every American has an equal and fair opportunity to make their voice heard through the electoral process. At a time when some states have implemented or are planning to implement new barriers for voters who may be seniors, students, low-income Americans, members of our Armed Services, disabled, or speak English as a second language, Democrats see the need to certify their efforts to protect voting access for all Americans. Click for a section by section description, letter of support, or full bill text of the Voter Empowerment Act. “As we look to commemorate the 56th Anniversary of the final Selma-to-Montgomery march, begun on March 21, 1965," said Rep. John Lewis, " I am proud to join my colleagues to reintroduce the Voter Empowerment Act. The goal of this bill is to make voting access equal, fair, and simple for every American. Democracy is not a state; it is an act. The vigilant action of every member of Congress and every citizen is necessary to ensure that liberty, equality and justice remain the guiding principles of our democracy. The VEA is just one of the steps we believe must be taken to make sure the vote retains its power as the most transformative, non-violent tool citizens have in our society to make their voices heard." “I’m pleased to be joining Civil Rights Movement hero Rep. John Lewis, Assistant Leader Clyburn, Ranking Member Conyers, and Ranking Member Brady today to reintroduce the Voter Empowerment Act,” said Democratic Whip Hoyer. “This legislation aims to make it easier for eligible voters to cast their ballots and have those ballots counted accurately at a time when, unfortunately, some states are making it more difficult for voters to exercise their right to participate in our democracy. Our legislation would modernize the voter registration system to include same-day registration, expand early voting, prohibit deceptive practices, create a national voter protection hotline, and mandate a verifiable paper trail, among other reforms. I hope that Democrats and Republicans in the House can come together in this fiftieth anniversary year of the Selma-to-Montgomery march and the enactment of the Voting Rights Act to pass our bill and empower all Americans to have a voice in their government.” Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn said, “The Voter Empowerment Act is the product of a collaborative effort involving dozens of Members and representatives from scores of advocacy organizations. In the face of recently enacted creative devices that constitute a modern version of the Jim Crow-era practice of voter disenfranchisement, this legislation will improve access to the ballot box, protect the integrity of our elections, and ensure that those who seek to cause mischief are held accountable. I am hopeful the voices of people of good will rise above the din of despair we so often hear about the future of our great country and Congress will act on this needed vehicle toward ‘a more perfect Union.’” “There is no more important right in our society than the right to vote—the foundation of all of our other rights enshrined in the Constitution, " said Rep. John Conyers. " Unfortunately, efforts to scale back the right to vote continue to thrive in our country. Today we call on Congress to once again protect that precious right. Congress did not stand idly by in 1965 when we passed the Voting Rights Act and the many federal protections we passed thereafter. When equal access to the ballot box is impaired by any means, the Constitution obligates our most careful and deliberate attention. And, we, the 114th Congress, must not stand idly now by when American citizens are denied their constitutional right to vote.” “We are fewer than two years away from the next federal election," says Rep. Robert Brady," and are destined to repeat the same unacceptable mistakes of 2012. Without action, thousands of eligible voters will be turned away from the polls because of preventable problems. We need to modernize voter registration and ensure that state and local election officials are fully equipped with the information and resources necessary to effectively and efficiently administer their elections. This is not a Democratic or Republican issue but a democracy issue.”
03.10.2015	I am home alone reflecting on the remarkable and blessed experiences of the past three days. Yesterday I sat at the steps of the Statehouse in Montgomery, Alabama listening to some remarkable reflections from a spouse and daughter of the 1960s. Juanita Abernathy, the widow of Martin Luther King Jr.'s constant companion, Ralph David Abernathy, and Peggy Wallace Kennedy, the daughter of former Alabama Gov. George Wallace, gave moving testimonies of what it was like from opposite ends of the spectrum as wills were tested during the run-up to the March 7, 1965 march across the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama. I was particularly moved by Ms. Wallace Kennedy as she shared the experience of taking her son, Governor Wallace's grandson, to the King Center in Atlanta, Georgia. After taking in some of the sights and sounds of the Center, her son asked her, "Why did 'Pa Pa' do those things to other people?" Ms. Wallace Kennedy said that she answered her son by telling him that her father "never told [her] why he did those things" but that they were wrong, and that it would be "up to [them] to help make things right." My flight home was out of Birmingham. During the 90-minute automobile ride from Montgomery to Birmingham, the time I spent in the Birmingham airport waiting on my flight, and on the flights to Columbia through Charlotte, I did a lot of reflecting and projecting. My feelings were that there is much more hope than the despair so many express for the future of our great country. Before leaving Montgomery, I had conversations with several current and former colleagues about what might flow from our weekend experiences. I shared my favorite passage from King's letter from the Birmingham City Jail. In that timeless document, King responded to those who felt that his cause was right but the timing was wrong. King admonished in that letter that time is never right and time is never wrong. Time is always what we make of it. He went on to intone that he was coming to the conclusion that--and I'm slightly paraphrasing here--"people of ill will in our society make a much better use of time than people of good will," and he concluded the thought by writing, "we are going to be made to repent not just for the vitriolic words and deeds of bad people but for the appalling silence of good people." We are hearing a great deal from those in our society who would like to turn the clock back on voting rights, civil rights, and the right to peaceably assemble. The rights to judicial fairness and effective representation in our various legislative bodies are under siege. The allowance of unlimited and secret financing of political campaigns and the creation of political ghettos and barrios are disconcerting. The voices of those who toss around gratuitous insults are loud and clear. On Saturday morning, I sat in the pews of Brown Chapel AMEC and listened to a panel of several people whose lives were significantly impacted by the events at Selma 50 years ago. One of them was Mary Liuzzo Lilleboe, the daughter of Viola Liuzzo, the white activist who was murdered while transporting some of the marchers back to Selma from Montgomery. Ms. Liuzzo Lilleboe said that she is often asked why her mother went to Selma. But she said that she believes the more appropriate question is "why more people didn't go." I believe there are many more people of good will among us than various news reports might lead us to believe. Hopefully, more of them will raise their voices in continuance of our search for "a more perfect Union."
03.06.2015	One day before President Obama and congressional leaders meet to commemorate the 56th anniversary of the Selma to Montgomery march, Rep. James Clyburn (D-S.C.) said he believes the "battle wages on" for equal voting rights in America. "I hope that, when we leave that bridge on Saturday, we can work together to fix the Voting Rights Act that has been virtually been dismantled by the recent Shelby decision," Clyburn said Friday morning on MSNBC's "Morning Joe." To read more, click here: thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/234841-clyburn-battle-rages-on-for-voting-rights
03.02.2015	COLUMBIA, SC — President Barack Obama will visit South Carolina for the first time since winning the state’s Democratic presidential primary in 2008. Obama will attend a youth rally Friday at Benedict College, a historically black private school in Columbia, The White House said. Details about the president’s trip will be released later this week. His visit will come two weeks after Vice President Joe Biden swung through Columbia and Charleston. South Carolina is one of three states Obama has not visited since becoming president. Utah and South Dakota are the others. The president has not come to South Carolina until this week because it is one of the more Republican-dominant states in the country, Winthrop University political scientist Scott Huffmon said. Obama failed to top Republican rivals in the Palmetto State on his way to victories in the 2008 and 2012 general elections. “It’s more about how useful is a visit than any snub of South Carolina,” Huffmon said. “You have to make strategic use of a president’s time. It’s a finite resource.” CLICK HERE TO READ FULL ARTICLE.
02.24.2015	(Columbia, SC) –South Carolina Congressman James E. Clyburn announced today that the Children’s Trust Fund of South Carolina will be receiving more than $8 million from the Department of Health and Human Services for maternal and child health services. This grant comes after a $6 million grant announcement in September to the Children’s Trust Fund for similar services. The grants being awarded to the Children’s Trust Fund are part of the Affordable Care Act and will assist in a maternal, infant and early childhood home visiting program. This program is designed to improve coordination of services for at risk communities and identify and provide comprehensive services to improve outcomes for families who reside in those communities. “I continue to be pleased to see South Carolina receive federal assistance from the Affordable Care Act to improve health care services in our state,” Congressman Clyburn said. “As our state continues to see an influx of financial support despite the state’s refusal to accept $11.7 billion of new revenue by expanding Medicaid, I look forward to seeing our local communities’ healthcare needs addressed by organizations like the Children’s Trust Fund.”
02.03.2015	(Columbia, SC) – South Carolina Congressman James E. Clyburn announced today that South Carolina First Steps to School Readiness will be receiving over $3 million to help fund their Early Head Start program, while Charleston First Steps will be receiving over $1 million to help fund their local Early Head State program. These grants are being awarded by the Department of Health and Human Services. As an early childhood education initiative, First Steps to School Readiness, has helped hundreds of thousands of young children prepare for school through programs that provide early intervention, strength families, improve children’s health and well-being, increase the quality of early care and education, and help transition kindergartners into school. In addition to South Carolina’s First Steps organization, each county is represented by a local First Steps Partnership. “I’m thrilled to see the Department of Health and Human Services making an investment in our state’s First Step organizations,” Congressman Clyburn said. “Investing in early childhood education can offer outstanding opportunities for our children and I hope these grants will continue to allow First Steps to promote, develop and improve such opportunities throughout South Carolina.”
01.28.2015	(Columbia, SC) –South Carolina Congressman James E. Clyburn announced today that 33 organizations across South Carolina will be receiving more than $9 million in Continuum of Care (CoC) awards from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The 6th Congressional District will be receiving over $4 million. The list of organizations and amount of awards is attached to this release. The CoC Program is designed to promote a communitywide commitment to the goal of ending homelessness by providing funding for efforts by nonprofits, and State and local governments to quickly rehouse homeless individuals and families. The programs also promote access to and effect utilization of mainstream programs by homeless individuals and families. “I am happy to announce the outstanding investment HUD is making in the state of South Carolina to help find a solution to end homelessness in our state,” Congressman Clyburn said. “This is an important issue that cannot be ignored and with funds to help individuals and families experiencing this situation, I hope these organizations will be able to offer a solution focused approach to finding an end to homelessness in our state.
01.21.2015	January 21, 2015 Contact: Patrick Devlin, 202-226-3210 Pelosi, Clyburn Announce Members of House Democrats’Democratic Outreach & Engagement Task Force Washington, D.C. – Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and Assistant Democratic Leader James Clyburn (D-SC) announced today the Members of House Democrats’ Democratic Outreach & Engagement Task Force, which will be chaired by Clyburn. The task force will drive new efforts to increase voter participation in the political process 50 years after the enactment of the Voting Rights Act. “As we mark the 56th anniversary of the Voting Rights Act – one of the most important and consequential pieces of legislation in our nation’s history – we must continue to inspire the engagement of every American in our elections,” said Leader Pelosi. “With the bold and visionary leadership of Assistant Democratic Leader James Clyburn, the Democratic Outreach & Engagement Task Force will work to reawaken our communities to the power of the vote to destroy injustice, create opportunity and sustain our democracy.” “By laying out the high stakes and momentous impact of the political process, using the occasion of the 56th anniversary of the ‘1965 Voting Rights Act’ as a compelling example of the importance of civic engagement, we hope to inspire Americans from all walks of life to become more engaged. We also hope they will come to realize and appreciate how Democratic policies would improve their families’ lives and their children’s futures,” said Assistant Leader Clyburn. The following Democratic Members will serve on the Democratic Outreach & Engagement Task Force: Assistant Democratic Leader James Clyburn (D-SC), Chair Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA) Congresswoman Nydia Velázquez (D-NY) Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA) Congressman André Carson (D-IN) Congressman Cedric Richmond (D-LA) Congressman Matt Cartwright (D-PA) Congressman Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY) Congresswoman Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM) Congresswoman Grace Meng (D-NY) Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA) # # #
01.16.2015	(Columbia, SC) –South Carolina Congressman James E. Clyburn announced today that seven Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) and one k-12 school district in South Carolina will be receiving over $16 million in funding for cybersecurity education. Vice President Biden announced yesterday that $25 million in funding will be granted nationwide over the next five years to create a new cybersecruity consortium consisting of 13 HBCUs, two national labs and a k-12 school district. The growth of cybercrime is creating a need for cybersecurity professionals across a range of professions. By some estimates, the demand for cybersecurity workers is growing 12 times faster than the U.S. job market, and is creating well-paying jobs. The following South Carolina entities will be participating in the consortium: Allen University, Benedict College, Claflin University, Denmark Technical College, Morris College, South Carolina State University, Voorhees College and the Charleston County School District. “I am thrilled to announce the enormous investment that the HBCUs in South Carolina will be receiving in cybersecurity education,” Congressman Clyburn said. “The ability to offer students at these schools the opportunity to diversify their education in the science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields, is invaluable. I have worked with the National Nuclear Security Administration to support math and science opportunities at HBCUs and this program continues those efforts. I am looking forward to seeing students at these institutions excel in this field and become the leaders for the next generation.”
01.13.2015	(Columbia, SC) –South Carolina Congressman James E. Clyburn introduced H.R. 295 today which would reauthorize the Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) Historic Preservation Program. In 1998 the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) conducted a study to identify historic sites and buildings on the campuses of America’s Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), and determine the cost of preserving and protecting those sites and buildings. The GAO indentified 712 historic sites and buildings that were of historic significances and determined that it would require $755 million to successfully restore and preserve them. Congress responded by authorizing and appropriating funds to implement the program. In the 6th Congressional District, historic buildings at Allen, Claflin, and South Carolina State Universities, and Voorhees and Benedict Colleges have been successfully restored. To date, 59 institutions in 20 different states have benefitted from the program. However, authorization for this program has expired, and no funds have been appropriated since the Recovery Act in 2009. “I look forward to continuing my work with HBCUs in South Carolina and around the country to revive this successful effort to celebrate our heritage and strengthen our communities,” Congressman Clyburn said. “The structures on these campuses across the country are living testaments to African American history and deserve to be stabilized and restored. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to preserve our nation’s history.”
11.14.2014	(Columbia, SC) –South Carolina Congressman James E. Clyburn announced today that South Carolina will be receiving more than $2 million from the Department of Health and Human Services for the Family Health Centers, Inc. in Orangeburg, S.C. The Family Health Centers, Inc. has six locations in Vance, Denmark, Orangeburg, Neeses, St. George and St. Matthews that serve the health care needs of those communities. Their vision is to promote the health of the community by improving access and eliminate health care disparities. The grant awards $2,163,532.00 in discretionary spending to be used across the organization. This newest grant brings the total of health care grants awarded to South Carolina this year to over $9 million. “I am once again pleased to see South Carolina receive federal assistance to expand its primary health care centers,” Congressman Clyburn said. “As our state continues to struggle without the $11.7 billion in new revenue we should be receiving by expanding Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act, I’m happy to see individual organizations apply for and receive funding to help their local efforts. One of the most important things we can do for our citizens is offer affordable primary health care services.”
11.13.2014	WASHINGTON -- Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement after President Barack Obama named 19 recipients of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, which will be awarded at a ceremony at the White House on November 24: “I congratulate all of this year’s recipients of the Presidential Medal of Freedom. I am especially pleased with the President’s decision to award a medal to professional golfer Charlie Sifford, the first African American player on the PGA Tour. Last July, I organized a bipartisan letter with 64 signatures encouraging the President to consider Mr. Sifford for this honor. Referring to Mr. Sifford as ‘the Jackie Robinson of golf,’ we wrote: The courage of Charlie Sifford opened the gates of golf to people of color across the world. While no award can restore the right of an athlete to compete that was unjustly denied decades ago, bestowing a Presidential Medal of Freedom upon him would rightly remember this injustice and extol the attributes of determination and persistence that enabled him to ultimately prevail. “It is fitting that Mr. Sifford is being recognized alongside such luminaries as John Dingell and the late Patsy Takemoto Mink, whom I have had the privilege of serving with in Congress; Steve Wonder, who has used his immense musical talent to promote civil rights; and James Chaney, Andrew Goodman, and Michael Schwerner, who gave their lives, during the “turbulent sixties,” fighting for the rights of all Americans to participate in our democracy. I thank each of them and all of the recipients for their remarkable contributions to our pursuit of ‘a more perfect Union.’”
11.07.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (D-SC) today sent a letter to Democratic colleagues announcing his intention to run for Assistant Democratic Leader in the 114th Congress. Below is the text of the letter. Dear Democratic Colleague, Congratulations! I am looking forward to serving with you in the 114th Congress. While I wish our numbers were greater, we must use the election results as motivation to redouble our efforts to create an America where hard work is rewarded and every American has an opportunity to succeed. I am more determined than ever to succeed in this fight, and in that spirit, I ask for your support of my continued service as Assistant Democratic Leader. To successfully advance a progressive agenda in a Republican-controlled Congress, our Caucus needs to be united. Now those of you who know me well know that I do not expect that we will always be unanimous in our views and approaches. The history of our nation shows that unity is very challenging but can also be very rewarding, especially when a group as diverse as our Caucus works together in pursuit of common goals. Because of my record in current and previous Leadership positions, I feel uniquely qualified and well positioned to help our seven internal caucuses find common ground and present a united front in pursuit of greater opportunities and fundamental fairness for hard-working Americans. While our Caucus remains focused on increasing and expanding America's middle class, our friends across the aisle have incessantly pursued policies that leave too many families vulnerable and communities challenged. My service among our Leadership has been defined by working with you to combat these regressive measures. We have initiated and continue to promote the 10-20-30 formula and other economic development proposals to ensure that no community is left behind. We have collaborated on the Voter Empowerment Act and Voting Rights Amendment Act to stop nefarious schemes to disenfranchise the disadvantaged. We have stood fast in budget negotiations to ensure that the budget isn’t balanced on the backs of children and senior citizens, as well as other vulnerable citizens, while taxes are cut for the most privileged. We have spoken out loudly against multiple votes to repeal the landmark Affordable Care Act and many states’ thoughtless refusal to expand Medicaid under that law. As we seek to lift up those who feel down and out, we must recognize that much too often our message has failed to resonate with many of those for whom we fight. As the only southern Member of our Leadership, and a representative of a largely rural district, I understand the challenges our party faces and will work with each and every one of you to help sharpen our message and will redouble my efforts to reach and motivate those families and communities that stand to benefit from our policies. I look forward to working with you in this effort, and I respectfully ask for your support. Sincerely, James E. Clyburn
10.27.2014	(Columbia, SC) –South Carolina Congressman James E. Clyburn announced today that South Carolina’s Department of Health and Environment Control (DHEC) will be receiving more than $2.2 million from the Department of Health and Human Services for maternal and child health services. This grant announcement comes after a September announcement where DHEC received over $4.6 million to expand primary healthcare services. The newest grant will allow for discretionary health services to be expanded at DHEC for mothers and children. “I am pleased to see South Carolina continuing to receive federal assistance to grow and improve our health services,” Congressman Clyburn said. “Taking care of our children in South Carolina needs to be the state’s number one priority and striving to make sure the necessary aid is available to keep them healthy is critical.”
10.10.2014	(Columbia, SC) – Congressman Jim Clyburn will present a Congressional Gold Medal to Florence, S.C. resident, Reverend Dr. Vandroth Backus, a Montford Point Marine. Montford Point Marines included more than 19,000 African Americans that trained at Montford Point Camp during World War II before the Armed Services were desegregated. In 2012, the 368 surviving members of this group were honored during a ceremony at the U.S. Capitol. The presentation will occur on Wednesday, October 15 at 11:00 a.m. in Columbia District office at 1225 Lady Street, Suite 200. Rev. Dr. Backus is a Montford Point Marine who is a resident of Florence, S.C. where he served as the first black policemen in the City of Florence since reconstruction. He also served as an educator in the Darlington Public School System for 14 years, and worked for Morris College, his alma mater, for many years. Rev. Dr. Backus served his country during World War II and the Korean War and is married to Florence Smith Backus and they are parents to three children. WHO: Congressman Jim Clyburn WHAT: Congressional Gold Medal Presentation to Reverend Dr. Vandroth Backus WHEN: Wednesday, Octobers 15, 2014 - 11:00 a.m. WHERE: 1225 Lady Street, Suite 200 Columbia, SC 29201 CONTACT: Amanda Loveday – Amanda.Loveday@mail.house.gov
09.09.2014	(Columbia, SC) –South Carolina Congressman James E. Clyburn announced today that South Carolina will be receiving two Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grants, equaling over $20 million, from the U.S. Department of Transportation. The City of Columbia will be receiving $10,000,000 for their Seamless City Revitalization Project, which will revitalize a 1.27 mile project of North Main Street between Anthony and Fuller Avenues in support of the City of Columbia’s extensive downtown streetscaping initiative. In Charleston, the Wando Welch Terminal in Mount Pleasant will be receiving $10,840,000 which will help provide structural repairs and strengthening the berth as well as related paving and safety improvements. “The announcement of the two grants is great news for our state. The City of Columbia and the port in Mount Pleasant will receive support to help boost the economy in both areas and assist in these individual projects,” Congressman Clyburn said. “I am happy for both communities and look forward to seeing the progress both projects are able to make with this assistance. South Carolina is a wonderful state and this support allows us to get even better.”
09.05.2014	(Columbia, SC) – House Assistant Democratic Leader and South Carolina Congressman James E. Clyburn announced today that the Children’s Trust Fund of South Carolina will be receiving a $6,680,778 Affordable Care Act grant for maternal, infant and early childhood home visiting programs. This grant and many others are being offered by the Department of Health and Human Services. They will be granting $11 billion over a 5-year period for the operation, expansion and construction of health centers nationwide through the Community Health Center Fund. “Despite the Governor's refusal to accept $11.7 billion of new revenue by expanding Medicaid and leaving more than 200,000 South Carolina citizens without health care coverage, I am happy to see local businesses being offered Affordable Care Act (ACA) grants to improve access to health care for local communities,” Congressman Clyburn said. “This is not the first ACA grant that South Carolina has been offered and it won’t be the last. I look forward to continued support of our communities' healthcare needs from organizations like the Children’s Trust Fund.”
09.03.2014	(Columbia, SC) – House Assistant Democratic Leader and South Carolina Congressman James E. Clyburn announced today that the University of South Carolina in Columbia will receive a $1,974,000 grant for the construction of a new Entrepreneurship and Technology Commercialization Center in Columbia, S.C. The U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA) awarded this grant which is anticipated to create 698 jobs in the midlands area and provide $11.9 million in private investment to the community. When built, this center will include a range of resources to support early stage business ventures and is the cornerstone of a new technology corridor, the USC Innovista Innovation District. It will also serve as the regional hub for USC’s entrepreneurship, incubation, and acceleration programs. “I am thrilled that the University of South Carolina will receive this investment from the EDA in order to develop a new entrepreneurship and technology center in Columbia,” Congressman Clyburn said. “This grant will allow the University and the City of Columbia to give budding businesspeople the support they need to succeed in today’s economy. Moreover, it gives the opportunity for hundreds of new jobs to be created thus assisting the Capital City in continuing to assist their economic development strategy.”
07.30.2014	(Columbia, SC) – Congressman Jim Clyburn will conduct a press roundtable on Tuesday, August 5 at 10:00 a.m. in Columbia office at 1225 Lady Street, Suite 200. The Congressman will speak on a variety of issues including the unprecedented lawsuit the House Republicans wish to bring against the President, the Democratic Jumpstart Action Agenda, State Medicaid Expansion and the unaccompanied minors in South Carolina. The Congressman will also spend time answering questions from the press. WHO: Congressman Jim Clyburn WHAT: Press Roundtable WHEN: Tuesday, August 5, 2014 at 10:00 a.m. WHERE: 1225 Lady Street, Suite 200 Columbia, SC 29201 CONTACT: Amanda Loveday – Amanda.Loveday@mail.house.gov *Please RSVP by Monday, August 4*
07.25.2014	(Columbia, SC) – House Assistant Democratic Leader and South Carolina Congressman James E. Clyburn will receive the Johnnie L Cochran, Jr. Soaring Eagle Award this Sunday during a ceremony with the American Association for Justice in Baltimore, Maryland. The Soaring Eagle Award was established in 1997 and is presented by the AAJ Minority Caucus to someone who, despite the challenges of his or her own journey, pursues excellence and has made outstanding efforts and contributions to the legal profession in paving the way for others. Earlier recipients have included Judge Matthew J. Perry, Jr. “I am honored to receive the Johnnie L. Cochran, Jr. Soaring Eagle award from the American Association for Justice,” Clyburn said, “I have worked my entire professional career to exceed expectations and achieve some degree of success. My life has been full of some significant experiences, not all pleasant, but all of which I consider blessings. I am pleased to be supportive of the AAJ Minority Caucus and helping in their efforts to further diversify the legal profession.”
07.07.2014	(Columbia, SC) – House Assistant Democratic Leader and South Carolina Congressman James E. Clyburn announced today five new grants, totaling over $7 million, awarded to South Carolina and the 6th Congressional District. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security and FEMA awarded two grants to Columbia and Jamestown, South Carolina for a State Fire Training Academy and Operations and Safety, respectively, at their local Fire Stations. The South Carolina Fire Marshal’s office will receive $391,238, while the Jamestown Rural Fire Department will receive $95,665. The Department of Health and Human Services awarded three entities with grants to assist in their continued studies. The South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control (DHEC) will be receiving $5,539,900 for a grant titled “Title X Family Planning Services Program.” The University of South Carolina Research Foundation will be receiving $1,099,013 for their work with the Health Care Innovative; while the University of South Carolina – Columbia will be receiving $333,750 for a mental health research grant. “It is a tremendous accomplishment of these communities in the 6th Congressional District for them to be receiving over $7 million in grants for a variety of studies from fire safety to mental health research,” Congressman Clyburn said. “I applaud the innovations of South Carolina entities that are developing new options for employment and health research.”
06.30.2014	(Columbia, SC) – House Assistant Democratic Leader and South Carolina Congressman James E. Clyburn announced today two Department of Agriculture grants awarded to South Carolina and the 6th Congressional District. The Town of Kingstree will receive $22,500 from the United States Department of Agriculture for a Water and Waste Disposal Pre-Development Grant. The rural development funds will be used for a preliminary engineering report as the Town is looking at an expansion Waste Water Treatment Plant in order to serve more of the underserved area in the community. The Town of Santee will receive $25,000 from the United States Department of Agriculture for a Water and Waste Disposal Pre-Development Grant. The Town is seeking grant funds for a PER to investigate the possibility of expanding both its water and sewer systems to serve more of this underserved area of SC. “The towns of Kingstree and Santee will benefit tremendously from receiving these two grants from the Department of Agriculture,” Congressman Clyburn said. “These grants allow these Towns to enhance and develop their water and sewer systems which give them an advantage in rural South Carolina.”
06.26.2014	(Columbia, SC) – House Assistant Democratic Leader and South Carolina Congressman James E. Clyburn sent today the following letter and attachments to his fellow members of the South Carolina Congressional Delegation: Dear South Carolina Colleague, I am writing you on behalf of the economic competitiveness of our state and our working people and asking you to join me in supporting the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank. As you know, exports play a major role in our state’s economy, constituting nearly 15 percent of Gross Domestic Product. Recent growth in South Carolina exports has been driven largely by the Boeing Company, which has created more than 6,000 jobs (and counting) in North Charleston and many more at suppliers throughout the state. To ensure that their exports are competitive in the global market, Boeing and many other South Carolina companies rely on loans, guarantees, and export-credit insurance from the Export Import Bank of the United States (Ex-Im Bank). Over the past 18 months, the Ex-Im Bank has supported nearly $700 million in South Carolina export sales by 29 companies, including 18 small businesses. I have enclosed a list of those businesses. The Ex-Im Bank provides this support at no cost to the taxpayer. It actually turns a small profit, which reduces the deficit. With the Ex-Im Bank’s authorization set to expire in September, South Carolina jobs will be at risk unless Congress acts to reauthorize it. Earlier this month the South Carolina Legislature enacted the enclosed resolution urging Congress to do so. Any argument that the Ex-Im Bank is unnecessary ignores the fact that foreign governments will continue to support their companies in similar ways. If Congress lets the Ex-Im Bank die, Boeing and other South Carolina companies would find themselves at a competitive disadvantage, and our working people would suffer grievous harm. Regardless of what our ideological predilections dictate should happen in a perfect world, we must take the world as we find it and not abandon South Carolina jobs to the whims of partisan politics. I ask that you join me in calling on Speaker Boehner and Majority Leader Reid to take up reauthorization of the Ex-Im Bank and bring it to a vote as soon as possible. If Congress fails to act on behalf of America’s economic competitiveness against our global rivals, working South Carolinians will directly bear the burden of that failure. We must not allow that to happen. With best regards, I am Sincerely, James E. Clyburn Member of Congress
06.17.2014	Click below to read the article. Downloads » 105035_pp2-4 Full.pdf
06.16.2014	WASHINGTON — Today, Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn testified on the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) 10-20-30 anti-poverty plan at the House Committee on the Budget hearing titled “A Progress Report on the War on Poverty: Reforming Federal Aid.” Full video of Mr. Clyburn’s testimony (click image to view) and text of remarks as prepared for delivery are below: “Mr. Chairman, Ranking Member Van Hollen, members of the committee—good morning. Thank you for having me here today to discuss the important issue of persistent poverty in America and how we can combat it through the 10-20-30 initiative. It is no secret that there are major disagreements among the members of this committee and our respective parties over the role that the federal government should play in fighting poverty and confronting many other national challenges. These disagreements, put simply, come down to a question of federal resources: I believe that we should target more resources to impoverished communities than your proposed budgets allocate, and I believe we can do so efficiently and effectively. I was privileged to have the opportunity to work through some of these disagreements with some of you last year as a member of the Budget Conference Committee, and the deal that resulted, while not 100% of what either side wanted, was a reasonable compromise on federal spending through the end of the next fiscal year that I was proud to support. Now that we have determined how much the federal government will spend, we must determine how to spend it most effectively. It is on this latter question—how to allocate finite federal resources to get the most “bang for the buck”—that I believe we may be able to find more common ground to make real strides in combating persistent poverty in America. Mr. Chairman, there are currently 488 persistent poverty counties in America—so defined because 20 percent of the population has lived below the poverty line for the past 30 years or more. They are diverse, including Appalachian communities in states like Kentucky and West Virginia, Native American communities in states like Alaska and South Dakota, Latino communities in states like Arizona and Texas, African American communities in states like South Carolina, Mississippi, and Alabama. They are urban communities in the Northeast, and rural in America’s heartland. 139 of these counties are represented in this august body by Democrats, 331 by Republicans, and 18 are split between the two parties. Combating persistent poverty should matter to all of us, regardless of party, geography, or race. In early 2009, when we were putting together the Recovery Act, I proposed language to require at least 10 percent of funds in the rural development account to be directed to projects in these persistent poverty counties. This requirement was enacted into law. In light of the definition of persistent poverty counties as having at least 20-percent poverty rates over 30 years, this provision became known as the 10-20-30 initiative. This provision bore dividends, as economic development projects proliferated in persistent poverty counties across the country. The Recovery Act funded a total of 4,655 projects in persistent poverty counties, totaling nearly $1.7 billion. I saw firsthand the positive effects of these projects in my Congressional District. Projects were undertaken and jobs created that would have otherwise gone lacking. Among these investments was a $5.8 million grant and $2 million loan to construct 51 miles of water lines in the Britton’s Neck community in Marion County, which I represented at the time and my colleague Mr. Rice, who sits on this committee, represents today. In Lowndes County, Mississippi, $17.5 million was spent to install a water line, elevated tank, and two wastewater pump stations, providing potable water to Mississippians and creating badly needed construction jobs. The Wellborn Special Utility District in Brazos County, Texas, received a $538,000 loan to construct more than 9 miles of new water distribution lines and connect over 60 households to a new water source. I come before the Budget Committee today to ask that, as you decide how best to allocate federal resources, you expand 10-20-30 to other federal agencies. In 2011, I joined with our former Republican colleague, then-Representative Jo Ann Emerson of Missouri, to introduce an amendment to the Continuing Resolution that would have continued 10-20-30 for rural development and expanded it to 11 additional accounts throughout the federal government affecting economic development, education, job training, health, justice, the environment, and more. I hope to work with members of this committee to include similar language in future budget resolutions and other legislation. I want to make one thing clear about the 10-20-30 approach. It does not—I repeat, does not—add one dime to the deficit. It simply allocates resources from funds already authorized or appropriated. Over the past 30 years, the national economy has risen and fallen multiple times. During each economic downturn, while we have been rightly focused on getting economy as a whole back on track, we have not given adequate attention to these communities that are suffering from chronic distress and Depression-era levels of joblessness. As a result, they have suffered even in good economic times. The 10-20-30 approach would provide a mechanism to address this deprivation in times of want and in times of plenty, in times of federal investment and in times of fiscal austerity. I published an article on 10-20-30 in the most recent issue of the Harvard Journal on Legislation. I discuss the history of our nation’s efforts to address chronic poverty and more fully lay out the case for broadly implementing 10-20-30 in a bipartisan fashion. I have included the full article in my written testimony so that it appears in the record, and I encourage the members of the committee to read it when you have the opportunity. I look forward to discussing this issue further with you and to working together to eliminate the scourge of persistent poverty in these distressed communities. Thank you for having me today.
05.05.2014	There are currently 488 counties in America where twenty percent of the population has lived below the poverty line for the past thirty years or more. In the House of Representatives in the 113th Congress, 139 of these counties—known as persistent poverty counties—are represented by Democrats, 331 are represented by Republicans, and 18 are split between the two parties. It is clearly a bipartisan concern. Congressman James E. Clyburn included language in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act which directed ten percent of rural development funding to be spent in these persistent poverty counties and he believes future spending bills should include this so-called 10-20-30 amendment to help address long-term unmet needs in these areas. In this article, Congressman Clyburn discusses the history of our nation’s efforts to address chronic poverty and lays out the case for broadly implementing the 10-20-30 amendment with bipartisan support. Click here to read the article.
03.28.2014	CLYBURN AND COLLEAGUES CALL FOR HOUSE ACTION ON VOTING RIGHTS LEGISLATION WASHINGTON – Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn joined 160 House colleagues in sending the following letter today to the offices of Speaker John A. Boehner, Majority Leader Eric Cantor, and Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte. The letter calls for action on H.R. 3899, the bipartisan Voting Rights Amendment Act. March 27, 2014 The Honorable John A. Boehner The Honorable Eric Cantor Speaker of the House House Majority Leader H-232 The Capitol H-329 The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Bob Goodlatte Chairman, House Judiciary Committee 2138 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Boehner, Leader Cantor, and Chairman Goodlatte: In the Supreme Court’s decision in Shelby County v. Holder last year, Chief Justice Roberts expressly acknowledged the persistence of voter discrimination and challenged Congress to formulate an updated coverage formula to protect against it. H.R. 3899, the Voting Rights Amendment Act, is a bipartisan bill that would restore the safeguards of the 1965 Voting Rights Act in a manner consistent with the Shelby County decision. Some of us believe the bill should be enacted in its current form, and some of us would prefer to see it amended. But all of us stand united in our desire for the House to consider the issue in time for the entire Congress to work its will before the August district work period. In that spirit, we ask that the Judiciary Committee hold a hearing on this legislation and proceed toward a markup with full confidence that any legislation passed out of the committee will be considered on the House floor. We stand ready to work with you to move the bipartisan bill to the floor expeditiously. We are confident that a bipartisan bill passed by the House would be swiftly passed by the Senate and signed into law by the President. While we differ in our views on the ideal response to Shelby County, we all hope to join you in building on the bipartisan agreement that has been reached to ensure that, as President Ronald Reagan said, “no barrier will come between our citizens and the voting booth.” Sincerely, James E. Clyburn Steny H. Hoyer John Conyers Jr. Robert C. Scott Ben R. Lujan Raul Grijalva Steve Cohen William Enyart Bruce L. Braley John Dingell Sander Levin André Carson Cedric Richmond Jackie Speier Chellie Pingree Judy Chu Steve Israel Susan Davis Sheila Jackson Lee Mark Pocan John P. Sarbanes G.K. Butterfield Julia Brownley Nick Rahall Sanford D. Bishop Jr. Allyson Y. Schwartz Elizabeth Esty Theodore E. Deutch Keith Ellison David Price Gwen Moore Nita Lowey Adam Schiff Yvette D. Clarke Paul D. Tonko Jared Huffman Jerrold Nadler Marc Veasey Ed Pastor Elijah Cummings Denny Heck Debbie Wasserman Schultz Rubén Hinojosa Louise Slaughter Beto O'Rourke Sam Farr Henry C. "Hank" Johnson, Jr. Suzan DelBene John B. Larson Anna G. Eshoo Danny K. Davis Charles B. Rangel Frederica S. Wilson Lois Capps Dutch Ruppersberger Albio Sires Lois Frankel Juan Vargas Donald M. Payne, Jr. John Barrow Henry Waxman Rush Holt Brad Sherman Carolyn Maloney Corrine Brown Peter Welch Robert Brady Hakeem Jeffries José E. Serrano Lloyd Doggett Henry Cuellar Mark Takano James McGovern Alan Lowenthal Madeleine Bordallo Earl Blumenauer Joe Garcia Filemon Vela Michelle Lujan Grisham Jan Schakowsky Mike Quigley Eni F. H. Faleomavaega Adam Smith Kathy Castor George Miller Zoe Lofgren Al Green Marcia L. Fudge Emanuel Cleaver Scott Peters Rosa L. DeLauro Frank Pallone, Jr. Daniel Kildee Derek Kilmer Jim Cooper Eric Swalwell Mike Honda Gene Green Eliot Engel Bobby L. Rush Niki Tsongas Jim McDermott Donna F. Edwards Ron Barber Gerald E. Connolly Barbara Lee Tony Cárdenas Tim Ryan Joyce Beatty Ed Perlmutter Matthew Cartwright Janice Hahn Colleen Hanabusa Kyrsten Sinema Joseph P. Kennedy, III John Delaney Pete Gallego Ann McLane Kuster Katherine Clark Timothy Bishop James Moran John Tierney Jim Langevin Wm. Lacy Clay Steven Horsford Pedro Pierluisi Robin Kelly John Carney Betty McCollum David Cicilline Ron Kind Ami Bera Linda Sanchez Chris Van Hollen John Garamendi Terri A. Sewell Brian Higgins Peter DeFazio John A. Yarmuth Gregory W. Meeks Rick Nolan Luis Gutierrez Diana DeGette Gary Peters Sean Patrick Maloney Dina Titus Alan Grayson Jim Himes Doris O. Matsui Raul Ruiz Karen Bass Xavier Becerra Mike Thompson Eleanor Holmes Norton Cheri Bustos Eddie Bernice Johnson Alcee L. Hastings Jared Polis Joseph Crowley Bill Foster Suzanne Bonamici
03.18.2014	(Columbia) – Congressman Jim Clyburn will deliver the 2014 Philip G. Grose Lecture in partnership with the Southern Studies department at the University of South Carolina. The lecture will begin at 6pm in the Booker T. Washington Auditorium, 1400 Wheat Street, on Wednesday, March 19. The event is free and open to the public. The Philip G. Grose Lecture in Southern Studies honors Phil Grose, who was a longtime research associate with the University of South Carolina's Institute for Southern Studies. He was the author of two books — South Carolina at the Brink: Robert McNair and the Politics of Civil Rights and Looking for Utopia: The Life and Times of John C. West. For more information about the lecture series, please call 803-777-2340 or email Bob Ellis at ellisrl@mailbox.sc.edu. If you're a member of the press and would like to attend the event, please email Amanda Loveday at Amanda.Loveday@mail.house.gov.
02.27.2014	Click here to watch interview.
02.04.2014	WASHINGTON -- Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement in recognition of Black History Month: “During the month of February, the country celebrates Black History Month, the efficacy of which is often discussed and debated. I believe Black History Month is just as important as Women’s History Month (March), Hispanic History Month (November), Columbus Day, St. Patrick’s Day, and Veterans Day. All of these commemorations help us appreciate and honor the great diversity of backgrounds and experiences that help to make us the greatest nation on earth. “This year’s theme for Black History Month is ‘Civil Rights in America.’ As a young man growing up in the Jim Crow South, I experienced firsthand the harsh indignities and cruel reality of racial discrimination. During my college days I became active in civil rights activities. At Shaw University in Raleigh, North Carolina in April 1960, and Morehouse College in Atlanta, Georgia the following October, we formed the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee, or SNCC, to organize non-violent rallies to raise the nation’s awareness of the injustices that existed all around us. “This year marks the 56th anniversary of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. This long-overdue legislation and its subsequent amendments gave statutory impetus to the Supreme Court’s 1954 decision in Brown v. Board of Education, which declared that separate but equal is inherently unequal. A year later, President Lyndon Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act of 1965 into law. “As a former history teacher, I have often said that the study of history is the study of human nature using examples. The struggle for civil rights continues. We continue to struggle for equal pay for equal work for women; marriage equality for same-sex couples; adequate education for all of our nation’s children; an effective ballot for all qualified voters; and an economy that works for all hard-working citizens. Unfortunately it’s a list that seems to be growing. “During this year’s observance of Black, Women’s and Hispanic History Months, let us study, and hopefully learn, some lessons that will serve us well in our quest of ‘a more perfect Union.’”
01.29.2014	WASHINGTON -- Assistant Democratic Leader today released the following statement on this year’s observance of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: “Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. would have turned 85 years old this month were he still alive. I met Dr. King many times during the civil rights movement when I helped organize the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, which came to be known as SNCC, and played a major role in protests against injustice in the Jim Crow South. "Dr. King’s work and writings had a major effect on my life and led me toward public service as a pathway to social justice in this country. In particular, I consider Dr. King’s Letter from the Birmingham City Jail second only to the Bible as insightful and influential writings. That letter was in response to a letter Dr. King received from eight white clergymen who considered the civil rights movement a disruptive force and counseled us to wait for the courts to address the issues of racial segregation and oppression. "Dr. King countered that ‘time is neutral; it can be used either constructively or destructively’ and decried the ‘appalling silence of good people.’ So the question is what are you going to do with your time? Are you making good use of your time or are you allowing people of ill will to turn back the clock against hard-won progress? As we observe Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, I urge all citizens to reflect on Dr. King’s words and resolve to use our time working for progress toward a more perfect Union.”
01.29.2014	WASHINGTON -- Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement on the passage of the Farm Bill: “I am very pleased that the Farm Bill we passed today contains many important provisions for rural America and communities of need. One of these provisions, the Rural Energy Savings Program, which I have championed for several years, will provide loans to American families in rural communities to improve the energy efficiency of their homes. Loans for upfront costs of energy efficiency upgrades will be guaranteed by participating electric cooperatives to minimize any risk to the taxpayer. Utilizing “on-bill financing,” consumers will realize energy savings immediately on their electric bill, which will then be used to repay the loan over 10 years. “These loans will enable working families to finance energy efficiency investments in persistently impoverished areas. This will create jobs in rural communities, provide significant savings for homeowners, and help protect the environment for all Americans. “Electric cooperatives in South Carolina developed this model several years ago. I have proudly promoted this homegrown idea, and I thank the Agriculture Committee leaders for including it in the final bill. “I also support the final compromise on the nutrition provisions. The House-passed Farm Bill would have slashed $40 billion from SNAP food stamp assistance. This outrageous proposal would have had devastating effects on low income American families. This compromise bill contains a much smaller reduction of $8 billion, achieved through reform of the system that will protect beneficiaries from cuts. I worked with CBC Chair Marcia Fudge and Senator Stabenow on these provisions, and I thank them for their leadership in protecting this vital lifeline for people in need. “I have often said that compromise means nobody gets everything they want but enough people get what they can accept. I certainly didn’t get everything I wanted out of this Farm Bill. But it contains many worthy provisions and reasonable reforms, and I can accept this compromise.”
01.28.2014	Click here to watch interview.
01.28.2014	Click here to watch the interview.
01.23.2014	(Columbia) – Congressman Jim Clyburn today congratulated the City of North Charleston for winning more than $1.8 million in firefighter funding under the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s SAFER grants. “'This is great news for public safety in North Charleston,' Clyburn said. 'This SAFER grant represents an important investment in our community, and funding the hiring and retention of firefighters will boost our preparedness for public emergencies.' "SAFER (Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response) grants are competitive grants administered by FEMA and the Department of Homeland Security to strengthen the nation’s ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards and improve the nation’s overall level of preparedness. The funds are intended to support the hiring of firefighters and the recruitment and retention of volunteer firefighters. Congress recently provided departments receiving SAFER grants much more flexibility in their use of the funds, enabling departments to employ veteran firefighters and maximize their funding across their workforce. The local matching requirement has also been eliminated. SAFER grants are two-year grants. More information can be found here: http://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program."
01.17.2014	WASHINGTON -- Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement on the introduction of the Voting Rights Amendment Act of 2014: “Upon signing the 1982 reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act, President Reagan called the right to vote ‘the crown jewel of American liberties’ and pledged that ‘no barrier will come between our citizens and the voting booth.’ The Voting Rights Amendment Act of 2014 is an important step toward renewing our commitment to President Reagan’s pledge in the wake of the Supreme Court’s decision last year in Shelby County v. Holder. "As Members of Congress, we have a unique responsibility—a constitutional obligation—to combat ongoing discrimination by protecting the right to a meaningful vote and ensuring equal access to the ballot box. Chief Justice Roberts challenged the Congress to come up with a different preclearance coverage formula in the Shelby County decision and acknowledged that it is fully within the power of Congress to restore the Voting Rights Act. The Voting Rights Amendment Act of 2014 is an appropriate exercise of this constitutional power that rightfully reflects the special place voting rights hold in our democracy. "To be clear, this is not the bill I would have written if it were solely up to me. Although I have some reservations about a formula that does not immediately cover all the states that have long histories of voter suppression and intimidation, I do believe it is an appropriate first step in addressing the concerns raised by the United States Supreme Court in Shelby County v. Holder.”
01.15.2014	Click here to watch video.
01.13.2014	Click here to watch speech.
01.08.2014	Click here to watch the video.
01.08.2014	Click here to watch interview.
10.30.2013	WASHINGTON -- U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn delivered the following statement today at the Opening Meeting of the Budget Conference Committee: "The principal task of this Committee is to agree on a budget for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2014. While it would have been prudent to have had these negotiations last summer, I am pleased that we are now beginning these important discussions about our nation’s fiscal priorities. We must address the automatic spending cuts that are hurting our economy and undercutting important priorities like education, medical research and national security. And we must put our nation’s fiscal house in order and reduce our long term debt to a manageable level. But there are different ways to do this, and some are better than others. On the graph you see on the screens, there are two lines. The red line charts the deficit over the past 65 years. The blue line charts the unemployment rate over the same period. The relationship is obvious: when unemployment goes down, the deficit goes down; when unemployment goes up, the deficit goes up. The reasons for this are clear. When you don’t have a job, you don’t pay taxes. When you don’t have income, you’re not paying payroll taxes and you’re more likely to need government assistance. Unemployment is a double whammy for the federal budget. To lower the deficit, we have to lower unemployment. Advocates for extracting deficit reduction from the most vulnerable by cutting benefits under Medicare, Medicaid, the Children’s Health Insurance Program, nutrition assistance, and other vital services, ignore the fact that when you cut essential benefits, you just shift the cost of these necessities onto senior citizens, parents, and low income hard working people. These cost shifts take money out of the pockets of consumers that would otherwise be spent in other parts of the economy, helping businesses grow and creating jobs. Cutting benefits, cuts jobs; and cutting jobs is not the way to reduce the deficit. Securing deficit reduction by cutting key investments in education, Pell Grants, infrastructure, job training, and research and development would hinder economic growth in the short and long term by depriving our nation of the physical and human capital we need to have a strong economy with a 21st century workforce. Cutting investment cuts jobs, and cutting jobs is not the way to reduce the deficit. We Democrats have a different approach. We fully recognize the importance of fiscal responsibility. But we know from the chart that any budget cuts that destroy jobs will be counterproductive. We know that cuts that fall disproportionately on our most vulnerable citizens make our economy more vulnerable as well. We know that a reasonable, balanced approach involving shared sacrifice is not only the fairest way to cut the deficit, it is the most effective. We also believe that higher levels of revenue are fully compatible with strong economic growth. We have seen that tax cuts for the wealthy have increased the deficit and do not create jobs. We know that much of our national debt is the result of two wars. And now that we have ended one and are winding down the other, significant savings have been generated which, I believe, should be used to eliminate the Sequester; and target funds to those communities that have been suffering disproportionately for the last thirty years. This would generate economic growth and begin closing the wealth gap that is threatening family security and our nation's stability. In a divided government, both sides have to make tough and sometimes uncomfortable choices. I have long held that if there are five steps Between me and the other side, I do not mind taking three of them as long as the person on the other side will take the other two. I was very pleased to read last week that our colleague Mr. Cole - who I consider to be a good friend - said, “The reality is, you’re going to have to have a deal here. And a deal means everybody gives something up.” I agree with my friend and I look forward to working constructively towards a deal to grow our economy, protect our vulnerable and ensure that we remain on sound fiscal footing."
10.16.2013	WASHINGTON -- U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement: “I am pleased the House is voting tonight on the bipartisan Senate compromise legislation to re-open the government, put people back to work, and pay the nation’s bills on time and in full. Going forward, we must get beyond the repeated episodes of partisan brinksmanship that have been so costly to our country. It is my sincere hope that this Congress will learn from this needless, manufactured crisis and work together to reach common sense solutions to our nation’s challenges and pass sound economic policies that create good jobs at good wages for hardworking people.”
09.19.2013	WASHINGTON -- U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn took to the floor of the House today to offer strong opposition to Republican plans to strip $40 billion from nutrition assistance programs. Here are his remarks as prepared for delivery: I rise today in opposition to H.R. 3102, the latest attempt by the Republican Majority to add more insults to the injuries that have been inflicted upon many working families, making their lives much more difficult. It has become clear to me that some of my colleagues on the other side either don’t believe or don’t care that their preferred policies would make the poor poorer and the hungry hungrier. They seem unmoved by the arguments of many, including former Senate Majority Leader and Republican presidential nominee Bob Dole, that this bill would make it more difficult for millions of Americans to feed themselves and their families. For the last half century, the Farm Bill has always included both agriculture subsidies and nutrition assistance, a combination that makes a lot of sense. Every time that EBT card is swiped, farmers – large and small – grocers - national and local; and banks – Wall Street and Main Street, benefit. For American farmers and the agribusiness industry to succeed, they need consumers to eat the food they produce. In that sense, nutrition assistance is just another kind of agriculture subsidy that just happens to have the added benefit of ensuring that all Americans have enough to eat. With the comprehensive nature of past farm bills, it is no surprise that 532 agriculture, conservation, rural development, finance, energy, and crop insurance groups oppose the Republican Leadership’s cynical ploy to separate nutrition assistance from the rest of the Farm Bill. We talk about how SNAP benefits go to individuals, but if the truth be told the real beneficiaries are local communities and enterprises. My Republican colleagues claim to be big supporters of small businesses. But you can’t support small businesses if you don’t support their customers. This ill-advised legislation would also hurt businesses that have nothing to do with food. In my district, the average household income among SNAP recipients is less than $15,000. If these low-income people lose access to nutrition assistance, money that they would otherwise spend on other needs would be spent instead on food, taking customers away from other businesses that are vital to our economic vitality. An analysis by the Department of Agriculture of similar SNAP cuts last year found that more than 50,000 jobs would be affected. SNAP funding is crucial to our economy because those dollars go directly into the local economy. Moody’s Analytics—no liberal think tank—has estimated that $1 spent on SNAP generates $1.70 in economic activity. That means that this bill, with $40 billion in cuts, would cut economic output by $68 billion. I recognize that there are legitimate philosophical differences between the two parties on the role of the federal government. My Republican colleagues and I might differ on how to grow the economy, but at the very least, we should be able to agree that we can’t grow the economy by shrinking it.
08.15.2013	(Columbia, SC) – Sixth District Congressman and Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today announced that three organizations have been selected by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to serve as Navigators for the upcoming implementation of the Affordable Care Act. Navigators will be trained to provide unbiased information in a culturally competent manner to consumers about health insurance, the new Health Insurance Marketplaces, and qualified health plans. HHS selected three Navigators from the potential grant applications. The recipients are: DECO Recovery Management LLC Anticipated grant amount: $1,211,203 DECO Recovery Management, a national leader in medical assistance eligibility management and patient advocacy, has taken a lead role in the establishment of a consortium with strategically located partners in South Carolina, to perform the cooperative agreement activities as a Navigator. DECO and its consortium partner The Benefit Bank of SC will conduct targeted marketing campaigns and public education events throughout the state. The Cooperative Ministry Anticipated grant amount: $508,313 The Cooperative Ministry is establishing the Health Insurance Education Cooperative to provide pathways to better health and quality for uninsured persons in South Carolina. This effort targets eight counties that comprise the Columbia-Orangeburg-Newberry Region, and aims to reach, engage, and help enroll all eligible consumers in that area. Beaufort County Black Chamber of Commerce Anticipated grant amount: $234,100 Beaufort County Black Chamber of Commerce will utilize existing networks and infrastructures within various parts of the region to provide outreach around new coverage options. BCBCC will be conducting workshops, community meetings and individual counseling activities as part of the overall education and outreach efforts. “Today’s announcement of the Navigators is an important step in the implementation of the Affordable Care Act in South Carolina,” Congressman Clyburn said. “These are the frontline organizations who will be educating uninsured and underinsured South Carolinians about their options for affordable health care coverage.” Navigators will be required to adhere to strict security and privacy standards – including how to safeguard a consumer’s personal information. They’ll be required to complete 20-30 hours of training to be certified, will take additional training throughout the year, and will renew their certification yearly. All types of enrollment assisters – including in-person assistors, Certified Application Counselors, and agents and brokers – are required to complete specific training and are subject to federal criminal penalties for violations of privacy or fraud statutes, on top of any relevant state law penalties. Beginning on October 1, 2013, those uninsured and underinsured can begin purchasing health insurance policies on the Marketplace. New policy coverage will begin January 1, 2014. For more information on purchasing insurance through the Marketplace visit www.HealthCare.gov or call toll-free 1-800-318-2596.
06.27.2013	WASHINGTON -- U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement on today’s confirmation of Charlotte Mayor Anthony Foxx as Secretary of the U.S. Department of Transportation: “I applaud the Senate’s unanimous vote to confirm Mayor Foxx as our new U.S. Transportation Secretary. “Anthony Foxx is one of America’s dynamic young leaders. The first African American student body president at Davidson College before earning his law degree from New York University School of Law, Mr. Foxx was elected Charlotte’s youngest mayor in 2009 after serving two terms on the City Council as an at-large representative. He previously served as an attorney in private practice, a trial attorney for the Civil Rights Division of the U.S. Department of Justice and as staff counsel to the U.S. House Committee on the Judiciary. “Mr. Foxx distinguished himself as an outstanding mayor. During his tenure, Mayor Foxx worked effectively to strengthen and diversify the city’s economy, create jobs, and improve the quality of life for the people of Charlotte by developing transportation infrastructure and helping small businesses expand and thrive. Mayor Foxx also improved collaboration between local, state, and federal officials to deliver essential services to the city as Charlotte hosted the highly successful 2012 Democratic National Convention where delegates re-nominated President Barack Obama for his second term. “I have every confidence that Secretary Foxx will do a great job at the Department of Transportation to develop our nation’s infrastructure to create jobs and lay the foundation for continued economic growth and progress for the years to come. The Carolinas take pride today in the elevation of this favorite son to this important position of leadership for our country.”
06.25.2013	WASHINGTON— Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement on today’s Supreme Court decision in Shelby County v. Holder: “Although I am not surprised, I am deeply disappointed by the Court’s decision today—the 15th Amendment specifically grants Congress the power to ensure that no American is denied the right to vote, and the Supreme Court is wrong to interfere with that Congressional prerogative. The Voting Rights Act has been the single most important tool to protect the right to vote over the last half century. All the way up to the present day, the preclearance requirement has prevented egregious infringements on the franchise, and today’s decision frighteningly opens the door for underhanded schemes to reduce the electoral power of minority communities. “Today’s decision makes it clearer than ever that we must never waver in our commitment to protect this sacred right. And while I starkly disagree with the Court’s opinion, I also view it as a call to action. Chief Justice Roberts specifically stated that Congress may pass another law to restore the Voting Rights Act to full strength. This work begins today. “When Congress reauthorized the Voting Rights Act in 2006, we did so with overwhelming bipartisan majorities—245 Republicans, 241 Democrats, and 2 Independents voted to extend the provisions of the law. I stand ready to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to enact an updated version of the law so that we can continue to ensure that no American is denied the right to participate in our democracy. What was true in 2006 remains true today, and I am confident that we will able to work, as we did then, in a bipartisan manner to preserve the Voting Rights Act. American voters will expect no less."
05.01.2013	WASHINGTON— Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement on the nomination of U.S. Representative Melvin L. Watt (D-NC) to head the Federal Housing Finance Agency: “President Barack Obama's nomination of Mel Watt to head the Federal Housing Finance Agency is an outstanding choice. “In his 20-plus years of service in the U.S. House of Representatives, Congressman Watt has achieved an impressive record as a champion for working families. As the former Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, Congressman Watt has provided exemplary leadership in making sure federal policies effectively serve all communities of our diverse country. His status as a senior member of both the Judiciary Committee and the Financial Services Committee make him uniquely qualified to head an agency that plays a vital role in making sure that all people who are willing to work hard can have an equal shot at the American Dream. “On a personal note, Emily and I want to thank our dear friends Mel and Eulada Paysour Watt for their many years of friendship. Throughout many trials, tribulations, and triumphs, Mel and Eulada’s steadfast companionship has been a source of great strength and inspiration for us. Though we will miss his daily presence in the House, we are thrilled to see this committed and dedicated public servant advance to his new post and next chapter in his storied career of public service.”
03.20.2013	WASHINGTON— Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today delivered remarks on the House floor in opposition to the Ryan budget and in support of the Democratic alternative. Following are his remarks as prepared for delivery: “Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to the Ryan budget. “The Ryan budget ignores the expressed will of the American people and doubles down on the ‘you’re on your own’ Republican platform that the voters soundly rejected just a few short months ago. Rather than taking a fair and balanced approach to deficit reduction, the Ryan budget will kill millions of jobs, slash needed investments, raise taxes on working families and create big new tax breaks for the wealthiest few. “The Ryan budget will block grant Medicaid, voucherize Medicare and rip up the safety net that’s at the heart of the social contract in this country. There are many words that can be used to describe the Ryan budget, but the one word that does NOT describe the Ryan budget is ‘balanced.’ “I’m pleased the Democratic alternative and the CBC budget both include versions of a proposal I have worked on for several years called the 10-20-30 plan. The purpose of 10-20-30 is to target federal funds to communities that have experienced persistent poverty. Specifically, this proposal targets 10 percent of funding to neglected communities where 20 percent of the population has lived in poverty for 30 years or more “The 10-20-30 plan was originally signed into law as a part of the Recovery Act. The Recovery Act’s 10-20-30 provision has proven successful in steering needed rural development funds into neglected communities for water and sewer and economic development projects. It’s time to build on this success and expand 10-20-30. “I am also pleased that all of the Democratic budget substitutes reject the austerity-for-working-families plan that the Republicans are proposing. Democrats will honor our commitment to senior citizens and invest in a brighter future. The Van Hollen budget alternative will create jobs now, and that’s the tried and true way to achieve deficit reduction.” Click here to watch the video of the Floor Statement.
02.27.2013	WASHINGTON—U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn delivered the following remarks today at the official ceremony unveiling the Rosa Parks statue in Statuary Hall in the U.S. Capitol: “This is a good time and a great place to honor a most honorable woman. This year marks the one hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the signing of the Emancipation Proclamation, which jumpstarted a march to freedom for many who, while in servitude, built this great edifice. “This year is also the 50th Anniversary of the March on Washington, a watershed event in our quest for human dignity. Rosa Parks, the first lady of civil rights, the mother of the movement, the saint of an endless struggle—however one may wish to refer to her, this statue forever ordains Rosa Parks’s status as an icon of our nation’s struggles to live out its declaration that we all are created equal. “One hour ago, I sat across the street witnessing the opening arguments of a voting rights case before the United States Supreme Court—a case that many feel could turn the clock back on much of the progress that has been made, and for which we pause today to honor Rosa Parks. “The struggle goes on. The movement continues. The pursuit is not over. To honor Rosa Parks in the fullest manner, each of us must do our part to protect that which has been gained, defend the great documents upon which those gains were obtained, and continue our pursuit of ‘a more perfect Union.’ ” Click here to watch the video: http://youtu.be/RgVjaMO1QxM
02.20.2013	Sixth District Congressman and Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn will be in Kingstree on Thursday, February 21, 2013 for the official opening of a new 6th Congressional district office. The program will take place at 2:00 pm in Williamsburg County Council Chambers, 201 W. Main Street followed by a ribbon cutting at the office in the Exchange Bank Building at 130 W. Main Street. WHO: Congressman James E. Clyburn WHAT: Official Opening of Kingstree Office WHERE: Williamsburg County Public Service Administration Building 201 W. Main Street Kingstree, South Carolina Followed by ribbon cutting & reception at: Exchange Bank Building 130 W. Main Street (location of the Congressional office) WHEN: 2:00 PM; Thursday, February 21, 2013
02.13.2013	Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement on President Obama’s State of the Union address: “Fifty years ago, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. stood at the Lincoln Memorial and proclaimed ‘We refuse to believe that there are insufficient funds in the great vaults of opportunity of this nation.’ Tonight President Obama stood in the well of the U.S. House of Representatives, and echoed Dr. King’s sentiment. He took up the mantle of Dr. King in declaring, ‘It is our unfinished task to make sure that this government works on behalf of the many, and not just the few; that it encourages free enterprise, rewards individual initiative, and opens the doors of opportunity to every child across this great nation of ours.’ “I applaud his vision, and I look forward to working with the President and my colleagues in Congress to get our country on a path of opportunity through economic development, job creation and investing in education, infrastructure and innovation to move our country forward. For too long, we have been hearing why it can’t be done. President Obama reminded us tonight that it can be done, we just have to have the political will to do it.”
01.23.2013	Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement on today’s reintroduction of the Voter Empowerment Act: “The right to vote should be the birthright of every American, but in the past several years, more than a dozen states have passed laws making it more difficult for citizens to exercise their constitutional right to vote. We urgently need to update our federal laws to safeguard the sacred right of American citizens to vote. “Working with Representatives John Lewis, Marcia Fudge, George Miller, Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer and others, we consolidated several bills that had been under discussion for some time. We convened a legislative summit last year with dozens of Members and representatives from scores of advocacy organizations. Working extensively with Ranking Members Robert Brady and John Conyers, we developed this comprehensive bill. The Voter Empowerment Act contains three main parts: improving access, protecting integrity and ensuring accountability. “On this date in 1964, the 24th Amendment to the Constitution was ratified, ending forever the Jim Crow era practice of poll taxes as a barrier to the free exercise of the right to vote. This legislation will end recently enacted creative devices that constitute a modern version of the poll tax. I urge the 113th Congress to pass this needed legislation this year.” Downloads » Voter Empowerment Act Fact Sheet 2013» Voter Empowerment Act Section-By-Section
01.16.2013	Washington, D.C. – Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement today after President Barack Obama announced a series of proposals to protect our children and communities by reducing gun violence: “I applaud the President for his leadership on this issue, and I hope Congress will work with him in a bipartisan way to advance these proposals. This is about common sense. This should be about our children. This should be about mental health. This should be about whether or not it makes sense for individuals to be able to walk the streets with weapons that are made for war. This is also about whether or not we will have background checks to keep dangerous weapons out of the hands of felons and the mentally ill. This should not be any kind of a question about constitutional rights. The First Amendment guarantees free speech, but it does not give one the right to yell fire in a crowded theater. What this ought to be about is a discussion of how we maintain Second Amendment rights while keeping people secure in their homes and our children safe in their classrooms. I look forward to working with the President and my colleagues in Congress on this vitally important issue.” Click here to watch my interview with Thomas Robert on MSNBC (January 16, 2013)
01.02.2013	WASHINGTON – Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn delivered the following statement on the floor of the House on tonight’s vote: Mr. Speaker, it is tempting to say it’s about time the House put aside extreme partisanship and work together on compromise to address the nation’s most pressing issues. But in reality, it is far past time that weput aside its extreme partisanship. Throughout the entirety of the 112th Congress, the Republican Leadershiprepeatedly put its own narrow political interests ahead of the public interest. So here we are on New Year’s night, with the clock running out on the very existence of this Congress, finally considering bipartisan legislation to provide middle class tax cuts, require the wealthiest to once again pay their fair share so we can grow the economy, create jobs and protect the most vulnerable in our society. It is indeed well past time we got about the people’s business. Mr. Speaker, in 2011, I served on the Biden group of both Republican and Democratic Representatives and Senators who worked with the Vice President on our nation’s fiscal issues. We made good progress in those talks until our Republican friends walked away, fearing the wrath of the Tea Party Caucus here in the House. I also served on the bipartisan Joint Select Committee Deficit Reduction Committee, the so-called Super-Committee that spent countless hours discussing these issues in detail. It was very clear that the elements of a fair and balanced fiscal plan were achievable. But at the end of the process, the Republican leaders refused to compromise and the Super Committee failed. So here we are. While this bill is not perfect, and I have serious concerns about some of the cuts it contains, it does contain the element of fairness. This bill protects the middle class and working people with a more progressive tax code than we’ve had in a very long time. And this bill prevents the meat axe approach of budget cuts that could do severe damage to our national defense and important domestic priorities. Mr. Speaker, I hope that the partisanship of the 112th Congress will end this week with the end of the 112th Congress. And I am hopefulthat the 113th Congress can work together toward honorable compromises that get the people’s business done. I urge a Yes vote.
12.17.2012	(Columbia, SC) – Sixth District Congressman and Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn issued the following statement regarding Governor Haley’s appointment of Tim Scott to fill the Senate seat being vacated by Jim DeMint. “I congratulate Tim Scott on his appointment. I have worked with him for several years, and while we don’t see eye-to-eye on most political issues and more often than not cancel out each other's votes, I believe he is the personification of South Carolina's motto, ‘While I breathe, I hope.’ “The historic nature of this appointment is not lost on me, and I am confident Tim Scott will represent South Carolina and the country honorably.”
12.04.2012	WASHINGTON – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement about the fiscal situation and today’s filing of a Discharge Petition on the middle-class tax cut: “When the so-called Supercommittee failed last year to overcome the obstruction of the Tea Party Republicans to achieve a fair and balanced plan for deficit reduction, economic growth and job creation, I said that it would take a decisive national election to settle the matter. I believe President Obama’s victory on November 6th was very decisive and pretty definitive. “During the campaign, President Obama very clearly laid out his vision and budget plans, and the American people strongly affirmed his position. The President won all but one of the swing states, 62 percent of in the Electoral College and carried the popular vote by more than four and a half million votes. Democrats added to our numbers in the House and Senate and captured a House popular vote majority by more than a million votes. “The letter Speaker Boehner sent the President yesterday is more of the same obstructionism. The time for posturing is over. It’s time for House Republicans to accept the expressed will of the American people and get beyond their pledge to a special interest lobbyist here in Washington, D.C. Earlier today House Democrats have introduced a Discharge Petition to force a vote on the Senate-passed middle class tax cut. The American people have spoken. It’s now time for action.” -30-
11.29.2012	Congressman James E. Clyburn released the following statement after the House Democratic Caucus elected him by acclamation to another term as Assistant Democratic Leader: “I am tremendously grateful for the unanimous support the Democratic Caucus has accorded me to continue serving in the number three slot in the Democratic Leadership. And I am honored to accept a second term as Assistant Democratic Leader. “Our Leadership team reflects the diversity of our caucus which ensures that our collective decisions reflect the views of a broad array of the American people. We will focus on those among us who are looking for someone to champion their cause, and will work to help fulfill the dreams and aspirations of those who are struggling and striving to get into the middle class. “We face tremendous challenges as a Congress and as a nation. And I am confident that this solid Leadership team will step up to the task and produce effective results for the American people. I look forward to getting to work to do just that.”
11.21.2012	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn issued the following statement today on the resignation of Jesse Jackson, Jr. as the representative of the Second Congressional District of Illinois. “I have known the Jackson family for most of my life, and it has been an honor to serve with Jesse, Jr. in the Congress for the last 17 years. He is a dedicated public servant who cares deeply for the people of Illinois Second Congressional District. His career has focused on raising up the downtrodden, revitalizing neglected communities, and building a better future for all Americans. He has inspired others to serve, and that is a tremendous legacy. “My thoughts and prayers will be with Jesse Jr., Sandi, and their family as they focus on restoring his health.”
11.15.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (D-SC) today is sending a letter to Democratic colleagues announcing his intention to run for Assistant Democratic Leader in the 113th Congress. Below is the text of the letter. Dear Democratic Colleague: As we prepare for the convening of the 113th Congress in January, I ask for your support for another term as your Assistant Democratic Leader. I’m proud of my accomplishments during the current term, and I want to build on that record and provide even stronger support for and greater service to my Caucus colleagues. We Democrats rightly look with pride on the fact that we won the popular vote for Congress by an impressive margin of a half million votes, and we can look to the future confident of the support of the American people. Our nation’s diversity is the heart of our democracy, and our Caucus’s diversity shows that we are the face of America. Indeed, for the first time in history, women and minorities will constitute a majority of the Democratic Caucus. This is a cause for celebration and a call to action on behalf of all the American people. As a former Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, a former Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a former Majority Whip, I remain uniquely positioned to work with all seven internal caucuses of our Democratic Caucus. I have always sought to build bridges, and to make sure all points of view are represented and all voices are heard at the Leadership table. Throughout the 112th Congress, I have worked in the trenches to defend Democratic priorities and fight against the Republicans’ exclusive agenda. As a member of the Biden Group and the so-called “Super-Committee,” I worked vigorously to prevent the Tea Party Republicans from implementing their draconian “cuts only” budget that would have decimated essential services for the most vulnerable among us. Fairness must be the guiding principle in the budget debate going forward, and I believe I have the credibility to make that case on behalf of the Democratic Caucus. As one of the Leadership’s primary liaisons to the White House, I have developed a strong bond with our President and maintain solid working relationships throughout his administration. As a veteran of the Appropriations Committee, I am well-prepared for the struggle of budgeting and fiscal issues that are likely to dominate the legislative agenda in the next Congress. As the only Member of the Leadership from a deeply red state, I understand the needs of our Members to project their own individual brands to the people back home. And as the son of a fundamentalist minister, I have been proud to help lead the House Democrats’ efforts to connect with faith voters through emphasis on the values we hold dear in our progressive agenda. The job of a leader is to serve the needs of the Members of the Democratic Caucus in the pursuit of our shared goals. I’m proud of my record of service and look forward to working with each of you to build on our historic achievement and demonstrate that diversity truly is our greatest strength. I respectfully ask for your support. Sincerely, James E. Clyburn
10.15.2012	(Columbia, SC) – House Assistant Democratic Leader and Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn issued the following statement today regarding the passing of Peatsy Hollings, wife of former U.S. Senator Ernest “Fritz” Hollings. "I am deeply saddened by the passing of my dear friend, Peatsy Hollings. She and I became fast friends as members of the young Democrats in South Carolina in the 1960s, and that friendship only grew as the years passed. She was a very bright light in political life -- sharp but sincere, warm but wary. Her vibrant personality and her Southern graciousness were undeniable, and she will be sorely missed. My thoughts and prayers are with her beloved husband and political partner, Fritz Hollings, during this very difficult time."
09.20.2012	(Columbia, SC) – Sixth District Congressman and Member of the Congressional Black Caucus, James E. Clyburn, will be joined by Reverend Al Sharpton of the National Action Network at a Columbia Voter Engagement and Protection Community Forum on Tuesday, September 25 – National Voter Registration Day. The event will be held at Drew Wellness Center, 2101 Walker Solomon Way, at 10:00 am. The forum is open to the public and will be attended by Benedict College and Allen University students. “National Voter Registration Day is a time for us to reflect on the hard won right to vote and draw attention to efforts like those in South Carolina to curtail that right,” Congressman Clyburn said. “Voter ID laws are nothing more than Voter Denied laws, and I am pleased Reverend Sharpton is coming to Columbia to highlight this travesty.” “I'm glad to join Congressman Clyburn on an effort that is one of the most important issues of our time and one that far too many people sacrificed for,” said Rev Al Sharpton, President of National Action Network. “Voter suppression is designed to prevent us from casting legitimate ballots and the best way to fight it is to expose it.” The Columbia forum will be one of several “Vote Ready” events coordinated across the country on National Voter Registration Day by members of the Congressional Black Caucus as a part of the "For the People" Voter Protection Initiative H. Res. 542 to bring attention to block the vote efforts. Restrictive voter ID laws may impede as many as 5 million people from registering to vote and/or casting a ballot this November. At least 34 states, including South Carolina, have introduced laws that would require voters to show photo identification in order to vote and at least 12 states have introduced laws that would require proof of citizenship, such as a birth certificate, to register to vote or to vote. The states that have already cut back on voting rights provide 171 electoral votes in 2012, 63 percent of the 270 needed to win the presidency. As part of the National Voter Registration Day event, voter registration opportunities will be provided by the South Carolina Voter Education Project from 9:00 a.m.– 12:00 p.m. at the Drew Wellness Center. The last day to register to vote in South Carolina before the November election is Saturday, October 6. WHO: Congressman James E. Clyburn with Special Guest Rev. Al Sharpton, National Action Network WHAT: Voter Engagement & Protection Community Forum WHERE: Drew Wellness Center Gymnasium Columbia,SC 2101 Walker Solomon Way Columbia, SC WHEN: Tuesday, September 25, 2012 10:00-11:30 AM CONTACT: Hope Derrick, (803) 799-1100 office, (803) 974-9506 cell Downloads » Voter Engagement Forum Flyer.pdf
08.01.2012	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn delivered the following statement on the House floor today. “I thank Mr. Levin for the time and for his leadership on this important issue, and I rise in strong opposition to this legislation. “South Carolina, my home state, is home to many military institutions—Fort Jackson in Columbia, Shaw Air Force Base and the 3rd Army Headquarters in Sumter, Joint Base Charleston, Parris Island, and the Marine Air Station in Beaufort. I proudly work to represent these military communities in Congress, and I oppose H.R. 8 because of the hurt it would visit upon middle income and military families. “A new report out today by the Center for American Progress documents the harsh impact that H.R. 8 would have on many military families. For example, a private in the U.S. Army in his first year of service who is married with an infant child would have a $273 tax increase under H.R. 8. That’s real money to a young soldier. A Marine corporal with four years of service who is married and has two children would see a tax increase of $448 under H.R. 8. That family is already struggling to make ends meet. And finally, Mr. Speaker, a military police sergeant in the Air Force with eight years’ service with a spouse and three young children would get a whopping tax increase of $1,118 under H.R. 8. Mr. Speaker, these are just three examples of how the Republican bill would negatively impact our military families.” “The Senate has already passed the middle class tax cut. And the President has told us he will sign it. The only thing standing in between the middle income folks and their tax cut is the Republican Leadership in this House.” “Mr. Speaker, it is time that we work together to extend to the middle class in this society an income tax cut that is fair, that will create jobs, that will offer security to our families and stability to our communities. I urge a vote against this bill.”
07.25.2012	(Washington, DC) Sixth District Congressman and Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today reiterated his call for Congress to quickly extend tax cuts for 98 percent of all Americans. “A failure to extend middle class tax cuts will be devastating to hard working South Carolinians,” Congressman Clyburn said. “In the Palmetto State, 1.6 million middle income families will see their federal income taxes increase by an average of $1,600 unless Congress passes the middle income tax cuts extension before the end of the year.” House Republicans are insisting that the top 2 percent income earners in America must also receive a tax cut extension if the lower 98 percent receive any relief. Their tax plan rejects the need for tax fairness, strengthening the middle class or fiscal responsibility. “Our country cannot afford the nearly $1 trillion the Republican tax plan would add to the deficit over ten years,” Congressman Clyburn continued. “We must restore fairness to the tax system and require those who can afford it to pay their fair share.” History has shown that returning to the Clinton-era tax rates won’t hurt the economy or small business. Under the Clinton rates, the economy created nearly 23 million jobs, and according to the Center on Budget Policy Priorities “small businesses generated jobs at twice the rate during the Clinton years than they did under the Bush tax code.” Ninety-seven percent of small businesses would not pay a penny more if the upper-income tax rates expire for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans, according to experts such as the non-partisan Joint Committee on Taxation, Treasury Department, Tax Policy Center, and Congressional Research Service. “Today I am urging swift action on the tax cuts for 98 percent of Americans,” Congressman Clyburn concluded. “The American people, working families, the middle class, and small businesses need us to act now – to remove all doubt. Let’s get the job done for the middle class.”
07.18.2012	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader and Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn applauds the announcement by U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack that the USDA will implement a program nationwide that was first piloted in South Carolina to make homes more energy efficient. Secretary Vilsack, with President Obama’s support, is allocating up to $250 million in existing Rural Utilities Service funds for loans to electric cooperative customers to upgrade their energy efficiency and pay back the loans with savings they realize on their utility bills. “This initiative will mean jobs in rural communities, electric bill savings for homeowners, and financial and environmental benefits for all Americans by reducing our demand for energy all at little cost to taxpayers,” Congressman Clyburn said. “This is a loan program, and one of the most cost effective ways we can develop a secure energy future.” The USDA’s Energy Efficiency and Conservation Loan Program is based on a South Carolina Electric Cooperatives pilot program that has proven extremely successful. In 2011, 125 electric cooperative members in South Carolina secured about $1.2 million through the Help My House pilot. The average loan was just over $7,200, and will be paid back in less than six years through savings on their utility bills. Congressman Clyburn saw firsthand the benefits of this effort when he visited the Johnson family of Calhoun County earlier this year. The Johnsons were paying utility bills of $400 per month. The Tri-County Electric Cooperative loaned them $6500 to upgrade their heat pump, insulation and air sealing, and their utility costs were cut in half. Mike Couick, CEO of the South Carolina electric cooperative association, expressed his appreciation for the expansion of the program in a media conference call with Congressman Clyburn and Secretary Vilsack. “This is a win for the environment, it is a win for local communities, it is a win for homeowners, and it is a win for all electric coop consumers because we are avoiding building half of a nuclear unit at four billion dollars,” Mr. Couick stated. Secretary Vilsack commended the vision behind this initiative, “Congressman Clyburn and Mike Couick have been leaders not just in South Carolina, but nationally, in an effort to create greater energy efficiency in homes particularly in rural areas. What we are hoping to do today is a result of what is already being done in South Carolina…to make these resources available to rural electric cooperatives to re-lend to homeowners to finance the upfront cost for energy efficient improvements.” Congressman Clyburn believes this a great first step to helping improve energy efficiency nationwide. He will continue his efforts to expand this initiative by having it enacted into statute. Language authorizing the Rural Energy Savings Program was passed by the U.S. Senate in June as part of the Farm Bill.
07.11.2012	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn delivered the following statement on the House floor today. “I rise today in opposition to this partisan charade to repeal the Affordable Care Act. “This is the 31st time the Republican Majority has orchestrated a vote to repeal, in whole or in part, this very important and long-awaited law to increase accessibility and decrease the cost of quality health care for all Americans. Fortunately, the other body rejected this ill-fated effort the first 30 times, and this 31st time will be no different. Why, then, are we having this debate? “Do my Republican colleagues really believe that a majority of the other Body is now ready to take from children born with diabetes the right to have health care coverage under their parents’ health care policies? Do my Republican colleagues really believe that a majority of the other body is now ready to take from children who are seeking employment the right to remain on their parents’ health care policies up to their 26th birthday? Do my Republican colleagues really believe that a majority of the other Body is now ready to take from women with breast cancer and men with prostate cancer theability to keep their coverage when they get sick? Are these the things Speaker wants to rip out at their roots? “The American people are smarter than that. They know the deal. They do not wish to be taken down this primrose path for the 31st time. “The American people want stability in their lives, security for their families, and safety in their communities. Americans want us to stop jerking them around. They cannot have stability in their lives when we are shipping American jobs overseas. They cannot have security in their homes when they are fearful of getting sick. They cannot have safety in their communities when their teachers, policemen, and firefighters are being laid off while we engage in symbolic episodes. The American people want real action to address our real problems: job creation, deficit elimination, and debt reduction. “Volume verses value has been at the heart of the health care debate from the very beginning. And this vote holds that issue in high relief. And just as in the health care they receive, the American people prefer value over volume. “So let me remind my Republican colleagues, that in spite of their volume of 30 previous votes, I doubt very seriously that there is much value in this 31st vote. I urge a no vote on this repeal and invite the Republican Majority to work with us to restore the American Dream.”
06.28.2012	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement on the House vote today to hold Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress. “The Republican Leadership in the House continues to choose political gamesmanship instead of working with the President and Democrats in Congress to create jobs for the American people. This isn’t oversight. This is overkill. “I was proud to stand with my Democratic colleagues in refusing to participate in this outrageous abuse of power. Congress needs to get back to work on the issues of importance to the American people and end this mindless partisanship.”
06.28.2012	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement after today’s ruling by the U.S. Supreme Court on the Affordable Care Act. “This is a big, big victory for the American people. President Obama and Democrats in Congress carefully crafted this law on the basic premise that every American deserves affordable access to quality health care as a matter of right and not of privilege. This law puts decisions about medical care in the hands of families and their doctors instead of corporate CEOs. I have said throughout this debate that this law is the Civil Rights Act of the 21st century. History will look kindly on this tremendous achievement.”
06.20.2012	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement after Republicans on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee voted to hold Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress. “Instead of working with the President and Democrats in Congress to create jobs for the American people, Republicans continue to play political games. Today’s contempt vote against Attorney General Eric Holder by the Republicans on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee represents an outrageous abuse of power. Democrats in the House support proper and appropriate Congressional oversight of the Executive Branch, but House Republicans are out of control. “I call on the Republican Leadership to put a stop to this obvious political attempt to embarrass the Attorney General and the President and intimidate the Administration. Congress needs to work with the President on important national priorities like the highway construction jobs bill, preventing a doubling of interest rates on student loans, and the American Jobs Act.”
06.08.2012	“Congress needs to get to work now to enact policies that will produce an economy that works for working people. “I agree with the President that Congress should pass his American Jobs Act that was introduced last year. An independent analysis estimates passage of this legislation will create 1.9 million jobs and add 2 percent to our nation’s economy. Congress needs to work on a bipartisan basis to create jobs now with the President’s plan to bolster hiring in key areas like teachers, police officers, and construction workers. “With the clock ticking toward the July 1 deadline, Congress also needs to pass the bipartisan highway construction jobs bill and legislation to prevent the doubling of student loan interest rates to keep the dream of a college education affordable for working families. It’s time for the Republican Leaders in Congress to stop playing partisan games and get to work for the American people.”
05.17.2012	“As I travel across the country, I hear from people who are concerned about rolling back hard-fought rights to the ballot box. In the past year, more than a dozen states have made it more difficult for citizens to exercise their constitutional right to vote. Everywhere I go, people are expressing great concern and are asking whether or not their access to the ballot and ballot box are going to remain unfettered. “Working with John Lewis, Marcia Fudge, Whip Hoyer and the other Members present here today, we brought together several bills that had been under development for some time. We convened a legislative summit more than two months ago with dozens of Members and representatives from scores of advocacy organizations. Working extensively with Ranking Members Brady and Conyers, we formulated this comprehensive bill. “The Voter Empowerment Act contains three main parts: improving access, protecting integrity, and ensuring accountability. If adopted, it will go a long way toward making our nation a more perfect Union.”
05.11.2012	(Columbia, SC) -- Sixth District Congressman and Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn will join with officials from the USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service to announce $2 million in federal funding to help private landowners in 17 counties along the I-95 Corridor install conservation practices to improve soil, water, air and related natural resources. The funds are part of the EQIP program, a voluntary conservation program that provides financial and technical assistance to eligible landowners. Who: Congressman Clyburn Kellee Melton, SC USDA-NRCS Assistant State Conservationist for Programs Where: City Roots Farm 1005 Airport Blvd, Columbia, SC, 29205 Rosewood neighborhood adjacent to Jim Hamilton-Owens Field Airport When: Monday, May 14, 2012 11:30 am Contact: Congressman Clyburn’s office, Hope Derrick, 803-974-9506 USDA NRCS Columbia office, Sabrenna Bryant, 803-765-5419
05.10.2012	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement on the Republican Reconciliation bill passed by the U.S. House today. “I rise in strong opposition to the Republican Reconciliation bill. Like the Republican budget, this misguided legislation provides massive tax breaks to the wealthiest few, Big Oil, and corporations that ship American jobs overseas, and it ends the Medicare guarantee and slashes funding for essential services for the most vulnerable among us. “Throughout last year’s deliberations of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, I worked to support a fair and balanced plan to address our nation’s long-term fiscal challenges. This legislation utterly fails to meet that common sense standard. “Despite the Republicans’ stated goal of providing an alternative to the budget sequester contained in last year’s Budget Control Act, this bill maintains the Medicare cuts in the BCA. It also eliminates health care coverage for 300,000 kids on the Children’s Health Insurance Program. It slashes SNAP food assistance for more than 20 million kids. This bill denies nearly 300,000 children school lunches. It completely ends the Social Services Block Grant, which helps 23 million children, seniors, and people with disabilities become self-sufficient and economically independent. And this bill repeals the Prevention and Public Health Fund, which provides cancer screenings for women and immunizations. “The Republican Leadership denied Democrats the opportunity to present an alternative to this fundamentally flawed legislation. I urge all my colleagues to join me in voting against the Republican Budget Reconciliation bill.”
05.10.2012	(Columbia, SC) – Sixth District Congressman and Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today announced Ethel Canty, an 11th grade student at Scott’s Branch High School is the winner of the Sixth District Artistic Discovery art competition. The winning artwork is a graphite and colored- pencil drawing entitled Ethel Lee Canty: Self Portrait. Artistic Discovery is an annual art competition conducted by Members of Congress. The winner in each Congressional district will have their artwork hung for the next year in the Cannon Tunnel that connects the House office buildings with the U.S. Capitol building. The winning student will also receive two airline tickets to attend the unveiling of the exhibit and a reception for all winners in Washington, D.C. next month. All district winners are also eligible to receive a college scholarship. “The level of talent in this year’s Artistic Discovery competition was extraordinary,” Congressman Clyburn said. “I commend Ethel for her tremendous talent, and I will be proud to see her drawing hanging on Capitol Hill.” This year Honorable Mentions were awarded to Kamon Cash, a 12th grader at Orangeburg-Wilkinson High School, and RayQuan Georgia, an 11th grader at Scott’s Branch High School. The competition is open to any high school student living in the Sixth Congressional district.
05.09.2012	(Columbia, SC) – Sixth District Congressman and Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today announced the U.S. Department of Labor has launched an online tool to help youth access summer jobs in their local community. The Summer Jobs+ Bank is a website that includes postings of nearly 300,000 job opportunities and internships across the country that are open to young people. “I have been a vocal advocate for the need to help young people find summer employment,” Congressman Clyburn said. “I applaud the Labor Department’s effort to make employment opportunities readily accessible to young people. This website is a terrific resource to match youth with jobs and internships in their area.” The Summer Jobs+ Bank can be found at https://webapps.dol.gov/summerjobs. The search tool allows young people to enter their city or state and find jobs, internships and other employment opportunities this summer and year round. The U.S. Department of Labor worked with job posting websites and employers across the country to create the Summer Jobs+ Banktoprovide a single-stop resource for young job seekers to go online and search for jobs and other employment opportunities in their communities. A sample of available offerings include: an entry-level sales job with Vector Marketing in Columbia, an executive internship with Target in North, a culinary internship with the Omni in Hilton Head, and an accounting internship with URS Corporation in Aiken.
05.09.2012	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statementon legislation passed by the U.S. House today on a 330-93 vote to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank: “I rise in strong support of H.R. 2072, the Securing American Jobs Through Exports Act of 2012, which reauthorizes the Export-Import (Ex Im) Bank for three years. Last year, the Export-Import Bank supported nearly 300,000 American jobs. 300,000 American jobs. This reauthorization is a no brainer. “The Export-Import Bank provided $32 billion in financing last year – all at no cost to the taxpayer. More than 80 percent of those transactions directly supported small businesses in 2011. The Ex-Im Bank provides support for small business owners who may be less familiar with the global economy, but who want to grow their businesses, create jobs, support their community, and make it in America. “In my home state of South Carolina, the first Boeing 787 Dreamliner rolled out of the production facility at the Charleston Airport just two weeks ago. The Export-Import Bank fills an important financing gap for Boeing that helps level the global playing field and encourages foreign companies to buy American-made products like the Dreamliner. Reauthorizing the Ex-Im Bank will protect jobs in South Carolina and all across the country.”
05.01.2012	(Columbia, SC) – Sixth District Congressman and Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today announced the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has awarded more than $10 million in renovation and construction funds for six community health centers in South Carolina. The announcement is part of a $728 million announcement of awards to expand health care services in underserved communities nationwide. The funding for the program comes from $9.5 billion Congressman Clyburn included in the Affordable Care Act to expand community health centers over five years. “Improving the capacity of community health centers will improve access to health care and create jobs in areas that are desperate need of both,” Congressman Clyburn said. “I believe these centers provide the fundamental preventive care and treatment of chronic conditions that is vital to keeping communities strong and viable.” In South Carolina, six community health centers are among the 398 centers nationwide included in today’s funding announcement: Grant Recipient City Funding Awarded Beaufort-Jasper Comprehensive Health Services Inc. Ridgeland $500,000 Carolina Health Centers Greenwood $466,90 Eau Claire Cooperative Health Center, Inc. Columbia $187,781 Health Care Partners of South Carolina, Inc. Conway $3,897,866 HopeHealth, Inc. Florence $5,000,000 St. James-Santee Family Health Center, Inc. McClellanville $956,182 TOTAL $10,542,385.00 In addition to this latest round of funding, HHS released a report today that says the health care law has already supported 190 construction and renovation projects at community health centers and the creation of 67 new health center sites across the country. Over the next two years, HHS expects to fund 485 new health center construction and renovation projects and the creation of an additional 245 new sites.
03.29.2012	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn delivered the following statement during House consideration of the Republican budget resolution. “I rise in opposition to this misguided Republican budget because it fails the moral test. The federal budget should reflect the values of the American people, and this Republican proposal does damage to those values because it is fundamentally unfair to the middle-income, to the hardworking people of America, and to the most vulnerable among us. “This Republican budget would end the Medicare guarantee that working people depend upon after a lifetime of hard work. The Republican budget creates new tax breaks of up to $394,000 for the wealthiest few. This Republican budget destroys 4.1 million jobs. The Republican budget breaks faith with the agreement their leaders made in last year’s Budget Control Act to maintain funding for essential services. And this Republican budget protects all Pentagon funds while putting schools, roads, and job creation on the chopping block. “The American people have spoken loud and clear in opposition to these misguided priorities. I urge the House to pass fair and balanced legislation to reduce our deficits in a responsible and surgical manner and invest in important priorities to build a strong middle class. Growing up in a church parsonage in South Carolina, I learned to put faith into action through firmly held values and high moral standards. This Republican budget fails the moral test, and I urge my colleagues to join me in defeating it.”
03.20.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement on the budget proposal released by Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan today. “I urge my colleagues in the House to reject the Ryan budget and the Republican Leadership’s misguided agenda. Their plan would hurt America’s seniors and working families while lavishing more tax breaks for the wealthiest few and putting insurance companies back in charge of families’ health care. “The Ryan budget would end Medicare as we know it. The Ryan budget removes the guarantee of Medicare benefits that working people depend on after a lifetime of hard work. The Ryan budget creates new tax breaks for the wealthiest few. The Ryan budget breaks faith with the agreement Republican leaders made in last year’s Budget Control Act to maintain funding for essential services. And the Ryan budget protects all Pentagon funds while putting schools, roads, and job creation on the chopping block. “The American people have spoken loud and clear in opposition to these misguided priorities. I urge the House to pass fair and balanced legislation to reduce our deficits in a responsible manner and invest in important priorities to build a strong middle class.”
03.06.2012	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement on the passing of Congressman Payne. “It is with profound sadness and deep regret to learn of the passing of Congressman Donald M. Payne of New Jersey. Don was a gentleman and a good friend. He was a strong leader for New Jersey and our country and Congress’s leading expert on African affairs. His impact will be felt for many years to come. I want to express my sincerest condolences and my deepest sympathies to his family and friends. He will be missed."
02.23.2012	U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement on today’s groundbreaking ceremony for the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture. “As a former public school history teacher in Charleston, South Carolina and as a lifelong student of history, I have always worked to improve understanding about the past. History frames our views on current events and informs our knowledge as to how choices we make today will impact the future. “This Museum on the National Mall will provide people of all backgrounds the opportunity to benefit from learning these important lessons. I often told my students in the classroom, and I still tell students I meet in South Carolina and in Washington: study history so mistakes of the past are not repeated and we can draw strength and courage to do justice to the legacy of those who gave so much to secure the blessings of liberty and justice for all. “As we celebrate this historic day and look forward to the knowledge that will spring from this ground, we must also work to address the remaining challenges of persistent poverty and the burgeoning wealth gap in this country. As we learn from the past, we must work to create a better future for people of all races, backgrounds, and experiences.”
02.17.2012	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement on the compromise payroll tax cut bill the U.S. House passed today on a 293-132 vote. “The compromise payroll tax cut bill accomplishes important priorities for our economy and our nation’s working people. The bill will extend the payroll tax cut for 160 million working Americans. The bill will extend unemployment benefits for the millions of Americans who lost their jobs through no fault of their own. The bill will make sure senior citizens can continue to see their Medicare doctors. And the compromise rejects many of the divisive and punitive provisions the tea party Republicans added to the House bill. “This agreement is not perfect. I have serious objections to the continuing demonization of public servants in the federal government. We should not keep cutting their pay and benefits while refusing to ask the top one percent to pay one penny more. I’m also disappointed that this bill cuts funding for prevention, which is so important to the health of all Americans. I believe that an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. Despite its shortcomings, I support this compromise to keep our economy growing. “This Republican House Majority has taken us from one artificial crisis to another rather than passing legislation to strengthen our economy. I hope Republican leaders will now work in a bipartisan manner on the remaining items of President Obama’s jobs bill. This common sense legislation will create jobs and rebuild the economy by investing in education, helping small businesses and restoring fairness.”
02.13.2012	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement on President Obama’s proposed budget for Fiscal Year 2013. “President Barack Obama has proposed a responsible budget that lays out a plan for an economy built to last. Although the proposal contains some painful spending cuts, I am pleased it continues our progress toward putting our nation’s fiscal house in order. I am also pleased the President’s plan contains smart investments: rural energy and home energy renovations; infrastructure projects like our ports, roads and broadband; education and job training. These efforts will create jobs now and grow the economy to provide opportunity for working people in the years to come. “In contrast, House Republicans continue to push the disastrous Ryan budget that ends the Medicare guarantee and threatens to wreck our fragile economic recovery in order to preserve massive tax breaks for big oil companies and the wealthiest few in our society. “I look forward to examining the President’s proposal in detail and working to support a budget that honors the values of the American people. Democrats will continue to work to restore the American dream by creating opportunity for all.”
02.10.2012	EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENTCOUNCIL ON ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITYWASHINGTON, D.C. 20503 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Contact: Taryn Tuss (CEQ) – (202) 456-6998February 10, 2012 Hope Derrick (Clyburn) –(803) 799-1100 Karen Denning (Navistar) – (331) 332-3535 Mark Quinn (Electric Cooperatives)(803) 319-2549 Charlene Slaughter (Claflin) – (803) 535-5077 White House’s Nancy Sutley to Join Congressman Clyburn for aClean Energy and Manufacturing Tour of South Carolina Midlands WASHINGTON, D.C. – Nancy Sutley, President Obama’s principal environmental advisor and Chair of the White House Council on Environmental Quality, will join Congressman James E. Clyburn, House Assistant Democratic Leader, on a tour of green manufacturing, energy efficiency and biofuel programs in the Midlands of South Carolina on Monday, February 13, 2012. This tour will highlight the blueprint the President laid out in the State of the Union for an American economy that is built to last, including through a comprehensive energy strategy that will enhance national security, protect the environment and public health, and create new jobs. The President also laid out proposals to bring about a new era of American manufacturing, including through lower tax rates for companies that manufacture and create jobs in the United States. The officials first will join Ashlie Lancaster, Director of the South Carolina Energy Office, to tour PurePOWER’s manufacturing facility in Blythewood, SC. PurePOWER, a Navistar Inc. company, employs more than 250 people in the Blythewood facility, which manufactures high efficiency fuel injectors and emissions controls for large trucks. The company received $300,000 in American Recovery and Reinvestment Act funds through the state energy office. Next, Chair Sutley and Congressman Clyburn will visit the Calhoun County home of Jordan Johnson, an independent contractor who struggled to pay his $500 monthly utility bills after the economic downturn. Through a pilot program at the Tri-County Electric Cooperative, Johnson received a $6500 loan for energy efficient upgrades to his home that he is repaying through the savings he has realized on his utility bill. As a result of this program, Mr. Johnson has cut his energy bills in half. Finally, the officials will visit Claflin University’s Biofuel Production Initiative, which is conducting research into an alternative energy sources. The project is working to use bacteria to breakdown cellulosic material into a fuel known as butanol, which could be distributed using existing gasoline infrastructure without costly retrofitting. Congressman Clyburn has secured $4 million in federal funding for this research and development project. 10:00-11:00 am Chair Nancy Sutley, Congressman James Clyburn,Director Ashlie Lancaster Tour of PurePOWER and Media Availability1410 North Point Blvd., Blythewood, SC 29016 11:45-12:30 pm Chair Nancy Sutley, Congressman James Clyburn, Electric Coop Officials Visit with homeowner Jordan Johnson and Electric Coop representativesJohnson home, 55 Martin Road, St. Matthews, SC 29135 1:45-2:30 pm Chair Nancy Sutley, Congressman James Clyburn, Claflin University Officials Tour of Biofuel Production Initiative at Claflin University400 Magnolia Avenue, Orangeburg, SC 29115 ### Click below for a PDF of the Press Release. Downloads » White House's Nancy Sutley to Join Congressman Clyburn for a Clean Energy and Manufacturing Tour of South Carolina Midlands
02.09.2012	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement on the Nuclear Regulatory Commission’s approval of a Combined Construction and Operating License for Southern Company’s two new nuclear power plants near Waynesboro, Georgia: “This historic announcement represents a significant milestone for our nation’s energy security. I have long advocated nuclear energy as a way of meeting our ever growing energy needs in a manner that is clean, safe, reliable, and produced here at home. I look forward to the approval of SCE&G and Santee Cooper’s application to build facilities at the V.C. Summer Station in Fairfield County, South Carolina. “I continue to support a diverse portfolio of energy sources to meet our nation’s needs, with nuclear being an important part of the mix. Each new nuclear plant is a multi-billion dollar investment that will create thousands of jobs. This investment will help our economy in the short term through job creation and in the long term by providing the energy infrastructure needed to build and expand industries and businesses. “I congratulate Southern Company and its partners on today’s announcement and this important step for our energy future.”
02.06.2012	Washington — Today, the First Focus Campaign for Children, a national, bipartisan child advocacy group, recognized 100 Members of Congress for their leadership on issues important to children during 2011. To read full article, click here.
02.03.2012	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement on the Department of Labor report on job creation: “The surge of 243,000 jobs created in the month of January is great news and marks the 23rd straight month of private sector job growth. I am particularly encouraged that the unemployment rate among African Americans has finally begun to decline, and though it is still far too high, it is currently at its lowest rate in nearly three years. “These numbers demonstrate that the President’s policies are beginning to bear fruit, and I commend the President’s announcement today of initiatives I suggested to put our returning veterans back to work. Specifically, the Veterans Job Corps conservation initiative will put up to 20,000 veterans to work preserving and restoring America’s land and resources, with a particular focus on post-9/11 veterans. I am also pleased the President plans to prioritize hiring post-9/11 veterans for the COPS and SAFER first responder efforts to secure our communities. “Congress must step up to the plate and do our part to grow the economy and create jobs. We should start with the President’s Jobs Bill, a common sense plan to invest in our future. Although the unemployment rate is headed in the right direction, we have much work to do to build ladders of opportunity so that all Americans who are willing to work hard can live the American Dream.”
02.01.2012	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement in recognition of Black History Month: “Each February, our nation pauses to commemorate Black History Month. It’s a fitting observance to reflect on the selfless devotion of the many activists and pioneers whose leadership and sacrifices have spurred us toward a more perfect union. “I often reflect upon the ‘uncommon courage’ of Harry and Eliza Briggs, Rev. J. A. Delaine, Levi Pearson, and the scores of other unsung heroes from Clarendon County, South Carolina, whose activism initiated Briggs v. Elliott, the first of the five lawsuits that were combined to form the landmark Supreme Court case, Brown v. Board of Education. That ruling provided the legal framework for dismantling unjust segregation policies across the country. “As we honor the historic achievements of black Americans, we must work to address the remaining challenges of persistent poverty and the burgeoning wealth gap that are denying to many of our fellow citizens a fair shot at the American Dream. “Black History Month is an important time to remember the past, but it’s it is also an appropriate time to focus on creating a better future for people of all colors, backgrounds and experiences.”
01.23.2012	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement after Congresswoman Gabby Giffords announced that she will resign from Congress to focus on her recovery: "All Americans can draw strength from the example of Congresswoman Gabby Giffords' heroic struggle to recover from a terrible injury. I've been proud to serve with her as a colleague in Congress, and I have been honored to call Gabby and her husband Mark good friends. As she leaves public office to focus on her recovery, I pray God will grant her restored health and happiness for many years to come."
01.16.2012	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement in recognition of Martin Luther King Jr. Day: “As we pause to celebrate the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., I urge all Americans to remember his teachings on social justice. Dr. King is well known for his fight for racial equality, however, he was also a powerful voice for those living in poverty. We are missing his voice in the current dialogue as we witness the wealth gap growing ever wider and see candidates running for president denigrating the poor and most vulnerable among us. “Dr. King once said, ‘If man is to redeem his spiritual and moral "lag," he must go all out to bridge the social and economic gulf between the "haves" and the "have nots" of the world.’ Instead of bridging the gulf, a segment of our society takes sport in demeaning the less fortunate. They would do well to remember Dr. King’s words, ‘The agony of the poor diminishes the rich, and the salvation of the poor enlarges the rich.’ ”
12.14.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn delivered the following remarks during yesterday’s consideration of the Republican Leadership’s partisan legislation: Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this outrageously partisan and unfair bill. The clock is ticking, working families are worrying, and my Republican friends are playing political games. This bill cuts unemployment benefits for hard-working folks who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own. My home state and district contain some of the hardest hit families and communities in this country, and it is unfair to blame these folks for the economic hard times they are experiencing. This bill proposes drug testing for unemployed workers to draw from insurance funds they paid into. That is unfair and insulting. I don’t see anyone in the Republican Majority demanding drug testing for folks who receive oil and gas subsidies. The President will veto this bill if it ever reaches his desk. This political game Republicans continue to play is just another round of the brinksmanship we have seen time and again this year. We need to pass a clean extension of the payroll tax cut for working Americans. We need to pass a clean extension of Unemployment Insurance for those who have lost their jobs. We need to pass a clean extension of the SGR “doc fix” so Medicare patients will know their doctors will still be there for them. We need the Republicans in Congress to stop playing games with people’s lives. I urge my colleagues to vote against this partisan bill. -30-
12.06.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released this statement following President Barack Obama’s speech on America’s economy: “I applaud the President’s focus on the widening wealth gap in this country. Throughout the recent debate on the national debt and deficit reduction, I have noted that income growth of 275 percent for the wealthiest few while the middle class struggles and poverty grows is unsustainable, immoral and un-American. We need to restore fairness and balance to our budget. “I particularly agree with the President’s observation that we can’t return to ‘you’re on your own’ economics. We need to create jobs and build economic ladders of opportunity for all through education, innovation and infrastructure. “Congress must act now on legislation to extend unemployment benefits, continue the payroll tax holiday for every American worker, and fix the Sustainable Growth Rate so Medicare patients can rely on their doctors. I look forward to working with the President and my colleagues in Congress to achieve these important goals for the American people.”
12.02.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement about today’s White House announcement of nearly $4 billion in combined federal and private sector energy upgrades to buildings over the next two years: “I applaud the White House’s announcement of a new public/private partnership to invest $4 billion in energy efficiency upgrades to government and private commercial buildings. Investing in energy efficiency is one of the smartest policies we can adopt. It creates jobs, saves money through reduced energy consumption, and lowers demand for costly energy infrastructure. Over time, these investments are more than paid for by the savings they achieve. “The federal government has the ability to finance these investments using Energy Savings Performance Contracts, which allow the government to make energy efficiency improvements with no upfront cost but paid for through future energy savings. I have long championed this model as a sound strategy to increase investment in energy efficiency. This new initiative mirrors my Rural Energy Savings Act, which would empower homeowners and business owners to make similar investments in their homes and businesses by providing loans which would be paid back with their energy savings. This model conserves energy and saves money, and the government is reimbursed over time. The House passed the Rural Energy Savings Act last Congress, but the Senate failed to act on it. The Rural Energy Savings Program would be administered by Rural Electric Cooperatives and would allow average Americans and small businesses, who would not otherwise have access to financing, to benefit from energy efficiency upgrades. Energy costs are a burden to many Americans struggling in this economy. Allowing people to finance upgrades to their homes and businesses using their future savings can permanently reduce their energy costs and free up funds to spend on other needs. This initiative would be a great way to create jobs and help people struggling to make ends meet in a fiscally sound manner. “President Obama’s commitment to $2 billion of investment in energy efficiency upgrades to federal buildings matched by $2 billion of private capital through the Better Buildings Challenge is a great start. We must expand these efforts to help homeowners across the country who currently do not have the means to make these investments.”
12.02.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement on the Department of Labor report showing that the unemployment rate dropped sharply in November to 8.6 percent: “Today’s jobs report is a positive development. Although the unemployment rate is still too high, the fact that it’s now at its lowest point since the first quarter of President Obama’s Administration is a hopeful sign that our economic recovery is taking hold. “Last week, I joined Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer in sending a letter to Speaker John Boehner to urge him to work with us in a bipartisan manner to pass major economic legislation by the end of the year. In addition to appropriations legislation to fund essential services for the American people, Congress must pass the extension of unemployment insurance for people who lost their jobs through no fault of their own, extension and expansion of the payroll tax holiday to prevent a tax increase for working Americans and extension of the SGR “doctors’ fix” to ensure that millions of seniors do not lose access to their Medicare physicians. “Time is running out for Congress to act on these important matters to help grow our economy and create jobs and opportuni
11.21.2011	My values system was shaped by a nurturing family and biblical lessons while growing up in a church parsonage in a small town, Sumter, S.C. Early on I internalized Micah 6:8, “do justly, love mercy and walk humbly.” The Book of James made a big impression on me, and not just because of my name. The edict in Chapter 2, Verse 20, “Faith without works is dead,” always struck me as a call to action. I served this year on the debt-reduction task force chaired by Vice President Biden, and since August I have worked with my colleagueson the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reductionin search of common ground and a mutually acceptable pathway to decreasing our national debt, eliminating our deficits and expanding our economy. I made clear when I was appointed that I thought “compassion” should be our watchword and sacrifices should be shared. In September, writing in these pages, I laid out my vision for the joint committee’s work. I wrote that I wanted to support a plan that makes smart cuts in unnecessary and duplicative spending, raises revenue through closing loopholes and creating a more balanced and fair tax code, and creates jobs and economic opportunities for working men and women. Our committee has held countless conversations, private meetings and public hearings among ourselves and with our colleagues and constituents. During testimony from the director of the Congressional Budget Office and the heads of the Bowles-Simpsonand Rivlin-Domenicidebt commissions, I raised concerns about ever-widening gaps between America’s rich and poor. Over the past 30 years, the wealthiest in our country have enjoyed income growth of more than 65 percent for the upper 20 percent; the wealthiest 1 percent have had growth of 275 percent, while the lowest 20 percent have experienced only 18 percent growth. Studies by the CBO and others have concluded that the middle 60 percent have seen their share of after-tax income decline 2 percent to 3 percent and that they are barely getting by, with little or no hope of ever getting ahead. This widening wealth gap is immoral, unsustainable and un-American. Congress must, and our committee should, address the fundamental inequities in our society. Our product should serve to reinvigorate the American dream and restore the sense of fair play that so many have worked so hard to establish over generations. After three months of bipartisan and bicameral discussions, it is clear to me that the ingredients for an equitable way forward are there. The problem is finding the political will to bring it to conclusion. Although we are charged with finding at least $1.2 trillion in deficit reduction over the next 10 years, I agree with those who have said we should do more. I have embraced a big, bold and balanced approach. I have said many times that I’m a $4 trillion guy, and I believe that such could be attained without Democrats breaking faith with any of our constituents or our Republican colleagues breaking with any of their political commitments. I understand signing pledges and suspect that all of us have agreed to them at one time or another. But it is beyond me how one defines eliminating a preference or closing a tax-code loophole as a tax increase. Loopholes that allow extremely wealthy and sophisticated Americans to avoid paying any, or an appropriate amount of, taxes while the middle class gets squeezed and working people struggle to pay their bills are fundamentally unfair. That is the big issue and the main obstacles to accomplishing something of which we can be proud and by which our nation will be strengthened. I often reflect upon the Apostle Paul’s written admonition that “when I was a child, I spoke as a child, I understood as a child, but when I became a man I put away childish things.” It would be a sad commentary on our state of affairs if a decade-old political pledge to a corporate lobbyist were allowed to prevent bipartisan progress on our nation’s most pressing issues. Yet with massive across-the-board budget cuts hanging over us like the sword of Damocles, that seems a possible outcome. As the clock winds down to the committee’s deadline, I am often asked whether we will achieve our appointed objective. My reply remains the motto of the great state of South Carolina: “Dum Spiro Spero.” “While I breathe, I hope.” The writer, a representative from South Carolina, is Assistant Democratic Leader of the House. Click here to read on The Washington Post website
11.21.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement on the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction: “I said at the beginning of this process that I favored a big, bold and balanced plan. And if, in the process, the distance between an opponent and me is five steps, I didn’t mind taking three of them. Unfortunately, the Republicans on the Joint Select Committee were not interested in a plan that had 3 to 2 or even 4 to 1 cuts to revenue. Offering $250 billion in potential but uncertain revenue raisers, contingent upon $800 billion in massive tax breaks for upper income Americans, is beyond the pale, and adds a half trillion dollars to the deficit. “Despite the inability of the Joint Select Committee to agree on a deficit reduction plan, our work remains. As I said in my Op-Ed piece in Sunday’s Washington Post, Congress must address the fundamental inequities in our society because the widening wealth gap is immoral, unsustainable and un-American. “Any deficit reduction plan must make smart cuts in unnecessary spending, raise revenue by making the tax code fairer, and create jobs for working men and women. I will continue to work with my colleagues, both Republicans and Democrats alike, to achieve those goals while protecting the most vulnerable among us.”
11.10.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement on passage of legislation to award the Congressional Gold Medal to the Montford Point Marines: "It is fitting that as our nation pauses to honor our military veterans, Congress has agreed to award the Congressional Gold Medal to the Montford Point Marines. These African-American Marines served in World War II with dignity and distinction despite enduring segregated training conditions at the Montford Point Camp, which is now part of Camp LeJeune, North Carolina. They were subjected to racial abuse and discrimination, yet they persevered and earned the respect of their fellow Marines. It is long overdue that Congress recognize the contributions of these great Americans for their service and sacrifice, and I look forward to the day the surviving members come to Capitol Hill to receive the highest award bestowed by Congress. I congratulate Representative Corrine Brown and Senator Kay Hagan and all supporters of this legislation, and I urge President Obama to sign it into law at his earliest opportunity."
10.26.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement on the announcement of President Obama’s initiatives to assist Americans with the repayment of their student loans. The President’s plan moves up the implementation of a Congressionally-passed plan that links loan repayments to the income of the borrower and lowers the payment cap to 10 percent. It caps the terms of loan repayment to 20 years and encourages loan consolidation at lower interest rates. “We need to support smart investment in education to build ladders of opportunity for people who are working harder and harder and struggling to get by with little or no real hope of ever getting ahead. The wealth gap continues to widen in this country. The Congressional Budget Office recently reported that over the last 28 years, those in the top one percent have enjoyed a staggering 275 percent gain in income while folks in the middle 60 percent have seen their incomes grow by 40 percent and those in the lower 20 percent have experienced an income gain of only 18 percent. Working families are falling farther and farther behind and deserve a better shot at the American Dream. “For far too many families today, the cost of higher education has meant daunting debt and endless loan repayments, so I welcome President Obama’s plan to ease the burden of student loans. These common sense solutions will make a real difference for people struggling in this tough economy.”
10.24.2011	On Friday, October 24, 2011, the Medical University of South Carolina officially dedicated the James E. Clyburn Research Center. Congressman Clyburn was honored by MUSC for his lifetime of work advocating for equity in the health care system and his commitment to funding programs to end health disparities. The Clyburn Research Center contains two state-of-the-art buildings that house collaborative research projects to advance health care delivery and improve the quality of life for patients with chronic diseases and veterans with debilitating injuries. Click here to read the MUSC press release.
10.19.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement about today’s announcement by the Social Security Administration that beneficiaries will receive a Cost-Of-Living-Adjustment (COLA) next year: “I am pleased America’s 55 million Social Security beneficiaries will receive a 3.6 percent COLA increase starting in January. I’ve met with seniors across South Carolina in recent months, and I know many of them rely on Social Security to keep their heads above water. This new Social Security COLA will help seniors across the country weather these tough economic times.”
10.07.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement today on Liberian President Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf receiving the Nobel Peace Prize along with Liberian activist Leymah Gbowee and Yemeni opposition leader Tawakkul Karman: “Upon hearing of her selection for the Nobel Peace Prize, I am reminded of President Johnson-Sirleaf’s remarks to the U.S. Congress about her beloved Liberia following her historic election: ‘We will strive to be America's success story in Africa, demonstrating the potential in the transformation from war to peace.’ America and Liberia have been inextricably linked since the U.S. helped to establish the African nation in 1819. That relationship was tested during the Liberian civil war, but President Johnson-Sirleaf’s election renewed our friendship, and I was pleased to lead the effort in Congress to provide U.S. aid to rebuild the Liberian infrastructure destroyed by war and neglect. I have seen first-hand the strides President Johnson-Sirleaf has made in transforming the country and was honored to make the trip to Liberia with a Congressional delegation in 2006, which would not have been possible for security reasons prior to her time in office. Liberia is an emerging success story, and its bright future can be attributed to the extraordinary leadership and determination of its first female president. “Peace has been the President’s ultimate mission as she has broken barriers and led her war-torn country with passion and compassion. This Harvard-educated, well-respected economist has demonstrated that women can be leaders and visionaries in a part of the world where many countries don’t allow women to participate in government. She has shown us all that democracy can survive and thrive in the face of opposition who seek chaos. “When she visited my district this year, President Johnson-Sirleaf took great pride in reporting that Liberian youth now ‘do not know a gun and do not have to run,’ which is a reminder to us all not to take for granted the blessing of peace. President Johnson-Sirleaf has returned that blessing of peace to a new generation of Liberians, and I can think of no one more deserving of the Nobel Peace Prize.”
10.07.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement on the passing yesterday of Reverend Fred Shuttlesworth at the age of 89: “This nation has lost a towering figure for justice and the rights of all human beings, and I have lost a dear friend and mentor. “When I reflect upon the life and legacy of Reverend Fred Shuttlesworth, I am reminded of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s famous Letter from the Birmingham Jail, in which he wrote, ‘I am in Birmingham because injustice is here.’ Reverend Shuttlesworth courageously stood up to injustice in Alabama and elsewhere and taught us through his example the power of creative nonviolence for the cause of social justice. “I feel fortunate to have been with him earlier this year as we celebrated the anniversary of the march at the Edmund Pettis Bridge. He was one of those people whose impact was not fully appreciated until his later years when he received well-deserved recognition for his significant contributions. I am proud to be associated with his wonderful legacy as the 2010 recipient of the Fred L. Shuttlesworth Human Rights Award. “I remember during the marches and demonstrations for civil rights in the 1960s, he was one of those people who made you feel that everything you were undertaking was well worth the risks. His was a tremendous life well-lived. “May God grant eternal rest to the Reverend Fred Shuttlesworth.”
10.07.2011	WASHINGTON -- U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement on the passing yesterday of former Apple CEO Steve Jobs: "America has lost an innovator, an entrepreneur, and an icon. Steve Jobs was the embodiment of the American dream and had an immeasurable impact on all our lives. His passing reminds us all to follow our passions and look toward the future rather than dwelling on the past. In these difficult times, his legacy should be an inspiration to all of us."
09.22.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn, who serves on the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, today released the following statement on today’s hearing on revenue options and reforming the tax code. Thomas Barthold, Chief of Staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation, served as the hearing’s sole witness. “I believe the overarching mission of this committee is to find common ground. Recently, the House Republicans released a document in which they said the tax code ‘has grown too complicated and cumbersome and is fundamentally unfair.’ I could not agree more with that assessment. I think it’s unfair that wages often are taxed at a higher rate than investment income. I think it’s unfair that the wealthiest among us get the most tax breaks, and I think it’s unfair that some top corporations pay more to their CEOs than they do in taxes. “My belief is that our tax code should reflect what we value as a society. The current system says we value wealth more than we value work. That is fundamentally unfair. We want to put people back to work so they can pay their fair share in taxes and enjoy the dignity of earning a paycheck, but we must demonstrate that those who passively receive income from their investments are not valued more than most Americans, who earn their income through hard work. “Any change in our tax code must ensure that all Americans pay their fair share and that the burden is not disproportionately felt by those who can least afford it.”
09.21.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement after the Republican Leadership's Continuing Resolution failed to pass the House by a vote of 195 to 230: "I'm pleased the House rejected the Republican Leadership's outrageous attempt to advance their partisan agenda by holding disaster victims hostage. After this embarrassing defeat, I am hopeful common sense will prevail and the Republican Leadership will now produce a clean bill to fund essential services and provide disaster relief without further delay."
09.19.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn, who serves on the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, today released the following statement on President Barack Obama’s deficit reduction plan, which the President announced at the White House: “The American people need jobs, and they are looking to their leaders to put politics aside and do the right thing for our country. As I stated in my op-ed in the Washington Post earlier this month, any deficit reduction plan must contain real job creation, smart budget cuts and fair revenue measures. I welcome the President’s proposal that he announced this morning at the White House. I am confident that the Members of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction will give the President’s plan very serious consideration as we work to produce a balanced, bipartisan compromise by the deadline established in the Budget Control Act.”
09.13.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement on the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction’s hearing with Dr. Douglas Elmendorf, Director of the Congressional Budget Office. Below is Clyburn’s statement as prepared for delivery: “Thank you, Madam Chairwoman and Mr. Chairman, and Dr. Elmendorf, thank you for taking the time to talk with us today. “I think it is appropriate that today’s hearing is entitled ‘The History and Drivers of our Nation’s Debt and Its Threats.’ If we want to solve the related problems of debt and joblessness, we need to know how these problems arose. “In 2000, we had a $236 billion surplus and had begun paying down our national debt. The economy was booming for all Americans, unemployment was at 4 percent, and the poverty rate dipped to its lowest level since 1979. Instead of building on the policies that had served us so well, we embarked upon two wars, one of which was dubious at best. Using credit cards, we instituted two tax cuts totaling $1.8 trillion which were tilted in favor of millionaires and billionaires, we created a new prescription drug benefit program which CBO estimates will cost $967 billion over the next ten years, and we allowed mortgage lenders to gamble away the economic prosperity of millions of Americans. And then it was declared that ‘deficits don’t matter.’ This special committee was created because deficits and debt do matter. “Now we find ourselves with painfully slow growth, unacceptably high unemployment, deficits as far as the eye can see, and a mounting long term debt burden. “As we work together to achieve significant deficit reduction, it is important to remember how we got here. Many factors got us into this situation, and many factors are needed to get us out. We must balance the budget with a balanced approach that includes job creation, revenue increases, and smart spending cuts. Shared sacrifice will be required. We cannot solve the problem on the backs of the most vulnerable in our society, who have had nothing to do with causing it. “I am willing to make tough compromises. I have said that if the distance between an opponent and me is five steps, I am willing to take three as long as the other side takes the other two. “Dr. Elmendorf, thank you again for being here, and I look forward to discussing these issues with you in the question and answer period.”
09.12.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today commented on the delivery of the President’s jobs bill. “The President’s delivery of his jobs bill to Congress is a reminder that jobs should be our top priority. The American people are hurting and inaction has proven to be a failed job creation policy. Now is the time to pass a common sense, bipartisan plan so that we can put people back to work rebuilding their families’ financial security as they rebuild our nation’s economy.”
09.09.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement about the tenth anniversary of 9/11: “Each of us of a certain age remembers where we were on September 11, 2001. I was attending a meeting in the Capitol when House Minority Leader Dick Gephardt’s staff informed us of the planes crashing into the World Trade Center. We had no comprehension of how the future of our country was about to be irrevocably changed. “Today I am still moved by the heroics of our first responders on September 11th. They represent all that is great and honorable about America. I am still deeply saddened to hear the stories of families that lost a loved one on that fateful day. I am still humbled by the young men and women who joined our armed forces to defend our nation against subsequent attacks. “While 9/11 may have been one of our nation’s worst days, it spawned some of our nation’s best days. Days in which Americans were united and took pride in their country. Days in which Congress worked together to address a crisis and put partisan bickering aside. Days in which we all looked to our President as our Commander in Chief and sought comfort and solace that our country would emerge stronger as a result of this horrific attack. “These are lessons we should take to heart today as we reflect on this auspicious anniversary. America is facing another crisis, and we need the unity, the cooperation and belief in our leaders that we will come out of these difficult days a stronger and better nation. The old adage “united we stand, divided we fall” is more apt today than ever. Our founding fathers sought to create “a more perfect union,” and that is what we can achieve by reviving the spirit of America in the post-9/11 days.”
08.30.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement on the sixth anniversary of Hurricane Katrina’s landfall: “In the six years since Hurricane Katrina roared ashore, my colleagues in Congress and I have worked to help the people of the Gulf Coast Region recover and rebuild for the future. While much progress has been made, that work continues. Our partnership for the future focuses on education, health care, housing, infrastructure, public safety and storm protection. “As much of the East Coast now contends with Hurricane Irene’s destructive impact, we are thankful for the tireless efforts of local law enforcement and all first responders who have worked so hard to prepare and protect the public from harm. After we assess the damage, Congress must take appropriate action to assist the recovery. Because no matter what region of the country we hail from, we are all Americans. Especially in times of crisis, Congress must put aside partisan differences and work together to do what’s right for the American people.”
08.11.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement about today’s appointment to the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction: “I want to thank Leader Pelosi for the appointment to this important panel, which I accept on behalf of our Democratic Caucus and the American people. “Too often, the human side gets lost in the Washington debates about our nation's debt and deficits. I will seek to keep those interests on the table. “Later this month, we will unveil the memorial to Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. In 1963, Dr. King expressed disbelief that the vault of opportunity in this great country was empty. Yet in 2011, the gap continues to grow wider between those who enjoy great wealth and those who struggle to get by with little thought of ever getting ahead. “I look forward to working on this committee to seek solutions to secure our nation's financial future in a fair and balanced way that requires shared sacrifice and creates opportunity for all Americans.”
08.08.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement on President Barack Obama’s comments today after the Friday night decision by credit rating agency Standard and Poor’s to downgrade the U.S. debt rating from AAA to AA+: “I agree with President Obama that Congress needs to work together across party lines to support policies that will create jobs, grow the economy and provide opportunities for working people while we put in place a common sense plan to get our nation's books in order. That will restore confidence and provide opportunity for our working families. “As I talk to people across South Carolina, they tell me they want Washington to stop the political games that put partisanship and ideology above what’s right for America. “In the coming weeks and months, we need to work together to take a balanced approach to achieve our debt reduction goals with shared sacrifice and honorable compromise for the common good.”
08.06.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today issued the following reaction to the loss of American troops in the Afghanistan helicopter crash: "My thoughts and prayers are with the families of the U.S. military personnel who made the ultimate sacrifice in Afghanistan today. They represent the elite in our military forces and their service to our nation is immeasurable. We honor the service and sacrifice of all who have served in Afghanistan, especially those who have given their lives in support of our mission there."
08.06.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement on the S&P decision to downgrade America's credit rating to AA+: "The American people need the Republicans to stop their reckless and irresponsible political games that led to this unfortunate downgrade. They have repeatedly walked away from the negotiating table whenever the two sides got close to a balanced blend of both spending cuts and revenue raisers. Congress needs to work together across party lines to develop policies that will create jobs, grow the economy and provide opportunities for working people while we put in place a common sense plan to get our nation's books in order."
08.01.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today commented on the House vote to prevent a default on the national debt. “When the Republican Majority took the entire American economy hostage to their extreme right wing agenda, I entered the Biden group negotiations with two bottom lines: Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries, as well as Pell Grant recipients, had to be protected, and the possibility of defaulting on our obligations had to be prevented at least through the end of 2012. This deal meets my bottom lines, and I support it. “This bill is far from perfect, but it has significant positive elements. In addition to protecting our social safety net for the most vulnerable, this bill is a rejection of the reckless Ryan budget to end Medicare. Under this plan, discretionary spending will be significantly higher than under the Ryan plan. Of the cuts it does make below fiscal year 2011 levels, half of them come from defense spending, an area of the budget that can afford to be pared. “Governing, especially during a period of divided government, requires compromise. I do not like everything about this bill, and I want us to turn our focus to creating jobs and growing the economy through smart investments in infrastructure, innovation and education. But I recognize that the situation we find ourselves in necessitates that we make difficult choices and concessions to prevent default and reduce the deficit; the President and Congressional leaders have joined together to accomplish this. Voting for this bill with its many concessions was a difficult choice, but I thought it was the right one.”
08.01.2011	(Washington, DC) – Sixth District Congressman and Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement in reaction to the passing of Judge Matthew Perry: “America has lost one of its greatest legal minds and a stalwart of the civil rights movement. I have lost a mentor and a dear friend. “I have known Matthew Perry most of life. I was just a teenager when my mother first took me to watch him defend the NAACP in a Sumter courtroom. In her words, she wanted me to see what I could be when I grew up. He electrified the courtroom and although he lost that case, and many others during the civil rights movement, he won the hearts and minds of all who witnessed him in action and every one of those civil rights cases on appeal. “Our paths crossed again when he chose me for his star witness in the March 1960 Orangeburg case in which 388 student protestors were arrested for breaching the peace. After that, I did my student teaching in a Spartanburg school across the street from Matthew Perry’s law office. I often visited with him and we spent hours talking, and became fast friends. I learned so much from his tutelage and sought to emulate this larger than life figure. “When I was elected to Congress, I was ceremoniously sworn in by him and my first real successful legislation was an act to name the federal courthouse in Columbia after Matthew Perry. It still remains one of my proudest moments in public service. “His spirit was passionate but understated, and his demeanor was judicious both inside and outside the courtroom. We have lost a legend in Matthew Perry, but his influence continues to live on in so many of us whose lives he changed forever. “My thoughts and prayers go out to Hallie and their family members at this very difficult time.”
07.30.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today delivered remarks during House consideration of Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid’s updated version of the Budget Control Act. Following are his remarks as prepared: “Thank you, Madam Speaker. “The clock is ticking, the American people are anxiously waiting for responsible leadership, and the Republicans here in Congress are continuing to play political games. “Last night, the United States Senate rightly defeated the Boehner bill on a bipartisan vote. That partisan bill was the product of the Republicans’ “my way or the highway” approach that held the entire American hostage to exact a ransom payment from Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security beneficiaries. “Now, we must find a common sense compromise. That is why I will vote for the Reid bill today. The Reid bill saves America’s economy from the devastation that would result from defaulting on our fiduciary obligations. Throughout the deliberations on this debt crisis, my bottom line has been to protect Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. This plan contains real spending cuts and deficit reduction to begin to put our nation’s fiscal house in order. It meets the Speaker’s requirement that spending be cut by an amount at least as large as the debt ceiling increase. And it does so while protecting Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries. It also safeguards Pell Grants that provide low-income young people the opportunity to go to college and work to achieve the American Dream. “We must take responsible action now to avert this crisis and move to significant measures to create jobs and generate economic growth through investment in infrastructure, innovation and education. Thank you, I yield back my time.”
07.29.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement on tomorrow’s 46th anniversary: “Forty-six years ago, America made a promise to working familiesthat they wouldn’t lose their life savings in their golden years to pay for health care or suffer without treatment due to an inability to pay for medical services. “Before President Johnson signed Medicare into law, only half of American seniors had health insurance, now virtually every senior is covered. Before Medicare, nearly 30 percent of seniors lived below the poverty line and now that number is 7.5 percent. Before Medicare, life expectancy for Americans was 70.2 years old and today it has grown to 78.2 years. “Democrats fought a tough battle to enact this necessary safety net for our seniors, and we are fighting a tough battle today to protect and strengthen it. Democrats won the fight to strengthen Medicare by extending its solvency for an additional eight years in the Affordable Care Act. But in April, House Republicans adopted a budget that would end Medicare and replace it with a system where seniors would get a voucher to buy private insurance, for all Americans under age 55. The end result would reduce benefits for seniors and increase their health care costs. “Today as we debate the financial future of our country, Republicans are again targeting Medicare for cuts. Yet they are not willing to ask the wealthiest Americans to pay their fair share to decrease our budget deficits. Democrats will continue our fight to protect the promise of Medicare for our seniors and generations to come.”
07.29.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement on Speaker Boehner's debt ceiling bill: "For two days, America has had the misfortune of watching Speaker John Boehner play partisan political games that have not moved us any closer to the end game. "Meanwhile, the markets continue to fall, the wealth gap continues to expand, and job growth is painfully slow. States, including my home state of South Carolina, worry that Republican recklessness in Washington will hurt their credit ratings. "Time is running out. We need to work together to raise the debt ceiling so we can honor our obligations and move on to address the real problems facing our country in a balanced way that protects the most vulnerable, including Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security beneficiaries. "Now that this bill has been tabled by the Senate, I sincerely hope that we can find a bipartisan and bicameral solution to this self-inflicted crisis. Democrats are ready to make tough compromises; I hope Republicans will join us."
07.28.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today delivered remarks on the Floor of the U.S. House of Representatives on Speaker Boehner’s Short-Term Debt Ceiling Increase bill. Following are his remarks as prepared: “While the clock is ticking, the Republican Majority is dickering, and the American people are hurting. Our financial markets are on pace for their worst week in nearly a year. State governments are bracing for downgrades in their borrowing capacities and the gap between those in our society who have a lot and those who have very little is growing. “The Republican Majority continues their efforts to divert attention from this self-inflicted crisis with manufactured controversies, holding the American economy hostage to their reckless and dispassionate demands. As the clock ticks toward default and the pain it would bring to middle-income families and those who aspire to become middle-income, my friends on the other side continue to play politics. Speaker Boehner does not even pretend that this is a serious attempt to solve the problem—he sold this bill to his Conference by telling them that it wasn’t bipartisan. And with divided government, a plan that isn’t bipartisan is no plan at all, it’s just a game. “The President and Democrats in Congress, as well as the American people, have advocated a balanced approach to reduce the deficit while growing the economy and protecting the most vulnerable, including Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security beneficiaries. And we have been willing to make tough, politically difficult compromises. This bill on the floor today, just like the bill on the floor last week, is yet another partisan time waster. “Our constituents are not interested in any of us voting to cut Medicare, or cap Social Security, or balancing the budget on the backs of Medicaid recipients, and that is what’s in the Boehner bill. A six-month extension is another waste of time. “We must resolve this matter now, ensure the full faith and credit of the United States and turn our attention to economic growth and creating jobs through investments in infrastructure, innovation and education. That will bring stability to the markets, restore the world’s confidence in America and provide opportunity for our people who so desperately need it. “Defeat the Boehner bill.”
07.25.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement on Speaker Boehner's plan to raise the debt ceiling: “I believe Speaker Boehner is overstating the support for his plan and the likelihood it will ever make it to the President’s desk. Yet I remain optimistic that we can reach a deal because failure is not an option. “If this process has taught us anything, it is that the American people want both parties to work together to produce a fair and balanced plan that doesn’t ask our most vulnerable citizens to bear the burden of the financial crisis while letting the rich off the hook. I call on all Members of Congress, Republicans and Democrats alike to work together with the President to achieve an honorable compromise in our nation’s best interests. We must work together to do what’s right and produce a balanced, bipartisan, bicameral plan to deal with our budget deficits and our national debt.”
07.23.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement on the terrorist attacks in Norway yesterday: "My thoughts and prayers go out to the Norwegian people after the senseless terrorist attacks. "Americans stand in solidarity with all Norwegians today. We know what it is to face extremist attacks from within, and emerge stronger and more resilient. We strongly condemn these atrocities -- especially those committed against children -- and we offer a hand of friendship and support to our allies in their time of need."
07.22.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement on House Speaker John Boehner's decision to jeopardize our nation's financial future by walking out on negotiations: “The President and Congressional Democrats have proven we are willing to compromise in search for common ground. The Republicans vanishing act when negotiations get tough is threatening America’s economic security. Their willingness to play Russian Roulette with the full faith and credit of this country is a gamble we cannot afford to take. “I believe we need to step back from the cliff’s edge and pass legislation to extend the debt ceiling for 18 months to prevent our nation from falling into default, and establish two bipartisan commissions: one to study and make recommendations on entitlement reform and one to study and make recommendations on tax reform. These committees will be required to report their findings to Congress by the end of the calendar year. We must get our nation’s fiscal house in order.”
07.20.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement on the deficit reduction plan proposed by a bipartisan group of senators: “This is a serious proposal, and I commend the participants for working together on a bipartisan, comprehensive and balanced plan to reduce our budget deficits and put our nation’s fiscal house in order. The framework of the plan is a good one. I am encouraged by what I have seen in the proposal to safeguard essential services for our most vulnerable citizens, and I am pleased the framework includes a commitment to a progressive tax code. It is a positive sign that the plan includes shared sacrifice, which is essential for any measure of this magnitude to pass Congress and be signed into law by the President." "The devil is always in the details. I am hopeful that we are on a path to a final bill, but I need to see the details of this proposal before I can offer my support. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues to address these fundamental challenges and do what is right for the American people.”
07.19.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today commented on the House Republican Majority’s latest extreme budget proposal. “As we approach the 200-day mark of the Republican Majority in the House, instead of offering thoughtful legislation to create jobs and grow the economy, Republican leaders have brought to the floor another extreme budget proposal. “Back home in South Carolina and across the country, folks are hurting. They are worried about their personal finances and their ability to find or keep a job. They are worried about sending their children to college, paying their home mortgages, and caring for older family members. Congress should pass investments in infrastructure, innovation, and education to create jobs and grow the economy, but this legislation will kill 700,000 jobs and throw the economy back into recession. “I oppose this so-called ‘cut, cap and balance’ bill because it will cut Medicare, cap Social Security and balance the budget on the backs of Medicaid recipients and middle-income families while protecting fat cats, big oil loopholes, and subsidies for corporations that ship American jobs overseas.
07.15.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn joined the Democratic Leadership at a press conference to discuss this morning’s Democratic Caucus meeting. Following are excerpts of his remarks. “There’s a thought that … I first heard it annunciated by then-Vice President Hubert Humphrey, when he said that our nation is judged by how well we protect those who are living in the twilight of their years, our seniors, and how we treat those who are in the dawning of their lives, our children. And I think that what Democrats have done in these negotiations is to make sure that as we solidify this countrypc … that we also protect those men and women who have given so much to bring us to where we are, and make sure that they have some dignity as they live out their lives, with the assistance of Medicare, Medicaid, as well as their children and grandchildren, who must have opportunities to have a good life in this great country of ours. “That’s been the hallmark of our negotiations, and I’m very proud of the fact that we’ve stayed [at] the table as we still are trying to seek a resolution to a very important matter, but doing it in such a way that our children and our grandchildren will be proud and we do justice to the legacy of those who brought us to this point.”
07.06.2011	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today announced the appointment of Patrick Devlin as the new Communications Director in his Leadership office. Devlin is a veteran Congressional staffer of 21 years, having served in various senior capacities, most recently for former Representative Bob Etheridge (North Carolina) and U.S. Senator Jon Tester (Montana). “I’m proud to welcome another dedicated public servant to the team as we work on behalf of the American people to produce balanced policies that will create jobs for working families, protect our children and senior citizens from devastating budget cuts and invest in America’s future,” Clyburn said.
07.01.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement on the 45th Anniversary of Medicare: "Tomorrow we will commemorate the 45th anniversary of Medicare, which is very fitting as we begin a weekend of celebrating the anniversary of our nation’s independence. July 1, 1966, was a day of freedom for many of our nation’s seniors and disabled. The initiation of Medicare meant that many senior citizens and disabled Americans were free to access the health care they needed and deserved without fear of financial ruin. The implementation of this single-payer health care plan has enhanced the quality of life and extended life expectancy of senior citizens in our country. "Today, Medicare faces a serious challenge. The United States House of Representatives has passed legislation that would turn this guaranteed health care benefit for our most vulnerable citizens into a voucher program. The end result is that seniors and the disabled would pay an estimated $6,000 more per person out of pocket for the benefits they currently receive. "Medicare is a contract America made with our seniors 45 years ago, and it is one that must be protected. Democrats are committed to preserving Medicare and ensuring that this health care program remains secure for future generations."
06.29.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement on President Obama’s press conference today: “Today the President did just what the Republicans asked him to do. He told the American people where he stands on reducing our deficit. “President Obama and Congressional Democrats are willing to participate in bipartisan negotiations to produce a fair debt relief and deficit reduction plan that doesn’t protect loopholes for big oil, corporate jets and the wealthy while jeopardizing college aid, Medicare or food safety. “We have come to a point where tough choices have to be made about our nation’s future. The question is are the Republicans willing to come back to the table to make those hard choices or will they continue to grandstand while time ticks away and the debt ceiling looms?”
06.23.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement on the Obama Administration's announcement to release some of the Strategic Petroleum Reserves. “I applaud the Obama Administration’s announcement today that they will release 30 million barrels of oil from our Strategic Petroleum Reserves. This is welcome news for all Americans struggling with uncertain and, for many, unaffordable prices as the gas pump. By opening up the reserves, we can ensure a stable supply of oil and hopefully stave off wild fluctuations in gas prices while we are in the peak summer driving season.
06.23.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement on the Republicans pulling out of today's Biden talks on deficit reduction: "No one believed these negotiations would be easy. It is going to take Democrats and Republicans working together to get this done. It will require shared sacrifice, and both sides must be willing to give. Ending Medicare while protecting tax loopholes and unnecessary subsidies to big business is not a reasonable plan for solving our nation’s fiscal challenges. We cannot balance the budget solely on the backs of the middle class. We simply must forge a bipartisan agreement. Failure is not an option, and I hope a bipartisan resolution will be achieved."
06.22.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement on President Obama's plan for troop withdrawals from Afghanistan: “President Obama tonight delivered on his promise to begin responsibly drawing down our troops in Afghanistan. Eighteen months ago he launched a troop surge that has proven effective, and it is now time to gradually bring our soldiers back home and let the Afghan people take charge of their future course. “Our military men and women and their families have paid a high price during this ten year war, and we commend their efforts and honor their sacrifices. It is my fervent hope that all America will soon have the joyous task of celebrating their service by welcoming our heroes home.”
06.21.2011	(Columbia, SC) – Sixth District Congressman and House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement on the South Carolina Legislative Audit Council’s report regarding alleged "missing funds" at the South Carolina State University’s Transportation Center. “This report vindicates what I have been saying all along about the Transportation Center funding. No federal funds are missing. They are sitting safely at the National Highway Trust Fund waiting to be drawn down after approved expenditures are made by the university as mandated by this cost-reimbursement contract award. “While this project may have challenges, the biggest obstacle comes from those who sought to manufacture this controversy and delay the university’s efforts for their own agenda. I continue to support this project and will do everything I can to see that it is completed. This project began as an opportunity for South Carolina State to have a unique mission to help train a diverse workforce for our state and nation’s transportation needs well into the future. That is still an important goal, and one I am pleased to support.”
06.16.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement on the resignation of Congressman Anthony Weiner: “Anthony Weiner has made a decision only he could make with the input of his family, friends and constituents. I wish him and his family well as they enter this new phase as private citizens, and look forward to Congress focusing on the very important work we have to do on behalf of the American people.”
06.11.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement regarding Congressman Weiner: "I stand by my comments from last week that the full Caucus should address this issue when we meet next week." Two Top Democrats Send Ominous Signal to Weinerhttp://politics.blogs.foxnews.com/2011/06/09/two-top-democrats-send-ominous-signal-weinerBy Trish TurnerCreated 2011-06-09 16:12 Two top Congressional Democrats signaled Thursday an ominous fate for the sex-scandal-plagued Rep. Anthony Weiner [1], this as the New York Democrat dug in his heels and refused to resign. And though neither man joined the avalanche of calls for the embattled lawmaker to resign, the message was clear."There's an old saying, who was it that said, ‘Don't murder somebody who's already committing suicide,'" Senate Majority Whip Dick Durbin said (quoting Pres. Woodrow Wilson). When asked if the spiraling Weiner scandal had become a distraction to Democrats, the Illinois Democrat said, "He has serious problems that will not go away soon." Rep. James Clyburn, D-SC, the number three Democrat in the House, said, "What he does, he does, but I think the Caucus may have something to...say about it." The congressman, on his way to bipartisan budget talks with Vice President Joe Biden [2], D-Del., said, "It's not a distraction to me. I'm still focused on deficit reduction." But when asked if his New York colleague had brought dishonor on the House, Clyburn turned and said, "On himself."
06.03.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement on the May jobs report: “I am pleased to see job creation continues to move in a positive direction for the 15th straight month, but disappointed that we didn’t meet expectations for stronger job growth in May. “It is time for the Republicans to get serious about a jobs bill. For five months they have controlled the House without bringing one bill to create jobs to the floor. The Democrats have a Make it in America plan that will create home-grown, American-owned jobs, and it is time for the Republicans to get on board. While they focus on ending Medicare as we know it and consider defaulting on America’s debt obligations, Americans are crying out for job creation and a sustainable economic recovery. The Republicans are MIA (missing in action) on these issues.”
06.03.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today announces his opposition to two resolutions on the House floor concerning Libya. “The House made its position on Libya clear with last week’s amendment to the national Defense Authorization Act. We do not support boots on the ground in Libya. “However, we have a vital interest in the region, and we cannot turn our backs on our commitment to our troops and our participation in the NATO coalition. Neither the Boehner nor the Kucinich resolutions strengthens our position in this regard, and I cannot in good conscience support these measures.”
05.17.2011	Columbia, SC - Sixth District Congressman and House Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today announced that the Port of Charleston will receive a federal commitment of $150,000 through the Corps of Engineers to begin a post-45 deepening study. This allows for the South Carolina Ports Authority to enter into a contractual agreement and move forward with the investigations phase in order to effectively compete with Southeastern ports as we prepare for expansion of the Panama Canal. The Army Corps FY 2011 Work Plan listing the funding for the port study will be posted on the Corps of Engineers website this afternoon. “This is great news for the economy of South Carolina,” Congressman Clyburn said. “I appreciate the support from the Obama Administration for our efforts to ensure the Charleston Port remains a vital economic engine for South Carolina well into the future.”
05.06.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement on the Department of Labor report showing 244,000 jobs were added to the economy and marking the largest rise in private sector employment since February 2006. “The economy continues to move in the right direction, but slower than any of us would like. Job creation continues to be Democrats’ top priority, that’s why we rolled out our Make it in America jobs agenda this week which encourages U.S. manufacturing, innovation and investment in education. As part of that agenda, I plan to reintroduce my Rural Energy Savings Program Act which provides low cost home improvement loans through local electric co-ops for energy efficiency upgrades. We create jobs as families save on their energy bills. “Republicans however have been in the majority for more than 120 days and have yet to present a jobs agenda. In fact, they’re proposing legislation in the Ways and Means committee to shred the unemployment insurance safety net, putting at risk benefits for more than 4 million unemployed Americans. Rather than working to end Medicare as we know it to give tax breaks to the wealthiest and giveaways to big oil, I think Republicans should join us on our Make it in America jobs agenda so we can continue moving our economy in the right direction.”
05.04.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today delivered remarks commending those responsible for the successful operation which resulted in the death of Osama bin Laden. Following are his remarks as prepared. “Mr. Speaker, I rise to commend and give heartfelt thanks to all those who played roles in the operation that resulted in the death of Osama bin Laden. “First and foremost, President Obama who came into office determined to renew the focus on Osama bin Laden, and he has delivered. His gutsy decision to proceed with the raid as he did, as opposed to striking the compound from the air, will go down in history as one of the great presidential decisions of all time. “Next, the Navy SEALs who carried out the mission. Their unparalleled courage, dedication, and physical and mental strength are truly awe-inspiring and were crucial for the success of the operation. We can all be incredibly glad that they are on our side, because they are the best. “Thirdly, CIA Director Leon Panetta, and all the unsung heroes in our Intelligence Community who do their work anonymously, and seldom receive well-deserved accolades. Their families sacrifice immensely so that they can serve our country. Last Sunday’s accomplishment was one they have been working for years to achieve, and we are all immensely grateful for their meticulous and daring work. “I want to emphasize that this successful operation was not the result of a day, a week, a month, or even a year. Nor did it result from a single administration or particular Congress. This is not a Democratic or Republican accomplishment, this is an American accomplishment. “We have been trying to eliminate this threat to our homeland since 1993, and the effort has continued unabated as the White House and the Congress have switched hands several times. While nothing can bring back the lives lost at the World Trade Center back in 1993, our Embassies in Nairobi, Kenya and Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania, the USS Cole and the Twin Towers on September 11, last Sunday’s events serve as a modicum of closure for many Americans and should be a reminder to those who wish to do us harm that America does not waver in the pursuit of justice. “God bless the men and women in uniform and their families, who work every day to protect our nation and its people. And God bless the United States of America.”
05.04.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn joined his Democratic colleagues today at a press conference to unveil the “Make It In America” agenda for the 112th Congress. Make it in America is a plan to support job creation today and in the future by encouraging businesses to make products and innovate in the U.S .and sell it to the world through strengthening our infrastructure and supporting investments in key areas like education and energy innovation. This effort builds on House Democrats' actions to create jobs and continue growing the economy and focuses on investing in key priorities while cutting wasteful spending. In the coming days, Clyburn will reintroduce his Rural Energy Savings Program Act as part of the Make it in America agenda. Following are his remarks from the press conference. “It’s been 120 days of the Republican majority and we haven’t seen a jobs bill on the floor. Maybe they need some ideas. I have a bill that has bipartisan and bicameral support. Leader Cantor, I’m here to help. With my idea we can break your no-jobs bill streak. “It’s the Rural Energy Savings Program—an idea that’s home grown and American-owned, born from South Carolina co-ops. The concept is very simple: low cost home improvement loans for energy efficiency upgrades. Sealing, insulation, HVAC systems, and heat pumps—are all items that are Made in America—the production of these items, plus the labor to install them will create good-paying jobs—estimated at is estimated to create 20,000 to 40,000 jobs a year. Consumers pay back the loans on their energy bill and the energy savings help cover the cost of the loan. Mr. Cantor, let’s make this your first jobs bill of the new majority.”
05.02.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today commented on the announcement by President Obama that Osama bin Laden was killed in a U.S. operation at a compound in Pakistan under the President’s order. “This is a great day for America and a tremendous victory in the global war on terror. Justice has been served. Congratulations to President Obama, the intelligence community, the team who conducted the successful operation and the thousands of men and women in uniform who have fought over the last decade in the war against al Qaeda and its affiliates. “Our lives were changed forever on September 11. And although many years have passed, we still struggle with the wounds ripped open that day. This finally brings some closure to those wounds. “God bless the brave men and women and their families who work every day to protect our nation and its people. God bless America.”
04.14.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today commented on the first 100 days of the House Republican Majority. “Here we are, 100 days into the Republican majority and still we’ve seen no jobs bill. Last year, all we heard from them was ‘Where are the jobs? But now that they run the House it’s a different story. “What we’ve seen is a Republican budget that ends Medicare, forcing seniors to pay nearly double their current health care costs, slashes nursing home aid and makes college less affordable. At the same time their budget protects tax subsidies for companies that ship jobs overseas, maintains tax giveaways to big oil companies and makes permanent tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, to the tune of $1 trillion. Seniors would pay $6,000 more for their health care costs and millionaires would get $200,000 more in tax cuts. These are unfair and misplaced priorities. “The country is on the right track growing slowly, with 13 consecutive months of private sector job creation. Republican policies would turn the economy in the wrong direction, hurt seniors, and burden working families. I don’t know that the American people can stomach another 100 days, let alone 265 days, please of misplaced Republican priorities.”
04.13.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today commented on President Obama’s speech laying out a framework for shared prosperity and shared fiscal responsibility. “I think the President laid out a prudent plan for reducing our debt and getting our fiscal house in order without risking job creation or economic growth. By keeping annual domestic spending low, finding additional savings in our defense budget, reducing health care spending and restructuring the tax code we can achieve $4 trillion in deficit reduction without putting the burden on those who can least afford it. “By contrast, the Republican budget ends Medicare as we know it, forcing seniors to pay nearly double their current health care costs, slashes nursing home aid and makes college less affordable. But at the same time protects tax subsidies for companies that ship jobs overseas, maintains tax giveaways to the big oil companies and makes permanent tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, to the tune of $1 trillion. These are unfair and misplaced priorities. “I support the President’s vision for living within our means, sharing sacrifice and increasing opportunity for all Americans. I am hopeful that we can come together in a bipartisan way to make this vision a reality and make America a more perfect union.”
04.05.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement on the FY 2012 budget proposal released by Budget Chairman Paul Ryan today. “For the wealthiest, big oil companies, and corporate special interests the Ryan budget is a path to prosperity. But for working families, students and senior citizens, it’s a path to poverty. It ends Medicare as we know it, putting seniors at the mercy of insurance companies and forcing them to shoulder more of the burden of rapidly rising health care costs on their own. It cuts education and makes college more expensive for nearly 10 million students. And it slashes support for seniors in nursing homes. Yet it makes room for billions in tax subsidies for big oil, it gives tax breaks to companies who ship jobs overseas, and makes permanent tax cuts for the wealthiest adding $1 trillion to the deficit. “A budget is a moral document that outlines values and priorities. This Republican budget is the same as the ones before—putting special interests and the wealthiest among us before the basic needs of Americas seniors, middle class families and job creation.”
04.01.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement on the Department of Labor report showing 216,000 jobs were added to the economy and the unemployment rate fell to 8.8 percent in March. With 230,000 jobs added by private businesses, this marks the 13th consecutive month of private sector job growth: “The March job numbers show the recovery is moving along, building on growth established by the Recovery Act and other Democratic policies, but growth is slower than any of us would like. Unemployment has continued to fall over the last four months but too many people are still looking for work and struggling to make ends meet. “Republicans have spent 13 weeks in the majority and still have not brought a jobs bill to the floor. Yet they are pushing a budget plan that most economists believe would cut 700,000 jobs and significantly damage a fragile economy that is on the mend. Rather than threatening to shut down the government, cut the budget to the point of recession, repeal health reform and attack Planned Parenthood, we should be focused in Congress on creating jobs and strengthening the economy. ”
03.28.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement in response to President Obama’s nationally televised address on the military mission in Libya. “President Obama made clear tonight that he acted in America’s values and interest and effectively led a limited and international effort supported by the Libyan opposition and the Arab league to do what he said we would do—stop Moammar Qaddafi’s deadly advance on his own people. As a result, thousands of lives have been saved. We salute the excellence and service of our brave men and women in uniform in this effort. I am pleased to see a swift transition to a broader, NATO-based coalition and I continue to pray for our military and their families serving this mission and others around the world.”
03.28.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement on the one year anniversary of the enactment of the Affordable Care Act: “A year ago today, President Obama signed into law what I called the Civil Rights Act of the 21st Century. The Affordable Care Act ended the abuse of insurance companies and put patients and doctors back in charge of their care. And since the law was enacted a year ago 1.4 million private sector jobs have been created, 243,000 of them in the health care industry. The law reduces the deficit by $210 billion over next 10 years and by more than $1 trillion over next 20 years. “In 1966, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. said, ‘Of all the forms of inequality, injustice in health care is the most shocking and inhumane.’ We all know somebody who has experienced it first-hand. “More than a year ago, before this law was passed, a constituent from Florence, South Carolina was dropped by her insurance carrier because the cancer treatments for her 8-year-old daughter had caused the family to reach their lifetime benefits limit. A middle aged woman called into a radio program to complain that although she had paid premiums her entire adult life, she was dropped by her insurer when she contracted breast cancer. “That won’t happen anymore unless Republicans succeed in repealing health reform and taking away the rights under this law.” The Affordable Care Act: • Extends coverage for young people up to their 26th birthday through parents’ insurance • Begins to close the Medicare Part D prescription drug donut hole for seniors • Bans all health plans from dropping people from coverage when they get sick • Bans children with pre-existing conditions from being denied coverage • Bans lifetime limits on coverage • Provides free preventive care under new plans • Provides free preventive care under Medicare for seniors • Provides health care coverage for early retirees between the age of 55-64 • Increases funding for community health centers • Provides tax credits for small businesses who provide health care insurance to their employees • Holds insurance companies accountable for unreasonable rate hikes
03.15.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement in commemoration of the 46th anniversary of the Congressional Black Caucus: “I am proud to be serving in Congress during the celebration of the 46th anniversary of the founding of the Congressional Black Caucus. For four decades, through great change in the country, the CBC has been a strong and consistent force in Congress for equality and opportunity. I am also proud to be part of the class of 1992, which changed the makeup of the CBC, bringing a more rural and Southern perspective to the group. “As we look ahead, I hope the CBC will continue to advocate for equality and opportunity in America especially in persistent poverty communities—areas of the country that have been left behind in times of growth and recovery, and that have suffered at least 20 percent poverty for the last 30 years. The struggles in these communities are impacting overall success of the country, and it’s time we bring some validity to the aphorism ‘a rising tide lifts all boats.’ As we work to create jobs and strengthen the economy, we should have targeted investments in persistent poverty communities so that all Americans can be a part of our nation’s resurgence.”
03.11.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement after an 8.9 magnitude earthquake and major tsunami struck Japan: “It is with deep sorrow that I learned of the disaster in Japan this morning. I extend my sincerest thoughts, prayers, and condolences during this challenging time of response and recovery. The people of Japan have the full support of Congress and the American people, and we stand ready to do all we can to assist them.”
03.09.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn released the following statement after two budget bills to fund the government for the remainder of the fiscal year—a House-passed bill and a Senate Democratic sponsored bill—both failed in the Senate today. “Although we all knew what the outcome would be, today’s votes in the Senate on two packages to fund the government for the remainder of the fiscal year provided closure to anyone in doubt—the House Republicans’ ‘So be it’ job-cutting budget package doesn’t work for the American people. It’s time for Republicans to present a Plan B. “Democrats have demonstrated we are ready to make tough decisions to start getting our fiscal house in order, but we’re not willing to do so at the expense of the most vulnerable, working families, veterans or seniors. Nor are we willing to risk job creation and economic growth. Democrats have reached out more than half way with $51 billion in budget cuts. I hope the Republicans’ first step toward compromise comes soon. The stakes are very high, and the American people are clear, they don’t want a government shutdown.”
03.03.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn will play a leading role in the annual Congressional Civil Rights Pilgrimage this weekend, March 4 – 6, 2011, in Alabama. The pilgrimage, hosted by the Faith & Politics Institute and co-chaired by Congressman John Lewis (D-GA) coincides with the anniversary of the historic Bloody Sunday march in 1965, and stops at major sites of the civil rights movement in Montgomery, Birmingham, and Selma. Clyburn will also deliver a keynote address to the Alabama State University HBCU Conference on Monday. Clyburn will deliver the morning message, Sunday March 6, during the 11:00 AM service at the Historic Brown Chapel AME Church in Selma. Despite a ban on protest marches by Governor George Wallace, on Sunday March 7, 1965, about 600 black protestors gathered outside Brown Chapel to march from Selma to the state capital in Montgomery. But six blocks from the church, at the Edmund Pettus Bridge the marchers were confronted with violence from state troopers in a clash that became known as “Bloody Sunday.” After morning services, participants of the pilgrimage will trace the steps of those protestors from Brown Chapel across the Edmund Pettus Bridge. There are multiple opportunities to follow the pilgrimage virtually: on the Faith and Politics Website, Facebook, and Twitter. For details on the schedule click here. Also participating in the pilgrimage are noted civil rights leaders and Americans such as Dr. Douglas Brinkley, Peter Yarrow (of Peter, Paul and Mary), Dr. Bob Zellner, Bernard Lafayette, Bettie Mae Fikes, Carolyn McKinstry and Dorothy Cotton. For more detail about the pilgrimage and media availabilities please contact media@faithandpolitics.org. On Monday, March 7, Clyburn will deliver a keynote address to the Alabama State University HBCU Conference titled, Entrepreneurship: Globalization of The New South. Alabama State, one of 105 Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU), is the host institution for a conference focused on business development, entrepreneurship, grants, contracting and fellowships, with a special focus in the science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) disciplines.
02.15.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement after fifteen recipients were awarded the 2010 Medal of Freedom by President Barack Obama in a ceremony at the White House. The award is the nation’s highest civilian honor presented to individuals who have made especially meritorious contributions to the security or national interests of the United States, to world peace or to cultural or other significant public or private endeavors. “Today’s Medal of Freedom ceremony displayed the greatness of America and underlined the values and ideals we hold dear—peace, equality, ingenuity, philanthropy, artistry and perseverance. “I’m especially heartened to congratulate those with whom I am personally acquainted—my dear friend and colleague, the conscience of the Congress, John Lewis; our inspirational bard Maya Angelou; the visionary investor Warren Buffett; fellow South Carolinian Jasper Johns; and accomplished labor leader John Sweeney recognized for their invaluable contributions to American society. The nation is grateful for your leadership.”
02.14.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement on President Obama’s proposed budget for Fiscal Year 2012. The release of the president’s budget coincides with debate in the House on legislation funding the government for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2011 under a continuing resolution. “President Obama’s budget reflects the stark realities before this nation—we’re beginning to recover from the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression and this budget makes the targeted investments necessary to build upon the 11 months of economic growth put in place by this president and the last Congress. However, it also begins to put our fiscal house in order, by tightening our belt and reducing the deficit by $1.1 trillion. I believe this budget has a positive vision for the future, and puts our country back on a responsible fiscal path that focuses on living within our means. “House Republicans by contrast have put forward a budget for the remainder of this fiscal year that reaches back to the failed policies of the Bush administration, and would return our fragile economy to recession. Instead of a forward-thinking plan that puts America in position to out-educate, out-innovate and out-build our competitors in a global economy, it indiscriminately slashes certain programs to the bone, almost to score rhetorical political points. It hits the people who are struggling the most—students, seniors, veterans and the middle class. “I look forward to the debate ahead over budgeting priorities. Democrats will continue to measure each proposal on whether it strengthens the middle class, creates jobs and reduces debt.”
02.14.2011	In my home state of South Carolina, Orangeburg County is home to a 5400 ft. runway airport, two Class A railroads, two interstate highways, eight U.S. highways, two universities, a technical college, 67 miles of shoreline along the state’s largest lake and more than 90,000 citizens. Orangeburg seems to have all that is necessary to be a strong and vibrant economic engine. The County, however, has a median income of $32,694 and is consistently ranked among the nation’s ten poorest counties with a population greater than 65,000, ranking eighth based on 2008 data. When I was elected to Congress, I was told that in spite of the infrastructure enumerated above, Orangeburg and other counties along the I-26/I-95 corridor would always be drags on the state’s economy unless we solved their most pressing challenge: access to clean, safe, drinkable water. I immediately went to work to solve this problem. Today, because of good cooperation and planning by local officials and targeted congressional expenditures, in the Orangeburg County town of Santee located on I-95, we have a state-of-the-art water plant with reaches into four surrounding counties. We have great hope that we can begin to turn the economic conditions around in these historically depressed communities, but further assistance is needed. In the United States, there are 474 counties where 20 percent or more of the population has been living below the poverty line for the last 30 years. The counties are as diverse as our great nation; Appalachian communities in Kentucky and North Carolina, Native American communities in South Dakota and Alaska, Latino communities in Arizona and New Mexico and African American communities in Mississippi and South Carolina. They lack access to quality schools, affordable quality health care and adequate job opportunities. This is not a partisan issue. In 2009, these counties were represented by 43 Democrats and 84 Republicans in the Congress. Democrats represented 149 of them, with a total population of 8.8 million; Republicans 311, with a total population of 8.3 million; and 14, with a total population of 5. 3 million, were split between Republicans and Democrats. I represented seven such counties. When we drafted the Recovery Act, I fought to ensure that no communities were left behind. We all know that President Roosevelt’s “New Deal,” which was credited with ending the Great Depression, was not a good deal for many of these persistent poverty counties. At my urging, the Recovery Act included a provision that directed at least 10 percent of Rural Development investments to communities where 20 percent or more of the population had lived below the poverty line for the last 30 years. I understand that my 10-20-30 amendment in the Recovery Act was responsible for funding 4,655 projects totaling nearly $1.7 billion in persistent poverty counties. I can speak of two counties in my district that benefitted from this program. Construction began last year on 51 miles of water lines to the Brittons Neck, Centenary and Gresham communities of Marion County, South Carolina. These communities had tried for decades to replace their contaminated wells with a water system, but could not afford the matching funds required by traditional federal programs. Through the 10-20-30 program, the Marco Rural Water Company received a $5.8 million grant and a $2 million loan to provide clean, potable water to these communities for the first time. In Orangeburg County, three similar water projects are being funded through the 10-20-30 program. One of those is a $5.6 million investment to bring potable water to a Global Logistics Triangle on I-95 at U.S. 301 that will soon be home to a Jafza logistics, industrial and distribution park. That public investment is leveraging an estimated $600-$700 million in private investments that may ultimately create up to 10,000 new jobs in this persistent poverty county. That is an investment in innovation and creativity that will yield significant dividends in the near future and hopefully lift Orangeburg County out of its quagmire as one of the ten poorest counties in the nation. I am urging Congress to include the 10-20-30 approach in future funding proposals, and expand it to all federal agencies. It doesn’t require additional funding -- only the stipulation that at least ten percent of any agency’s appropriated programmatic funds be invested in 10-20-30 communities. We have been so heavily focused on easing the national unemployment rate that we have not given adequate attention to communities that are suffering from chronic distress and Depression-era levels of joblessness. They must be included in our efforts to get the entire nation on the right track. If we provide them the engines they have been lacking, these communities can join the rest of America to compete and “win the future.”
02.11.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today delivered the following remarks on the House floor during 10 hours of debate on a resolution directing House Committees to do what they are already responsible for doing—conducting oversight. In the first five weeks of the Republican majority, none of the bills brought to floor have focused on creating jobs. “Back when I was campaigning for Members across the country, I heard Republicans constantly talking about jobs. Despite the fact that the Democratic majority in the 111th Congress brought America back from the brink of a depression and presided over 10 straight months of private sector job growth with Republicans obstructing every step of the way, Republicans insisted they would focus on jobs, jobs, jobs. But, something must have happened to the Republicans over the holidays. Because for the full month since the opening of the 112th Congress, the Republican majority has done literally nothing to create jobs. “Republicans have held votes on 11 bills that do things like denying insurance to people with pre-existing conditions and denying security funding to the area around the United Nations building in New York. Not a single one of these votes has created a single job for a single American. “Republicans are holding a host of committee hearings on issues like restricting access to women’s legal health services and rolling back injured patients’ legal rights. Not a single one of these hearings has created or will create a single job for a single American. “Today, we are talking and talking about a resolution that will instruct committees to conduct oversight—which they are supposed to do no matter what. This resolution will not create a single job for a single American. “This week, as our economic recovery is just gaining steam, the Republicans are proposing a spending bill that will curtail American innovation and clean energy and cut the number of cops on our streets. This will result in Americans losing their jobs and America being less safe and less prepared to compete in the 21st century global economy and create jobs years into the future. “Republicans talked last year about how they would focus on jobs, but it seems that when they decide to focus on jobs at all, they are focusing on how to eliminate jobs. “Madam Speaker, I come from a district and a state where unemployment is unacceptably high and too many people have been out of work for much too long. I honestly wish the Republican majority would focus on commonsense, pragmatic ways to create American jobs. If they decide to do this, they will find me a willing partner. But let’s stop these shenanigans like we’re seeing today.”
02.04.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement on a report from the Department of Labor which showed that 36,000 jobs were added to the economy in January and the unemployment rate dropped to 9 percent, making this the 11th consecutive month of private sector job growth. “A significant drop in the unemployment rate is welcome news, but much more needs to be done to create jobs and strengthen the economy. I’ve heard a lot from my Republican colleagues about repealing patients’ rights, rolling back women’s rights, and ending protections for consumers, but I haven’t heard a lot about job creation. It’s time to come together to work on creating jobs and building on the 11 consecutive months of job growth we’ve established.”
02.03.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement after House GOP Budget Chairman Paul Ryan released budget levels for the remainder of fiscal year 2011. “Republicans are beginning to learn the meaning of ‘easier said than done.’ With great fanfare last fall, Republicans made a campaign promise to cut the budget by $100 billion. Today’s proposal falls $68 billion short. And at this level, we can expect serious job loss in critical sectors like law enforcement, education, and health care. “We have to find ways to tighten our belts and tackle the deficit without cutting investments that create jobs. Democrats want to build on the progress made over the last two years. Thanks to the impact of Democratic initiatives, we have created over a million private sector jobs, the economy has now grown for six straight quarters, and personal disposable income is on the rise. We will continue to judge every measure by whether it creates jobs, strengthens the middle class and reduces the deficit.”
01.25.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement after President Barack Obama delivered his State of the Union Address before a joint session of Congress. “Tonight the president reminded us that when we faced our greatest challenges as a nation, we conquered them not as Democrats or Republicans, but as Americans. Economic growth and job creation is our greatest challenge today, and just as we did when the Russians launched Sputnik, I agree that we must respond by generating a wave of innovation that creates new industries and jobs in America. “The president made clear that he has shifted gears from the crisis mode he was forced into two years ago to the creative mode Americans yearn. Facing the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, President Obama came to office and launched a major recovery effort. Two years later as he reported tonight, the stock market is back, corporate profits are up and the economy is growing again. Now it’s time to build on that progress by working together to spur job creation. I hope my Republican colleagues will join us in this effort. There are many areas on which we share common ground, the question is whether we will meet there to make a difference. “But we must be sure that as we build on our recovery we do not leave communities behind. I propose that as we make economic investments going forward, we replicate a measure I included in a section of the Recovery Act that I call the 10-20-30 formula—ten percent of recovery resources are directed to communities with 20 percent or more of their population have been under the federal poverty level for the last 30 years. After all, we are only as strong as our weakest link and economic strength in communities with chronic unemployment and underemployment is an important measure of our economic success.”
01.19.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today delivered the following statement on the House floor regarding H.R. 2, the House Republican repeal of patients’ rights under the Affordable Care Act. “In 1966, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., whose life and legacy we just finished celebrating, expressed his concerns about this very issue. He stated that, ‘Of all the forms of inequality, injustice in health care is the most shocking and inhumane.’ “Those words were brought home to me last year when a constituent from Florence, South Carolina told me that she had just been informed by her insurance carrier that because of her 8-year-old daughter’s cancer treatments her family had reached their lifetime benefits limit. “What could be more inhumane than repealing this law’s patients’ rights and telling that mother the life-saving treatments for her daughter must end? What could be more shocking than the injustice suffered by the middle aged woman who called into a radio program to complain that although she had paid premiums her entire adult life, she was dropped by her insurer when she contracted breast cancer? How can we repeal the remedy to this injustice? “Dr. King also taught us the ‘time is always ripe to do right.’ After nearly a century of debate, last March the time was ripe, and getting rid of these discriminatory practices was the right thing to do. And it was the reason I called the Bill, the ‘Civil Rights Act of the 21st Century.’ Interestingly, today we are hearing some of the same rhetoric about repeal of patients’ rights that we heard regarding voting rights. “Do I feel that changes should not be made? Absolutely not. When the Civil Rights Act was passed in 1964, it did not cover public employees. When the 1965 Voting Rights Act became law, it did not cover congressional and legislative redistricting. The Fair Housing law wasn’t perfect when it was passed. Bi-partisan changes were made to improve all of these measures. I sincerely hope we can develop some bipartisan modifications that increase efficiency and effectiveness, and decrease costs and duplication, none of which will be achieved by repeal.”
01.17.2011	By Congressman Jim ClyburnFriendship Baptist Church, Kansas City, Missouri Acknowledgements: “Duty” As seen by Abraham Lincoln If I were to try to read, much less answer, all the attacks made on me, this shop might as well be closed for any other business. I do the very best I know how - the very best I can; and I mean to keep doing so until the end. If the end brings me out all right, what's said against me won't amount to anything. If the end brings me out wrong, ten angels swearing I was right would make no difference. “In the Arena” Theodore Roosevelt It is not the critic who counts; not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles, or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood; who strives valiantly; who errs, who comes short again and again, because there is no effort without error and shortcoming; but who does actually strive to do the deeds; who knows great enthusiasms, the great devotions; who spends himself in a worthy cause; who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement, and who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly, so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who know neither victory nor defeat. “We have nothing to fear but fear itself” Franklin Roosevelt “You and I have a Rendezvous with Destiny” Ronald Reagan The two passages and two sound bites I have just shared with you were etched into the fabric of our nation by four Presidents, who sought to address challenges that were sort of unique to the times during which they served. Although each one of them succeeded in capturing the moment they, may not have, had their words been written and spoken at a different time. Now aside from the Bible, I cannot think of a more timeless reference for coping with times like the one within which we currently live, than one particular document written by the man we pause to honor today. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s 1963 letter from the Birmingham City jail offers a source for all of us to find a deeper understanding and broader context for much of the discussion that is taking place throughout our great country today. Irrespective of what may or may not be the cause of the recent tragic and unimagined events that have brought the people of our nation into this discussion, we should find Dr. King’s words instructive, “We will have to repent in this generation not merely for the vitriolic words and actions of the bad people, but for the appalling silence of the good people.” In recent years, the tone of our political rhetoric has become angry and personal. Court decisions have permitted media and political personalities unlimited and unattributed resources to publish blatant falsehoods regarding people and policies. We have allowed hysteria to creep into our daily political discourse. I was born in segregated Sumter, South Carolina. I attended all-black public and private schools and was a student civil rights activist on the campus of all black South Carolina State College. While Kansas is sometimes credited as the “home” of Brown v. Board of Education, the first court case that launched a frontal attack on segregated schools, and was later incorporated into the Brown case, was named Briggs v. Elliott. It was a case involving families who lived in Clarendon County just a few miles from my hometown of Sumter. My father, a fundamentalist minister, led us in daily prayer for their safety during those contentious years. Some of them lost their jobs, some lost their land, and many had to leave their birthplaces in search of livelihoods. I say all this to say, I know what it is like to face challenges in a difficult environment. Recently a gentleman preferenced his question to me by stating that he could not recall the political climate ever being as bad as it is. I assured the gentleman that I could, and maybe he could not because he has not yet lived as long as I have and has not experienced some of the things that I have, and that some of you have. Some of you, like me, lived through the 50s, 60s, and 70’s. You have your own memories of the dark days when President Kennedy was assassinated; when Dr. King was murdered, and when Senator Robert Kennedy was killed. Many of us remember the attempts on the lives of Presidents Ronald Reagan and Gerald Ford. Some of us have lived through bombings, lynchings, and mobs spewing venomous hate. And in spite of the song we regularly sung, we often wondered how, or if, we would ever overcome. But we did. We overcame by holding fast to dreams and remaining true to our principles. We overcame because we did not retreat, nor did we retaliate. Your theme for today’s remembrance of Dr. King, “Where there is a dream, people prosper,” reminds me of the message of that time when we were faced with challenges not unlike today’s challenges. And our response must be the same. As we pause to remember Dr. King’s legacy, let us not forget his lessons, one of which admonishes that, “the means we use, must be as pure as the ends we seek.” We should not be discouraged, we must not be deterred, and we will not be silenced by those who seek to disrupt, incite and intimidate. When President Obama was elected in 2008, we realized a dream that was once unimaginable, an African American President of the United States. But the attainment of that dream seems to have increased the vitriol, and should remind us that the struggle hasn’t ended. If his election ushered in a post racial world, it was short lived. This President has been accused of being foreign born, of being a socialist, and of being "one of the most corrupt presidents in modern times." Such hysteria and hyperbole are not only blatantly false but serve no useful purpose. But to his credit, none of this opposition has discouraged or deterred President Obama. He continues his pursuit of “a more perfect Union” implementing an inclusive agenda and producing significant successes. In the aftermath of last November elections, I have heard lots of theories about why the results were what they were. One explanation that I find particularly bothersome is that it was not wise for the President took on so much, so soon. Those who subscribe to this theory argue that he should have taken a slower approach to making dramatic changes to the health care system. We shouldn’t have rushed to pass legislation to stimulate the economy or save the banking or auto industries. These arguments are not new. In fact they are the arguments that incented Dr. King to write his timeless letter. That letter was not written in a vacuum. It was not addressed “to whom it may concern.” It was not written to the editor of the local newspaper or in response to a “letter to the editor.” Oh no!!!! Dr. King’s letter was in response to a letter he had received from eight fellow clergymen urging him to leave Birmingham. And why were they asking him to leave? They were asking him to leave because he was an “extremist.” And why did they consider him an extremist? Because he did not wish to accept second-class citizenship. They wanted him to leave because he was “a disruptive force.” And what made him a disruptive force? Because they considered his quest for dignity and respect “unwise and untimely.” In his letter, Dr. King said, “time itself is neutral; it can be used either destructively or constructively. More and more I feel,” he continued, “that the people of ill will have used time much more effectively than have the people of good will… We must use time creatively, in the knowledge that the time is always ripe to do right.” In 1966, Dr. King expressed his concerns about this very issue. In a speech to the Medical Committee for Human Rights, Dr. King said, “Of all the forms of inequality, injustice in health care is the most shocking and inhumane.” Our nation had waited for nearly a century to find a way and the means to provide all citizens access to an affordable, quality health care system. The President felt that the time was ripe to do right. What can be more inhumane than telling a family that because of the treatments required by the illness of their eight-year old child they have used up all of their healthcare benefits for life? What can be more shocking than getting dropped by your insurance company after getting pregnant or contracting breast or prostate cancer? Is it right to discriminate against young adults who are still in school after their 21st birthday by kicking them off of their family’s policy? Is it right to discriminate against a child born with diabetes by not allowing them onto their family’s health insurance policy? The time was ripe, and getting rid of these discriminatory practices was the right thing to do. On the day that we passed the Health Care Bill out of the House, I spoke on the floor calling it the Civil Rights Act of the 21st Century. Did I feel that there could be political consequences? Yes I did. Does that mean we should not have done the right thing? Absolutely not. I remember that after the 1968 elections, the senior United States Senator from my home state of South Carolina stood on our Statehouse steps vowing to return to Washington to lead the efforts to repeal the 1965 Voting Rights Act. We are hearing some of the same rhetoric today regarding that Act, and the recently enacted health care law, and I believe the results will be the same. Does this mean some changes should not be made? Absolutely not!!! When the Civil Rights Act was passed in 1964, it did not cover public employees. Bi-partisan changes were made in order to do so. When the 1965 Voting Rights Act became the law of the land, it was not broad enough to provide me, and many others, the opportunity to serve in Congress. Bi-partisan changes to the Voting Rights Act made our elections possible. The Fair Housing law has been tweaked, and amended, from time to time to make it more efficient and effective. We can defend our positions, and have vigorous debate without personal attacks. Splicing and dicing people’s words and images go beyond free speech and fair comments. I believe it is just as wrong to give absolute First Amendment protections to vicious bullies and professional prevaricators who operate in the political arena, as it would be to do so for those bullies who misuse the internet to drive vulnerable school students to suicide and those perverts who prey upon innocent children. So as we hear the vitriol of bygone days being blasted across our airways today, let us remember a few other words of Dr. King that are also found in that letter, “it is just as wrong, or perhaps even more so, to use moral means to preserve, and I will add achieve, immoral ends.” As we pursue our dreams let us not trammel upon the rights of others. As we seek perfection for our Union, let us not forget that, as Dr King extolled, “Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.” Let us “keep our eyes on the prize.” Let us hold fast to our dreams, and maintain our pursuit of, “a more perfect Union,” where the people – all the people – can prosper. Thank you, and Godspeed.
01.17.2011	These are sober days in America, and yet fortuitously, they coincide with our national celebration of the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. In times like these, I often turn to Dr. King’s writings. They remind me that we have overcome some rather difficult events in our nation’s history. In the days following the horrific shootings in Arizona, I have reread a few of some of Dr. King’s writings and reflected upon some of my own experiences to find a deeper understanding and context within which to view these tragic events. The context in which one views this challenging episode depends largely on one’s life experiences. These are mine — I am 70 years old, born in segregated Sumter, South Carolina. I attended all-black schools and was a civil rights activist as a student on the campus of South Carolina State College. I know what it is to attempt to exercise my First Amendment rights and come face to face with someone I knew wanted to harm me physically. I have been asked often in recent days if the current public discourse is the worst I have ever seen. In my experience, the answer is no. For those of us who lived through the 1960s, we have poignant memories of the dark days when President Kennedy, Dr. King and Senator Robert Kennedy were assassinated. We lived through bombings, lynchings, and mobs spewing such venomous hate that we all wondered how we would overcome. But we did. We overcame with Dr. King’s admonition that our protests must remain nonviolent. In his words, “Nonviolence means avoiding not only external physical violence but also internal violence of spirit. You not only refuse to shoot a man, but you refuse to hate him.” And even more importantly, in my opinion, you refuse to allow his hate to diminish you. RELATED ARTICLES Rep. Rush: A reminder not to be silent on gun violence Rep. Waters: In this time of sorrow, look to Dr. King Rep. Cleaver: The 'ought' vs. the 'is' In recent years, we have heard hateful speech become commonplace in our public discourse. The tone of our political rhetoric has become angry and personal. It has come from people of all walks of life — on the left, on the right, and over the airwaves — from those who know that shock and slander sells. Everybody seems to be asking, how can we overcome these difficult days? Dr. King would answer eloquently that, “The ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort and convenience, but where he stands at times of challenge and controversy.” These are times of challenge and controversy. Dr. King would have us “use time creatively, in the knowledge that the time is always ripe to do right.” To do right is to work together to create a “more perfect union.” That means finding common ground, being willing to compromise, to consider differing opinions. I have always said that if the difference between me and my opponent is five steps, I don’t mind taking three of them. This country’s beloved Constitution was adopted only after reaching the Great Compromise. There is an old folk song adopted as an anthem of the civil rights movement that teaches us to keep our “eyes on the prize.” Our prize is to emerge from these difficult days stronger and more unified. Our nation’s darkest days were made that much harder by the divisions that separated us. Our most glorious moments were achieved when we came together in a common cause. We must renew that spirit of unity and embrace policies and procedures that embody Dr. King’s admonition that “the means we use must be as pure as the ends we seek.” All of us sometimes fall short of these expectations. But as we remember the life of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., and reflect on the events of recent days, let us take these lessons to heart and keep in mind that “injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere
01.13.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today delivered the following statement on the House floor during debate of H.Res. 32 - Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives with respect to the tragic shooting in Tucson, Arizona, on January 8, 2011. “In the book of Micah—the religion that Gabby practices—raises a question, “What did the Lord require of thee?” And the question is answered in Micah 6:8, “To do justly, love mercy, and walk humbly.” I cannot think of anybody who I’ve ever served with who personified that passage more than Gabby Giffords. “In my faith, I practice that which is found in the book of Luke, the tenth chapter, where we get the story of the Good Samaritan—when the question was asked of the lawyer who wanted to know what was required to have life everlasting. In the answer, the Master said to him in addition to other things, “Love thy neighbor as thy self.” “Gabby Giffords is our neighbor. Not just here in this body, but she is our neighbor on this great planet. Because we learn from that story that being one's neighbor is not dependent upon one's religion, nor is it dependent upon one's ethnicity. Being one’s neighbor is dependent upon whether or not we have the capacity to show compassion. “Gabby Giffords is our neighbor and I'm pleased to honor her today.”
01.10.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement after news that Ashley Turton, former Chief of Staff to Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro and wife of White House Deputy Director of Legislative Affairs Dan Turton, passed away early this morning. "I am stunned and saddened by the news of Ashley Turton's untimely passing. Ashley was a valued and beloved member of the Capitol Hill family. She left her mark on this world—touching so many lives on Capitol Hill both personally and professionally. My prayers are with her husband Dan and their three young children at this difficult time."
01.08.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today released the following statement about the news that Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords and several others were shot at a public constituent meeting in Tucson, AZ this morning. “My prayers are with Congresswoman Giffords, her staff and the other victims of the shooting this morning, as well as their families and friends. This act of violence weighs heavily on my heart and my mind as information continues to unfold about this mindless attack. Whether through words or weapons, violence has no place in our democracy and all of us have a responsibility to foster a climate in which we can exchange ideas and views passionately but peacefully.”
09.16.2010	WASHINGTON - Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (D-SC) today delivered remarks on the House floor on HR 4785, The Rural Energy Savings Program Act, legislation that provides loans to American families, small businesses and farmers in rural communities to renovate their homes, farms or businesses to become more energy-efficient. These programs will offer loans of about $3,000 to $7,500 to eliminate the upfront cost of home energy upgrades, which customers will then repay over 10 years on their electric bill. The energy savings from the renovations will cover most of the cost of the loan. The Rural Star and Loan Star programs in this bill will boost demand for energy efficient products, materials, and construction and installation services that are made in America-over 90 percent of these products and materials-caulking, insulation, HVAC systems, hot water heaters, sealant, windows, doors other structural materials-are made in America. Following are Clyburn's remarks on the House floor: "Mr. Speaker, the Rural Energy Savings Program, or 'Rural Star,' as it is popularly called, is an important piece of the 'Make it in America' agenda. It is a program that will create jobs, and help save families money on their energy bills. "Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis once called our 50 states 'laboratories of democracy,' and that is certainly the case with this home-grown, American-owned idea. The rural electric co-ops in South Carolina brought this idea to my attention late last year. And I worked with them and Congressman John Spratt to craft legislation that takes the South Carolina model nationwide. I am very proud that South Carolina is providing significant leadership for our economic recovery with this innovative approach to job creation and energy savings. "The concept is very simple: low-cost home improvement loans for energy efficiency upgrades-sealing, insulation, HVAC systems, heat pumps and other structural improvements. Those low cost loans are paid back on customers' electricity bills, with the energy savings covering the cost of the loan. And when the term of the loan expires, most people will be saving hundreds of dollars annually on their monthly utility bills. "This bipartisan, bicameral legislation is first and foremost a jobs bill, and it is based on common-sense ideas that can be done in a fiscally responsible manner that will protect taxpayers and the Treasury. Let me emphasize that this is a voluntary loan program, not a grant or rebate, and the loans are paid back to the federal treasury. "We call this the Rural Energy Savings Program, because it will save consumers energy and money. More importantly, it will put people back to work, particularly in the building and construction trades, and manufacturing industries - sectors that have been hit the hardest by the economic downturn. "While providing home energy upgrades and significant employment opportunities for building and construction workers, this legislation will boost domestic manufacturing. Retailers of energy efficient building materials and appliances will also benefit from increased sales. Virtually all of the energy efficient products and materials used for energy efficiency improvements are made in America. "Rural Star has the support of a broad coalition of stakeholders, including the National Association of Manufacturers, the National Association of Homebuilders, the Retail Industry Leaders Association and the National Rural Electric Cooperatives Association. "Rural Star will create high-skill, high-wage manufacturing and construction jobs and deliver meaningful energy savings for consumers that will put money directly into their wallets. I urge all of my colleagues to support this bill. "Let's create jobs that are made in America so that our fellow citizens can, 'Make it in America.'"
03.21.2010	CLYBURN: THIS IS THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF THE 21st CENTURY WASHINGTON, DC—Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn today delivered remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives in favor of H.R. 4872, Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, landmark legislation that enacts the toughest insurance reforms in history, reduces the cost of health care for millions of American families and businesses, including those who have health insurance, cuts waste, expands benefits and strengthens the solvency of Medicare and is one of the biggest deficit reduction bills in history. “Mr. Speaker, we have come to a defining moment in our nation's history. Tonight I’m thinking about the woman who called into a talk radio program that I appeared on last August. She called in to take issue with the gentleman who had just called in earlier to say that he did not support our efforts to reform the health care system because he liked the insurance he had. The caller shared her experience of having been dropped from coverage by an insurance company she thought she liked, just as she started her second treatment for breast cancer. She said to the gentleman, that maybe he liked the insurance he had because he had never tried to use it. “Despite deafening protests from the other side, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said the reforms included in this bill will reduce our deficit by $143 billion in the first 10 years and $1.2 trillion in the second 10 years. This bill will also create jobs, 400,000 good-paying jobs, reliable jobs, for every year and for small businesses. Small businesses will get a tax break on their health care premiums that will free up money for them to hire 80,000 more employees. “Mr. Speaker, we have debated this issue for several generations. The time has come to act. This is the Civil Rights Act of the 21st Century. Tonight, we will take a significant step to move our country forward. I yield back the balance of my time.”
03.21.2010	WASHINGTON, DC—House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn today delivered remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives in favor of H.R. 4872, Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, landmark legislation that enacts the toughest insurance reforms in history, reduces the cost of health care for millions of American families and businesses, including those who have health insurance, cuts waste, expands benefits and strengthens the solvency of Medicare and is one of the biggest deficit reduction bills in history. “Mr. Speaker, we have come to a defining moment in our nation's history. Tonight I’m thinking about the woman who called into a talk radio program that I appeared on last August. She called in to take issue with the gentleman who had just called in earlier to say that he did not support our efforts to reform the health care system because he liked the insurance he had. The caller shared her experience of having been dropped from coverage by an insurance company she thought she liked, just as she started her second treatment for breast cancer. She said to the gentleman, that maybe he liked the insurance he had because he had never tried to use it. “Despite deafening protests from the other side, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said the reforms included in this bill will reduce our deficit by $143 billion in the first 10 years and $1.2 trillion in the second 10 years. This bill will also create jobs, 400,000 good-paying jobs, reliable jobs, for every year and for small businesses. Small businesses will get a tax break on their health care premiums that will free up money for them to hire 80,000 more employees. “Mr. Speaker, we have debated this issue for several generations. The time has come to act. This is the Civil Rights Act of the 21st Century. Tonight, we will take a significant step to move our country forward. I yield back the balance of my time.”
03.10.2010	WASHINGTON, DC -A bipartisan coalition of Senate and House Members today were joined by rural electric cooperatives and energy industry leaders to introduce legislation establishing a Rural Energy Savings Program to create jobs, save American families and businesses money on their electric bills, and reduce air pollution. The legislation (H.R. 4785 in the House) is estimated to create 20,000 to 40,000 jobs a year. The bill provides $4.9 billion in loan authority through the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Utilities Service (RUS) to electric cooperatives to offer low-interest micro-loans to residential and small business customers for energy-saving retrofit and structural improvements. The program will be a boon for the domestic manufacturing and construction industries, as energy-efficiency products are almost exclusively manufactured in the United States and installation jobs cannot be exported. The program builds on the existing co-op infrastructure that has strong community ties and a demonstrated 75-year history of on-bill financing for consumer loans. Remarks from original co-sponsors of the bill: House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn (D-SC): "This bill provides for energy conservation, job creation and cost-effective upgrades that will improve consumers' quality of life. There is such broad support for this initiative because it is a win-win-win proposition." Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC): "I am proud to work with Congressman Clyburn and others on what I believe will prove to be a worthwhile idea. This is a plan that will help consumers, particularly those in rural areas of our state and nation, become more energy efficient and lower their electricity costs. It is smart policy to take a small, limited amount of federal dollars and empower people to help themselves and, as a result, help our country. By turning this idea into law, our nation will be more energy independent and less dependent on foreign sources of energy. I am proud to be part of this effort and hope we can make it happen this year." Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD): "This unique legislation breaks down the barriers some homeowners face in making energy efficient upgrades. In making low-interest loans available to consumers in this way, they won't have wait years to see the cost-effective benefits of making improvements that are good for the environment and their bottom line." Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH): "Retrofitting and weatherizing buildings is one of our greatest opportunities to create jobs and help with our continued economic recovery. This legislation will help create jobs in rural areas hit hard during these difficult times and help families and businesses reduce their energy bills. We can kick-start our construction industry by providing new sources of financing to retrofit homes and businesses. We need to invest in America, and this legislation does just that." Senator Jeff Merkley, (D-OR): "For our rural communities to recover and thrive in the wake of the economic crisis, we need to put people back to work and lower energy costs for families and the Rural Energy Savings Program does both. This program will help the families and businesses in rural areas who can't afford the cost of a home or building renovation by offering them low-cost loans that they can repay out of the money they will save on their energy bills." Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO): "Rural America has been hit hard by the economic downturn. This bill will help rural economies recover by creating thousands of good-paying jobs in Colorado and across the country. Not only are these jobs that will help reduce pollution, save families money and increase our energy security; they are jobs that will be created right here in Colorado and can't be shipped overseas. The Rural Energy Savings Program is commonsense, bipartisan bill supported by a broad coalition of partners, and I look forward to getting it passed into law." U.S. Rep. Tom Perriello (D-VA): "Rural households are getting hit the hardest with rising energy costs. These efficiency programs will not only create jobs locally, but make our rural homes more sustainable and cost efficient in the long run. I'm proud to be part of this bipartisan bill because saving on energy costs and creating clean energy jobs is something both parties can agree on." U.S. Rep. Ed Whitfield (R-KY): "As our nation works to develop an energy policy which utilizes our own domestic resources while holding down costs, it is essential we explore ways to improve energy efficiency and, in turn, better manage the demand for electricity. Currently our electricity grid is operating at maximum capacity. Increasing our energy efficiency is one of the best proven ways to free up energy on our electricity grid. This bill is a win for American consumers and a win for improving energy efficiency across the country." Trained auditors and contractors will conduct energy audits to determine what sorts of energy efficiency improvements are warranted. Typical consumer loans will be $1,500 to $7,000, and will cover sealing, insulation, heat pumps, HVAC systems, boilers, roofs and other improvements that the utility has demonstrated to RUS will produce sufficient savings. Participating consumers repay the co-ops for the installation and material costs through an extra charge on their utility bills within not more than a 10 year window. The energy savings from the upgrade will cover most, if not all, of the cost of the loan. Consumers will save more on their energy bills after the loan is repaid, saving most families hundreds of dollars annually. Every dollar loaned by RUS to the co-ops is repaid to the taxpayers within ten years after the cooperative re-lends the funds to the consumer. Original Co-sponsors: HOUSE: Rep. Clyburn (D-SC), Rep. Perriello (D-VA), Rep. Whitfield (R-KY), Rep. Spratt (D-SC) SENATE: Sen. Merkley (D-OR), Sen. Graham (R-SC), Sen. Lugar (R-IN), Sen. Shaheen (D-NH), Sen. Johnson (D-SD), Sen. Bennet (D-CO). You can watch a video recording of the announcement HERE.
02.04.2010	WASHINGTON, DC- House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn today released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.J.Res. 45, the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act 2009, or PAYGO, legislation that requires spending increases to be offset by spending cuts. The bill which was approved by the Senate last week will now go to the President for his signature. "Pay-as-you-go budget discipline has been a key principle of Democratic fiscal policy for decades and led to successive budget surpluses in the late '90's for the first time in thirty years. It follows the fundamental rule of family budgeting-you don't spend what you don't have. But PAYGO budget discipline was abandoned in 2002 and irresponsible deficit spending by the Bush administration on two wars and two tax cuts for the wealthiest in the nation, turned a projected $5.6 trillion surplus into a $5.8 trillion deficit by 2008. "By balancing spending increases with spending cuts, we will level out the budget and not saddle our children and grandchildren with burdensome debts. These budget standards have been in the House rules since Democrats assumed the majority in 2007. With passage of this legislation, it will become the law of the land. "Today's vote marks a return to the sound fiscal policies of the 1990s. President Obama and Congress have taken an effective multi-pronged approach to strengthening our economy. Today's passage of PAYGO budgeting will help ensure the stability and security of our economy for years to come."
02.02.2010	WASHINGTON, DC- House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn today released the following statement on the reevaluation of the military policy known as, "Don't ask don't tell." "In his State of the Union address the President declared that he will work with Congress and our military to finally repeal the law that denies many Americans the right to serve the country they love because of their sexual orientation. And today, Defense Secretary Gates and Admiral Mullen followed up on the President's pledge by advocating before the Senate Armed Services Committee a re-evaluation and reversal of the current flawed and discriminatory policy. I support the President's efforts. The time has come to do-away with the 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' policy. "Our military is overstretched and our troops and their families are under unprecedented strain. We simply cannot afford to lose any more troops to this flawed policy. Our military is the best in the world and, I have faith in the uniformed and civilian leadership of the Defense Department, as well as the dedication, professionalism, and integrity of our troops, to handle this transition without any detriment to readiness or capability. "The men and women who wear the uniform of this great nation should be entitled to all the rights they so heroically defend. All Americans must work with President Obama, Secretary Gates, and Chairman Mullen to repeal 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' and finally accord the gay men and women who have served, who serve today and who choose to serve in the future the dignity they deserve and the honor they have earned."
02.01.2010	WASHINGTON, DC-House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement in commemoration of Black History Month: "During the month of February we acknowledge the rich history and accomplishments of people of African descent everywhere. Black history is American history. Since our country's inception, African Americans have played a vital role in the cultural, political and social fabric of our nation. There is not a corner of our society that has not benefited from the contributions of African Americans. But those contributions and achievements often came with great sacrifice, and in all too many instances went unrecorded, so this month we honor those who paved the road before us-it is their shoulders that we stand upon as we strive to create a more perfect union." Recently, Congressman Clyburn was interviewed by Gannett News for their online civil rights project. To watch the interview, follow the link below: http://specials.usatoday.com/civil+rights/ Congressman Clyburn on Charlie Rose discussing the Civil Rights Movement. Click here to view Part 1 of the discussion. Click here to view Part 2 of the discussion.
02.01.2010	WASHINGTON, DC- House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn today released the following statement on President Obama's Budget request for the 2011 fiscal year: "The federal budget is a moral document which reflect the priorities of the American people. In these troubling times, President Obama's budget lays out a vision of recovery for American families and businesses and redoubles our efforts to strengthen the economy and spur job creation. Despite inheriting an ailing economy and record budget deficits, the President and Congress have kept the country from experiencing a second Great Depression. Thanks to key initiatives like the American Recovery and Investment Act around two million jobs have been saved or created in the last year. This time last year the economy was shrinking by a rate of over six percent, but over the last year has made a dramatic turnaround. In the last quarter alone the U.S. economy grew at its fastest pace in six years. "My colleagues and I understand these are still trying times and Americans are facing tremendous challenges. Unemployment stands at over ten percent and consumers are hesitant to invest their hard-earned money in such a precarious environment. Job creation is a cornerstone of this budget and will remain this Congress' top priority until every job-seeking American finds employment. "I believe we should not only encourage job creation but should guarantee long term growth by investing in education and controlling spending. This budget will build on the successes of last year with targeted investments that will encourage private sector employment. Small businesses and entrepreneurs will receive access to credit and small businesses will see taxes on their investments cut entirely. The budget will also fund a wide array of education initiatives that will help us compete in the global economy. Strict budget controls will be instituted to curb deficits. "Also included is a return to budget discipline that brought us record surpluses in the late '90's. This week the Congress will send to the President statutory PAYGO legislation which requires that if you spend a dollar, you have to save a dollar elsewhere in the budget. "Times like these call for difficult decisions. The fact remains that we are not going to grow the economy simply by wishing it so; direct and immediate action must be taken to stem the tide of unemployment. The President's Budget reinforces our ongoing efforts to return our economy to full employment and will help ensure long term economic prosperity."
01.29.2010	(Columbia, SC) – House Majority Whip and Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn today commended Mayor Bob Coble and the City of Columbia for using the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act funds to make positive investments in the community. Mayor Coble announced in his State of the City speech last night that Columbia has received $38 million in stimulus funding. “We have added six police officers-with 22 more in the near future-as well as one investigator and one prosecutor dedicated to criminal domestic violence cases,” Mayor Coble said. “We have been able to stabilize and redevelop some of our struggling communities; we're combating homelessness; we are streetscaping North Main and Harden and making our communities more livable; and we're improving the energy efficiency of our neighborhoods, city buildings, and fleet vehicles.” “The purpose of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act is to assist with the rebuilding of our economy by investing in local communities,” Congressman Clyburn said. “The City of Columbia, under Mayor Coble’s leadership, exemplifies the kind of success this program has had and will continue to have in communities across the country. Columbia residents are the beneficiaries of the visionary leadership of Mayor Coble, and I have personally seen the impact these federal investments are having here in my hometown.” A detailed list of the City of Columbia’s stimulus grant awards and applications can be found on its website at http://www.columbiasc.net/publicrelations/360.
01.29.2010	WASHINGTON, DC - House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn is being inducted today into the International Civil Rights Walk of Fame in Atlanta, GA. Below is Clyburn's statement. "I am honored and humbled to receive this recognition joining some with whom I marched and was jailed, others with whom I have served and interacted over the years, and many others who I never met. Many who have received this honor and tens of thousands of others - who remain nameless - made significant sacrifices to make it possible for me to serve and sit in the leadership of the United States Congress today. With the acceptance of this honor I pledge to continue the fight to give voice and representation to those who have traditionally been left out of the mainstream of our society." "The International Civil Rights Walk of Fame was created in 2004 to give recognition to the foot soldiers of justice who sacrificed and struggled to make equality a reality for all. This extraordinary display has become one of the most visited tourist attractions in the city of Atlanta and has enriched the heritage of the civil rights movement. The shoes used to create the footsteps will also be on display during the unveiling program."
01.29.2010	WASHINGTON, DC-House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement on the positive GDP report which shows the U.S. economy grew 5.7 percent in the last quarter of 2009, the fastest pace in six years. "Our economy's robust expansion last quarter is encouraging news and an affirmation of the economic agenda of President Obama and Congress. Thanks to the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, around 2 million jobs have been saved or created, businesses are growing their operations and the economy is expanding. "Despite this positive news, my colleagues and I fully understand that our work is not over. Unemployment is still hovering at over ten percent and many other Americans are unemployed, underemployed or have given up looking for work all together. Job creation is our top priority, that's why in December, the House passed the Jobs for Main Street Act with investment in small business assistance, retaining police, firefighters and teachers and rebuilding America's infrastructure-which will create jobs that can't be shipped overseas. We will work with the President and our colleagues in the Senate to Senate to make this jobs bill law."
01.27.2010	(Washington, DC) – Sixth District Congressman and House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn issued the following statement following President Obama’s first State of the Union speech. "President Obama struck the hopeful themes tonight that resonated in his campaign. The American people want security restored. Over the past decade, middle class families have seen their financial security eroded through job losses and declining wages, plummeting retirement accounts, and skyrocketing health care costs and declining home values and rising costs of tuition. They are demanding our help, and this Administration and Democratic Congress are answering their call. Our unified goals are jobs, more jobs, and even more jobs. "President Obama has laid out an agenda that will turn the despair of the first dismal decade of the 21st century into an era of restored prosperity for both the middle class and our country. The Congress supports his vision to build wealth in the middle class, create new home-grown, American owned economies in our country, and rebuild relationships abroad. We have taken bold steps and laid a foundation toward accomplishing these goals during 2009, and with this renewed commitment, I believe we will make greater strides toward realizing more stability and security in the near future."
01.23.2010	WASHINGTON, DC-Last night President Obama signed into law HR 4462, bipartisan legislation to allow individuals who make contributions to the relief effort in Haiti to claim the donations as an itemized charitable deduction on their 2009 tax return. Absent this change, taxpayers would need to wait until next year to claim a deduction for these contributions on their 2010 tax return. Those who make a contribution by text, may use their cell phone bill to claim the deduction. Majority Whip Clyburn who is coordinating legislative efforts in the House in response to the earthquake in Haiti, praised the quick action on this measure: "I'm pleased that Congress and the President acted so swiftly to allow people an immediate deduction on their 2009 tax returns for contributions to Haiti relief," said Clyburn. "The American people have opened their hearts and their wallets to this effort, and I hope that this simple, but impactful policy will further encourage such generosity." The bill was offered by House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn, House Republican Whip Eric Cantor along with Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles B. Rangel (D-NY) and Ranking Member Dave Camp (R-MI). Text of the legislation is available here. Congress passed similar legislation (HR 241) in January of 2005 in response to the Indian Ocean tsunami.
01.21.2010	WASHINGTON, DC-House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn today released the following statement today after the Supreme Court decision on Citizens United v. Federal Election Committee overturned the ban on corporate contributions to election campaigns. "With this ruling, the Supreme Court has overturned settled precedent and opened floodgates that will allow special interest money to overrun our elections and turn our democracy into a corpocracy. As a result of this divisive ruling, insurance monopolies will have undue influence over your health care, fat cats on wall street will control your money, and big oil will wreak havoc upon the environment. Special interests will drown out the voices of the individual voters."
01.20.2010	WASHINGTON, DC-The House of Representatives today unanimously approved HR 4462, bipartisan legislation to allow individuals who make charitable contributions to the relief effort in Haiti to claim the donations as an itemized charitable deduction on their 2009 tax return. Absent this change, taxpayers would need to wait until next year to claim a deduction for these contributions on their 2010 tax return. The bill was offered by House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn, House Republican Whip Eric Cantor along with Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles B. Rangel (D-NY) and Ranking Member Dave Camp (R-MI). Text of the legislation is available here and a list of original cosponsors is here. Congress passed similar legislation (HR 241) in January of 2005 in response to the Indian Ocean tsunami. Below are Clyburn's remarks during debate on the legislation: "Thank you, Chairman Rangel, for yielding me this time. I want to thank you and Mr. Camp for bringing this legislation forward. I want to thank the Minority Whip, Mr. Cantor, for joining with us in making this a truly bipartisan effort. I also want to thank the 162 co-sponsors, original co-sponsors, of this legislation. "I believe that all of us who are familiar with the various areas of our great country know that it all depends upon where you live as to what kind of catastrophic event you can expect to visit your community. For many of us it may be a dust storm. For others like my area of the country, it's hurricanes. For others, it could very well be an earthquake. "All of us are but the sum total of our experiences. I believe that it is this vast and broad level of experiences that the people of these United States of America are going to call upon in order to respond to the people of Haiti. And for us to offer all Americans the opportunity to deduct on their 2009 taxes any contribution they make to this effort by the 28th of February, will go a long way toward incenting the kind of behavior we think is very, very important. "I want to thank the sponsors of this legislation. It is one way that we can say to the people of this nation that Americans do not just sympathize with them, but we empathize as well. Thank you, Madam Speaker. I yield back my time."
01.15.2010	WASHINGTON, DC-House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn today released the following statement in recognition of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day, observed on January 18, 2009. "Dr. King often admonished us not to rest on our laurels and to guard against prejudice and its repercussions. 'All progress is precarious," he said, 'and the solution of one problem brings us face to face with another problem.' "Dr. King exemplified the difference one person can make on the world. As we remember him and his legacy this weekend, I believe we must reexamine his dream and consider what each of us can do to move our communities, our states and our nation closer to its realization."
01.15.2010	WASHINGTON, DC-House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn and House Republican Whip Eric Cantor along with Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles B. Rangel (D-NY) and Ranking Member Dave Camp (R-MI) today announced plans to introduce bipartisan legislation to allow individuals who make charitable contributions to the relief effort in Haiti to claim the donations as an itemized charitable deduction on their 2009 tax return, rather than waiting until next year to claim the deductions on their 2010 tax return. Text of the legislation is available here. Majority Whip Clyburn has been tasked by Speaker Nancy Pelosi to lead the legislative efforts in the House in response to the earthquake in Haiti. "I am heartened by the outpouring of concern and resources from the American people to the crisis in Haiti," said Majority Whip Clyburn. "At this critical time of recovery in Haiti the most valuable resource is funding, so I am proud to join my friend Chairman Rangel and my colleagues across the aisle, Whip Cantor and Congressman Camp to help assist and encourage the American people give what they can with an immediate tax deduction. The United States Congress stands with the people of Haiti in their time of need, and I look forward to working with my colleagues as we continue to respond to this remarkable disaster." "In the midst of this horrific disaster, we must do everything we can to help the people of Haiti and the aid workers working so feverishly on the ground to help them," said Republican Whip Cantor. "In times of catastrophe and need, the outpouring of good faith and generosity of our citizens always inspires, and we should do all that we can to encourage and empower that. After reading about and seeing the devastation in Haiti, I reached out to Congressman Clyburn to see whether we could work in tandem to get this effort started. In this time of tragedy, I am glad that politics can be put aside so that we can work together work to provide assistance, comfort and resources to the people of Haiti and their families." Congress passed similar legislation in January of 2005 in response to the Indian Ocean tsunami. The bill, H.R. 241, approved during the 109th Congress, passed the House of Representatives without objection and the Senate by unanimous consent.
01.13.2010	House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn released the following statement today in response to the recent earthquake in Haiti. Americans seeking information about relatives in Haiti should contact the State Department Operations Center at 1-888-407-4747. "Today I join Americans and the world community in expressing my sadness and concern with the destruction and loss as a result of the recent earthquake in Haiti. Today President Obama declared that our government's response to this crisis will be 'swift, coordinated and aggressive.' My colleagues in Congress and I will do all we can to fulfill the President's promise to provide the citizens of Haiti the relief they will need in the coming weeks and months. My thoughts and prayers are with the people of Haiti as they work to recover from this terrible disaster."
01.08.2010	WASHINGTON, DC-House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn today released the following statement on the jobs report released by the Labor Department. "The December jobs report shows that recovering from the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression is an uphill climb, and we still have a lot of work to do to put the country back on stronger footing. Thanks to the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act 1.6 million jobs have been saved or created and the nation experienced the biggest six month economic turnaround in 29 years, but unemployment is still at 10 percent and Americans are hurting. "In December the House passed The Jobs on Main Street Act which will create or save jobs here at home by redirecting TARP funds from Wall Street to Main Street. It includes targeted investments for highways and transit, school renovation, hiring teachers, police, and firefighters, small business, job training and affordable housing - key drivers of economic growth that have the most bang for the buck. "And today a report from the Center for American Progress shows that health reform legislation will slow the growth of medical costs and allow employers to create 4 million jobs over the next decade. "I look forward to working with the President and my Senate colleagues in the coming weeks on making law a jobs package and landmark health insurance legislation in order to create good-paying jobs and generate sustainable economic growth." To see the report from the Center for American Progress on health reform and job creation click here.
01.07.2010	(Columbia, SC) – House Majority Whip and Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn announced today the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency has awarded $3.5 million to South Carolina counties to help serve the homeless and hungry during these difficult economic times. The awarded Emergency Food and Shelter Program (EFSP) funds are more than double the amount provided to South Carolina a year ago. “I am pleased the federal government is responding to the needs of our most vulnerable citizens,” Congressman Clyburn said. “As we rebuild our economy, we must ensure that those in economic crisis don’t fall through the cracks, and this federal investment will go a long way.” EFSP funds were first authorized by Congress in 1983 and are appropriated annually under the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act. With the FY 2010 allocation, more than $3.6 billion in federal aid will have been disbursed through the EFSP since its inception. In addition, 8% of the year’s total EFSP appropriation will be allocated by the National Board to “set-aside committees” at the state level. These State Set-Aside Committees will make funding determinations to aid the needy in jurisdictions with increased needs or that did not otherwise qualify for assistance. In each county, a Local Board advertises the availability of the funds, establishes local priorities, selects local non-profit and government agencies to receive supplemental funding, and monitors program compliance. The Local Board’s composition mirrors the EFSP National Board. Member agencies of the National Board include: American Red Cross; Catholic Charities USA; National Council of the Churches of Christ in the U.S.A.; The Jewish Federations of North America; The Salvation Army; and, United Way Worldwide. Information on the EFSP grants for FY 2010 (“Phase 28” of the EFSP) is available on their website at www.efsp.unitedway.org. Here are the funding levels for South Carolina counties: Emergency Food and Shelter ProgramFY 2010 – “Phase 28” – South Carolina Allocations Abbeville County $24,003 Aiken County $105,121 Allendale County $10,993 Anderson County $151,643 Bamberg County $15,710 Barnwell County $23,528 Berkeley County $120,253 Calhoun County $12,432 Charleston County $220,878 Cherokee County $61,877 Chester County $47,576 Chesterfield County $47,442 Clarendon County $28,706 Colleton County $33,705 Darlington County $62,663 Dillon County $31,955 Dorchester County $91,947 Edgefield County $16,971 Fairfield County $22,727 Florence County $105,848 Georgetown County $54,341 Greenville County $319,739 Greenwood County $58,272 Hampton County $17,802 Horry County $227,198 Jasper County $15,236 Kershaw County $47,131 Lancaster County $79,174 Laurens County $56,358 Lee County $18,188 Lexington County $154,863 McCormick County $8,352 Marion County $40,974 Marlboro County $35,337 Newberry County $31,346 Oconee County $62,055 Orangeburg County $96,339 Pickens County $87,853 Richland County $242,315 Saluda County $12,536 Spartanburg County $238,829 Sumter County $82,987 Union County $34,981 Williamsburg County $35,322 York County $220,804 State Set-Aside Committee, SC $54,150 South Carolina Total $3,568,460
01.04.2010	(Columbia, S.C.) – House Majority Whip and Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn issued the following statement regarding Congressman Henry Brown’s announcement today that he will retire at the end of this term. “Henry Brown is a great friend and an outstanding elected official. His public service has always had as its centerpiece the best interests of South Carolina and the first Congressional district. Though our political views and approaches are often different, Henry is someone I have always been able to rely upon to be honest and trustworthy. It has been a pleasure to work with Henry on behalf of our state and its people, and I look forward to serving with him for the remainder of the 111th Congress.”
12.22.2009	(Charleston, SC) – Sixth District Congressman and House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn and First District Congressman Henry Brown today announced federal investments in two coastal communities. The Little River Medical Center in Horry County has been awarded $5.5 million in American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) funding to support community health centers. The City of Georgetown has been awarded $2.25 million from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to improve drainage along US 17/City Hall drainage basin. The Little River Medical Center funding is part of the nearly $600 million in ARRA competitively-awarded grants. To qualify for the funding, a health facility must be a Federally Qualified “Community” Health Center. Grants will be provided through the Facility Investment Program (FIP) program to address pressing health center facility needs. “As an outspoken advocate of Community Health Centers, I applaud this award,” Congressman Clyburn said. “The Little River Medical Center provides a tremendous service for Horry County residents who have fallen through the cracks of our nation’s health care system.” “As we experience such harsh economic times and continued high unemployment, these funds will provide much needed relief to the residents of Horry County served by the Little River Medical Center.” Congressman Brown said. The new ARRA funds are the latest in a series of grants awarded to community health centers, which deliver preventive and primary care services at more than 7,500 service delivery sites around the country to patients regardless of their ability to pay. Health centers serve more than 17 million patients, about 40 percent of whom have no health insurance. One other South Carolina federally designated community health center also received funding. Beaufort-Jasper Comprehensive Health Services will receive $7.9 million as part of this round of ARRA funding. The FEMA grant will enable the City of Georgetown to reduce frequent flooding and expand system capacities of flood hazard and storm water quality mitigation. These upgrades have been recommended in several studies for Georgetown. “This federal funding will support a proven need in the Georgetown community, and improve the quality of life for local residents who endure impassible flooding when there is a heavy rainfall like we have seen in recent weeks,” Congressman Clyburn said. “Improving the City of Georgetown’s flood and storm water system has long been a priority of mine and I have requested federal assistance for this project through both the unfinished Highway Bill and the soon-to-be-completed Water Resources Development Act (WRDA),” Congressman Brown said. “As these legislative vehicles have been delayed, I am pleased that this grant will begin the process of alleviating this dangerous situation.” The FEMA grant will require local matching funds of $750,000.
12.22.2009	(Columbia, SC) – Sixth District Congressman and House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn said today rural South Carolina has receive an early Christmas present courtesy of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “Today I have received ARRA funding announcements that directly impact rural communities in South Carolina,” Congressman Clyburn said. “These grants are evidence that the Obama Administration and the Democratic Congress have not ignored the needs of our rural areas which have been especially hard hit during these tough economic times.” Today the United States Department of Commerce’s National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) awarded a $1.7 million grant to Connected Nation to increase broadband access and adoption in South Carolina through better data collection and broadband planning. NTIA has awarded Connected Nation approximately $1.2 million for broadband data collection and mapping activities over a two-year period and almost $500,000 for broadband planning activities over a five-year period in South Carolina. “I am pleased to see progress being made on providing broadband access to rural and underserved communities in South Carolina,” Congressman Clyburn said. “This is the first step in quantifying the need in our state so we can devise a comprehensive strategy to close the digital divide.” The State Broadband Data and Development Grant Program is a matching grant program that implements the joint purposes of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and the Broadband Data Improvement Act (BDIA). The program will provide grants to assist states or their designees in gathering and verifying state-specific data on the availability, speed, location, and technology type of broadband services. The data they collect and compile will also be used to develop publicly available state-wide broadband maps and to inform the comprehensive, interactive, and searchable national broadband map that NTIA is required by the Recovery Act to create and make publicly available by February 17, 2011. Subsequent NTIA grants will be made to adopt, implement and build out the strategy that develops as a result of this mapping initiative. In addition, Congressman Clyburn released the most recent information regarding American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) awards from the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to South Carolina’s Sixth Congressional District as of December 1, 2009. To date, the Sixth District has received $51 million in USDA ARRA funding. An additional $142 million in USDA ARRA funds have been awarded to regional projects that include the Sixth District. “This funding is very important to the health and well being of our citizens in South Carolina and to vital projects that will help improve economic opportunities in rural areas,” Congressman Clyburn said. “These funds will help rural communities and the folks who live there build the infrastructure to begin turning the economy around.” USDA was appropriated $28 billion (3.5%) of the total ARRA funding. Of this amount, approximately $20 billion was provided to increase monthly nutrition assistance benefits to over 33 million people. In addition, USDA will: Expand opportunities for broadband loans and grants to rural communities Provide over 80,000 home loans in rural areas; Construct or repair rural water and waste treatment facilities; Protect and conserve the nation’s forests and farm land; Improve, develop, and finance business, industry, and employment while improving the economic and environmental climate in rural communities. See the attached PDFs with specific project information for the Sixth District and the region. For more information on these projects, contact Erin Hannigan with the USDA press office at 2020-720-9962.
12.14.2009	(Washington, DC) – Sixth District Congressman and House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn announced today that Tekeisha King of Bowman has been selected by the Speaker of the House as a Congressional Page for the Spring 2010 session. Congressman Clyburn nominated the junior at Bethune Bowman High School for the program. “Tekeisha is a very well-rounded student who has demonstrated the talent and ambition needed to succeed in the highly competitive Page program,” Congressman Clyburn said. “I am pleased to have such a remarkable young woman representing South Carolina and the Sixth Congressional District as a Congressional Page.” In her Page application, Tekeisha indicated her career goal is to become a federal judge on the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals. “I believe that becoming a Page will help assist me in gaining the knowledge I need to pursue my long life goal…Most importantly, I feel I can contribute and be a great asset to the U.S. House of Representatives Page Program because I am a dynamic worker who believes in accomplishing my goals and ‘getting the job done’ no matter what it may take,” she wrote.Tekeisha maintains the highest grade point average in her grade and is a member of the National Honors Society while serving on student council. She has been in the band, and on the volleyball, softball and track and field teams. She attained the rank of Sergeant First Class in JROTC, and was selected to participate in the Clemson Academically Talented Student Program. She is also active in her church and volunteers for the Adopt-a-Highway Program. Pages assist Members of Congress with their legislative duties, deliver correspondence and small packages within the congressional complex, answer phones in the Member cloakrooms, and prepare the House Floor for sessions. High school juniors with a GPA of 3.0 or higher in core academic subjects may apply to work as Pages in the U.S. House of Representatives for a fall or spring appointment. While serving the House, Pages live in Washington D.C. and attend classes at the House Page School. Tekeisha is the daughter of Keith and Ruby King, both of Bowman.
12.10.2009	(Washington, DC) – Sixth District Congressman and House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn today announced he has secured more than $11.3 million in the Consolidated Appropriations Act for South Carolina projects. The bill passed the House today, and is expected to be approved by the Senate next week. “I am pleased these federal investments will be coming to South Carolina to help rebuild and restore our economy,” Congressman James E. Clyburn said. “Local entities identified and requested these projects because local leaders believe they were needed and important to the future growth and development of their communities. I am proud to support their vision.” Below is a list of projects and funding levels requested by Congressman Clyburn in the bill: Funding Agency Recipient Purpose Amount Department of Education Columbia College Masters Degree program for divergent learning $200,000 Department of Education Trident Technical College Nursing education program $500,000 Department of Health & Human Services SC HIV/AIDS Council HIV/AIDS prevention $200,000 Department of Health & Human Services Healthy Learners Rural health outreach $110,000 Department of Health & Human Services Morris College Facilities and equipment $275,000 Department of Health & Human Services Palmetto Health Foundation Facilities and equipment $375,000 Institute of Museum & Library Services Town of Jamestown Books and materials for Jamestown County Library $100,000 Military Construction/Veterans Administration South Carolina McEntire Air National Guard Base Joint Force Headquarters Building $1,300,000 Housing & Urban Development City of Charleston Construction of the International African American Museum $525,000 Federal Aviation Administration Florence Regional Airport Drainage and concourse improvements $500,000 Federal Highway Administration Orangeburg County I-95/SC301 Interchange $1,700,000 Federal Highway Administration City of Columbia Harden Street reconstruction $500,000 Federal Highway Administration City of Columbia North Main Street $500,000 Small Business Administration The Export Consortium I-95 Corridor Project—develop export opportunities for companies along the corridor $150,000 Small Business Administration University of South Carolina Innovista Center for Entrepreneurial Development $100,000 Department of Education Save the Children Literacy program $100,000 NASA ScienceSouth Technology, engineering and scientific programs $500,000 Department of Justice Claflin University Forensic s laboratory $1,000,000 Department of Justice Orangeburg Consolidated School District Five Alternative youth education program $500,000 Department of Justice Pee Dee Boys and Girls Club At-risk youth intervention $400,000 Department of Justice Sumter Sheriff’s Department Visual intelligence technology $1,000,000 Department of Justice Old Bethel CDC, Charleston At-risk youth programs $300,000 Department of Justice A Better Way Project gang-out $250,000 Department of Justice Voorhees College Domestic Violence program $250,000 TOTAL $11,335,000 The Consolidated Appropriations Act includes federal spending for Fiscal Year 2010 for Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies; Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies; Financial Services and General Government; Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies; Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies; and State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs. Combined, the six bills total $446.8 billion in discretionary budget authority.
12.07.2009	(Columbia, SC) – Sixth District Congressman and House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn today released the following statement regarding the passing of former South Carolina State Treasurer Grady Patterson: “I am deeply saddened by the passing of my good friend, Grady Patterson. He was a war hero, a statesman, and always a Southern gentleman. You could always count on Grady to be true to his word and to do what he thought was right for the people of South Carolina. The leadership he demonstrated and the great example he set will be sorely missed. My thoughts and prayers are with Marjorie and the entire Patterson family.”
11.07.2009	(Washington, DC) – The U.S. House of Representatives last night passed the Affordable Health Care for America Act by a vote of 220-215. Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn was responsible for “whipping” the vote in his role as House Majority Whip. He made the following statement following the bill’s passage: "This is an historic day for the American people. The House has taken the first giant step toward providing quality, affordable health care for nearly every American. "We worked hard to craft a bill that offers security and stability to all Americans, reduces costs, improves coverage and preserves our choice of doctors, hospitals and health plans. The Affordable Health Care for America Act accomplishes those goals. "It took us more than 60 years to come this close to providing access to quality health care for all Americans, but we still have a ways to go. We cannot let this opportunity pass without enacting true reform."
11.05.2009	(Washington, DC) - House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn today released a report compiled by the Energy and Commerce Committee analyzing the impact the Affordable Health Care for America Act will have on South Carolina and the 6th Congressional District. The report predicts that over 300,000 6th district residents will see improvement in their employer-based benefits, nearly 200,000 households will receive credits to help pay for coverage and around 100,000 uninsured residents will receive coverage. “The Energy and Commerce committee report not only demonstrates the comprehensiveness of the Affordable Health Care for America Act but the urgency with which Congress must act to enact health care reform. To see how many of my neighbors in need of better health care benefit from this initiative renews my commitment to provide Americans with a better health care system. “This legislation will provide relief to the district’s middle class residents and improve the coverage insured residents already receive. The roughly 50 percent of district residents who receive employer-based health coverage will no longer face rate increases or coverage restrictions due to pre-existing conditions and there will be no co-pays or deductibles for preventative care. What’s more, nearly 200,000 families will qualify for credits that reduce the cost of coverage. “The district’s 114,000 Medicare beneficiaries’ will have their coverage improve with free preventive and wellness care, improved primary and coordinated care and nursing home quality and a strengthened Medicare Trust Fund. Furthermore, the 6,200 seniors in the district deprived coverage because they fall within the donut hole will receive immediate relief and the donut hole will be completely eliminated by 2019. “Small businesses with up to 100 employees will be able to join the health insurance exchange, providing them with a greater choice of insurance options and reducing costs through competition. Over 15,000 district businesses will be able to join the exchange. Business with 25 employees or fewer will be eligible for tax credits that will reduce insurances costs up to 50 percent, benefiting nearly 15,000 district businesses.”
11.02.2009	(Columbia, S.C.) – House Majority Whip and Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn secured $17.6 million in this year’s appropriations bills for agriculture, energy, water, homeland security and national parks projects for South Carolina. Each of the entities receiving funding made a request of Congressman Clyburn for assistance. “I am pleased to respond to the needs of South Carolinians by securing federal funding for projects indentified by local entities,” Congressman Clyburn said. “These projects meet goals of the federal government and benefit South Carolina by supporting preservation, infrastructure, and research and development initiatives.” These earmarks were including in appropriations bills that have been signed into law by the President. Agency Recipient Project Amount National Parks Service Congaree National Park Land acquisition--Purchase of part of the Riverstone tract $1,320,000 National Parks Service Historic Columbia Foundation Modjeska Simkins Home Restoration $150,000 Environmental Protection Agency Town of Coward Drinking water and wastewater improvements $500,000 Army Corps of Engineers Lake Marion Regional Water Agency Continue work on water/sewer line reaches $4,170,000 Department of Energy/ National Nuclear Security Administration Historically Black Colleges and Universities STEMS programs $10,000,000 Federal Emergency Management Agency Williamsburg County Sheriff’s Department Williamsburg County Emergency Operations Center $1,000,000 National Institute of Food and Agriculture Claflin University Cellulosic Biomass $469,000 TOTAL $17,609,000 There are seven other appropriations bills pending in the Congress for fiscal year 2010.
10.30.2009	(Columbia, SC) – Sixth District Congressman and House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn today commended Laurie Lawson on his selection to reprise his role as State Executive Director of South Carolina’s Farm Service Agency (FSA). “I am pleased Laurie is bringing his expertise back to our local FSA office,” Congressman Clyburn said. “He did a remarkable job during the Clinton Administration, and he has the knowledge and relationships necessary to hit the ground running. South Carolina’s rural communities need Laurie’s leadership especially in these difficult times.” Laurie Lawson is a native of Darlington. He has over fifty years of experience dealing with rural and agricultural issues in South Carolina. For the past eight years, Mr. Lawson served as Assistant to the Vice President of Public Service and Agriculture at Clemson University. He has served as Chairman of the South Carolina Agriculture Commission from 1979 to 1987. In addition to his public service, Mr. Lawson managed Lawson Farms. His family has been in the farming business since 1834. He has a B.A degree in Agronomy from Clemson University. He is a recipient of multiple honors and awards, including the “Order of the Palmetto,” South Carolina’s highest reward, by Governor Dick Riley. ###
09.21.2009	Washington, DC) – Sixth District Congressman and House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn today applauded the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s announcement that the Columbia and Charleston housing authorities will be receiving a total of $13 million in funding through a competitive process to create energy efficient communities through substantial rehabilitation or new construction of public housing developments. “This is a tremendous investment in our public housing communities,” Congressman Clyburn said. “With this Recovery Act funding, we are creating new jobs and setting an example for neighborhoods to follow in improving their energy efficiency.” The Columbia Housing Authority will receive $10 million to construct 60 affordable rental units and 36 homeownership units at The River’s Edge. All units will be built with features such as thermopane windows, energy star appliances and plumbing fixtures that will conserve water. The River’s Edge was purchased and cleared in 2001; it is located within the City of Columbia along the Broad River. Gilbert Walker, Executive Director of the Columbia Housing Authority, said, “We are very excited about beginning this new project. We have had great success with building green units and are looking forward to seeing this community become reality.” The Housing Authority of the City of Charleston will receive $3,280,038 for renovations and new construction on Reid Street. The project will retrofit four existing units with new energy star technology that will serve as a model for renovations on other units on the property. In addition, a vacant site that has been part of the property for 25 years will be used to build eight new energy efficient units. “We are ecstatic about these funds. This is a wonderful opportunity to put people to work and reduce our inventory of those needing public housing,” said Don Cameron, Executive Director of the Housing Authority of the City of Charleston. These grants are part of the $1 billion allocated for the Public Housing Capital Fund in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) of 2009. This is in addition to the nearly $3 billion in Recovery Act funds distributed to more than 3,100 public housing authorities just eight days after the enactment of the ARRA. This latest announcement includes $300 million for 36 “green” public housing transformation projects across the country. These funds are to be used for transformational activities that will substantially increase energy efficiency and environmental performance of public housing properties. The funding will reduce energy costs, generate resident and housing authority energy savings, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions attributable to energy consumption. # # #
09.18.2009	(Washington, DC) – House Majority Whip and Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn today commended the U.S. Department of the Interior for allocating $1 million in American Recovery and Reinvestment Act funds to restore Chappelle Auditorium at Allen University in Columbia. “I am so pleased that Chappelle Auditorium is included in the U.S. Department of the Interior’s announcement of historic preservation projects on Historically Black College and University campuses,” Congressman Clyburn said. “Historic preservation is one of my passions and Chappelle Auditorium has such a rich history. It was the gathering place for the Black community in Columbia when other public auditoriums didn’t allow African Americans access.” According to a history on Allen University’s website, Chappelle Auditorium's seating capacity of 700 made it home to countless organizations and community events. The auditorium was the site of the meeting that initiated the efforts led to the landmark case Brown vs. the Board of Education. Nationally known musicians and artists, including Leontyne Price, Brooks Benton and Langston Hughes performed in the auditorium. Other notable appearances include: Mary McCloud Bethune, Reverend Martin Luther King, Muhammad Ali, Reverend Jesse Jackson, George Elmore, John H. McCray and Senator Strom Thurmond. Chappelle Auditorium is one of many buildings included in the Allen University Historic District, which is bounded by Taylor, Harden, Hampton and Pine Streets. It was designed by John Anderson Langford (1874-1946), who has been heralded as the 'Dean of Black Architects,’ and served as the official architect of the AME Church. The auditorium was named in honor of Bishop William D. Chappelle, an Allen University President. On April 14, 1975, Chappelle Auditorium was recognized by the U.S. Department of the Interior and placed on the National Register of Historic Landmarks. Today’s announcement was made by Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar, who committed $14.25 million for the preservation of 20 structures at Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) nationwide. Allen University is the only recipient in South Carolina. The Department made these funds available under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) for projects that will repair and preserve campus buildings listed on the National Register of Historic Places. “The recovery funds not only will restore historic buildings on these campuses but also will provide a boost to individuals and companies performing the repairs, college communities and related local economies,” Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar said today. The National Park Service invited all HBCUs to submit grant applications for grants to repair and preserve historic buildings on their campuses. The buildings selected for this apportionment of grant funds were assessed as being the most architecturally and historically significant buildings on these HBCU campuses, and as needing essential repairs to preserve them and make them useable. These much needed repairs will address issues such as termite and wood rot damage, leaking roofs and water damage, asbestos and lead paint removal, masonry work, electrical rewiring, heating, air conditioning and ventilation systems and achieving accessibility for disabled persons. The full list of the funding amounts made available to HBCU projects follows. For additional information regarding HBCU grants programs, contact Linda Hall, National Park Service, Southeast Regional Office at (404) 507-5779. FY 2009 HBCU ECONOMIC RECOVERY GRANT RECIPIENTSARRA (STIMULUS BILL) SCHOOL PROJECT GRANT AMOUNTAWARDED 1. Alcorn State Univ.( Alcorn State, MS ) Belles Lettres Hall $400,000 2. Allen University( Columbia, S.C. ) Chappelle Auditorium 1,000,000 3. Bennett College( Greensboro, N.C. ) Ethel Black Hall 400,000 4. Central State Univ.( Wilberforce, OH ) Emery Hall 1,750,000 5. Cheyney University( Cheyney, PA ) Melrose Cottage 300,000 6. Clark Atlanta University( Atlanta, GA ) Trevor Arnett Hall 400,000 7. Dillard University( New Orleans, LA ) Camphor/Hartzell Complex 800,000 8. Elizabeth City State University( Elizabeth City, NC ) Moore Hall 500,000 9. Fisk University( Nashville, TN ) John Wesley Work House 989,516 10. Florida A&M Univ.( Tallahassee, FL ) George M. Sampson Hall 700,000 11. Harris Stowe State University( Saint Louis, MO ) Vashon Community Center 1,000,000 12. Howard University( Washington, D.C. ) Miner Normal School 800,000 13. Kentucky State Univ.( Frankfort, KY ) Old Federal Bldg. and Post Office 1,000,000 14. Langston University( Langston, OK ) Cottage Row Historic Dist. 500,000 15. Meharry Medical College( Nashville, TN ) Hulda Margaret Lyttle Hall 1,000,000 16. St. Paul’s College( Lawrenceville, VA ) The Saul BuildingFine Arts Building 349,706245,000 17. Talladega College( Talladega, AL ) Foster Hall 700,000 18. Tougaloo College( Tougaloo, MS ) John W. Boddie House 829,007 19. West Virginia State University( Institute, WV ) African Zion Bapt. Church 123,570 20. Xavier University( New Orleans, LA ) Administration Building 463,201 # # #
09.15.2009	(Washington, DC) – House Majority Whip and Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn is bringing a little bit of the Gullah/Geechee culture to Washington, DC later this month. Dr. Emory Campbell, Chair of the Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor Commission, and Michael Allen, the National Park Services Gullah/Geechee Coordinator, will participate in a forum at the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation’s Annual Legislative Conference on Thursday, September 24th. The forum will explore the Commission’s efforts to recognize and sustain an environment that celebrates the legacy and continuing contributions of Gullah/Geechee people to our American heritage. “There has been so much excitement generated by the creation of the Gullah/Geechee Heritage Corridor that I wanted my colleagues in Washington to learn of the extraordinary work the Commission is doing to preserve and protect this unique culture,” Congressman Clyburn said. “We also want to give CBC ALC participants an opportunity to give the Commission input on the future of the Corridor as they work toward a comprehensive management plan.” In 2006, Congressman Clyburn authored legislation that Congress enacted establishing the Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor, which extends roughly from Wilmington, NC to Jacksonville Florida. In early 2009, the Commission embarked on a series of 21 public meetings for the development of a management plan that will take three years to complete. Over the coming months, the Commission will work diligently to develop strategies for expanding partnership and fund raising. The Commission will also be seeking additional comments from governmental entities, elected officials, and local residents on how Gullah/Geechee resources, arts, and traditions should be preserved, interpreted and managed in the future. The forum on September 24th at the Washington Convention Center Room 143B from 9:30-10:30 AM is an excellent opportunity to be part of the Commission’s planning process and to learn more about the Gullah/Geechee culture. # # #
08.25.2009	(Columbia, SC) – House Majority Whip and Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn issued the following statement today on the selection of Vernita Dore to lead the South Carolina USDA Rural Development office. "I am pleased with the White House's announcement today that Vernita Dore will be the first African American woman to serve as State Director of the South Carolina Rural Development Office. She has worked with the agency since 1987, and has the expertise and skills needed to lead this agency in a proactive direction. "South Carolina's rural areas are struggling as cotton and tobacco are no longer the economic engines they once were. I believe Ms. Dore has the vision and the passion to help build new economies in our rural communities. I look forward to working with her in this new capacity to ensure our rural areas, especially those along the I-95 corridor, receive the support and resources necessary to improve their quality of life." # # #
06.23.2009	(Columbia, SC) – Sixth District Congressman and House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn today announced the Low Country Healthy Start Program serving Allendale, Hampton, Bamberg and Orangeburg counties will receive $1.1 million over the next five years through the Healthy Start program at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The program is dedicated to ensuring that low-income and disadvantaged pregnant women receive the health care they need. Services include outreach, home visitation, case management, health education, perinatal depression screening, interconceptional care and other effective approaches to ensure a healthy birth and a healthy pregnancy. “I am pleased the Low Country Healthy Start Program has been selected to receive this funding,” said Congressman Clyburn. “Healthy Start is exactly the type of community-based prevention program that will save lives and also millions of dollars in health care costs down the road.” Mrs. Virginia Berry White, Project Director of Low Country Healthy Start Program, stated: “Congressman Clyburn has been a true champion for our program. This funding will allow Healthy Start to continue providing community-based services to improve the health of mothers and babies.” Low Country Healthy Start is one of 100 Healthy Start sites across the country specifically focused on reducing infant mortality, reducing the incidence of low birthweight babies and eliminating racial disparities in perinatal outcomes. An area is eligible for Healthy Start if it has an infant mortality rate 1.5 times the national average. The federal Healthy Start Initiative receives $100 million in funding from the Maternal and Child Health Bureau of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Service’s Health Resources and Services Administration. Established in 1991, Healthy Start is comprised of approximately 100 community-based programs that respond to the medical, social, cultural and social service needs of women and their infants. Low Country Healthy Start is a member of the National Healthy Start Association (NHSA). For more information, go to http://www.lchealthystart.org/aboutus.htm. The NHSA supports the expansion of efforts that are rooted in the community and actively involve community members in their design and implementation. For information, visit www.healthystartassoc.org, or contact the NHSA at 202-296-2195. ###
06.15.2009	(Washington, DC) – Sixth District Congressman and House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn today announced a new interest-free loan program for small businesses created by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act is now available to many local small businesses. The newly launched “America’s Recovery Capital” (ARC) program allows small firms to take out loans of $35,000 to pay down existing business debts. Borrowers pay no interest on the ARC loans and repayment does not begin for one year. “There are many businesses throughout South Carolina that would be viable in the long term if they could just make it through these difficult economic times,” said Congressman Clyburn. “We created this initiative as part of the ARRA to give entrepreneurs the breathing room they need, so they can pay their bills, retain employees and play their traditional role as job creators in our economic recovery.” To qualify for the ARC loans, small firms must demonstrate they are experiencing immediate financial hardship due to the economic downturn, but are otherwise deemed by the Small Business Administration (SBA) to be viable. The loans will be made by commercial lenders and can be used for payments of principal and interest for existing, qualifying small business debts like credit card obligations, mortgages, lines of credit, and balances due to suppliers, vendors, and utilities. In addition to the ARC loan program, the ARRA contained other measures aimed at helping small firms access credit. For instance, the new law increases the percentage of a loan that the SBA can guarantee, makes SBA-backed loans more affordable and provides tools to unfreeze the small business credit markets, helping small companies access capital at affordable rates. “Small businesses are our nation’s most reliable job creators, generating seven out of ten new jobs,” Congressman Clyburn continued. “If our nation is going to lift itself out of this recession, we need entrepreneurs to start growing again. The ARC loan program is one element in a whole series of initiatives in the Recovery Act aimed at giving small firms the tools they need to lead our nation back to prosperity.” To apply for ARC loans, businesses should visit their local SBA-approved small business lenders. The loans will be available through Sept. 30, 2010, or until appropriated funding runs out. Additional information about the ARC loan program is available at http://www.sba.gov/recovery/arcloanprogram/index.html. # # #
06.05.2009	Congressman Clyburn Announces New Staff Visits to Sixth District Communities (Columbia, SC) – Sixth District Congressman and House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn today announced a new schedule for his staff’s regular office hours as they travel throughout the district. “Serving constituents is one of the most important duties of a Congressional office,” Congressman Clyburn said. “My staff meets with constituents in all 15 of the Sixth District’s counties on a regular basis. I encourage local residents to take advantage of this opportunity to talk with my staff in person regarding issues pertaining to the federal government.” Residents of the Sixth Congressional District are encouraged to visit one of the following field visit locations in their county to seek assistance from Congressman Clyburn. Appointments are also available to meet with staff members in each of Congressman Clyburn’s district offices. Call the office in your area for an appointment: Columbia (803)799-1100, Florence (843)662-1212, North Charleston (843)529-2708, and Santee (803)854-4700. 2009 Field Visit Schedule COUNTY AND CONGRESSIONAL STAFF MEMBER LOCATION VISIT DATE EACH MONTH OFFICE HOURS LOCATIONCONTACT NUMBERS Bamberg CountyCarlton Askew(803)854-4700 Bamberg Town Hall2340 Main Hwy.Bamberg, SC Denmark Town Hall4768 Carolina Hwy.Denmark, SC 1st Thursday1st Thursday 10:30 AM-12:30 PM2:00-4:00 PM (803)245-5128(803)793-3734 Berkeley County Carlton Askew (Cross)(803)854-4700 Cross Community CenterOld Ninety Six Hwy.Cross, SC 1st Wednesday 10:30 AM-2:30 PM (843)753-2076 Calhoun CountyCarlton Askew(803)854-4700 Calhoun County Courthouse902 Fr. Huff Dr.St. Matthews, SC 2nd Thursday 10:30 AM-12:00 PM (803)874-3524 Charleston CountyClay Middleton(843)529-2708 Berkeley, Charleston, Dorchester Council of Governments Bldg.1362 McMillan Ave, Suite 100N. Charleston, SCClyburn Community Center5779 Parkers Ferry RoadAdams Run, SC Mondays, Tuesdays,2nd & 5th Wednesdays,1st Thursdays1st Wednesday 10:00 AM-5:00 PM10:00 AM-5:00 PM (843)529-2708(843)737-2152 Clarendon CountyGail Stukes(803)854-4700 Clarendon District #1Adult Ed. & Parenting Center1 Larry King Hwy.Summerton, SCManning Judicial Bldg.102 S. Mill StreetManning, SCTurbeville Town Hall1400 Main St.Turbeville, SC 1st Wednesday2nd & 4th Wednesdays3rd Wednesday 9:00 AM-5:00 PM9:00 AM-5:00 PM9:00 AM-5:00 PM (803)485-6156(803)435-2670(843)659-2781 Colleton CountyClay Middleton(843)529-2708 Walterboro City Council242 Hampton St.Walterboro, SC 3rd Wednesday & 3rd Thursday 10:30 AM-5:00 PM (843)549-2545 Dorchester CountyCarlton Askew(803)854-4700 St. George Clemson Extension201 Johnston St.St. George, SC 2nd Wednesday 2:00-4:00 PM (803)874-3524 Florence CountyKenny Barnes(843)662-1212 Lake City Public Service Bldg.345 S. Ron McNair Blvd.Lake City, SCTimmonsville Town Hall115 E. Main St.,Timmonsville, SCJohnsonville Town Hall111 W. Broad Way St.Johnsonville, SC 2nd Tuesday2nd Thursday4th Monday 10:00 AM-12:00 PM2:00-4:00 PM10:00 AM-12:00 PM (843)394-8575(843)346-7942(843)386-2069 Georgetown CountyClay Middleton(843)529-2708 Andrews Town Hall101 N. Morgan Ave.Andrews, SC 2nd Thursday 10:00 AM-4:00 PM (843)264-8666 Lee CountyKenny Barnes(843)662-1212 Lynchburg Town Hall81 Magnolia St.Lynchburg, SC 2nd Thursday 10:00 AM-12:00 PM (803)437-2933 Marion CountyKenny Barnes(843)662-1212 Marion/Mullins Multi-Purpose Bldg.137 Airport Court, Suite JMullins, SC 3rd Monday 9:30-11:30 AM (843)423-8237 Orangeburg CountyCarlton Askew(803)854-4700Gail Stukes(803)854-4700 Orangeburg County Annex1437 Amelia StreetOrangeburg, SCSantee Cultural Arts Center176 Brooks Blvd.Santee, SC 1st & 3rd Monday(Carlton Askew) Every Monday & Friday (Gail Stukes)2nd Tuesday(Carlton Askew) 10:00 AM-4:00 PM9:00-5:00 PM (803)533-1000(803)854-4700 Sumter CountyCarlton Askew(803)854-4700 Shiloh Community Center475 Pudding Swamp Rd.Shiloh, SCClyburn IntermodalTransportation Center129 S. Harvin StreetSumter, SC 1st Tuesday2nd & 4th Monday2nd Thursday 10:30 AM-12:30 PM10:00 AM-4:00 PM2:00-4:00 PM (843)659-4201(803)883-5020 Williamsburg CountyKenny Barnes(843)662-1212 Kingstree Town Hall401 N. Longstreet St.Kingstree, SCHemingway Town Hall110 S. Main St.Hemingway, SC 2nd Tuesday4th Monday 2:00-4:00 PM2:00-4:00 PM (843)355-7484(843)558-2824 Please note these dates and times are subject to change. Constituents are encouraged to make an appointment with the staff member serving their community in advance of the field visit. # # #
05.29.2009	(Columbia, SC) – Congressman James E. Clyburn is pleased to announce the winner of the Sixth District Congressional Art Competition. This year’s winner is Kaison Smoak, a junior at Orangeburg-Wilkinson High School. He is the thirteenth winner from Orangeburg-Wilkinson in the competition’s 15-year history. “I congratulate Kaison for keeping up the wonderful tradition of excellence at Orangeburg-Wilkinson High School,” Congressman Clyburn said. “A lot of credit must go to Alvin and Bretta Staley, who have provided their artistic talent and tutelage to students at the high school for years.” His colored pencil drawing entitled Self Portrait with Classmates will be displayed on Capitol Hill for the next year in the corridor that connects the Capitol building with the U.S. House of Representatives offices. “Kaison has demonstrated a keen eye and innate talent with his drawing,” Congressman Clyburn continued. “The realistic detail of his artwork made it stand out among the competition. I know his artwork will be a great addition to the Capitol Hill display.” Kaison will travel to Washington, DC for a June 24th recognition ceremony. As the winner of the art competition, he is also eligible for a $1,500 scholarship per year to the Savannah College of Art and Design. NaStaija Partee’, also a junior at Orangeburg-Wilkinson, had two of pieces of her artwork chosen as Honorable Mentions this year. Those pieces are a charcoal pencil drawing entitled Still life with fruits and a colored pencil drawing called Double self-portrait at door. # # #
02.25.2009	(Washington, DC) -- Sixth District Congressman and House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn applauded today’s House passage of the Omnibus 2009 Appropriations Bill, which includes more than $35 million for projects in South Carolina. “I am pleased to direct federal investments to South Carolina that will enhance local communities, encourage economic development, support higher education, improve the effectiveness of law enforcement agencies, and preserve some of our state’s natural and historic treasures,” Congressman Clyburn said. “Each of these projects was requested by South Carolinians who identified a need and made a compelling case to receive federal funding.” Congressionally directed funding are only a small portion of the $410 billion omnibus bill that will keep the government running and finish last year’s business. This bill will fund all federal agencies for the remainder of the 2009 fiscal year. This omnibus legislation was required after President Bush and Congress reached a stalemate over domestic spending in 2008, and a continuing resolution was passed to maintain 2008 spending levels until March 6th. This omnibus makes investments that offer short term help for our economic problems and long term solutions for our economic strength. This legislation will: Increase funding for renewable energy and energy efficiency efforts Make investments in cutting edge science – the driving force behind our economic recovery Improve access to quality, affordable healthcare Invest in K-12 education and help more American families send their kids to college Help American workers through these tough economic times Protect Americans’ access to clean air and water, and safe foods and medicines Eliminate programs that haven’t performed and make sure the programs that are funded meet high standards Strengthen regulatory agencies that have been neglected Congressionally directed funding included in the bill are 5% below last year’s levels, building on the Democratic Congress’ 43% reduction.<!--[endif]--> Here is a list of funds secured by Congressman Clyburn for South Carolina: Agency Recipient Project Description Amount Cooperative State Research Education and Extension Service Claflin University Cellulosic Biomass program $469,000 Department of Justice Colleton County Sheriff's Department Colleton County TechnologyUpgrades $400,000 Department of Justice Sumter County Sheriff’s Department Law enforcement technology upgrades $400,000 Department of Justice Marion County Sheriffs Department Marion County Meth andGang InterventionMullins, South Carolina $500,000 Department of Justice Claflin University Claflin University ForensicDNA LabOrangeburg, SC $700,000 Department of Justice Morris College Morris College Forensics CenterSumter. SC $500,000 Department of Justice Palmetto Youth Connection Juvenile Delinquency Preventionfor girlsColumbia, South Carolina S300,000 Department of Justice Pee Dee Boys and Girls Club At-risk youth intervention Florence, SC S400,000 National Aeronautics and SpaceAdministration ScienceSouth ScienceSouth Learning Center Florence. SC $500,000 Corps of Engineers Lake Marion Regional Water Agency Water lines $10,000,000 Department of Energy SC Historically Black Colleges and Universities science enhancement program $9,990,750 Small Business Administration Engenuity SC Commercialization and Entrepreneurial Training ProjectColumbia, SC $294,772 National Park Service Williamsburg County Williamsburg County Courthouse Restoration $171,000 National Park Service Congaree National Park Land acquisition $2,690,000 Environmental Protection Town of Ehrhardt Water Infrastructure $500,000 Department of Education Columbia College divergent learning programColumbia, SC $190,000 Department of Education Trident Technical College nursing education programCharleston, SC $190,000 Department of Health &Human Services City of Sumter facilities and equipment for the Central Carolina Technical College health sciences center $190,000 Department of Health & Human Morris College facilities and equipmentSumter, SC $333,000 Department of Health & Human Services City of Charleston, SC to implement mental health services in response to catastrophic events (firefighters) $95,000 Institute of Museum & Library Services Johnsonville Public Library Library services and equipmentJohnsonville, SC $48,000 Department of Transportation Santee Wateree Regional Transit Authority Intermodal Transportation Center Buses and Bus Facilities $950,000 Department of Transportation South Carolina Department of Transportation 1-95 / US 301 Interchange Improvement ProjectOrangeburg County, SC $4,607,500 Housing & Urban Development Briggs, DeLaine, Pearson Foundation For the construction of a community facilitySummerton, SC $190,000 Housing & Urban Development Calhoun County for construction of a learning center $190,000 Housing & Urban Development Technical College of the Low Country ,for renovation of Moor HallBeaufort, SC $190,000 Housing & Urban Development City of Charleston for planning, design, construction and build out of the International African American Museum $712,500 TOTAL $35,701,522 The omnibus appropriations measure must still be approved by the Senate and signed by the President before it becomes law. # # #
01.28.2009	(Washington, DC) -- Sixth District Congressman and House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn hailed passage of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act today by the House of Representatives. This legislation is intended to create or save 3 to 4 million American jobs over the next four years, and will invest $3.2 billion over the next 10 years in strengthening South Carolina’s economy. It also reflects the influence of the House Majority Whip. “Whenever I approach legislation in Congress, I view the bill through the lens of South Carolina and the needs of my constituents,” Congressman Clyburn said. “Because of the potential impact of this economic recovery package, I worked to protect South Carolina’s interests and ensure the Palmetto state would benefit from these crucial federal investments. “Our Governor has repeatedly expressed political and philosophical aversion to using federal assistance as we work our way out of the economic conditions that are visiting significant difficulties upon businesses and families throughout our beloved state,” Congressman Clyburn continued. “The leadership of the South Carolina General Assembly sees it differently, and I have worked with them to ensure that South Carolinians receive the benefits of these federal investments.” As House Majority Whip, Congressman Clyburn had a seat at the table as the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act was being developed. Congressman Clyburn made his arguments before President Obama and the House and Senate leadership, and insisted upon including in this bill provisions that allow the South Carolina General Assembly to receive and allocate federal investments if the Governor refuses to do so. He also championed the effort to invest in rural communities, especially those historically left behind. The legislation passed by the House today includes language that requires at least ten percent of rural development funds included in the package will be dedicated to persistent poverty counties that are defined by having 20 percent or more of its population living in poverty over the past 30 years. There are 12 South Carolina counties eligible for these funds -- Allendale, Hampton, Jasper, Colleton, Bamberg, Orangeburg, Clarendon, Lee Williamsburg, Marion, Dillon and Marlboro counties -- all along the I-95 corridor. “South Carolina currently has the third highest unemployment rate in the nation, and in some of these persistent poverty counties the rate has soared as high as 19 percent,” Congressman Clyburn continued. “It is time that investments are made where they are needed most. If the state is unwilling to provide adequate assistance to these communities, as their representative in Congress, it is my duty to make sure they are not neglected.” Congressman Clyburn also offered two amendments that were included in the final version of the bill. The first sets a timetable for Governors to request the federal. If the funds are not requested by the Governor within 45 days, the state legislature can make the request rather than have it revert back to the federal Treasury. “With such challenging economic times, I would have failed my fellow South Carolinians if I had not worked to ensure that the federal money allocated for our state is spent on vital projects that will benefit the greater good and provide much needed jobs at home,” Congressman Clyburn stated. Congressman Clyburn’s second amendment waives the match required for ready-to-go historic preservation projects on Historically Black College and University campuses and provides an additional 15 million dollars for such projects. These are projects that have already received approval of the National Parks Service and are simply waiting for adequate funding to begin renovations. This amendment temporarily suspends law authored by Congressman Clyburn in 2002 that lowered the match for HBCU historic preservation projects from 50 percent to 30 percent on building and structures that were identified by the National Trust as endangered treasures. Despite the lower match rate, many HBCUs struggled to raise the match needed to draw down the federal funding, and many worthy projects are sitting untouched or partially finished due to lack of financing. “I am proud this amendment will help preserve our history, improve our historic higher education institutions, and create jobs in local communities,” Congressman Clyburn concluded. There are a number of other provisions in the legislation that Congressman Clyburn championed during its development: Rural Internet Access: $6 billion to expand broadband internet access so businesses in rural and other underserved areas can link up to the global economy. College Affordability: Making college more affordable through tax credits for college tuition for up to $2,500 per year of school and increasing the Pell Grant by $500. Expanding access to a college education builds the foundation for long-term economic growth. Title I Grants: $26 billion to boost learning in local school districts through Title I grants ($13 billion) to help disadvantaged students reach high academic standards and IDEA Special Education grants ($13 billion) to help special needs children succeed. Improving Bond Markets: Reinvigorating the Market for State and Local Government Bonds will create jobs by getting local projects moving, and providing tax credit and exempt bonds to areas hurt by the recession. Summer Jobs: Provide summer jobs for 1 million youth and job training to nearly 450,000 disadvantaged adults and dislocated workers. Rural Business-Cooperative Service: $100 million for rural business grants and loans to guarantee $2 billion in loans for rural businesses at a time of unprecedented demand due to the credit crunch. Private sector lenders are increasingly turning to this program to help businesses get access to capital. Education for Homeless Children and Youth: $66 million for formula grants to states to provide services to homeless children including meals and transportation when high unemployment and home foreclosures have created an influx of homeless kids. Community Health Centers: $1.5 billion, including $500 million to increase the number of uninsured Americans who receive quality healthcare and $1 billion to renovate clinics and make health information technology improvements. More than 400 applications submitted earlier this year for new or expanded CHC sites remain unfunded. Training Primary Care Providers: $600 million to address shortages and prepare our country for universal healthcare by training primary healthcare providers including doctors, dentists, and nurses as well as helping pay medical school expenses for students who agree to practice in underserved communities through the National Health Service Corps. Neighborhood Stabilization: $4.2 billion to help communities purchase and rehabilitate foreclosed, vacant properties in order to create more affordable housing and reduce neighborhood blight. Homeless Assistance Grants: $1.5 billion for the Emergency Shelter Grant program to provide short term rental assistance, housing relocation, and stabilization services for families during the economic crisis. Funds are distributed by formula. Rural Housing Insurance Fund: $500 million to support $22 billion in direct loans and loan guarantees to help rural families and individuals buy homes during the credit crunch. Last year these programs received a record number of applications. Congressman Clyburn whipped the vote on the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, and it passed with a vote of 244 to 188. This legislation is still subject to change. The Senate is developing its own recovery package, which is expected to be very different than the House-passed legislation. The two versions must then be reconciled in a conference committee before it final bill can be sent to President Obama for his signature. # # # American Recovery and Reinvestment Act Investments in South Carolina Total = $3.2 Billion Covering State ShortfallsState budget deficit offset/fiscal stabilization: $ 905.09 million Financial Assistance ProgramsFood Stamps $389.2 millionSupplemental Social Security Income (SSI) $60.3 million Transportation & InfrastructureHighways/Bridges construction/repair: $ 479.86 millionPublic-transit systems $34.19 millionWater-treatment plants/sewers/pipelines $59.47 million EducationSchool construction/modernization (K-12) $ 208.72 millionEducation/Disabled students $ 200.79 millionPoor school districts (Title I) $191.31 millionEducation technology grants $13.82 millionHead Start program $9.92 millionChild-care and development grants $36.32 millionCollege/University construction/modernization $82.7 millionPell Grants $349.59 million Law EnforcementLaw-enforcement grants $57.15 million HealthPreventative health/health services grant $3.83 millionElderly nutrition services $3.11 million Community AssistanceEmployment services/Job training $65.98 millionHomeless shelters and services $15.9 millionCommunity services block grant $15.36 millionLow-Income Home Energy Assistance program $6.64 million
12.08.2008	(Washington, DC) -- Sixth District Congressman and House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn today congratulates the Manning High School Golden Pride Marching Band on its selection to perform in the historic inaugural parade following President-elect Obama’s swearing in on January 26th, 2009. “This is very exciting news for Ray Francis and his tremendous marching band,” Congressman Clyburn said. “I believe it is very fitting that a high school from the county that launched Brown v. Board of Education should perform in the parade celebrating the election of the first African American President.” Congressman Clyburn wrote a letter of support for the band’s application to perform in the parade. In it he praised their extraordinary talent. “The Golden Pride Marching Band of Manning High is indeed the pride of the South Carolina midlands. In a typical year, the band performs at four to five different field contests throughout the region, as well as several parades taking first place at practically each and every one,” Congressman Clyburn wrote. President-elect Obama enjoyed the Golden Pride’s talent during the campaign when they performed for him at an event at the Clarendon Courthouse. He was so impressed that he invited the band to play at Williams-Brice Stadium when he appeared with Oprah Winfrey before a standing-room only crowd of 32,000. “They obviously made an impact on President-elect Obama during the campaign, and I believe he is rewarding them by making them a part of his inaugural parade,” Congressman Clyburn concluded. “These 85 students have been given a great blessing to be a part of history, and I know they will represent the state of South Carolina well on this international stage.” # # #
12.02.2008	(Florence, SC) -- Sixth District Congressman and House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn met with the Directors of the Councils of Governments representing the counties along the I-95 corridor today to discuss infrastructure needs in the region. Congressman Clyburn called the meeting as part of his effort to address conditions along I-95, which has been dubbed the "Corridor of Shame." "There will be opportunities to work with the incoming Obama Administration to focus attention and federal resources on this corridor that bisects my Congressional district," Congressman Clyburn said. "I plan to use all of the resources available to me to turn the Corridor of Shame into an Oasis of Opportunity." Congressman Clyburn believes an infrastructure package being considered by the Congress to stimulate the economy is a prime vehicle to build a foundation for a vibrant I-95 corridor. He supports using the infrastructure money for projects like roads and bridges, water and sewer, historic preservation and school improvements. "I believe the COGs have insights regarding the needs of their communities, and can be helpful in identifying projects that could immediately put federal investments to work on projects that will put people to work and provide for the common good," Congressman Clyburn said. "The I-95 corridor has the potential to be a great success, and I am committed to doing everything I can to make it so." # # #
10.10.2008	(Columbia, S.C. ) – House Majority Whip and Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn secured $37.382 million in this year’s appropriations cycle for defense, homeland security and military construction projects for South Carolina. Each of the entities receiving funding made a request of Congressman Clyburn for assistance. “I am happy to help my constituents secure the federal funding they need for projects that will enhance our local economies, assist in our nation’s defense, and make our homeland more secure,” Congressman Clyburn said. “These projects were brought to my attention by universities, private sector companies and government agencies to fulfill needs that are important to South Carolina and our nation. It is in my purview to assist them with these projects, and I am pleased to do so.” Here are the projects funded through the Defense, Homeland Security and Military Construction appropriations bills that the President signed into law. Defense Amount Recipient Project $1.6 million S.C. Air National Guard Controlled Humidity Protection Program $6.5 million Medical University of South Carolina Health Disparities program $3.0 million University of South Carolina — Health Barriers Program Troop Readiness Research $3.5 million S.C. Army Reserve National Guard Exportable Combat Training Capability $3.6 million DefenseCS (Bamberg) Anti-Ballistic Windshield Armor $1.6 million Sensor Electronics Technology (Columbia) Advanced UV Light Diode Sensor Development $3.0 million University of South Carolina Hydrogen Battery Development $2.0 million South Carolina Research Authority Tactical Metal Fabrication System $3.0 million University of South Carolina Indium Nitride Research $1.6 million Advanced Technology Institute Veterans’ Business Initiative $2.0 million Claflin University BioButanol Production Research $31.4 million TOTAL HOMELAND SECURITY AMOUNT RECIPIENT PROJECT $1.0 million South Carolina Adjutant General Bamberg Community Emergency Staging Center $1.0 million TOTAL MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AMOUNT RECIPIENT PROJECT $4.6 million South Carolina Adjutant General Hemingway Field Maintenance Renovation $382,000 South Carolina Adjutant General Sumter Readiness Center $4.982 million TOTAL Congress passed a Continuing Resolution for all other federal agencies to operate in fiscal year 2009 at last year’s funding levels. The Continuing Resolution expires in March 2009. # # #
06.16.2008	(Columbia, S.C.) – House Majority Whip and Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn issued the following statement in response to the erroneous report in Sunday’s Myrtle Beach Sun News. “I strongly dispute the claims made in the Sun News article from Sunday—claims that have been refuted before and are being rehashed again. The projects referenced in this piece all relate to community projects or local agencies, from which I have received a request for funding. None of them financially benefit family or friends. “Should I deny a request from the City of Columbia for funding to the Drew Wellness Center to combat childhood obesity because my daughter ran the membership program there at one time? Should I deny a request from the South Sumter Resource Center for assistance to at-risk youth because my brother was once employed by a different youth program and my sister-in-law happens to work in the same building at a separate agency? “Every earmark request I make must be accompanied by a statement that says, “I certify that neither I nor my spouse has any financial interest in this project.” I take that pledge seriously and vet each earmark for any improper connection to friends or family members. I have never requested funds for any airport in Georgia or anywhere outside the state of South Carolina. I resigned from the board of the International African American Museum when the museum’s designer subcontracted a New Mexico architecture firm which subsequently hired my nephew for the project. But I will not stop working with the State Department of Transportation to provide federal dollars to South Carolina because my son-in-law is employed by the highway department. Nor will I stop working with state and local government because a cousin or relative might work for the agency or entity. “Accountability and transparency are important in government. That’s why the New Democratic majority has dramatically reformed the earmarking process after Republicans abused the system for over a decade and let earmarks multiply in size. We put in place a structure that calls for new transparency, accountability and disclosure, and we have reduced the total dollar amount earmarked in appropriations bills by 43 percent. “I will continue to defend earmarks as an important part of my job as Representative for the 6th Congressional District of South Carolina. Banning all earmarks as my critics would like to do, would put federal funding in the hands of Washington bureaucrats—many of whom have never been to South Carolina, let-alone the rural counties and communities I represent. These are communities which were systematically denied state and federal resources for decades. I believe as their Representative my work should be transparent and open, so it can be held up to public scrutiny. If the projects I have funded don’t meet with their approval, voters may speak their mind every two years in November. To me, that’s true accountability. “My larger concern is that my detractors at Citizens Against Government Waste (CAGW) aren’t being fully transparent themselves. St. Petersburg Times, The Washington Post and others have investigated CAGW and found that they are a partisan front group for John McCain and other special interests. The group’s fundraising arm has donated $11,000 in cash to McCain or one of his PAC’s since 2004, which is 20 times the contribution it has made to other candidates. The group has played an active role in a campaign to defend McCain from attacks against his stance on the Air Force’s decision to award a lucrative tanker contract to Northrop Grumman and a European partner. CAGW has also received funding to lobby on behalf of Mexican avocado growers, a health club association and a major liquor company. What do these issues have to do with government waste? I’m curious.” # # # Setting the Record StraightFacts versus Fiction in Myrtle Beach Sun News Report Distorted Claim: “Citizens Against Government Waste - a nonprofit, nonpartisan group which aims to eliminate waste and mismanagement in the federal government - named Clyburn as Porker of the Month in November because he inserted a $3 million earmark into a military spending bill for the First Tee nonprofit agency. First Tee operates a program at a Columbia golf course named after the congressman.” FACTS: The earmark funds the First Tee program at military facilities. Currently the program excludes children of military families. No funds are under this earmark are designated for the Columbia golf course named after the Congressman. The First Tee program made the request for this project. Distorted Claim: “Clyburn called his opponents hypocritical and intolerant when he was criticized in 2003 for getting $3.3 million in federal funds for a pedestrian crosswalk - named after him - that allows for easier access to a disadvantaged neighborhood in Columbia. “[Leslie Paige, spokeswoman for Citizens Against Government Waste] said that response is typical whenever earmarks are questioned. "We're told by members of Congress that we should just trust them because they know what is best for their districts and what their constituents need," she said. "But what they are really doing is funneling money to cronies and family members." FACTS: Several people, including a seven-year-old girl, were killed trying to cross the highway where the pedestrian overpass was built. Funding for this project in no way benefits Congressman Clyburn, his family or friends. The funding was requested by the South Carolina Department of Transportation after an outcry by the local community. SCDOT named the project in the Congressman’s honor. Distorted Claim: “There are at least four earmarks in this year's budget that could directly benefit Clyburn's friends and family members. “The largest earmark is $784,000 for the planning and design of the International African American Museum in Charleston. Clyburn's nephew, Derrick Ballard, is one of the lead architects on that project.” FACTS: Congressman Clyburn served as the Chair of the International African American Museum board since its inception, and remains passionate about the project even after stepping off the board this year. The Congressman’s nephew, Derrick Ballard, works for a subcontractor of the design team Moody Nolan Predock that was hired to design the museum. Congressman Clyburn didn’t participate in the hiring of the design team, and no one who participated in that selection process was aware the Congressman’s nephew works for a subcontractor of the selected team. Congressman Clyburn resigned from the board when the design team was selected because he didn’t want there to be any perceptions of conflicts of interest associated with this project. The funding request was made by the City of Charleston. Distorted Claim: “This is the second time Clyburn has appropriated money for a project in which Ballard was to be an architect. “Clyburn in 2005 earmarked $145,500 for a community center that was supposed to be built by Five Rivers Community Development Corp., a Georgetown nonprofit agency whose executives now are facing 15 felony charges that they stole public money.” FACTS: This money was never drawn down. Senator Hollings had previously secured a $1 million earmark for this project. Congressman Clyburn was unaware that his nephew was the architect on the project. This funding request was made by Georgetown County Council for the purchase of the land, and when they couldn’t acquire the right of way for the property, the money was never utilized. Distorted Claim: “Clyburn also set aside $229,000 in this year's budget for an obesity program at the Charles R. Drew Wellness Center in Columbia, where his daughter, Angela, is the marketing and membership director. “Clyburn also earmarked $990,000 for construction of the city-owned wellness center in 2003.” FACTS: Angela Clyburn, as marketing coordinator at the Drew Wellness Center, has no connection with the youth obesity program funded by Congressman Clyburn. She builds membership at the facility, while the program funded, Fun to be Fit!, provides education and training to improve nutrition and increase physical activity for children between the ages of 6-13. The two are completely unrelated. Congressman Clyburn has been a huge proponent of the Drew Wellness Center since he helped secure the HOPE VI funding in 1999 to revitalize a former public housing development that included Drew Park in Columbia. Angela Clyburn secured the job at Drew Wellness without her father’s knowledge in 2006, and this is her last week on the job. The funding request was made by the City of Columbia. Distorted Claim: “Clyburn appropriated $282,000 this year for the South Sumter Resource Center in Sumter, an umbrella group that offers housing and at-risk youth programs. “Clyburn's sister-in-law, Gwendolyn Clyburn, is housing coordinator for the Sumter County Community Development Corp., which is part of the center.“His brother, Charles Clyburn, previously was a trainer for the center's YouthBuild program. “This year's earmark is in addition to $670,000 that Clyburn appropriated for the resource center between 2001 and 2007.” FACTS: The South Sumter Resource Center and the Sumter County CDC are two separate organizations. The CDC, which employs Gwendolyn Clyburn, has never received any earmarks. She can in no way benefit from any funding the Congressman secured for the South Sumter Resource Center. The $282,000 earmark for South Sumter Resource Center is for a program called VISA that assists expelled students in Sumter school districts 2 & 17. It is in no way connected with the YouthBuild program, which employed Charles Clyburn in 2006 as a construction trainer. Charles Clyburn is a carpenter by trade. The South Sumter Resource Center was awarded a competitive YouthBuild grant by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, and Charles Clyburn was hired to do work under that program. The program under which Charles Clyburn was hired has no connection to any of the earmarks secured by Congressman Clyburn for the South Sumter Resource Center. The 2001-2007 earmarks were for the renovations of the center. Neither Charles nor Gwendolyn Clyburn had any connection with or benefit from this project. The funding request made by the South Sumter Resource Center. False Claim: “Clyburn has earmarked money for at least one project in another state that benefited a family member. “In 2005, he earmarked $2.5 million for an airport terminal expansion in Augusta, Ga." William Clyburn Jr., the congressman's cousin, was the chief lobbyist for the airport project and received $60,000 from consulting firms after the federal dollars were in hand. “William Clyburn initially said he asked his cousin to include the earmark in that year's budget bill, but he reversed that statement two months later when a spokesman for James Clyburn disputed the lobbyist's remarks, according to newspaper accounts.” FACTS: Congressman Clyburn did not secure funding for this project. Rep. John Barrow secured this funding for the airport and took credit for the work in a press release from November 18, 2005 (attached below). Barrow Press Release >Press Here for Press Release< “Securing additional funding for this airport project has been one of my top priorities in Congress,” Barrow said. “This is not a ‘bridge to nowhere’ – this is a terminal for Augusta’s future. As the area grows, the airport will now be able to grow with it. And when the terminal is complete, it’ll be a huge boost for the area’s economy.” The Senate is expected to approve the Conference Report later this year. After passing both chambers, it will then head to the President’s desk, where it is anticipated that he will sign it. ### False Claim: “Clyburn previously appropriated a combined $1.3 million in 2003 and 2004 for a transportation center for Horry County's mass-transit agency, which used to go by the name Lymo.” FACTS: Congressman Clyburn never requested or received funding for this project.
04.25.2008	(Columbia, SC) – Sixth District Congressman and House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn was recognized today by the University of South Carolina’s Institute for Partnerships to Eliminate Health Disparities with a lecture series in his honor. The inaugural James E. Clyburn Health Disparities Lecture was held this morning at the Arnold School for Public Health with a standing room only crowd. USC Vice President for Research and Health Sciences, Dr. Harris Pastides, called Congressman Clyburn a true hero on this issue. “South Carolina can lead the way in eliminating health disparities thanks to the leadership of Jim Clyburn,” Dr. Pastides said. “This lecture series will be a living legacy that will partner universities with local communities to best address the problems they face.” Dr. Saundra Glover, Director of the USC Institute of Partnerships to Eliminate Health Disparities thanked Congressman Clyburn for his ongoing efforts. “He has been the support since the beginning in 2003,” Dr. Glover said. “It was a shared vision, and one that wouldn’t have happened without Congressman Clyburn’s persistence and the leadership of Dr. Sorensen and Dr. Pastides.” Congressman Clyburn accepted the recognition on behalf of the many people who are affected by health disparities. “We have a unique opportunity to do something now that will have long-lasting effects on future generations,” Congressman Clyburn said. “Building an army of young minority researchers, stimulating academic excellence in public health research and advocating for better health outcomes through dialogue and action are some of the ways we can fight the disparities that affect our citizens every day. I am personally pleased that this series which you have named in my honor will be a part of the effort to truly forge solutions through research and practice.” The keynote speaker for the inaugural lecture series was Dr. Lovell Jones, Director of the Center for Research on Minority Health at the University of Texas. A copy of the Congressman Clyburn speech and introduction of Dr. Jones follows. # # # REMARKS - - INTRODUCTION OF KEYNOTE SPEAKERCongressman James E. ClyburnJames E. Clyburn Health Disparities Lecture SeriesFriday, April 25, 2008 Good Morning. I am truly honored and humbled by this recognition. I want to thank Dr. Saundra Glover and the Institute for Partnerships to Eliminate Health Disparities for naming this initiative in my honor. I would also like to thank Dr. Andrew Sorensen, Dr. Henry Tisdale and Dr. Harris Pastides for their kind remarks and introductions, and for their tremendous support in establishing this series as a part of their research agenda. Since my election to Congress almost 16 years ago I have been almost single minded in my mission to improve the quality of life for residents in my district. It became clear to me that one of the things that had to be done was the elimination of the health disparities that plague many of the communities I represent. The extraordinary prevalence of cancer, diabetes, heart disease, stroke, HIV/AIDS, and obesity are linked inextricably to other negative indices in these communities, like the lack of clean drinking water, high rates of poverty, low rates of educational attainment and few job opportunities. It was apparent to me that if I were to succeed in my mission to improve the health of my constituents, I would have to tackle the underlying causes of these problems. I went to New Mexico several years ago for an event with Native Americans, who share the same health concerns as constituents in my district. Researchers at the University of New Mexico told me that all their studies indicated that the quality of water directly related to their poor health. Water quality is a common link in unhealthy communities. I am pleased to say that on Monday, I will be in Santee to participate in the dedication of the first phase of the Lake Marion Regional Water Agency’s new water treatment plant. This is a project that I started working on before I was sworn in, and when completed will provide a six county region with clean drinking water. Many of the communities served by this project currently draw their drinking water from contaminated wells many of which are providing water that DHEC has told us is unfit for human consumption. I am convinced that we will see a dramatic change in the health of the communities served by the Lake Marion Regional Water Agency even before it is fully online. This same water project is also the key to improving other negative conditions plaguing these communities. Access to good portable water is a key to attracting economic development to an area. But for the realization of the Lake Marion Regional Water Agency, the recent announcement $600-$700 million investment by Jafza International to build a transportation hub at Highway 301 and I-95 in Santee, would still be a dream. This is a huge step toward improving job opportunities and reducing poverty in the region. And as we all know, education in our state is funded through property taxes. By attracting more businesses to the area, we will increase the value of the property and ultimately increase the tax base which funds local schools. A better educated population with good jobs that provide health insurance leads to healthier communities. In my Congressional role, I have the responsibility of addressing the bigger picture. But to be truly effective, we also must address health disparities from within the communities that are impacted. That is why I have been pleased to do my part in addressing health disparities directly by securing federal investments -- known as earmarks -- for research programs like this one led by Dr. Saundra Glover at the Institute. There is no better way to affect real change community by community than through those who live there and have their best interest at heart. This Institute is putting a public face on what has long been our private shame. It is bringing communities together and engaging in identifying the issues affecting their health, and working with them to find meaningful solutions. Some may call the earmarks I have secured for this Institute wasteful, but I will never apologize for investing in the fundamental needs of my constituents to protect their health. I am honored to accept this recognition on behalf of the many people in our communities who are affected by health disparities. We have a unique opportunity to do something now that will have long-lasting effects on future generations. Building an army of young minority researchers, stimulating academic excellence in public health research and advocating for better health outcomes through dialogue and action are some of the ways we can fight the disparities that affect our citizens every day. I am personally pleased that this series which you have named in my honor will be a part of the effort to truly forge solutions through research and practice. Introduction of Dr. Lovell JonesToday I have yet another honor of having a well-renowned public health expert to bring remarks on the topic of health disparities research. Dr. Lovell Jones is the Director of the Center for Research on Minority Health at the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center at the University of Texas. He is the founding co-chair of the Intercultural Cancer Council, the nation’s largest multicultural health policy group focused on cancer and minorities and the medically underserved. He is the founding chair of “Minorities, the Medically Underserved and Cancer,” a national conference which provides a forum for exchanging the latest scientific and treatment information. This biennial conference brings together people from all ethnic communities and social backgrounds to share strategies for reducing the incidence of cancer. Dr. Jones has joined with the American Cancer Society to hold regional hearings on cancer and the poor. In 2002, Dr. Jones received the Humanitarian Award from the American Cancer Society. He has served on the Breast Cancer Integration Panel for the Department of Defense and published over 100 articles on various health topics and health policy. Please join me in welcoming Dr. Lovell A. Jones. # # #
03.07.2008	(Washington, DC) -- Sixth District Congressman and House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement on the passing of former South Carolina First Lady Ann “Tunky” Riley. “It is with a heavy heart that Emily and I learned of the passing of Tunky Riley. I was fortunate to serve as Human Affairs Commissioner during Governor Riley’s time in office and was in the Congress during his service as U.S. Education Secretary. Over the past thirty years, Emily and I shared a very warm relationship with the Governor and Mrs. Riley. “She was an extraordinary partner for Governor Riley, and was such an extraordinary advocate for public education in her own right. As a native of Florence and graduate of McClenaghan High School, I remember sharing the stage with Tunky as she was honored by the Florence School District One Foundation as a distinguished alumna. She took that opportunity as she always did to turn the attention from herself and onto the issue she cared about most – public education. “Emily and I send our thoughts and prayers to Governor Riley and his family during this difficult time. Tunky’s legacy will continue to live on in the wonderful work she has done on behalf of the people of South Carolina and our nation.” # # #
03.07.2008	(Washington, DC) -- Sixth District Congressman and House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn is a recipient of the “Barrier Breaker” Award given by the Washington, DC branch of the NAACP. At its annual Freedom Fund dinner last night, the Washington, DC NAACP recognized Congressman Clyburn for attaining the highest ranking position of any African American in the Congress. “This award is a recognition of Congressman Clyburn’s efforts to blaze the trail for other African Americans to follow,” Washington DC NAACP President Lorraine C. Miller said. Congressman Clyburn shared the award with Ms. Miller, who is the first African American to serve as the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives. Other recipients included notable individuals in business and government: the Honorable Nancy Pelosi, Speaker of the House of Representatives; the Honorable Debbie Wasserman-Schultz, the first Jewish Congresswoman elected from Florida; Lorenzo Creighton, the first African American President of a Las Vegas casino; Matthew Fogg, who won a landmark discrimination case against the U.S. Marshall Service and Department of Justice; Lieutenant General Michael D. Rochelle, Deputy Chief of Staff G-1, United States Army, the first African American to head human resources and personnel for the entire Army; and Ernie Green, one of the Little Rock Nine. “I am honored to be included in such good company,” Congressman Clyburn said. “This award means a tremendous amount to me because it comes from my peers – friends, colleagues and even strangers in the African American community – who have been on the same journey with me to create opportunities for our children and future generations.” # # #
03.03.2008	(Charleston, SC) -- Sixth District Congressman and House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn announced at today’s International African American Museum (IAAM) that he is stepping down as the museum’s board chairman. The Congressman’s resignation was prompted by the formation of the architectural and design team that has been selected to oversee the museum’s design and construction phase. A staff member of a subcontractor of that architectural and design team, Derrick Ballard, is Congressman Clyburn’s nephew. The Congressman didn’t want there to be any perceptions of conflicts of interest associated with this project, which he called “one of the most substantial things I have ever been connected with.” “I didn’t participate in the process that led to the selection of Moody Nolan Predock as the museum’s design team, and no one on the board was aware of my relationship with Derrick when that selection was made,” Congressman Clyburn continued. “I certainly don’t want to be an obstacle to this bright, young man’s promising future. And as a Member of Congress, I wouldn’t want to give anyone reason to question my motives or the validity of this project, which began as a mutual dream of Mayor Riley and myself some years ago and has gained the participation and support of so many others.” “I am still committed to this project,” Congressman Clyburn concluded. “I believe I can be just as effective, if not more effective in another role.” Mayor Riley thanked Congressman Clyburn for what he called an “extraordinary act of public service.” “This museum will be a tribute to Congressman Clyburn,” Mayor Riley said turning to his colleague. “It will be part of your legacy.” Congressman Clyburn began serving as chair of the IAAM’s steering committee in August 2002. Then in August 2005, he became chairman of the board. # # #
02.28.2008	Washington, DC) -- Sixth District Congressman and House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn today thanked the Children’s Defense Fund Action Council (CDFAC) for naming him one of the “Best Representatives for Children.” The CDFAC today released its 2007 Nonpartisan Congressional Scorecard, which grades every Member of Congress based on key votes affecting children, and Congressman Clyburn voted to protect the health and well being of South Carolina’s children 100 percent of the time. Congressman Clyburn achieved this distinction by voting to support the first increase in the minimum wage in a decade, access and quality improvements in Head Start, and additional funds for student loans. “My service in the Congress is about improving the lives of people, and especially children, in the Sixth Congressional District,” Congressman Clyburn said. “Many of the initiatives included in the Children’s Defense Fund scorecard were on the Congressional agenda because of our new leadership team’s focus on strengthening our families in meaningful ways.” “I applaud Congressman Clyburn for his commitment to improving the lives of children in South Carolina,” said CDFAC President Marian Wright Edelman. “With 9.4 million uninsured children in America and nearly 13 million living in poverty, it is critical that we have Representatives committed to making children a priority. Congressman Clyburn is a dedicated advocate for children and has truly earned the distinction of being one of the best Representatives for children.” The Children’s Defense Fund Action Council educates the nation about the needs of children and encourages preventative investment before they get sick or into trouble, drop out of school, or suffer family breakdown. The CDF Action Council began in 1969 and is a private, non-profit organization that has never taken government funds. CDFAC developed an interactive map and other online tools to show how Members of Congress voted by state. To see the interactive map as well as the 2007 Congressional Scorecard in its entirety, which includes the grades of all Members of Congress, visit: www.cdfactioncouncil.org. # # #
02.15.2008	(Columbia, SC) – Sixth District Congressman and House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn issued the following statement today regarding the passing of his District Aide, Isaac “Ike” W. Williams, Sr. “Emily and I are grieving today over the loss of our dear friend, and my trusted staff member, Ike Williams. “Ike was a champion of civil rights. He was a student leader at Bonds Wilson High School and South Carolina State in the 1960s, and went on to be a long-serving Field Director for the South Carolina N.A.A.C.P. His deep baritone voice always spoke on behalf of those who had no voice. His deep and abiding faith always called him to serve others. “Although he never ran for or held political office, Ike was a skilled politician. He spent his entire life bringing people, especially African Americans, into the political process. I was fortunate to have Ike help guide my decision making and campaign for Congress in 1992, and he continued to support my Congressional efforts during his more than 15 years on my Congressional staff. “Ike was truly dedicated to the State of South Carolina, and it is a better place because of his tireless work. “Our hearts and prayers are with Ike’s wife, Evelyn, and his children, Dechancela, Isaac, Jr. and Shelley. I hope that knowing Ike touched so many lives will be a comfort at this difficult time.” Congressman Clyburn celebrated Ike’s life with a tribute in today’s Congressional Record. The text of that tribute is attached. # # #
01.18.2008	(Washington, DC) -- House Majority Whip and Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn today announced that 17-year-old Courtney Owens will serve as a Congressional page for the spring semester. The Bamberg-Ehrhardt High School junior was selected through a competitive process by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi to serve as a page in the U.S. House of Representatives. Congressman Clyburn nominated Courtney for the honor. “I am pleased Speaker Pelosi supported Courtney’s nomination,” Congressman Clyburn said. “This is a tremendous opportunity for her to see first hand how our nation’s government works, and I know she will do an outstanding job as a page representing her hometown of Bamberg and the state of South Carolina.” Courtney excels in her academic pursuits and still finds time to be a varsity cheerleader, a member of the Bamberg County Relay for Life, Vice President of the Junior Red Cross and Editor of the school newspaper. She is the daughter of Samella Bamberg and Sammie Owens of Bamberg. In her application, Courtney said “I would like to pursue a career in medicine. This will allow me to give back to the community and be able to help those in need.” To participate in the page program, a student must be at least 16 years old and have an excellent academic record. The pages live, work and attend school in Washington for a semester. Their primary duties include serving as couriers, calling Members to vote, and raising the flags above the Capitol. The spring semester for Congressional pages this year begins on January 27th and concludes on June 6th. # # #
12.21.2007	(Columbia, SC) – Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn today announced the 2008 schedule for his staff’s regular office hours throughout the district. Members of Congressman Clyburn’s staff meet with constituents in all 15 of the Sixth District’s counties on a regular basis. “One of the most important duties of any member of Congress is serving as a liaison between our constituents and the federal agencies that serve them,” Congressman Clyburn said. “Since I am required to be in Washington when Congress is in session, I have a very capable and experienced staff to assist Sixth District residents with problems they may be having with the federal government.” Residents of the Sixth Congressional District are encouraged to visit one of the following field visit locations in their county to seek assistance from Congressman Clyburn. Appointments are also available to meet with staff members in each of Congressman Clyburn’s Congressional offices. Call the office in your area for an appointment: Columbia (803)799-1100, Florence (843)662-1212, and Santee (803)854-4700. COUNTY AND CONGRESSIONAL STAFF MEMBER LOCATION VISIT DATE EACH MONTH OFFICE HOURS PUBLIC CONTACT NUMBERS Bamberg CountyCarlton Askew(803)854-4700 Bamberg Town Hall2340 Main Hwy. Bamberg, SCDenmark Town Hall4768 Carolina Hwy.Denmark, SC 1st Thursday 1st Thursday 10:30 AM-12:30 PM 2:00-4:00 PM (803)245-5128 (803)793-3734 Berkeley CountyClay Middleton(803)854-4700Carlton Askew (Cross)(803)854-4700 Cross Community CenterOld Ninety Six Hwy.Cross, SC Alvin Community Center2191 Santee River Rd.St. Stephen, SC Cainhoy Volunteer Fire Station2451 Clements Ferry RoadCharleston, SC St. Stephen Town Hall124 Hood St.St. Stephen, SC 1st Wednesday(Carlton Askew) 4th Wednesday(Clay Middleton) 4th Wednesday(Clay Middleton) 4th Thursday(Clay Middleton) 10:30 AM-2:30 PM 10:00 AM-12:30 PM 2:30-5:00 PM 10:00 AM-4:00 PM (843)753-2076 (843)567-4250 (843)737-2152 (843)567-3597 Calhoun CountyCarlton Askew(803)854-4700 Calhoun County Courthouse Annex902 Fr. Huff Dr.St. Matthews, SC 2nd Thursday 10:30 AM-12:30 PM (803)874-3524 Charleston CountyClay Middleton(803)854-4700 Berkeley, Charleston, Dorchester Council of Governments Bldg.1362 McMillan Ave, Suite 100N. Charleston, SC Clyburn Community Center5779 Parkers Ferry RoadAdams Run, SC Mondays, Tuesdays,2nd & 5th Wednesdays,1st Thursdays 1st Wednesday 10:00 AM-5:00 PM 10:00 AM-5:00 PM (843)529-2708 (843)737-2152 Clarendon CountyGail Stukes(803)854-4700 Clarendon District #11 Larry King Hwy.Summerton, SC Manning Family Court102 S. Mill StreetManning, SC Turbeville Town Hall1292 Green St.Turbeville, SC 1st Wednesday 2nd & 4th Wednesdays 3rd Wednesday 9:00 AM-5:00 PM 9:00 AM-5:00 PM 9:00 AM-5:00 PM (803)485-6156 (803)435-2720 (843)659-2781 Colleton CountyClay Middleton(803)854-4700 Walterboro City Council242 Hampton St.Walterboro, SC 3rd Wednesday & 3rd Thursday 10:30 AM-5:00 PM (843)549-2545 Dorchester CountyCarlton Askew(803)854-4700 St. George Clemson Extension201 Johnston St.St. George, SC 2nd Wednesday 2:00-4:00 PM (803)874-3524 Florence CountyKenny Barnes(843)662-1212 Lake City Public Service Bldg.345 S. Ron McNair Blvd.Lake City, SC Timmonsville Town Hall115 E. Main St.,Timmonsville, SC Johnsonville Town Hall111 W. Broad Way St.Johnsonville, SC 2nd Tuesday 2nd Thursday 4th Monday 10:00 AM-12:00 PM 2:00-4:00 PM 10:00 AM-12:00 PM (843)394-8575 (843)346-7942 (843)386-2069 Georgetown CountyClay Middleton(803)854-4700 Andrews Town Hall101 N. Morgan Ave.Andrews, SC 2nd Thursday 10:00 AM-4:00 PM (843)264-8666 Lee CountyKenny Barnes(843)662-1212 Lynchburg Town Hall81 Magnolia St.Lynchburg, SC 2nd Thursday 10:00 AM-12:00 PM (803)437-2933 Marion CountyKenny Barnes(843)662-1212 Marion/Mullins Multi-Purpose Bldg.137 Airport Court, Suite JMullins, SC 3rd Monday 9:30-11:30 AM (843)423-8237 Orangeburg CountyCarlton Askew(803)854-4700Gail Stukes (Santee)(803)854-4700 Orangeburg County Annex1437 Amelia StreetOrangeburg, SC Santee Cultural Arts Center176 Brooks Blvd.Santee, SC Holly Hill Town Hall8807 Old State Rd., Holly Hill, SC 1st & 3rd Monday(Carlton Askew)Every Monday & Friday(Gail Stukes)2nd Tuesday(Carlton Askew) 2nd Thursday 10:00 AM-4:00 PM9:00-5:00 PM 2:00-4:00 PM (803)533-1000(803)854-4700 (803)496-3330 Sumter CountyCarlton Askew(803)854-4700 Shiloh Community Center475 Pudding Swamp Rd.Lynchburg, SCSumter Opera House21 N. Main StreetSumter, SC 1st Tuesday2nd & 4th Monday 10:30 AM-12:30 PM10:00 AM-4:00 PM (843)659-4201(803)436-2500 Williamsburg CountyKenny Barnes(843)662-1212 Kingstree Town Hall401 N. Longstreet St.Kingstree, SC Hemingway Town Hall110 S. Main St.Hemingway, SC 2nd Tuesday 4th Monday 2:00-4:00 PM 2:00-4:00 PM (843)355-7484 (843)558-2824 Please note these dates and times are subject to change. Constituents are encouraged to make an appointment with the staff member serving their community in advance of the field visit. # # #
12.20.2007	(Washington, DC) --The U.S. House of Representatives has adjourned for the year and accomplished something the previous Republican Congress could not – completing federal agency budgets. With the Omnibus Appropriations bill receiving final Congressional approval yesterday, which the President indicates he will sign, all of the fiscal year 2008 appropriations bills are completed, and include more than $65 million secured by Congressman James E. Clyburn for various South Carolina requests. “This Omnibus package puts our government back on track by funding priorities that are important to the American people,” Congressman Clyburn said. “These funding priorities include increasing Pell grants, funding after school and early childhood education programs, investing in alternative energy sources and addressing long neglected infrastructure needs.” The Omnibus package includes funding for most federal agencies. The Defense Appropriations bill became law last month. The following projects are listed according to the agency that will fund the request:Agriculture Project Description Funding Amount Clemson University Peach tree short life $209,000 Clemson University Pest control alternatives $212,000 TOTAL $421,000 Commerce, Justice, Science Project Description Funding Amount DIVA, Inc. Eliminate domestic violence initiative $188,000 University of South Carolina Gangnet – gang tracking software $282,000 Voorhees College Program to eliminate violence against women $470,000 Orangeburg Department of Public Safety Gang intervention/ Methamphetamine abuse $282,000 Williamsburg County Sheriff’s Department Technology enhancement $470,000 A Better Way of Columbia Gang prevention project $470,000 Milton Eisenhower Foundation Safe Haven -- after-school mentoring program $470,000 Service Over Self Eliminate juvenile delinquency in Georgetown County $235,000 South Sumter Resource Center Expand programs for at-risk youth $282,000 TOTAL $3,149,000 Defense Project Description Funding Amount SC Army National Guard Vibration management enhancement program $2,400,000 University of South Carolina Identifying health barriers $2,400,000 Medical University of South Carolina Health research and disparities eradication program $8,000,000 South Carolina Research Authority Tactical metal fabrication system $2,400,000 World Golf Foundation First Tee life skills program on military installations $3,000,000 Clemson University Advanced photonic composites research $3,253,000 Claflin University Detection and remediation response to biological and chemical weapons project $2,000,000 South Carolina Concurrent Technology Green product evaluation and implementation program $2,400,000 DefenseCS Inc. in Bamberg Combat Vehicle and Automotive Advanced Technology for the Antiballistic Windshield Armor Project $2,000,000 TOTAL $27,853,000 Energy and Water Project Description Funding Amount Edisto Island Environmental study $218,000 Lake Marion Regional Water Agency Water treatment plant $6,714,000 Claflin University Biofuel production initiative $500,000 University of South Carolina Hydrogen fuel cell development $1,500,000 South Carolina Historically Black Colleges and Universities Math and Science initiative $10,500,000 Savannah River Site National lab in South Carolina for integrated collaborative prototyping environment $1,000,000 TOTAL $20,432,000 Financial Services Project Description Funding Amount Williamsburg County Commodity development small business initiative $282,000 TOTAL $282,000 Homeland Security Project Description Funding Amount SC Adjutant General Office of Emergency Preparedness Projects in Manning and Santee $3,000,000 TOTAL $3,000,000 Interior Project Description Funding Amount Goodwill Historical Society of Sumter Restoration of school in Mayesville, SC $100,000 Town of Andrews Water and wastewater improvements $500,000 TOTAL $600,000 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Project Description Funding Amount City of Columbia Charles R. Drew Wellness Center childhood obesity program $229,000 Voorhees College Demonstration program on reversing diabetes in minority communities $131,000 College Summit, Inc. An initiative to increase college enrollment of low-income youth in South Carolina $131,000 Williamsburg County First Steps School readiness program in Kingstree, SC $84,000 Communicare, Inc. Health information systems, facilities, and equipment $277,000 Palmetto Health Foundation Facilities and equipment for Children’s Hospital in Columbia, SC $975,000 Pee Dee Healthy Start Program to improve maternal and child health in Florence, SC $85,000 SC HIV/AIDS Council Outreach programs to reduce incidents of HIV/AIDS $180,000 TOTAL $2,092,000 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Project Description Funding Amount Georgetown County Georgetown Airport runway extension $1,000,000 SC Department of Transportation I-95/US 301 Interchange $4,000,000 INNOVISTA Greene Street/William Street Connector $500,000 Brainerd Institute Foundation School restoration in Chester, SC $100,000 Paxville Community Development Corp. Complete construction of community center $100,000 City of Charleston International African American Museum $800,000 City of Columbia CMRTA transit facility $750,000 TOTAL $7,250,000 In addition to these specific projects receiving funding, the Interior Appropriations bill includes language that insures all new Heritage Corridors, including the Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor, will each receive $150,000 in federal funding for FY08. “I am pleased the Gullah/Geechee Corridor will have funding to begin its preliminary work,” Congressman Clyburn added. “It is one of many projects that were stymied by the previous Congress’s inability to complete its work on the budget. Now that this new Congress has broken the log jam many worthwhile projects will receive the funding they need to proceed.” # # #
10.29.2007	(Charleston, SC) – Today the Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor took a giant step forward in its effort to preserve the rich Sea Island culture and history. The National Park Service officially announced the 15-member Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor Commission in Charleston, South Carolina charged with overseeing the implementation of this federally-designated corridor that stretches from Jacksonville, Florida to Wilmington, North Carolina. U.S. House Majority Whip, and author of the legislation that created the Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor, James E. Clyburn (SC-6) reveled in the announcement of the new commission. As a former history teacher, he framed his remarks to the new commissioners in historic terms. “The story of the Gullah/Geechee people and their contributions to this country began in 1619 when the first Africans arrived at the Jamestown settlement,” Congressman Clyburn said. “After more than seven years of work to establish this corridor, today marks the first day of the hard work this commission will undertake to preserve and share that nearly 400-year history that is the core purpose of this initiative.” Congressman Clyburn implored the commission not be deterred when their jobs are difficult. “It is going to be tough. You will be criticized, but don’t be afraid,” the Congressman advised. “I believe if you show me someone who has never been criticized, I will show you someone who has never done anything.” The commissioner and audience of 200 at the historic Avery Institute in Charleston applauded the sentiment. Congressman Clyburn commended the work of the National Park Service, especially Michael Allen of the Charles Pinckney Center in Charleston, for their leadership in compiling the Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor Commission. “I know the corridor is in good hands with the commission and Mike’s guidance from the National Park Service,” Congressman Clyburn concluded. “My job now is to insure the Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor receives funding, and to look for new opportunities to create additional heritage corridors in South Carolina.” # # # Following is a list of the newly appointed Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor Commissioners. For more information about the Commission, press HERE or contact Michael Allen at the Charles Pinckney Center in Charleston at (843) 883-3123 x36. Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor Commission Expert Commissioners & AlternatesThere are five expert positions on the Commission nominated by the National Park Service—2 from SC, and one each from Florida, Georgia and North Carolina. FloridaCommissioner (Expert) – Antoinette JacksonAlternate Commissioner (Expert) – Anthony E. Dixon GeorgiaCommissioner (Expert) -- Jeanne CyriaqueAlternate Commissioner (Expert) – Vacant North CarolinaCommissioner (Expert) – Dr. John H. HaleyAlternate Commissioner (Expert) – Dr. David B. Frank South CarolinaCommissioner (Expert) – Emory CampbellCommissioner (Expert) -- Marquetta GoodwinAlternate Commissioner (Expert) – Dr. J. Herman BlakeAlternate Commissioner (Expert) – Nichole Green State Nominated Commissioners and AlternatesThere are ten positions on the Commission nominated by the State Historic Preservation Offices (SHPOs) –four from South Carolina and two each from Florida, Georgia and North Carolina. FloridaCommissioner (SHPO) – Glenda Simmons JenkinsCommissioner (SHPO) – Ralph B. JohnsonAlternate Commissioner (SHPO) – William Jefferson GeorgiaCommissioner (SHPO) –Charles H. HallCommissioner (SHPO) –Althea Natalga SumpterAlternate Commissioner (SHPO) – Amir Jamal Toure’Alternate Commissioner (SHPO) –Deborah L. Mack North CarolinaCommissioner (SHPO) – Shirlean SpicerCommissioner (SHPO) – Eulis Alexander WillisAlternate Commissioner (SHPO) – Lana Carter South CarolinaCommissioner (SHPO) – Ronald DaiseCommissioner (SHPO) – Louise Miller CohenCommissioner (SHPO) –William Saunders
10.02.2007	(Washington, DC) -- Sixth District Congressman and House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn issued the following statement congratulating the AT&T African-American History Calendar honorees being recognized tonight in Columbia: “I wish to congratulate AT&T's 2008 African-American History Calendar honorees. I know many of them well, and have appreciated the contributions they have made and continue to make to our history. “Three of this year's honorees hold special meaning to me -- my cousin, Bill Clyburn; his wife, Beverly Clyburn; and my Whip Office Floor Director, Jaime Harrison. I know first hand the extraordinary work these three have done on behalf of the people of South Carolina. “Bill and Beverly are more than relatives. They are good friends and valued confidants. They have devoted their lives to public service and providing quality education to students in Aiken County and throughout South Carolina. “Jaime Harrison is a graduate of Orangeburg-Wilkinson High School, Yale University and Georgetown University Law School with a keen vision of serving the people back home. He found an outlet for his leadership skills serving on my staffs. He became the first African American Executive Director of the House Democratic Caucus and is now the first Black Floor Director for a Majority Whip. "These three are in fine company among the other calendar honorees. As a former history teacher, I know that African Americans were once largely omitted from our textbooks. I thank AT&T for providing this invaluable calendar to educate current and future generations about the many significant contributions made by African Americans in our state.” # # #
09.25.2007	(Washington, DC) Sixth District Congressman and House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn today announced he helped authorize $80 million in federal funding for South Carolina in the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) Reauthorization. This legislation has passed both the House and Senate. “I am pleased to see this legislation finally receive reauthorization,” Congressman Clyburn said. “Passage of the Water Resources Development Act is seven years overdue. There are critical water and environmental needs in South Carolina and across the country that will now receive the support they need.” Congressman Clyburn requested funding for the following projects: Recipient Project Funding Lake Marion Regional Water Agency Continue work on the Lake Marion Regional Water Project $60 million City of Charleston Spring Street/Fishburne Street drainage project $4 million Charleston Public Works Wastewater and drainage infrastructure improvements and replacement of Ashley River wastewater tunnels $16 million Although President Bush has threatened a veto, the WRDA Reauthorization passed the House and Senate by veto-proof margins.
09.24.2007	(Washington, DC) Sixth District Congressman and House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn today announced he has invited the Morris College Chorale to perform at a Gospel Extravaganza in Washington on September 27th. The Gospel Extravaganza is part of a four-day Congressional Black Caucus Annual Legislative Conference, which is considered the premier African American conference on policy issues. “I am thrilled Morris College students from my hometown of Sumter are coming to Washington to represent the Sixth Congressional District at this important event,” Congressman Clyburn said. “I know they will represent South Carolina and Morris College well.” The Morris College Chorale will perform in the Ballroom of the Washington Convention Center on Thursday, September 27th at 8:00 p.m. The choir is directed by Audrey L. Barksdale and is accompanied by Dr. Peggy C. Clark. It was founded in the 1950s, and has continued for more than 50 years to delight audiences with standard classics as well as African American spirituals, gospels and contemporary music. # # #
09.05.2007	(Washington, DC) For the first time in years, the U.S. House of Representatives returned to Washington after the August recess without any appropriations bills on its calendar. All 12 bills setting funding levels for federal agencies have passed the House well before the October first start of the federal fiscal year, an accomplishment previously Republican-controlled Congresses were unable to achieve. Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn secured more than $50 million in legislatively directed spending for South Carolina in this appropriations cycle. “I am pleased my current position in the Congress enables me to help insure that South Carolina receives its fair share of federal funding for important local projects,” Congressman Clyburn said. “Each of these projects was funded as the result of a request I received from a community, organization, or elected official. They address real needs in South Carolina, and failing to support these needs presented by my constituents would be a dereliction of my duties and responsibilities.” The following list includes all funding requests by Congressman Clyburn broken down by appropriations bills: Transportation, Housing & Urban Development Project Description Funding Amount Brainerd Institute Foundation Restore historic institute for education center in Chester $100,000 City of Charleston International African American Museum $800,000 City of Columbia CMRTA Transit Facility $750,000 City of Florence Community Activity Center $200,000 Paxville Community Development Corporation Complete construction of community center $100,000 South Carolina Department of Transportation I-95/SC-301 interchange improvements $1,500,000 Georgetown County Council Georgetown Airport runway extension $1,000,000 INNOVISTA Greene Street/William Street Connector in Columbia $250,000 TOTAL $4,7000,000 Labor, Health and Human Services, Education Project Description Funding Amount Charles R. Drew Wellness Center Youth wellness program in Columbia $235,000 Communicare Create an automated pharmacy $285,000 Palmetto Health Foundation Renovate and expand capacity at Children’s Hospital in Columbia $1,000,000 Pee Dee Healthy Start Provide services for rural underserved mothers and their infant children $88,000 South Carolina HIV/AIDS Council Reduce HIV/AIDS incidences $185,000 Voorhees College Diabetes research $135,000 Williamsburg County First Steps Early childhood school preparation $87,000 College Summit Increasing college performance in underperforming students in SC $135,000 Trident Technical College Enhance nursing laboratory $200,000 TOTAL $2,350,000 Interior Project Description Funding Amount City of Charleston Address drainage issues $150,000 Goodwill Historical Society of Sumter Goodwill School restoration $300,000 Town of Andrews Water and wastewater improvements $500,000 TOTAL $950,000 Financial Services Project Description Funding Amount Williamsburg County Commodity Development Small Business Initiative $231,000 TOTAL $231,000 Energy & Water Project Description Funding Amount Claflin University Biofuel research $500,000 EngenuitySC Applied research, commercialization activities and training $1,500,000 South Carolina Historically Black Colleges and Universities Math and Science research $10,500,000 Lake Marion Regional Water Agency Water treatment plant $6,000,000 Edisto Island Environmental study $218,000 TOTAL $18,718,000 Defense Project Description Funding Amount Claflin University Detection and Remediation Response to biological and chemical weapons $1,000,000 Medical University of South Carolina Health disparities outreach, research and training $10,000,000 University of South Carolina Eliminating health barriers for recruits $3,000,000 South Carolina Concurrent Technologies Green product evaluation and implementation program $3,000,000 Defense CS of Bamberg Antiballistic Windshield Armor $2,500,000 TOTAL $19,500,000 Agriculture & Rural Development Project Description Funding Amount Clemson University Peach tree short life $278,000 Clemson University Pest control alternatives $282,000 TOTAL $560,000 Commerce, Science & Justice Project Description Funding Amount DIVA, Inc. Eliminate Domestic Violence $200,000 Orangeburg Department of Public Safety Gang Intervention/Methamphetamine Abuse $300,000 Service Over Self Eliminate juvenile delinquency in Georgetown County $250,000 South Sumter Resource Center Expand education programs $300,000 University of South Carolina Gang Tracking Software $300,000 Voorhees College Eliminate violence against women $350,000 Milton Eisenhower Foundation Ex-offender and at-risk youth development $300,000 Williamsburg County Sheriff’s Department Technology enhancement $500,000 A Better Way, Inc. of Columbia Project Gangout $500,000 TOTAL $3,000,000 Senate action on these appropriations bills may precipitate a modification of these requests. Funding requests and funding levels may change in the final version of the legislation. # # #
09.05.2007	(Washington, DC) – Sixth District Congressman and House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn today announced two Timberland High School students will serve as Congressional Pages for the Fall of 2007. William Holmes III of St. Stephen and Martina Nelson of Bonneau have been selected to serve as Pages in the U.S. House of Representatives.Congressman Clyburn nominated the students, and their selection was made by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Students must be at least 16-years-old and have an excellent academic record to be considered for an appointment as a Congressional page. “I look forward to having these two outstanding students represent South Carolina on Capitol Hill,” Congressman Clyburn said. “We hear too many negatives about schools in the rural parts of our state. I believe William and Martina demonstrate that we have wonderful, successful students who are being educated in our rural public schools, and are deserving of such opportunities.” In his application for the position, William wrote that he wanted to be a Congressional Page “to be a part of something that could shape my life.” Martina hopes the appointment will provide real experience that could help her reach her goal of becoming a Supreme Court Justice. The students will live, work and attend school in Washington for the Fall semester. Their primary duties include serving as couriers, calling Members to vote, and raising the flags above the Capitol. # # #
08.31.2007	(Columbia, SC) – Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn today announced Claflin University, South Carolina State University, and Trident Technical College will receive a total of $797,034 in Upward Bound Math and Science grants from the U.S. Department of Education. These funds will support programs designed to strengthen the math and science skills of high school students in hopes they will pursue careers in those fields. “Upward bound has a successful record of providing quality programs that enhance the skills of our young people to succeed in life,” Congressman Clyburn said. “I am pleased three South Carolina programs have been selected through this competitive process to receive program funding that will encourage more interest and ability in young people in the critical fields of math and science.” Claflin University in Orangeburg will receive a $297,034 grant for its program, while South Carolina State University also of Orangeburg and Trident Technical College of Charleston will each receive $250,000 grants. Program services include: summer programs with intensive math and science training; year-round counseling and advisement; exposure to university faculty members who do research in mathematics and the sciences; computer training; and participant-conducted scientific research under the guidance of faculty members or graduate students, who serve as mentors. # # #
08.24.2007	(Columbia, SC) – Sixth District Congressman and House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn today announced his Columbia office has moved to a new location. The new office is located at 1225 Lady Street, Suite 200, which is at the corner of Lady and Sumter Streets in downtown Columbia. “My 1992 campaign was run out of 1703 Gervais Street, and my Congressional office has been located there since 1993,” Congressman Clyburn said. “I had a sentimental attachment to that location, however, the space became too small for the needs of my office. I look forward to continuing to provide service to the residents of the Sixth District in our new location.” The phone number (803)799-1100 and the fax number (803)799-9060 will remain the same. Office hours are 9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. # # #
07.27.2007	(Washington, DC) – House Majority Whip and Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn today announced EdVenture Museum in Columbia, South Carolina will receive a $148,739 grant from the Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS). The South’s largest children’s museum will use the funding to develop and implement a community-based educational initiative to engage families in adopting healthier lifestyles. “Obesity and chronic health problems are rampant in South Carolina, and these conditions are due in large part to the eating habits and lifestyles of those afflicted,” Congressman Clyburn said. “EdVenture is the perfect partner to educate young children and their families to start them on a path to healthy habits.” EdVenture will collaborate with area school districts, hospitals, government agencies, and nonprofit organizations to develop a multifaceted program to provide new educational resources for families to improve the health and education of a broad cross-section of families. The initiative is expected to expand its capacity to reach rural communities in South Carolina. EdVenture will provide $270,070 in matching funds for the grant. # # #
06.19.2007	(Washington, DC) – House Majority Whip and Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn and First District Congressman Henry Brown led the U.S. House of Representatives today in a moment of silence to honor the nine fallen Charleston firefighters. They made the following statements on the floor followed by the moment of silence. Statement of Congressman Henry Brown:Last night 9 brave firefighters from my district lost their lives in the line of duty. Responding to a fire in the West Ashley area of Charleston, these men made the ultimate sacrifice in service to our community in what was the single worse loss of firefighters since 9/11. This tragedy is a somber reminder of the dangers our first responders face on a daily basis as they serve to protect us and our property. We are forever grateful for their service and deeply saddened by their loss. Our hearts and prayers go out to the families of these courageous men: Capt. William “Billy” Hutchinson, Capt. Mike Benke, Capt. Louis Mulkey, Engineer Mark Kelsey, Engineer Bradford “Brad” Baity, Asst Engineer Michael French, Fire Fighter James “Earl” Drayton, Fire Fighter Brandon Thompson and Fire Fighter Melven Champaign. These men, who had over 100 years of service among them, gave their life doing a job they loved. Statement of Congressman Jim Clyburn: Not since 9/11 have we been reminded so poignantly of the sacrifice our first responders make to protect our safety. These nine firefighters gave the ultimate sacrifice last night doing the jobs they loved. As Charlestonians, South Carolinians and Americans, we are grateful for their service and deeply saddened by their loss. Our hearts go out to their families and their colleagues. This devastating loss is one that touched the hearts of our entire nation, and we grieve with them. Dr. Martin Luther King once said, "Everybody can be great because anybody can serve...You only need a heart full of grace. A soul generated by love. And you can be that servant." These firefighters were public servants in the truest sense. They answered the call to serve their community, and today Charleston is a better place for their service. Between the nine that perished was a combined 100 years of service to the Charleston fire department. This is a remarkable testament to their dedication and selflessness. Their experience and service cannot be replaced and their contributions will not be forgotten. # # #
05.23.2007	(Washington, DC) – House Majority Whip and Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn today announced a new MOX fuel facility at the Savannah River Site has cleared its first hurdle to secure federal funding. Today the Energy and Water Subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee passed its FY ’08 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill and included $168 million for the facility that will turn weapons-grade plutonium into nuclear reactor fuel. “I am pleased to have worked closely with John Spratt to secure the funding to move this project forward,” Congressman Clyburn said. “The MOX program at SRS was a priority of mine while serving on the Appropriations Committee, and I am pleased they responded to my insistence that the funding remain in this year’s appropriations bill.” The funding had been in jeopardy. The two South Carolina Congressmen, who both carry significant clout in Congress, fought hard to keep funding for the MOX facility. Congressman Clyburn received special permission to participate in a subcommittee hearing with Energy Secretary Bodman earlier this year so that he could seek a commitment from him on the MOX fuel project. The bill must clear the full House Appropriations Committee before being considered by both the House and Senate. # # #
05.17.2007	(Washington, DC) – Orangeburg-Wilkinson High School Senior Leonard Rivers has won this year’s Sixth District Congressional Art Competition. In addition to having his artwork displayed in the halls of the Capitol, Leonard will also receive a $5,000 renewable scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design. This is the first year the scholarship is being offered to each district’s Congressional Art Competition winner. “I am pleased that Leonard’s talent wowed the judges,” Congressman Clyburn said. “It is fortuitous that he was already making plans to attend the Savannah College of Art and Design in the fall. I know this scholarship will help him grow his tremendous talent.” The winning artwork was entitled Artist at Work in South Carolina School. It was a self-portrait of the artist done in prisma color pencil. Congressman Clyburn has sponsored the Congressional Art Competition since 1995, and a student from Orangeburg-Wilkinson has won eleven times in that thirteen-year history. The winning artwork from each Congressional district hangs for one year in the corridor that connects the House Office Buildings, where members of Congress have their offices, to the Capitol building.# # #
03.16.2007	(Columbia, SC) – House Majority Whip and Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn today accepted an invitation to speak to a joint session of the South Carolina General Assembly on Tuesday, April 10, 2007 at 12:30 p.m. “There is so much we can accomplish in South Carolina by joining our efforts and striving to achieve a larger vision for the people of our state,” Congressman Clyburn wrote in his letter of acceptance to Senate Clerk Jeff Gossett. “I look forward to this opportunity to share my vision for South Carolina.” The South Carolina General Assembly adopted a Concurrent Resolution on February 1, 2007 inviting Congressman Clyburn to speak. The resolution indicates “the members of the South Carolina General Assembly are pleased that one of South Carolina’s own has assumed this high position in the legislative branch of government. Now, therefore, we…invite the Honorable James E. Clyburn to address the General Assembly in a joint assembly.” The resolution was introduced in the Senate by Senator Robert Ford and in the House by Representative Bakari Sellers, and received bi-partisan support. # # #
03.08.2007	(Washington, D.C.) – Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn announced today that the U.S. Fire Administration has approved a $37,354 grant for the Denmark Volunteer Fire department to assist with operations and safety development. This grant allows for the continued development of advanced techniques that will more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency personnel during fire-related incidents. "The Denmark Volunteer Fire Department is to be commended on their service to the community,” Congressman Clyburn said. “This well-deserved grant will help to improve the level of preparedness of this fire department to insure that Denmark residents will receive the best possible protection.” This award was made as part of round 20 of the competitive Fiscal Year 2006 Fire Grants, which is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Office of State and Local Government Coordination and Preparedness in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. In 2006, the Department of Homeland Security awarded approximately $485 million to fire departments and EMS organizations around the country. Departments must demonstrate a need for the use of the training or equipment and a financial incapacity to acquire it on its own. # # #
01.29.2007	(Washington, DC) – House Majority Whip and Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn announced today the National Park Service and State Historic Preservation Officers will begin accepting nominations for the Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor Commission on Monday, February 12, 2007. All nominations must be received by March 30, 2007. “This is good news for the future of the Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor,” Congressman Clyburn said, who authored the legislation that created the corridor. “Time is of the essence in beginning the work of the Commission to preserve and protect the Gullah/Geechee cultural treasures. I am pleased progress is already taking place.” The 15-member commission will be made up of four individuals nominated by the South Carolina Historic Preservation Officer and two individuals each nominated by the State Historic Preservation Officer from Florida, Georgia, and North Carolina. Additionally, two individuals from South Carolina and one each from Florida, Georgia and North Carolina will be nominated for the commission who are recognized experts in historic preservation, anthropology, and folklore. All members of the commission will be appointed by the Secretary of the Interior. Public meetings are scheduled in South Carolina and Georgia to provide the community with more information about the Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor and the creation of the Commission. These four meetings are open to the public and each will start at 6:30 p.m.: February 15, 2007 Town of Atlantic Beach Community Center 1010 32rd Ave Atlantic Beach SC February 16, 2007 Avery Institute 125 Bull Street Charleston, SC March 1, 2007 Camden High School -- Frissell Hall 6300 Laurel Island Parkway Kingsland GA March 2, 2007 Penn Center 6 Penn Center Circle West St. Helena Island, SC For more information, visit Congressman Clyburn’s website at http://clyburn.house.gov/ and follow the link on the homepage to the Gullah/Geechee Commission or contact Michael Allen with the National Park Service at 843-881-5516 x12 or 843-883-3123 x36.
01.26.2007	(Columbia, SC) – Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn today announced his staff will hold regular office hours throughout the district to meet with constituents. Clay Middleton has joined the staff as Low Country Area Director and will serve Berkeley, Charleston, Colleton and Georgetown counties. He will join Kenny Barnes and Carlton Askew in holding regular office hours in Sixth District communities. “One of the most important duties of any member of Congress is serving as a liaison between our constituents and the federal agencies that serve them,” Congressman Clyburn said. “Since I am required to be in Washington when Congress is in session, I have a very capable and experienced staff to assist Sixth District residents with problems they may be having with the federal government.” Residents of the Sixth Congressional District are encouraged to visit the following location in their county to seek assistance from Congressman Clyburn. Appointments are also available to meet with staff members in each of Congressman Clyburn’s Congressional Offices. Call the office in your area for an appointment:Columbia (803)799-1100, Florence (843)662-1212, and Santee (803)854-4700. OFFICE OF CONGRESSMAN JAMES E. CLYBURNSchedule as of February 1, 2007 COUNTY AND CONGRESSIONAL STAFF MEMBER LOCATION VISIT DATE EACH MONTH OFFICE HOURS CONTACT NUMBERS Bamberg CountyCarlton Askew (803)854-4700 Bamberg Town Hall 2340 Main Hwy, Bamberg SC Denmark Town Hall 4768 Carolina Hwy, Denmark SC 1st Thursday 1st Thursday 10:30 AM-12:30 PM 2:00 PM-4:00 PM (803) 245-5128 (803) 793-3734 Berkeley CountyClay Middleton (803)854-4700 Carlton Askew (Cross) (803)854-4700 Cross Community Center Old Ninety-Six Hwy, Cross SC Alvin Community Center 2191 Santee River Rd., St. Stephen SC Huger EMS Center St. Stephen Town Hall 124 Hood St., St. Stephen SC St. Stephen Town Hall 124 Hood St., St. Stephen SC St. Stephen Town Hall 124 Hood St., St. Stephen SC 1st Wednesday 4th Monday 4th Monday 4th Tuesday 4th Wednesday 4th Thursday 10:30 AM-2:30 PM 10:00 AM-12:30 PM 2:30 PM-6:30 PM 10:00 AM-6:30 PM 10:00 AM-6:30 PM 10:00 AM-6:30 PM (843) 753-2076 (843) 567-4250 N/A (843) 567-4250 (843) 567-3597 (843) 567-3597 (843) 567-3597 Charleston CountyClay Middleton (803)854-4700 North Charleston Welcome Center 742 Fletcher St., North Charleston SC Joseph Floyd Manor, Charleston 2106 Mt. Pleasant St., Charleston SC Clyburn Community Center, Parker’s Ferry Clyburn Community Center, Parker’s Ferry Clyburn Community Center, Parker’s Ferry 1st Monday 1st Monday 1st Tuesday 1st Wednesday 1st Thursday 10:00 AM-12:30 PM 2:30-6:30 PM 10:00 AM-6:30 PM 10:00 AM-6:30 PM 10:00 AM-6:30 PM (843) 764-7165 (843) 722-1942 N/A N/A N/A Clarendon CountyCarlton Askew (803)854-4700 Manning Courthouse 3 West Keitt St., Manning SC 2nd Tuesday 10:30 AM-12:30 PM (803) 435-8424 Calhoun CountyCarlton Askew (803)854-4700 St. Mathews County Courthouse Annex 902 Fr. Huff Dr., St. Matthews SC 2nd Thursday 10:30 AM-12:30 PM (803) 874-3524 Colleton CountyClay Middleton (803)854-4700 Walterboro City Council 242 Hampton St., Walterboro SC Walterboro City Council 242 Hampton St., Walterboro SC Walterboro City Council 242 Hampton St., Walterboro SC Walterboro City Council 242 Hampton St., Walterboro SC 3rd Monday 3rd Tuesday 3rd Wednesday 3rd Thursday 10:30 AM-6:30 PM 10:30 AM-6:30 PM 10:30 AM-6:30 PM 10:30 AM-6:30 PM (843) 549-2545 Dorchester CountyCarlton Askew (803)854-4700 St. George Clemson Extension 201 Johnston St., St. George SC 2nd Wednesday 2:00-4:00 PM (843) 563-0135 Florence CountyKenny Barnes (843)662-1212 Lake City Public Service Building 345 South Ron McNair Blvd. Lake City SC Timmonsville Town Hall 115 E. Main St., Timmonsville SC Johnsonville Town Hall 111 W. Broad Way St., Johnsonville SC 2nd Tuesday 2nd Thursday 4th Monday 10:00 AM-2:00 PM 2:00-4:00 PM 10:00 AM-12:00 PM (843) 394-8575 (843) 346-7942 (843) 386-2069 Georgetown CountyClay Middleton (803)854-4700 Andrews Town Hall 101 N. Morgan Ave., Andrews SC Andrews Town Hall 101 N. Morgan Ave., Andrews SC Andrews Town Hall 101 N. Morgan Ave., Andrews SC 2nd Tuesday 2nd Wednesday 2nd Thursday 10:00 AM-6:30 PM 10:00 AM-6:30 PM 10:00 AM-6:30 PM (843) 264-8666 Lee CountyKenny Barnes (843)662-1212 Lynchburg Town Hall 81 Magnolia St., Lynchburg SC 2nd Thursday 10:00 AM-12:00 PM (803) 437-2933 Marion CountyKenny Barnes (843)662-1212 Marion/Mullins Multi-Purpose Bldg 137 Airport Court Ste. J., Mullins SC 3rd Monday 9:30-11:30 AM (843) 423-8237 Orangeburg CountyCarlton Askew (803)854-4700 Orangeburg County Annex 1437 Amelia St., Orangeburg SC Holly Hill Town Hall 8807 Old State Rd., Holly Hill SC Orangeburg County Annex 1437 Amelia St., Orangeburg SC 1st Monday 2nd Thursday 3rd Monday 10:00 AM-4:00 PM 2:00-4:00 PM 10:00 AM-4:00 PM (803) 533-1000 (803) 496-3330 (803) 533-1000 Sumter CountyCarlton Askew (803)854-4700 Shiloh Community Center 475 Pudding Swamp Rd., Lynchburg SC Sumter Opera House 21 N. Main St., Sumter SC Sumter Opera House 21 N. Main St., Sumter SC 1st Tuesday 2nd Monday 4th Monday 10:30 AM-12:30 PM 10:00 AM-4:00 PM 10:00 AM-4:00 PM (843) 659-4201 (803) 436-2500 (803) 436-2500 Williamsburg CountyKenny Barnes (843)662-1212 Kingstree Town Hall 401 N. Longstree St., SC Hemingway Town Hall 110 S. Main St., Hemingway SC 2nd Tuesday 4th Monday 2:00-4:00 PM 2:00-4:00 PM (843) 355-7484 (843) 558-2824
12.22.2006	(Washington, DC) – Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn will be sworn in as House Majority Whip on Thursday, January 4, 2007. On that day, Congressman Clyburn will become the first South Carolinian to become Majority Whip, and the second African American to hold the position. "Many people have asked me, what is a Whip? Its roots can be traced back to the United Kingdom’s Parliament that adopted the term Whip from the fox-hunting position ‘whipper-in’ who kept the fox hounds focused on their mission," Congressman Clyburn said. "My role will be to ‘whip’ up support for Democratic legislation when a vote is scheduled on the House floor, and keep our members focused on the mission." The position of Whip in the United States Congress dates back to 1897. The Republican Party created the position of Whip, and they have had 16 Whips within the Republican Party structure since then. The Democratic Party appointed its first whip in 1899, and Congressman Clyburn will become the 24th Democratic Whip in history including both Majority and Minority Whips. In total, counting both Democrat and Republican Whips, there have been 24 Majority Whips. The first Whip position was created by Speaker Thomas B. Reed, who appointed James A. Tawney of Minnesota to keep track of the whereabouts of Republican Party Members. Since then the House Republicans have always had an elected whip, however not with as formalized an organizational structure as the Democratic Whip. Not until Republicans assumed the House Majority in 1995, did they develop a whip structure with formalized positions below the main Whip. Soon after the Republicans and Democrats had a Whip, the Democrats set up their whip structure and types of whips around 1901. The Democrats appointed their Whip until 1986 and since then the position has been an elected one. The Whip, and an official whip organization, was first ‘extensively’ used in the 1930’s, when Democrats chose ‘assistant whips’ to be responsible for Members from specified geographic regions. When Congressman Clyburn assumes this esteemed position, there will be several events to mark the occasion. The National Urban League is hosting a reception in his honor on the evening of Wednesday, January 3, 2007. On January 4th, the morning of the Swearing-In, Congressman Clyburn will participate in a Bi-Partisan Interfaith Prayer Service at St. Peter’s Catholic Church in Washington. He will read the Prayer of Cesar Chavez during the service. Congressman Clyburn will then accept a whip being presented by outgoing Majority Whip Roy Blunt at an 11:00 a.m. ceremony in the Majority Whip’s conference room at the U.S. Capitol Building, which will take place during an Open House hosted by Congressman Clyburn in his new office. That will be followed by the official swearing-in ceremony for the 116th Congress on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives at 12:00 noon. "This will be an historic moment for the country, South Carolina, and for me and my family," Congressman Clyburn concluded. "I am humbled to be part of history, and look forward to contributing to a more effective and responsive U.S. House of Representatives." Prior to being elected Majority Whip, Congressman Clyburn served as Chair and Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, and Co-President of his Freshman Class. # # #
09.28.2006	(Washington, DC) – Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn today announced the U.S. Department of Energy’s National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) has awarded $8 million in grants to South Carolina Historically Black Colleges and Universities in an effort to increase the number of minority students pursuing science and technology careers. The program’s goal in part is to establish a partnership with the next generation who will help NNSA meet the demands of national security. “These grants will help train minority students for future employment in highly technical fields and help enhance our nation’s security,” Congressman Clyburn said. “As an HBCU graduate and the member of Congress who represents all of the grant recipients, I was pleased to work with NNSA to secure this funding.” College/University Grant Award Grant Purpose Allen University $4 million To create science research infrastructure for Allen University to promote and implement NNSA Science Research Initiatives with high school and undergraduate students Claflin University $2 million To fund a program for the preparation of a technologically literate science workforce to meet the needs of the 21st Century South Carolina State University $1 million To enhance the Research, Environmental Management, and Science curriculum. Voorhees College $1 million To fund Lighting the Way Part II: Securing Our Future. Established by Congress in 2000, NNSA is a semi-autonomous agency within the U.S. Department of Energy responsible for enhancing national security through the military application of nuclear science. NNSA maintains and enhances the safety, security, reliability and performance of the U.S. nuclear weapons stockpile without nuclear testing; works to reduce global danger from weapons of mass destruction; provides the U.S. Navy with safe and effective nuclear propulsion; and responds to nuclear and radiological emergencies in the U.S. and abroad. # # #
09.27.2006	(Washington, DC) – Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn today announced the U.S. House of Representatives has passed the fiscal year 2007 Defense Appropriations bill, which includes $12.7 million he secured for projects in South Carolina. “The defense of our country is multifaceted, and each of these projects represents an important aspect of our defense priorities,” Congressman Clyburn said. “I am pleased to be able to deliver this funding to South Carolina to insure our state will continue to play a significant role in our protecting the safety and security of America.” Project Appropriation Project Description Eagle Vision $3.5 million Funding for McEntire Air National Guard Base to improve the capability of the Eagle Vision system, a mobile commercial satellite used for imagery collection and processing. Army Troop Health Promotion Studies $1.1 million Funding for the South Carolina Health Disparities Institute at the University of South Carolina to conduct research into health promotion and preventative medicine strategies to improve troop stress and health readiness upon call-up. Antiballistic Windshield Armor $2 million Funding for Bamberg-based DefenseCS, Inc. to produce cost-effective armor that attaches over the windshield and eliminates the problems with armored glass. Security at The Citadel $500,000 Funding for The Citadel to construct a new perimeter fence around the campus. National Robotics Training Center of Excellence $1.1 million Funding to establish a National Robotic Training Center of Excellence at Florence-Darlington Technical College to train qualified maintenance personnel to maintain the Department of Defense’s numerous robotics technologies. Techlink Southeast $1 million Funding for a program to identify, prioritize and solve the technological needs of regional industry. It is a partnership with all Department of Defense branches – Army, Navy, Air Force, and various defense agencies – and Federal laboratories, research universities and the private sector. TechLink accounts for approximately one-fourth of all Department of Defense Patent License Agreements nationwide. Advanced Warfighter Sustainment Systems for the 21st Century $2 million Funding for Sopakco in Marion County to improve Meals Ready to Eat (MRE) food quality, as well as packaging. The program will use nutraceuticals to deliver high performance combat ration components that maintain or enhance troops’ cognitive and physical performance. Tabletop Trainers $1.5 million Funding for the South Carolina Army National Guard to procure the Tabletop Trainer Program to provide better on-site convoy and crew training for soldiers who are deployed. The Senate must approve the Defense Appropriations conference report before the President can sign it into law. # # #
08.22.2006	(New Orleans, LA) – Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn in his role as Chair of the House Democratic Caucus will lead a delegation of about 20 Democratic House members to the Gulf Coast region next week to mark the first anniversary of Hurricane Katrina. Congressman Clyburn was so moved by the aftermath of the devastating hurricane that he initiated the response in Columbia, South Carolina, dubbed SC Cares, that ultimately served more than 2,000 displaced Gulf Coast residents. “I have been to the region, and I have seen the anguish on the faces of those that came to Columbia to take shelter from the storm’s brutality,” Congressman Clyburn said. “Witnessing that amount of devastation moves you to action, and I and my colleagues are leading the fight to rebuild the Gulf Coast.” The purpose of the trip is not only to join Gulf Coast citizens in prayer and reflection, but to do some work to help rebuild the region. The delegation of Democratic lawmakers will host a town hall meeting in Bay St. Louis to discuss insurance claims and coverage, a complicated hurdle in the rebuilding process. Lawmakers will also host a policy forum with local elected officials and experts to discuss the challenges the people of the Gulf Coast still face a year after the disaster. The issues to be discussed will include housing, health care, transportation, fisheries, environment and education. “South Carolina learned after Hurricane Hugo that disaster can strike our state at any time,” continued Congressman Clyburn. “We can relate to the experiences of the Gulf Coast region and want to ensure we are prepared to respond more effectively and efficiently next time.” In July, Congressman Clyburn led the House Democratic Caucus to unanimously approve a resolution to establish Saturday, August 26 and Sunday, August 27, 2006 as a Time for National Prayer and Remembrance for the victims of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. # # #
07.28.2006	(Little Rock, AK) -- Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn has received a Lifetime Achievement Award from the Omega Psi Phi Fraternity at its 74th Grand Conclave in Little Rock, Arkansas. Congressman Clyburn pledged the Omegas as a student at South Carolina State College, became a full member in 1967, and has remained active with the organization. “I am humbled and honored by this award,” Congressman Clyburn said. “It is wonderful to be recognized by this brotherhood of men that I respect and admire. I will continue to work hard to prove my worthiness of this recognition.” George Grace, the Omegas’ 37th International Grand Basileus, wrote to Congressman Clyburn to inform him of his selection for the Lifetime Achievement Award. In his letter, Mr. Grace commended the Congressman for his service in the U.S. Congress. “Your recent elevation to the third-ranking Democratic representative for this 109th Congress is indeed impressive,” Mr. Grace wrote. “We applaud your commitment of being an ‘unashamed advocate of your constituents,’ a theme that has resonated through the State of South Carolina and to the thousands of lives of the people you influence across the United States. “In addition to your professional accomplishments, we respect and admire your dedication to family, community, charitable and civic organizations,” Mr. Grace continued. “Your generosity of time and talent to help inspire and motivate others, especially children, has helped to establish you as a living legacy.” The award was presented last night at the Omega Psi Phi Founder’s Banquet. # # #
06.15.2006	(Washington, DC) – Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn today announced the House Appropriations Committee has approved the fiscal year 2007 Labor, Health and Human Services and Education appropriations bill including $1.5 million for projects in South Carolina. “These federal investments will provide better education programs and health care to some of South Carolina’s most vulnerable citizens,” Congressman Clyburn said. “I believe it is important to support programs that help bridge disparities for low-income and rural families, and each of these projects addresses a serious need.” Project Appropriation Project Description Palmetto Health Children’s Hospital $450,000 Funding will allow Palmetto Health to renovate the vacated cancer center so the building can be retrofitted to serve as a stand-alone Children’s Hospital. The current Children’s Hospital floor in the main hospital can exceed capacity by as much as 30% forcing children into temporary holding areas in the emergency room. Pee Dee Healthy Start $150,000 Funding will allow expansion of Pee Dee Healthy Start, Inc., a non-profit organization based in Florence, SC, to more economically and socially disadvantaged areas. The program’s goal is to reduce the infant mortality rate by supporting services to pregnant women and their families. Voorhees College Healthy Campus $100,000 Funding will be used by Healthy Campus at Voorhees College to implement a demonstration program to reverse the growing incidences of diabetes in minority communities. South Carolina is first-in-the-nation in amputations due to diabetes. Blue Ribbon Schools of Excellence $100,000 Funding will allow Blue Ribbon Schools to purchase technological equipment and software, and provide on-site training and development. Blue Ribbon Schools is a collaboration between two universities and ten school districts that focuses on diminishing the digital divide by providing access to technology in very rural communities. Clemson University Call Me Mister $200,000 Funding will enable the Call Me Mister program based at Clemson University to develop a research-based model for national replication, so that measurable results can be utilized in every state to improve the number of black male teachers. Call Me Mister is a collaborative effort involving three Historically Black Colleges in South Carolina to recruit, train, certify and secure employment for African American males as elementary teachers in public schools. College Summit, Inc. $250,000 Funds will be used exclusively to support the expansion of College Summit into South Carolina. College Summit is an award winning 501(c)(3) organization that increases the college enrollment rate of low-income youth by equipping communities to ensure every student who can make it in college will make it to college. Save the Children $150,000 Funding will support the expansion of the Save the Children program in South Carolina. This program trains community organizations and schools to provide high quality literacy programs to youth in K-8 grades in low-income and rural areas. Trident Technical College $100,000 Funding will allow the nursing program at Trident Technical College to purchase new equipment. Congressman Clyburn is the only member of the South Carolina Congressional delegation who sits on the House Appropriations Committee. This legislation must pass the full House and Senate before the President can sign it into law. # # #
06.14.2006	(Washington, DC) – Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn today announced the U.S. House of Representatives passed the fiscal year 2007 Transportation, Treasury, Housing & Urban Development, and Judiciary Appropriations bill that includes $7.25 million Congressman Clyburn secured for South Carolina projects. “This far-reaching appropriations bill contains funding for projects that will enhance economic development opportunities, promote and preserve history, and enhance community development,” Congressman Clyburn said. “I fully support these projects for which I secured funding at the request of the communities that need these federal investments.” Project Appropriation Project Description 301/I-95 Interchange $2.5 million Initial funding to build a cloverleaf at the 301/I-95 interchange in Orangeburg County. This project is needed for the development of the Carolinks inland port near the interchange. This funding will enhance state and county funds already committed to this project. Briggs-DeLaine-Pearson Connector $1.5 million Funding for the South Carolina Department of Transportation to construct roadways and a bridge joining state highways 33 and 120. International African American Museum $2 million First federal allocation for the City of Charleston’s development of an International African American Museum. City of Charleston Spring /Fishburne Street Drainage Basin $250,000 Funding for the City of Charleston’s drainage project to eliminate flooding in the Spring/Fishburne Street area. Choppee Resource Center $150,000 Funding for renovations of the Choppee Resource Center at the Five Rivers site. This investment will allow Georgetown County to provide its rural citizens comprehensive health and wellness services. Richland County Recreation Commission $150,000 Funding for the construction and expansion of the canteen and the addition of a press box for the baseball facility at Meadowlake Park. Williamsburg County Sheriff’s Department $150,000 Funding for the renovation of two buildings donated by the local school district that will house Sheriff’s department offices, the Department of Natural Resources, and Probation, Pardon and Parole. City of Walterboro $150,000 Additional federal funding for expansion of the Great Swamp Sanctuary in Walterboro. This nature-based attraction combines recreation, tourism, education and preservation, and it will encourage economic growth in this economically depressed area. Progressive Club of John’s Island $150,000 Funding for the restoration of the historic Progressives Club on John’s Island to be used as a multipurpose center. This community center will provide recreation and tutorial programs for local residents and serve as a place to showcase the rich Gullah culture of the area. Brainerd Institute $150,000 Funding to restore the historic Brainerd Institute in Chester County that was a renowned school for African Americans from 1866-1939. Once restored, it will be used as an educational and cultural center. City of North Charleston $100,000 Funding to assist in the revitalization of North Charleston neighborhoods. It will enable the City to provide community organizations assistance through capacity building efforts, community workshops and technical assistance. Congressman Clyburn is the only member of the South Carolina Congressional delegation that sits on the House Appropriation Committee. This legislation must pass the Senate before it becomes law. # # #
06.13.2006	(Washington, DC) – Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn today announced the U.S. House of Representatives Appropriations Committee has passed the fiscal year 2007 Defense Appropriations bill, which includes $16.3 million he secured for projects in South Carolina. “Several of these projects will help create jobs in rural communities like Bamberg and Marion counties, while all are designed to help improve the effectiveness of our military through technology, training, nutrition and health, or readiness,” Congressman Clyburn said. “I am pleased to be able to serve on the Appropriations Committee and help secure these federal investments that will benefit South Carolina’s economy and our nation’s defense.” Project Appropriation Project Description Eagle Vision $3.5 million Funding for McEntire Air National Guard Base to improve the capability of the Eagle Vision system, a mobile commercial satellite used for imagery collection and processing. Army Troop Health Promotion Studies $2 million Funding for the South Carolina Health Disparities Institute at the University of South Carolina to conduct research into health promotion and preventative medicine strategies to improve troop stress and health readiness upon call-up. Antiballistic Windshield Armor $2 million Funding for Bamberg-based DefenseCS, Inc. to produce cost-effective armor that attaches over the windshield and eliminates the problems with armored glass. Security at The Citadel $500,000 Funding for The Citadel to construct a new perimeter fence around the campus. National Robotics Training Center of Excellence $2 million Funding to establish a National Robotic Training Center of Excellence at Florence-Darlington Technical College to train qualified maintenance personnel to maintain the Department of Defense’s numerous robotics technologies. Techlink Southeast $1 million Funding for a program to identify, prioritize and solve the technological needs of regional industry. It is a partnership with all Department of Defense branches – Army, Navy, Air Force, and various defense agencies – and Federal laboratories, research universities and the private sector. TechLink accounts for approximately one-fourth of all Department of Defense Patent License Agreements nationwide. Advanced Warfighter Sustainment Systems for the 21st Century $2 million Funding for Sopakco in Marion County to improve Meals Ready to Eat (MRE) food quality, as well as packaging. The program will use nutraceuticals to deliver high performance combat ration components that maintain or enhance troops’ cognitive and physical performance. Tabletop Trainers $3.3 million Funding for the South Carolina Army National Guard to procure the Tabletop Trainer Program to provide better on-site convoy and crew training for soldiers who are deployed. Congressman Clyburn is the only member of the South Carolina Congressional delegation that sits on the House Appropriations Committee. The full House and Senate must approve the Defense Appropriations bill before it becomes law. # # #
06.12.2006	(Washington, DC) – The U.S. House of Representatives recently passed the Energy and Water Appropriations bill that contained more than $1 billion secured by Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn for South Carolina projects. This Fiscal Year 2007 funding includes a nearly $1.2 billion appropriation for the Savannah River Site. “I am pleased to be in a position in Congress to bring much needed federal funds back to South Carolina,” said Congressman Clyburn. “The energy and water projects funded help meet basic infrastructure needs and provide resources to help our state develop innovative technology for the future.” Project Appropriation Project Description Lake Marion Regional Water Agency $7 million This project will continue the development of the water agency. Lynches River/Lake City, SC $400,000 This project will allow for the planning necessary to clean out a health hazard caused by frequent flooding in the Lake City region of South Carolina. Pocotaligo Swamp $650,000 The Pocotaligo Swamp Restoration Project will allow for the clearing and snagging of approximately thirty miles of old steam channels within the swamp, which will improve the water flow and water quality throughout the swamp. Biomass Research at Claflin University $500,000 Biomass Research project will study plant matter (trees, grass, agricultural crops and other biomatter) and how it can be converted into alternative fuel. Biomass Research at Francis Marion University $500,000 Biomass Research project will study plant matter (trees, grass, agricultural crops and other biomatter) and how it can be converted into alternative fuel. Claflin University $2,500,000 National Nuclear Security Administration funding for math and science research. Allen University $3,000,000 National Nuclear Security Administration funding for math and science research. Voorhees College $1,000,000 National Nuclear Security Administration funding for math and science research. South Carolina State University $1,000,000 National Nuclear Security Administration funding for math and science research. Denmark Technical College $500,000 National Nuclear Security Administration funding for math and science research. Savannah River Site $1,195,394,000 Energy and Water funds will support the needs of the Savannah River National Laboratory's Hydrogen Production Demonstration Project and the ability of Savannah River to dispose of existing liquid waste in the facility. Congressman Clyburn is the only member of the South Carolina Congressional delegation that sits on the Appropriations committee. This legislation must still pass the U.S. Senate before it becomes law. # # #
06.06.2006	(Florence, SC) – Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn presented rising high school senior, Matthew Self, the Congressional Award Silver and Bronze medals on Monday in Florence, South Carolina. The 18-year-old, home-schooled Florence resident has earned the Congressional Awards through his commitment to serving his community and building his character through learning about responsibility, citizenship, and organization. In order to earn the silver medal, Matthew had to complete 200 hours of community service, which he did volunteering at the Harvest Hope Food Bank; 100 hours of personal development, which he did by building, customizing and programming a computer from parts ordered online; 100 hours of fitness, which he did by practicing the Korean-style martial art of Tang Soo Do; and two-days of expedition/exploration, which he did by living with an elderly friend to experience how the elderly live from day to day. The requirements for the bronze medal are half that of the silver. “I am proud to recognize Matthew for his hard work and desire to achieve,” Congressman Clyburn said. “These awards show that he is committed to improving himself and his community, and I am confident he will go on to earn the gold medal and distinguish himself as a young man to watch in the future.” Gold medal recipients must complete 400 hours of community service, 200 hours each of personal development and fitness, and four days of expedition/exploration. Matthew is currently working toward that goal. Congress established the Congressional Award in 1979 to recognize initiative, achievement and service in young people. For more information about participating in the program, contact The Congressional Award office toll-free at 1-888-80-AWARD or visit the website at www.congressionalaward.org. # # #
05.26.2006	(Columbia, SC) – Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn today announced Orangeburg-Wilkinson High School Junior, Jonathan Johnson, is the winner of the 2006 Sixth District Artistic Discovery competition. Jonathan used prismacolor pencils to create a dynamic self-portrait that was chosen to represent the Sixth District on display on Capitol Hill. “I was impressed with the level of maturity and depth in Jonathan’s artwork,” Congressman Clyburn said. “He is continuing in a long line of impressive winners from Orangeburg-Wilkinson High School. I commend Jonathan and his art teacher, Alvin Staley, for a job well done.” This is the tenth time during the twelve-year history of the Sixth District Artistic Discovery competition that a student from Orangeburg-Wilkinson has won. Jonathan’s portrait will hang for a year in the underground corridor that connects the U.S. House office buildings with the Capitol building in Washington. For the first time, the Columbia Museum of Art and the City of Columbia has worked with Congressman Clyburn to display other artwork submitted for the competition. The art pieces submitted for the Sixth District Artist Discovery are on display this year at the Drew Wellness Center on Gervais Street from now until June 19th. The artwork display is open for the public to view. # # #
05.19.2006	(Washington, DC) -- Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn this week was ranked the 49th most powerful member of the 435 member U.S. House of Representatives by the government relations organization Knowlegis. These first ever rankings were based on three factors: position, influence and legislation. According to the Knowlegis report, Congressman Clyburn’s ranking was based on his membership on the Appropriations Committee, his success in passing one or more bills out of the House, and his position as Chair of the House Democratic Caucus. “This ranking by an independent entity is an important recognition of my ability to effectively represent South Carolina and my constituents in Washington,” Congressman Clyburn said. “It indicates that I am in a position to affect legislation and resources that are important to the Sixth Congressional District and all of South Carolina.” Although South Carolina lost significant seniority and Congressional power when it lost the service of Strom Thurmond, Fritz Hollings, and Floyd Spence, this report indicates the Palmetto State still wields significant power. The state’s ranking is 21st among all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and four territories. That is much higher than one would expect given its size and its relative lack of seniority, and it greatly exceeds the ranking of neighboring states Georgia and North Carolina at 56th and 44th respectively. “With members of our delegation in strategic positions,” Congressman Clyburn continued, “we have been able to enhance South Carolina’s power on Capitol Hill.” In addition to Congressman Clyburn's 49th ranking, Senator Lindsey Graham ranks 26th among Senators and Fifth District Congressman John Spratt ranks 86th among House members. # # # To view the Knowlegis report, follow this link http://www.congress.org/congressorg/power_rankings/state.tt?state=SC
05.19.2006	(Washington, DC) – Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn has honored Carvers Bay High School Principal Daryl Brown with a tribute entered into the Congressional Record. The Congressman’s tribute coincides with the Milken Family Foundation’s Congressional Reception honoring its current National Educator Award winners that was held in Washington yesterday. Milken’s Educators Award is one of the most prestigious recognitions for educators. Mr. Brown was one of two South Carolina recipients this year. He received a $25,000 monetary award for his excellence in his profession. Congressman Clyburn joined Mr. Brown at the Congressional reception and recognized his outstanding achievement with the following tribute: Tribute to Daryl C. Brown The Honorable James E. Clyburn Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to an individual who serves as a great illustration of all the good that is being done in our public school systems. Daryl C. Brown is the principal of Carvers Bay High School located in Hemmingway, South Carolina, one of the schools I proudly represent in this body. Renowned educator and native South Carolinian Mary McLeod Bethune once said, "Invest in the human soul. Who knows, it might be a diamond in the rough." The continued success of our public schools requires not just a financial investment, but also an investment in the lives our young people. Mr. Brown's work exemplifies Dr. Bethune's mandate. Charged with the challenging task of combining two rival high schools, he so successfully managed the consolidation that the biggest obstacle was selecting the school colors. On the first day of school, he held an assembly where he showed students a newspaper article predicting that the school would not be a success. He forcefully disputed that assertion, saying that Carvers Bay would become a blue ribbon school, a prediction that was met with a rousing ovation from students and staff. Well on its way to that distinction, the school has made impressive gains on test scores, added AP classes, and started an ROTC program considered one of the best in the area. An innovative leader who is often the first in the district to experiment with new strategies, Mr. Brown created a Freshman Academy to ease the transition from middle school, even designating a separate wing for the program. He also began an initiative to provide breakfast for all of his students, making Carvers Bay one of the few high schools with such a program. Though his students have dubbed him "Papa Bear" after the school mascot, the profound transformation he has led at Carvers Bay is no fairy tale. Mr. Brown's dedication and commitment have not gone unnoticed. The Milken Family Foundation awarded him this year with one of the most prestigious awards in teaching -- the Milken Educator Award. Referred to as the "Oscars of Teaching," by Teacher Magazine the Milken Family Foundation's National Educator Award is given each year to approximately 100 of the most outstanding teachers and principals in states across the country. This prestigious recognition, which began in 1987, comes with a cash award of $25,000 for each recipient. These awards pay homage to the importance of quality teachers and to the significance of the teaching profession. Mr. Speaker, I ask you and my colleagues to join me in honoring the enormous public service of Mr. Daryl C. Brown. We also congratulate him on his recognition as a Milken Family Foundation National Educator. Our nation prospers because of individuals like him. # # #
05.02.2006	(Washington, DC) - Congressman James E. Clyburn is inviting South Carolina residents to join him for a live online town hall meeting, known as an E-Town Hall, on Thursday, May 4th from 11:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m. The Congressman will be participating in a regional E-Town Hall with other Democratic House members from Georgia, Florida, North Carolina and South Carolina. Members will answer questions submitted by residents of this region on a wide range of topics including gas prices, immigration, and the war in Iraq. “As Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, I am encouraging my colleagues to utilize internet technology as an effective means of communicating with their constituents,” Congressman Clyburn said. “The Caucus will be holding regional town meetings throughout the month, so everyone will have a chance to participate and become more comfortable with incorporating the internet into their office's outreach.” Congressman Clyburn held an E-Town Hall meeting with South Carolina Sixth District constituents last month. He also led the House Democratic Caucus in a nationwide E-Town Hall at the annual Issues Conference on February 4, 2006. Both of those transcripts are available by visiting www.dems.gov and following the links to the Online Townhall Meeting. Questions may be submitted in advance for the May 4th E-Town Hall by visiting Congressman Clyburn's website at http://clyburn.house.gov/, or South Carolina residents can participate live by going to his website from 11:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m. on May 4th. A full transcript of the online town hall meeting will be available on Congressman Clyburn's website at the conclusion of the meeting. For more information, contact Hope Derrick at (803)799-1100 or (803)553-1732. # # #
03.22.2006	Congressman Funded the Institute to Study Environmental Policy at South Carolina State University (Orangeburg, SC) – Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn will participate in a Meet & Greet on Thursday, March 23rd with members of the Environmental Policy Planning Group that will help shape the Environmental Policy Institute at South Carolina State University. The event will be held at 6:00 p.m. at the Orangeburg County Development Commission, 125 Regional Parkway in Orangeburg. Congressman Clyburn secured funding for the Environmental Policy Institute at the James E. Clyburn Transportation, Research and Conference Center at South Carolina State University. The purpose of this Institute is to develop national environmental policies that protect the environment, promote good health, enhance economic opportunities and develop sustainable communities. “I don’t believe that effective environmental policy can be developed in a vacuum,” Congressman Clyburn said. “It is imperative that environmental concerns are addressed in a way that also protects and promotes viable, healthy communities. This Institute will develop comprehensive environmental policies that take all of these needs into account.” The Institute grew out of a collaboration Congressman Clyburn began with the Medical University of South Carolina, South Carolina State University, the U.S. Department of Energy, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to create the National Environmental Policy Commission back in 1999 that spent several years holding listening sessions around the country and compiling a comprehensive report on environmental justice and its relationship to the well-being of low-income and minority communities. On Thursday night, members of the Environmental Policy Planning Group will meet with the Congressman and community leaders interested in environmental policy in an informal setting. On Friday, March 24th, the group will meet to begin its work on the Environmental Policy Institute. Members of the Planning Group are attached. Environmental Policy Planning GroupEnvironmental Policy Institute, South Carolina State University Dr. Sue BriggumVice President of Federal Public AffairsWaste Management, Inc.Washington, DC The Honorable Chris CampbellMayor of Eastover, SCPresident of SC Black Mayors ConferenceTown of EastoverEastover, SC Dr. Yomi DurotoyeAssociate Professor of Political ScienceSenior Lecturer of International StudiesWake Forest UniversityWinston-Salem, NC Mr. Alonzo FrazierChairmanEconomic Commerce and Health OrganizationAllendale, SC Dr. Jennifer FridayPresidentThe Friday Consulting GroupLithonia, GA The Honorable Raul GrijalvaU.S. House of RepresentativesTucson, AZ Mr. Robert L. HarrisVice President, Environmental Health, Safety, & Technical ServicesPacific Gas & Electric Co.San Francisco, CA Mrs. Geona Shaw JohnsonInterim Director of Housing & Community DevelopmentCity of CharlestonCharleston, SC Dr. Edward KeithFamily Practice PhysicianLake Marion Primary CareManning, SC Mr. Matt KimbroughSGA PresidentStudent Government AssociationOrangeburg, SC Ms. Linda LinglePresidentLingle ConsultingWashington, DC Dr. Mildred McClainExecutive DirectorCitizens for Environmental JusticeSavannah, GA Dr. Lee MonroePresidentVoorhees CollegeDenmark, SC Mr. Dean SuageeOf CounselHobbs, Straus, Dean and WalkerWashington, DC Dr. John VenaProfessor & Chair, Department of EpidemiologyUniversity of South CarolinaColumbia, SC Ms. Roblena WalkerMiss South Carolina State UniversityOrangeburg, SC Mr. Derrick WatchmanVice PresidentNative American BankingJP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A.Phoenix, AZ
03.17.2006	(Walterboro, SC) – Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn is hosting a free health fair in Walterboro, South Carolina to target the negative health statistics that plague the I-95 corridor. On Monday, March 20, 2006 from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m., the I-95 Health Fair will take place at St. Peter’s AME Church’s Eugene Cryer Family Life Center at 300 Fishburn Street in Walterboro. This health fair is the third held by Congressman Clyburn along the I-95 corridor. Previous health fairs served Santee and Shiloh and the surrounding communities. As in previous I-95 health fairs, this public event will provide an opportunity for local communities along the I-95 corridor to receive free screenings. The Congressman will be partnering with the National Kidney Foundation’s Kidney Early Evaluation Program (KEEP) to test for kidney disease, cholesterol, and prostate cancer. “Walterboro is located off Exit 57 on Interstate 95, a significant stretch of which has been dubbed the ‘Corridor of Shame.’ One reason for this designation is the dire health disparities along I-95,” Congressman Clyburn said. “This health fair is an opportunity to help area residents identify chronic health problems and begin to receive proper treatment. Knowledge is power, and it is the key to helping the I-95 corridor reverse its disturbing health trends.” Pre-registration by March 17th is encouraged. For more information or to register, please call toll free 1-877-501-5111. # # #
02.01.2006	(Washington, DC) -- House Democratic Caucus Chair James E. Clyburn (D-SC) issued the following statement following Congressman John Larson's election as Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus. “I welcome John to the ranks of the House Democratic Leadership. John joins a team that is committed to working hard on behalf of hard working Americans, and I know he will be a great asset to this effort. “John and I share a background as high school history teachers. The tricks of the trade we learned in the classroom aren’t far from the skills we will utilize in leading this Caucus. “He and I have a firm belief that the strength of the Democratic Caucus lies in its diversity. John and I have had very different life experiences, yet we share a passion for the same Democratic philosophies. The same holds true for all the members of our Caucus, and I know working together, John and I can lead this talented group back to the majority.”
01.31.2006	(Washington, DC) – House Democratic Caucus Chair James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement in reaction to the President’s State of the Union Address. “Democrats welcome President Bush’s call to start a ‘good, honest dialogue.’ This invitation for an open discussion with the American people is a welcome departure from the President’s negotiations on his failed energy proposals, prescription drug plan and social security reforms that have all been hatched with industry officials in secret behind closed doors. Obviously his previous methods have been designed to benefit only those that have been brought to the table, as a result the American people have not been included in shaping the current state of our union. “I think it is very clear that the state of our union depends on where you sit. If you are among the nation’s wealthiest one percent, you are enjoying huge tax breaks and growing wealth. If you are an oil company owner or investor, you are pocketing record profits and lucrative government subsidies. If you are part of the pharmaceutical industry, you are reaping the benefits from your ability to write our country’s failed prescription drug plan. “Yet the vast majority of Americans today are not celebrating the state of our union. Recent polls show two out of three Americans think our country is on the wrong track, and the President’s approval ratings are at an all-time low. “Many Americans are faced with hard choices of whether to fill their gas tanks to get to work, heat their homes, or buy their prescription drugs. All of these costs are skyrocketing as American wages are declining and working Americans live under the cloud of layoffs and outsourcing. Many families are spending another year apart from loved ones serving on warfronts in Iraq, Afghanistan and here in the homeland. Our military families and our troops are spread too thin. Americans from the Gulf Coast region have seen the state of their union collapse into chaos and confusion. Most Americans seeking leadership and action to address their myriad of needs relate to Katrina victims’ frustration with our government’s ineffectiveness and inefficiency. “Those who have a seat at the President’s table clearly echo his belief that the state of our union is strong. For those who sit on the outside looking in, the state of the union has been shaken by this Administration and they are calling out for true leadership and real reform. “Democrats in Congress recognize that together, America can do better. Instead of a pervasive culture of corruption that requires you to pay-to-play, Democrats have proposed a Declaration for Honest Leadership to restore trust and increase transparency and accountability in government. Instead of record deficits at the expense of investment in education programs, Democrats have an Innovation Agenda to keep America competitive with pay-as-you-go financing. Instead of allowing the pharmaceutical industry to write our nation's health care policies, Democrats support lowering prescription drug prices through government negotiated price breaks. Instead of bloating oil company profits by bleeding hard working Americans, Democrats have a plan to end price gouging and repeal giveaways to the oil industry. “Democrats believe that all Americans deserve a seat at the table, and welcome President Bush’s invitation to join him. We want the state of our union to be strong in everyone’s eyes. Together, America can do better.”
01.30.2006	(Washington, DC) – House Democratic Caucus Chair James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement on the passing of Coretta Scott King. “On this the eve of Black History Month, we reflect on the life of an extraordinary woman, Coretta Scott King. A classically trained musician, Mrs. King, was the backbone of the King family. She embraced her place as a preacher's wife, but soon found herself in a much broader role. Her husband's rise as the face and voice of the civil rights movement of the 1960s was due in no small part to the advice and counsel of his dear wife. “Coretta Scott King, herself, exemplified the struggles of the times. She grew up in a small Alabama town, and watched her father's businesses suffer at the hand of vandals whose acts were fueled simply by her family's skin color. This spurred the activist in her, and it was that passion she shared with Martin Luther King, Jr. “It was my pleasure to know Mrs. King. To know her is to understand how deeply and profoundly she believed in the cause of social justice for all. She committed her life and talents to ensuring that no more children would grow up as second-class citizens. She and her family suffered great loss for their actions, while they achieved great things. Our nation owes Coretta Scott King our enduring gratitude for her tremendous legacy. Her accomplishments will live on in every community where children of all colors can grow up together enjoying the same opportunities. “Although we mourn her passing, we celebrate that she and Dr. King are finally reunited in a place where we all will one day be truly free.”
01.25.2006	(Washington, DC) - House Democratic Caucus Chair James E. Clyburn (D-SC) reacted today to reports the White House is not cooperating with Senate investigations into the response to Hurricane Katrina by once again calling for the formation of a non-partisan independent commission: “This White House has a long history of acting as though it is above the laws of this country. Americans want and deserve an objective, non-political assessment of the federal government’s failures in the relief and ongoing recovery response to Katrina. Leaders here in Washington and across our nation have called for an independent Katrina Commission since early September 2005. Sadly, in 2006, we remain bogged down in the secretive shadows that are the hallmark of this White House. We can do better. Americans deserve better. “This President and his cronies have a history that is disturbing: taking America to war under false pretenses, fostering the most unprecedented culture of corruption in Washington, spying on our own citizens, breeching national security by outing covert American operatives, and their continued blocking of an independent commission to investigate the criminally negligent response to Hurricane Katrina. If there were ever a need for an independent commission to investigate, it is now. “What is this White House hiding concerning its response to the devastation of American lives and property? Why do Republicans oppose an independent commission? The 9-11 Commission was independent.; It provided our nation a great service. It helped us better understand what happened and the course we need to take to make Americans safer. An independent Katrina Commission will do the same – shine light on the truth and make America stronger and safer. It is time to let the sunshine in.”
01.20.2006	(Washington, DC) – House Democratic Caucus Chair James E. Clyburn will make his first official visit outside Washington to meet with Bishop T.D. Jakes of the legendary Potter’s House in Dallas, Texas this weekend. Clyburn is making the trip in his role not only as Chair of the Caucus, but in his capacity as Chair of Leader Pelosi’s Democratic Faith Working Group. “Bishop Jakes is an extraordinary leader in the Christian community. He is an entrepreneur and a bridge builder that leads by example,” Congressman Clyburn said. “I look forward to an ongoing dialogue with the Bishop regarding faith and how it shapes our public policies.” While in Dallas on Saturday, Congressman Clyburn will join Bishop Jakes in touring Clay Academy, one of the many community-outreach programs sponsored by The Potter’s House. On Sunday, Bishop Jakes has invited the Congressman to speak at the 10:00 a.m. worship service at The Potter’s House church, which serves a Dallas-based congregation of 28,000 and a much wider television audience. “I grew up the son of a fundamentalist minister who taught me the same message Bishop Jakes preaches – leading by serving,” Congressman Clyburn continued. “My father had high hopes that I would go into the ministry, but I chose to lead by serving in a different capacity. Yet I believe the Bishop and I share a lot of common ground.” Congressman Clyburn hopes this meeting will lead to a lasting relationship for both men to further explore their shared desire to improve the quality of life for all humanity.
01.18.2006	(Washington, DC) - South Carolina's Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn today officially became Chair of the House Democratic Caucus. Clyburn was elected to the position in December, when it was announced the previous Chair Bob Menendez would be appointed to the U.S. Senate, but took office today when Menendez officially vacated his House seat. “This is a tremendous day for me, my family and the people of South Carolina,” Congressman Clyburn said. “Thirteen years ago I came to Washington as South Carolina's first African American elected to Congress since Reconstruction. This week as we celebrate the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, the significance of my becoming Chair is not lost on me.” Clyburn is the second African American to hold the position of Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, the third ranking leadership position. “I have been honored to deliver a number of speeches over the past week honoring Dr. King's life, and as I often do, I reflected on King's powerful Letter from the Birmingham City Jail in which he responded to a call from eight white clergy who told him the time was not right for King to pursue his agenda,” Congressman Clyburn said. “Just as King did in his response, I question the theory of a ‘right time’ to do anything. That is why as Chair of the Democratic Caucus I will stand up against this Administration that seem to be asking working Americans to carry the burden of their-ill fated policies on Iraq, Social Security, taxes, health care and education. Where is the justice when there is no shared sacrifice?” Congressman Clyburn's first official duty as Chair will come at 2:00 PM today when he joins other Democratic Leaders in the House and Senate presenting the “Democratic Declaration: Honest Leadership and Open Government” event. Clyburn’s first full Caucus meeting will be on Wednesday, February 1, when his replacement as Vice Chair will be chosen. The next day, members of the House Democratic Caucus will convene in Williamsburg, Virginia for their annual Issues Conference that will be led by Clyburn. Clyburn's role as Chair will mean some changes in the staffing of the House Democratic Caucus office. Here are the new Caucus staff members and the roles they will be playing: Yelberton (Yebbie) Watkins, Chief of Staff - Yebbie, a Columbia, South Carolina native, is a graduate of Duke University and Georgetown Law School. He has served as served on Congressman Clyburn's staff since he first came to Washington in 1993. Yebbie will serve double duty as Chief of Staff for the Caucus and Congressional offices. Jaime Harrison, Executive Director - Jaime, an Orangeburg, South Carolina native, is a graduate of Yale University and Georgetown Law School. This former intern to Congressman Clyburn has served on the Congressional staff since 2003. Before joining Congressman Clyburn's office, Jaime served as Chief Operations Officer for the national education based non-profit, College Summit. At age 29, Jaime will be one of the youngest and the first African-American to serve as Executive Director. He will oversee the day-to-day operations in the Caucus office. Lindy Birch, Director of Outreach - Lindy, a Florence, South Carolina native, is a graduate of University of South Carolina and University of Leicester, England. She came to Congressman Clyburn's Congressional staff in 1993 after working on his campaign. She will work with reaching out to Democratic organizations in and outside of Washington, DC, and constituency groups like African Americans and Latinos. Burns Strider, Policy Director -- Burns, a native of Grenadda, Mississippi, comes to the Caucus office from Leader Pelosi's staff. Burns has eight years experience working on the Hill, and has worked closely with Clyburn over the past year in the Congressman's capacity as Chair of the Leader's Faith Working Group. Strider has worked in a freshman Member's office, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee and in Leadership. He has a broad understanding and perspective of the Caucus and Congress. He will oversee the development of Democratic Caucus issues and policies. Allie Neill, Member Services Director -- Allie, a native of Dallas, Texas, has served in this capacity for the Caucus since 2001. She joined the Caucus staff under Martin Frost's leadership, and will continue her duties in organizing the weekly Caucus meetings and serving as a liaison to Member's offices. Wendy Hartman, Planning Director -- Wendy, a native of Annapolis, Maryland, has been on the Caucus staff for the past three years. Prior to coming to the Hill, she served as Vice President Gore's Deputy Director of Scheduling and Advance from 1994-1999. She then joined the DNC as the White House Liaison, and after the 2000 election served in a variety of roles at the DNC until moving over to the Democratic Caucus office. She will continue her primary duty of planning and coordinating the annual Democratic Issues Conference and other special projects. Tomica Burke, Staff Assistant -- Tomica, a native of Queens, New York, is a graduate of the University of Virginia, and will remain in her current position.. She has served as Staff Assistant since joining the Caucus staff in June 2005. The Caucus office is located in 1420 Longworth House Office Building and can be reached by phone at (202) 226-3210 or by fax at (202) 225-9253. For now, media inquiries should be directed to Congressman Clyburn's personal office Communications Director, Hope Derrick, at the office (803) 799-1100 or by cell (803) 553-1732.
12.14.2005	(Washington, DC) - Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn issued the following statement in response to MoveOn.org's call for Congress to support the withdrawal of troops from Iraq: "I appreciated the signatures presented to my office today by MoveOn.org. This petition calling for the withdrawal of troops from Iraqby the end of 2006 in many ways echoes my ongoing position in opposition to this war. While I am always interested in hearing from my constituents', I urge MoveOn.org and others seeking withdrawal from Iraqto call on Republican Congressional Members. It is the Republican leadership that is stifling debate on this issue, and they control which bills come to the floor for a vote. While Democrats may not be unanimous in our position on withdrawal, we are unified in our support of a dialogue and deliberation of this issue on the floor of the House. "I did not vote for the Iraq Resolution because I never saw or heard anything I felt constituted an imminent threat to Americans from Iraq. In addition, much of the background information I read indicated that this administration came into office with Iraqon the brain. "In the run-up to the war, we were assured that Iraqhad weapons of mass destruction. We did not find any, and were told before going in that it was highly possible that we would not. "We were told that our soldiers would be greeted in Baghdadas liberators. Just the opposite has occurred. "We were told that we could give big tax cuts to the wealthy and fund a war at the same time because the war would be largely paid for by income from Iraqi oil. That has not happened, and the nation's deficit has skyrocketed. "Finally, President Bush declared over a year ago, 'Mission Accomplished.' Yet, since that announcement, more Americans have been mortally and severely wounded than before his made-for-television performance. "I am in total agreement with the sentiments expressed by Jack Murtha, and I support his call for a timely exit strategy that is being echoed today by the thousands of Americans' signatures representing all walks of life." # # #
12.13.2005	(Washington, DC) - Congressman James E. Clyburn is expected to be elected Chair of the House Democratic Caucus at a special Caucus meeting on Friday, December 16th at 9:00 a.m. Clyburn, currently Vice Chair of the Caucus, is the only announced candidate for the position. The special meeting was called by current Caucus Chair Bob Menendez, who will be stepping down by January 17, 2006 when he will officially take over New Jersey Governor-elect Jon Corzine's vacated seat in the U.S. Senate. "I hope to receive the full support of my colleagues in the Democratic Caucus," Congressman Clyburn said of Friday's election. "I have worked closely with Bob as Caucus Vice Chair the past three years, and I am confident that I can make a seamless transition into the role as Chair. "I announced my candidacy to succeed Bob six months ago. His appointment to the Senate simply means I will get the opportunity one year earlier than expected," Congressman Clyburn said. "My mother always counseled me to work on getting rid of all my vices. This is a vice I look forward to shedding." If elected Chair, Congressman Clyburn's first responsibility will be to lead the Democratic Caucus' Issues Conference February 2-4, 2006 in Williamsburg, Virginia. The position of Chair is the number three leadership position in the House Democratic Caucus. # # #
12.09.2005	(Washington, DC) - Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn today announced that House and Senate Conferees have approved $16.2 million in federal appropriations for energy and water projects he requested for South Carolina. Congressman Clyburn, the only member of the South Carolina delegation that sits on the Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Energy & Water Subcommittee. Here is the list of projects received funding: Project Description Amount Lake Marion Regional Water Agency To complete the water treatment plant in Santeeand construct pipeline reaches $6 million Universityof South Carolina Fuel cell design & performance project $2 million ClaflinUniversity Science programs & facilities $2 million AllenUniversity Science programs & facilities $4 million VoorheesCollege Science programs & facilities $1 million South CarolinaStateUniversity Science programs & facilities $1 million Lynches River/Lake City Planning necessary to clean out a health hazard caused by frequent flooding in LakeCity $205,000 PocotaligoSwampRestoration Clearing of approximately 30-miles of old stream channels within the swamp $5,000 "These funds are being allocated to improve the quality of life for local communities and improve science and technology programs at several of our state's higher education institutions," Congressman Clyburn said. "I supported these requests that came from constituents because they are integral to schools and communities in South Carolina's Sixth Congressional District." The bill now goes to the full House and Senate for final approval, then to the president for his signature. # # #
12.09.2005	(Washington, DC) - Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn today announced the U.S. House of Representatives has passed the conference report on the Science, State, Justice and Commerce appropriations bill that contains $1.7 million for South Carolina projects. Congressman Clyburn, the only member of the South Carolina delegation on the Appropriations Committee, secured funding for the following projects: Recipient Project Amount Claflin University Forensic DNA Lab $300,000 Richland School District One Challenger Learning Center for Space Education $600,000 Florence Crittendon of Charleston Programs for at risk teens $200,000 Darkness to Light in Charleston Sexual abuse prevention program $50,000 Milton Eisenhower Foundation Youth mentoring for at risk youth $50,000 City of Columbia Gang Intervention/Methamphetamine Initiative $50,000 Sumter County Sheriff's Office Law enforcement technology $50,000 Colleton County Sheriff's Office Law enforcement technology $50,000 Williamsburg Technical College Law enforcement training $250,000 Williamsburg County Sheriff's Office Methamphetamine abuse program $50,000 Town of Santee Police Dept. Methamphetamine abuse program $50,000 "This federal money will be well spent on programs and projects that will protect our communities and our most vulnerable citizens," Congressman Clyburn said. "I am very supportive of these efforts and was proud to support their funding requests. The bill awaits passage by the Senate and the President's signature before becoming law. # # #
12.09.2005	Washington, DC) - House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement regarding the announcement that New Jersey Governor-Elect Jon Corzine will appoint House Democratic Caucus Chair Bob Menendez to fill his unexpired Senate term. "I applaud Governor-elect Corzine's selection of Bob Menendez to succeed him in the U.S. Senate. Bob has been a strong leader as Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, and it has been my honor and privilege to serve as Vice Chair under his dynamic leadership. "Sometime ago I announced my candidacy to succeed Bob as Chair, and although this opportunity comes a year before I had expected I will seek to fill the remaining year of Bob's term. Ours is an inclusive Party, and our leadership reflects our nation's values and diversity. If elected Chair, I will continue Bob's stewardship and the House Democrats' commitment to protect America's families, faith and future."
12.07.2005	(Washington, DC) - Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement on the passing of former Governor Carroll Campbell. "I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Carroll Campbell. I had the honor of serving as South Carolina Human Affairs Commissioner under Governor Campbell for eight years. We enjoyed a very close, professional relationship, and never let partisan politics come between us. And before he left office, Governor Campbell awarded me the Order of the Palmetto. "After he left the Governorship, the Governor and I served together on the Board of Brookgreen Gardens and Emily and I often shared the company of him and his wife, Iris. "Governor Campbell was forthright and forceful. He was a masterful politician and an extraordinary Party builder. The Republican Party is benefiting today from his skill, and his loss marks the end of an era. "My thoughts and prayers are with Iris, Carroll III, Mike and their extended family. This is indeed a sad day for the State of South Carolina." # # #
11.21.2005	(Washington, DC) -- Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn today announced that Congress has approved more than $8 million that he requested for South Carolina projects as part of the Transportation, Treasury, Judiciary, Housing & Urban Development and Related Agencies appropriation bill that passed the U.S. House of Representatives before it adjourned for the Thanksgiving recess this weekend. Here is a list of the projects and the federal funds appropriated for them: Recipient Project Appropriation S.C. Department of Transportation Briggs-DeLaine-Pearson Connector $2 million S.C. Department of Transportation Pedestrian Walkway over railroad in Orangeburg $1.7 million S.C. Department of Transportation Assembly Street Railroad relocation in Columbia $1.3 million S.C. Department of Transportation Charleston Airport garage construction $1 million EngenuitySC Hydrogen research project $1 million City of Walterboro Great Swamp Sanctuary Discovery Center and sidewalks $300,000 Paxville Community Development Corp. (CDC) Multipurpose Technology Center construction/renovation $200,000 Lee County National Council of Negro Women Dr. Mary McLeod Bethune Memorial Park construction $200,000 Marion County Nichols Wellness Center construction $150,000 BibleWay Community Development Corp. (CDC) Multipurpose facility construction $125,000 Boys & Girls Club of the Pee Dee Renovation and construction of facilities in Florence and Sumter $100,000 Town of St. Stephens Berkeley Seniors’ Center renovation $100,000 Georgetown County Choppee Regional Resource Center construction $100,000 Williamsburg County Boys & Girls Club Gym renovation/improvements $75,000 The Progressive Circle (John’s Island) Multipurpose building renovation $50,000 “All of these projects were initiated by me at the request of the recipients,” Congressman Clyburn said. “I am pleased to be able to return $8.4 million in federal funds to communities throughout the Sixth Congressional District to improve the quality of life for my constituents.” Congressman Clyburn is the only member of the South Carolina delegation that serves on the Appropriation Committee. He also was the only member of the delegation to serve on the Conference Committee that worked out the difference between the House and Senate version of this appropriations bill.
11.09.2005	(Washington, DC) - Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn's Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Act cleared its first hurdle today toward becoming law. H.R. 694 passed the U.S. House of Representatives with unanimous support on the suspension calendar that includes uncontested legislation. "I thank my colleagues in the House for recognizing the urgency to pass this bill in a timely manner so we may begin to implement the preservation efforts it establishes as quickly as possible," Congressman Clyburn said. "The National Park Service sounded the call for immediate action to preserve the unique Gullah/Geechee culture in its 2004 report, and it is evident that the Congress heard that call." Congressman Clyburn's original legislation passed both the House and Senate last session, but Congress adjourned before the bill could become law. Because of the overwhelming Congressional and grassroots support for the measure, Congressman Clyburn reintroduced the bill on February 10, 2005 with the bipartisan sponsorship of the House Members who represent the Gullah/Geechee coast that runs from northern Florida through Georgia, South Carolina and into North Carolina. The bill will establish a Gullah/Geechee Heritage Corridor that covers the four-state coastal region, which is home to this culture that is a unique blend of African and European influences brought to America during colonial times. The culture thrived on isolated Sea Islands until bridges and development began encroaching on these Gullah/Geechee communities. The bill must pass the Senate before the President can sign it into law.
11.09.2005	(Washington, DC) - Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn today announced that House and Senate Conferees have approved $16.2 million in federal appropriations for energy and water projects he requested for South Carolina. Congressman Clyburn, the only member of the South Carolinadelegation that sits on the Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Energy & Water Subcommittee. Here is the list of projects received funding: Project Description Amount Lake Marion Regional Water Agency To complete the water treatment plant in Santeeand construct pipeline reaches $6 million Universityof South Carolina Fuel cell design & performance project $2 million ClaflinUniversity Science programs & facilities $2 million AllenUniversity Science programs & facilities $4 million VoorheesCollege Science programs & facilities $1 million South CarolinaStateUniversity Science programs & facilities $1 million Lynches River/Lake City Planning necessary to clean out a health hazard caused by frequent flooding in LakeCity $205,000 PocotaligoSwampRestoration Clearing of approximately 30-miles of old stream channels within the swamp $5,000 "These funds are being allocated to improve the quality of life for local communities and improve science and technology programs at several of our state's higher education institutions," Congressman Clyburn said. "I supported these requests that came from constituents because they are integral to schools and communities in South Carolina's Sixth Congressional District." The bill now goes to the full House and Senate for final approval, then to the president for his signature.
10.25.2005	(Washington, DC) - House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement in reaction to the death of Rosa Parks. "I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of an American hero, Rosa Parks. This gentle, unassuming woman's simple act of defiance created shockwaves and monumental changes in our country. She was the essence of the civil rights movement -- peaceful yet stalwart. We have all learned from her grace and dignity, and benefited from her determination and diligence. Her story will remain in our nation's history as a triumph of the human spirit. Rosa Parks will always live on in the heart and soul of our country." # # #
10.12.2005	(Washington, DC) - Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn issued the following statement today on hearing of the death of State Representative Alex Harvin: "Alex Harvin was a great friend to me, the people of ClarendonCounty, and all South Carolinians. Alex never met a stranger or a person he wasn't willing to help. His compassion for others and his abiding commitment to this State were the hallmarks of his public service. Alex's presence always loomed larger than his stature, and his loss has left a void that will be difficult to fill." # # #
09.28.2005	(Washington, DC) - Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn announced today the Olanta Rural Fire Department will receive a $46,313 fire grant from the U.S. Fire Administration. These federal funds can be used to support training equipment, personal protective equipment, wellness and fitness, and modifications to fire stations and facilities. "These funds are being used for front-line public safety in Olanta and the surrounding areas," Congressman Clyburn said. "I am pleased to see rural fire departments seeking federal assistance to insure that local residents receive the best protection possible if an unfortunate disaster occurs." This award was made as part of round seven of the competitive Fiscal Year 2005 Fire Grants, which is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Office of State and Local Government Coordination and Preparedness in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. Grants like these are given to urban, suburban and rural departments across the country. Departments must demonstrate a need for the use of the training or equipment and a financial incapacity to acquire it on its own. # # #
09.21.2005	(Washington, DC) - A new portrait will soon take its place of honor on the wall of the U.S. Capitol building with the likeness of Georgetown native Joseph Haynes Rainey, the first African American member of the U.S. House of Representatives. Congressman Rainey's portrait was unveiled on Wednesday, September 21st by Congressman James E. Clyburn and a number of his congressional colleagues. At the ceremony, Congressman Clyburn reminded the audience of a Langston Hughes poem Dreams: "Hold fast to dreams/ For if dreams die/ Life is a broken-winged bird/ That cannot fly." "All of these Members are people who held fast to dreams," Congressman Clyburn continued. "We are the custodians of dreams and this event is the fulfillment of dreams." Joseph Rainey was the son of slaves, who later bought the family's freedom. He was drafted to fight for the Confederacy in the Civil War, but escaped to Bermuda instead. Once the war ended, he returned to Georgetown. In 1870, Mr. Rainey was elected to the South Carolina State Senate, but resigned that office when he was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives later that same year. Congressman Rainey served four terms, and later returned to Georgetown where he died on August 2, 1887. "I have a great passion for history and historical things. It is incumbent upon each of us not just to right the wrongs of history, but to help get history right," Congressman Clyburn concluded. "This is just a beginning." Rainey's portrait will hang on the third floor House side of the Capitol adjacent to the visitor's gallery. His is only the second portrait of an African American to be hung in the Capitol. The first was a painting of Senator Blanche Bruce of Mississippi, the first African American to serve a full term in the U.S. Senate. South Carolina Congressmen Henry Brown and John Spratt also attended the unveiling, as well as several current Georgetown residents led by Clerk of Court Alma White. # # #
09.20.2005	(Washington, DC) - Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and former Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, Congressman James E. Clyburn (SC-6), today announced this year's Congressional Black Caucus Foundation's (CBCF) 35th Annual Legislative Conference (ALC) beginning tomorrow and running through September 24th at the Washington, D.C. Convention Center will feature two events highlighting South Carolina's history and its talents. The theme for this year's conference is "Unity.Power.Progress," and the focus has turned to those who suffered unspeakable losses at the hands of Hurricane Katrina. In addition to focusing on the theme of this Conference, Members of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) will announce special initiatives designed to jumpstart aid to those pockets of people most severely impacted by Hurricane Katrina's destruction. The Foundation has scaled back its celebratory events in order to focus resources on assisting those who lost everything in the wake of the storm. Congressman Clyburn has cancelled the "Carolina Celebration" reception that was originally scheduled for Thursday evening. The Congressman is hosting, in part, the Gospel Extravaganza on Thursday, September 22nd at 8:00 p.m. Special guests from South Carolinawill be Tigers Production, the honor's chorus and show choir of WilsonHigh Schoolin Florence, South Carolina. The event will be held in Ballroom A at the Convention Center. Tiger Production is made up of students in the 9th - 12th grades and is under the leadership of Mrs. L. Gilliard-Johnson with Ms. Joyce Shaw as the accompanist. Congressman Clyburn is also hosting his annual Environmental Justice Braintrust on Friday, September 23rd from 9:45 a.m.until 12:00Noonin room 143B of the Convention Center. (A separate release will follow with more details.) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (FL-23) will co-chair this year's Braintrust, and Congressman Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02) will be a special guest to talk about Hurricane Katrina and the ravaging effects and ongoing environmental problems in the GulfCoastregion. # # #
09.20.2005	(Washington, DC) - For the seventh consecutive year, Congressman James E. Clyburn (SC-6) will chair the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Environmental Justice Braintrust at the CBC Foundation's Annual Legislative Conference. This year, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (FL-23) will join Congressman Clyburn as co-chair, and Congressman Bennie G. Thompson (MS-2) will speak about Hurricane Katrina. The Braintrust is scheduled for Friday, September 23, 2005, from 9:45 a.m.-12:00 noon in Room 143-B of the Washington Convention Center. This Braintrust session will start with a legislative update on current environmental justice initiatives in Congress and a discussion of Hurricane Katrina and the damaging and ongoing effects on the environment. Next, a representative from ClearCORPS USA will speak about the problem of lead poisoning that plagues our nation, particularly our children, and show a special presentation from a professional troupe performance of the nationally acclaimed "Jimmy's Getting Better." Finally, we will look at new and alternative fuel sources for the future in order to reduce our reliance on foreign fossil fuel. "The environmental factors that exist in greater concentration around low-income and minority communities remain a source of concern without simple answers," Congressman Clyburn said. "Hurricane Katrina sadly epitomizes this unfortunate trend. How these environmental factors impact our health and what can be done to minimize those impacts warrants the development of comprehensive policies that address both concerns." The purpose of the ongoing Environmental Justice Braintrust is to identify environmental issues and to recommend strategies that will assist policy makers in the development of a forward-thinking, comprehensive environmental policy that recognizes and fosters the unique relationship between environmental protection, human health, environmental justice and economic development. Environmental Justice Braintrust Agenda: Opening Remarks from Congressman James E. Clyburn, (SC-6) Legislative Update from Congressman Alcee L. Hastings, (FL-23) Hurricane Katrina Update from Congressman Bennie Thompson, (MS-2) View professional performance of nationally acclaimed "Jimmy's Getting Better" - a look at living with lead poisoning, Dr. Larry A. Jones, ClearCORPS USA Panel discussion on alternative fuel sources and technologies for the future Stephen G. ChalkU.S. Department of Energy Dr. Jim SpearotGeneral Motors Research & Development Dr. Georges BenjaminAmerican Public Health Association Dr. G. Todd WrightSavannah River National Laboratory # # #
09.16.2005	(Columbia, SC) - Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn will be hosting an I-95 Corridor Health Fair in the Sumter County community of Shiloh on Monday, September 26th to help address the chronic health conditions that plague the I-95 corridor. This second in a series of I-95 health fairs will be accessible to residents of Sumter, Clarendon, Lee, Williamsburg and Florence counties because of its proximity to I-95 at exit 141. The health fair will take place at the Shiloh Community Center on 475 Pudding Swamp Road from 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. It is free and open to the public. "This event is an opportunity to increase awareness regarding early detection and the warning signs of conditions like prostate cancer and diabetes," Congressman Clyburn said. "We can begin improving conditions one person at a time through events like this health fair that is part of my ongoing effort to turn this 'Corridor of Shame' into a 'Gateway to Fame.'" The National Kidney Foundation will be on hand to perform testing for kidney disease, prostate cancer and cholesterol. Congressman Clyburn urges those who have diabetes, high blood pressure, and/or family members with these chronic conditions to come to the day-long health fair for screening. There is no cost for any of the services provided. Participants will also receive valuable educational materials and can learn more about upcoming changes to Medicare from a variety of health care professionals during the health fair. To pre-register for the I-95 Corridor Health Fair or for further information, please call 1-888-546-0006. # # #
09.15.2005	(Washington, DC) - House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair James E. Clyburn (D-SC) issued the following statement in response to President Bush's speech tonight from New Orleans. "The President delivered a well-written speech with comforting words and sincere offers of assistance. But his speech lacked the integral component that has been missing throughout this tragic ordeal - an oversight mechanism that is ultimately responsible for insuring effective implementation of federal policy. Without an independent agency with a qualified administrator overseeing the recovery effort, our nation runs the risk of failing the Gulf coast region a second time." # # #
09.01.2005	(Washington, DC) - Congressman James E. Clyburn (D-SC-6) and Congressman Henry Brown (R-SC-1) today received notification that the Charleston Area Transportation Authority (CARTA) has been awarded a Discretionary Grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation for $1,705.431. This grant will be used for construction of Phase 1 of the North Charleston Regional Intermodal Transportation Center. Phase 1 involves construction of a Park and Ride Lot. "CARTA continues to show they are being responsive to the needs of the community," Congressman Brown said. "This project will facilitate a safe and secure place for more people to use their services." "CARTA provides an invaluable service to the Charleston area," Congressman Clyburn said. "This intermodal facility will enhance the service CARTA provides and expand their ability to effectively reach more local residences." "This project goes hand-in-hand with our express bus program," explained Howard Chapman, CARTA Director. "We are committed to providing service from various locations throughout the area, and the Intermodal Center is an integral part of that plan. The availability of alternate transportation is all the more timely in light of rising gasoline prices." "We would like to express our appreciation to Congressmen Brown and Clyburn for their support of our projects," Chapman added. "They have been instrumental in providing a voice for CARTA in Washington, and bringing our needs to the attention of other leaders such as Congressmen Petri and Istook, both of which made visits to the area." Plans for CARTA's Intermodal Center are complete and the last parcel of property has been secured. The organization is in the process of obtaining the necessary permits to begin construction. # # #
08.17.2005	(Washington, DC) - Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn announced today two Orangeburg County agencies and a Bamberg County fire department will receive more than $350,000 in grants from the U.S. Fire Administration. The Orangeburg Department of Public Safety and the Olar Fire Department will receive $157,500 and $15,234 grants respectively for operations and safety purposes. These federal funds can be used to support training equipment, personal protective equipment, wellness and fitness, and modifications to fire stations and facilities. The Jamison Fire Department will receive $185,250 for the acquisition of a new vehicle. "These funds are being used for front-line public safety in these communities," Congressman Clyburn said. "I am pleased they are seeking federal assistance to insure that local residents receive the best protection possible if an unfortunate disaster occurs." These awards were made as part of round one of the competitive Fiscal Year 2005 Fire Grants. These awards are administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Office of State and Local Government Coordination and Preparedness in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. Grants like these are given to urban, suburban and rural departments across the country. Departments must demonstrate a need for the use of the training or equipment and a financial incapacity to acquire it on its own. # # #
08.14.2005	(Columbia, SC) - Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn issued the following statement on learning of the passing of former Congressman William Jennings Bryan Dorn. "Bryan Dorn and I were great political and personal friends. He was one of those rare political figures who grew in and into the office. His conduct in office did himself and South Caroliniansproud." # # #
08.12.2005	(Washington, DC) - House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement in recognition of Social Security's 70th Anniversary. "August 14th marks an important milestone for America's elderly, disabled and surviving dependent spouses and children - the 70th anniversary of Social Security. Since 1935, Social Security has been our country's contract with our most vulnerable citizens that they will not be forgotten. It is more imperative now than ever that we continue to provide the guarantee of Social Security for future generations. "Today, one out of every four American households receives Social Security. These monthly benefits are predictable and steady, keep up with inflation, and do not fluctuate with the stock market. That could change for future beneficiaries if proposed changes to Social Security are enacted. "The Democratic Caucus is committed to insuring that the guarantee of Social Security remains in tact. Without this critical safety net, 12 million American seniors, or half our elderly population, would live in poverty. The nearly 15 million people who are helped through Social Security's disability and survivor benefits would have no financial support in the most difficult time of their lives. "Social Security has been a model program that deserves to be preserved not gambled away. On this anniversary, we must remember that this vital program was born out of the desperation wrought by rampant bank failures and a devastating stock market crash. We should learn from the lessons that history has taught us. The lure of making a fast buck on Wall Street should not undermine the 70 years of success that this steady program represents. I am committed, along with my Democratic colleagues, to insuring that Social Security remains a stable safety net for the next 70 years." # # #
07.28.2005	(Washington, DC) - Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn has secured $24 million for transportation projects in the Sixth Congressional District in the reauthorization of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (TEA 21), locally referred to as the "highway bill." This massive $286.5 billion legislation is the result of two years of negotiation among the authorization Committees in the House, the Senate and the White House. This legislation is expected to pass the House before midnight on Thursday. As a donor state, South Carolina has long been interested in improving the rate of return for the federal gas tax collected. Under the new bill, the minimum guarantee would remain at the current 90.5% for Fiscal Year 2006, and then rise to 91.5% in 2007, and to 92% in 2008. The Congressional High Priority funding includes the following: Briggs-DeLaine-Pearson Connector $16.08 Million Lower Richland RoadProjects (Phase 1) $560,000 Pine Needles - Florence $1.6 Million Highway 21- Orangeburg $560,000 South CarolinaStateUniversity $5.2 Million UniversityTransportationCenterfacility Additionally, South CarolinaStateUniversity's University Transportation Center (UTC) received $1 million per year for the next two years to continue operating its current programs. In the remaining three years of this legislation, they will compete with the other authorized UTCs nationwide for their operating costs. "For many years I have been on public record as supporting these investments," Congressman Clyburn said. "These requests will go a long way towards improving the safety and quality of life for my constituents and others throughout our state." The conference report must be agreed to by the Senate and signed by the President before becoming law. # # #
06.30.2005	(Washington, DC) - House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair James E. Clyburn (D-SC) today issued the following statement in response to the Republicans' admission that the Veterans Health Administration has a $1 billion shortfall, and Senate Republicans' scramble to rectify this embarrassing predicament. "It is no surprise to Democrats that the Veterans' Health Administration is no longer scheduling appointments for new veterans due to budgetary shortfalls. We have been fighting for two years to adequately fund health care for our nation's veterans as demand for VA services continues to increase because of the war in Iraq. At the same time this President was sending troops into battle, he and the Congressional leadership were cutting health services our troops would need and deserve on their return home. "The political embarrassment of their actions forced Senate Republicans yesterday to increase funding for veterans' healthcare by $1.5 billion. Still it is their earlier actions that speak to their true intent. For two years they blocked repeated Democratic legislative efforts to increase funding for veterans' healthcare. The House Republican leadership even unceremoniously ousted their top veterans issues advocate from his position as Chairman of the Veterans Affairs Committee, so he could be replaced with someone his party believed would implement their plans to gut veterans services without question. "I represent a district with a significant veterans population. My wife, Emily, worked in the Dorn VA Medical Center library for more than twenty-five years, and is one of the VA's staunchest advocates. Emily's Uncle Joe is a survivor of the attack on Pearl Harbor and fortunately is still with us today. It is difficult for me to explain to Emily, Uncle Joe and my constituents how our country can turn its back on our veterans at their time of greatest need. "I have joined all 206 House Democrats and one independent in signing a letter to President Bush asking him to address the $1.3 billion shortfall in veterans' health care funding. In his speech this week to turn around sagging support for the war in Iraq, the President didn't mention war veterans at all. It is hard to bolster support for an unpopular war when this Administration is abandoning veterans, many of them wounded, when they come home. "As we approach this July 4th, we should not only thank our soldiers for their brave efforts to protect the country we love, but we should insure that we are protecting them and upholding our commitment to them as they have upheld theirs to us. As we celebrate our nation's independence on Monday, I ask that the President and the Congressional leadership to honor the call to fly the flag and honor our veterans by fully funding their benefits." # # #
06.23.2005	(Washington, DC) - Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn received the "Champions for Real and Lasting Change Award" from Save the Children at last night's 3rd Annual Advocacy Day Reception on Capitol Hill. "I am deeply honored to receive this award from an organization of national standing such as Save the Children," said Congressman Clyburn. "Throughout my tenure in Congress I have supported children's issues, but the real champions are the teachers and community leaders who work one on one with needy children on a daily basis." Being called "a true advocate for children and quality education," Congressman Clyburn accepted the award from Jennifer Nelson. Ms. Nelson is a parenting coordinator with the Clarendon 2 School District. "We are grateful to Congressman Clyburn for his ongoing commitment to the children in our community," said Ms. Nelson. "His dedication has created real and lasting change." Today, Save the Children serves children with in-school, after-school and summer programs through community partners in rural South Carolina, including the Paxville Community Development Center and Clarendon 2 School District. In the Sixth Congressional District, 52% of the population lives in rural areas with 22% falling below the household poverty line. Save the Children is a leading global independent development and relief organization founded in 1932. Today it works in more than 40 countries across the globe working to make lasting, positive change in the lives of children in need. # # #
06.17.2005	(Washington, DC) - House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair James E. Clyburn (D-SC) issued the following statement in recognition of the 140th Juneteenth celebration on Sunday, June 19th. "Juneteenth is the commemoration of African American Independence Day. On this June 19th, we celebrate the 140th anniversary of slaves in Galveston, Texas learning of the Emancipation Proclamation, some eighteen months after its effective date, and we reflect on the unheralded contributions of slaves to this nation's history. "Recent events in our nation highlight that we have yet to overcome all the vestiges of slavery. On Capitol Hill last month, a committee was launched to document the contributions of slaves to the construction of our magnificent Capitol Building. Just this week, the U.S. Senate formally apologized for failing to enact legislation to criminalize lynching in the years that America struggled with the rights of former slaves and their descendents. "These events underscore the inadequacy of passivity and the cruel impact that slavery, and much of its aftermath, has had on our country and its citizenry. On this Juneteenth, I hope our nation focuses on what we can do to move beyond our past and build a better future. We can start by reauthorizing the Voting Rights Act, which expires in 2007. This legislation is crucial to protecting the voting rights of minority citizens and is essential to insuring that minorities continue playing a vital role in our country." # # #
05.23.2005	(Washington, DC) - Recent Orangeburg-Wilkinson graduate Marco Keitt's artwork Self-Portrait in Class II will be displayed on Capitol Hill as the winner of the 2005 6th Congressional District Artistic Discovery high school art competition. The vibrant prismacolor pencil drawing will be hung in the underground corridor that connects the House of Representatives office buildings and the U.S. Capitol. This is the route that Members take on their way from their offices to the House Chambers. "Marco is a talented young artist, and his work will represent our district well," Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn said. "Countless visitors to the Capitol will have the opportunity to admire his inspiring work this year and the chance to see the skill and depth with which he fills the canvas." As the 6th Congressional District winner, Marco, and his art teacher, Alvin Staley, will attend an awards ceremony on in Washington, DCwith other district winners on June 14, 2005. They will also get the opportunity to spend several days exploring the nation's capital. This is the ninth time in its ten year history that a student from Orangeburg-WilkinsonHigh Schoolhas won the 6th District competition. The runner-up this year was Sinthujah Velummylum, also from Orangeburg-Wilkinson, with her piece Coming of Age. Her artwork will be displayed in the Congressman's district offices for one year. # # #
04.15.2005	(Columbia, SC) - Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn today issued the following statement on the passing of S.C. Representative Walter Lloyd. "I was deeply saddened today to learn of the death of my friend Walter Lloyd. He was a tremendous advocate for agriculture, education and rural communities, and his leadership will be sorely missed. "Representative Lloyd worked tirelessly for the people of Colleton and Beaufort counties, and whenever I visited the area I knew I could count on seeing him. He was active in his community and accessible to his constituents, and his absence will be felt. "Emily and I send our heartfelt condolences to his wife Yvonne, and his two children, Tonya and Paulita." # # #
04.14.2005	Washington, DC) - Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn's Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Act cleared its first hurdle today toward becoming law. H.R. 694 passed the U.S. House of Representatives with unanimous support on the suspension calendar that includes uncontested legislation. "I thank my colleagues in the House for recognizing the urgency to pass this bill in a timely manner so we may begin to implement the preservation efforts it establishes as quickly as possible," Congressman Clyburn said. "The National Park Service sounded the call for immediate action to preserve the unique Gullah/Geechee culture in its 2004 report, and it is evident that the Congress heard that call." Congressman Clyburn's original legislation passed both the House and Senate last session, but Congress adjourned before the bill could become law. Because of the overwhelming Congressional and grassroots support for the measure, Congressman Clyburn reintroduced the bill on February 10, 2005 with the bipartisan sponsorship of the House Members who represent the Gullah/Geechee coast that runs from northern Florida through Georgia, South Carolina and into North Carolina. The bill will establish a Gullah/Geechee Heritage Corridor that covers the four-state coastal region, which is home to this culture that is a unique blend of African and European influences brought to America during colonial times. The culture thrived on isolated Sea Islands until bridges and development began encroaching on these Gullah/Geechee communities. The bill must pass the Senate before the President can sign it into law. # # #
04.07.2005	(Washington, DC) - House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair James E. Clyburn, who leads the Democrats Faith Working Group today issued the following statement on the occasion of Pope John Paul II's funeral. "In the Southern tradition, I join in the worldwide celebration of Pope John Paul II's homegoing. Today is not a day to mourn his passing, but to rejoice in the extraordinary life of the Holy Father. "He was a leader of the faithful, whose compassion and counsel reached well beyond his faith. He was a champion of the biblical dictate to raise up the least among us, and not a corner of the world was left untouched by his devotion to the poor, the lame and the downtrodden. He was a promoter of peace in this age of conflict and combat. "The Book of Matthew extols that 'Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth.' Karol Wojtyla's ascendancy as perhaps the most influential religious leader of our time is truly the embodiment of Matthew's teaching, and evidence that the Creator had chosen this Polish commoner for a blessed mission. Pope John Paul II devoted himself to the sacred mission bestowed upon him, and he is now enjoying his well-earned reward." # # #
02.10.2005	(Washington, DC) - Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn has reintroduced the Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Act in the U.S. House of Representatives. He sponsored similar legislation in the 108th Congress, which passed both the House and Senate but ultimately failed to become law because time ran out before differences could be reconciled between the two measures. The Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Act is the culmination of a three-year study conducted by the National Park Service with funding secured by Congressman Clyburn. The report underscored the urgent need to preserve the Gullah/Geechee culture and protect indigenous landowners that are both endangered by encroaching development along the Southern coast and Sea Islands. "This legislation has garnered more attention than any other bill I have introduced in my 12 years in Congress," Congressman Clyburn said. "It received overwhelming support last session in both the House and the Senate, and I am hopeful that during the 109th Congress this bill will be enacted into law." The Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Act introduced late yesterday differs from the original legislation because it establishes a Gullah/Geechee Heritage Corridor from northern Florida to the North Carolina coast, adding two more states in addition to Georgia and South Carolina, which comprised the originally proposed corridor designation. Because the number of states in the bill has doubled, Congressman Clyburn increased the authorization in this version from $1 million to $2 million annually for up to 10 years. The funding is allocated to fulfill the mission of the Commission created in the legislation to manage the corridor. "Because of the groundswell of grassroots support and the extraordinary interest in expanding the initial legislation to include all of the Gullah/Geechee communities along the Southeastern coast, I have expanded the parameters of the bill," Congressman Clyburn continued. "Rather than hindering its chance of passage, I believe expanding the bill's scope has enhanced its credibility, which is evident in the number of original co-sponsors." The Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Act enjoys the bi-partisan sponsorship of all the members of the U.S. House of Representatives that represent the communities included in this legislation - Representatives Henry Brown (R-SC), Joe Wilson (R-SC), Jack Kingston (R-GA), Corrine Brown (D-FL), Ander Crenshaw (R-FL), John Mica (R-FL), and Mike McIntyre (D-NC). # # #
02.04.2005	(Washington, DC) - House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi today announced that she has named Democratic Caucus Vice-Chair James E. Clyburn of South Carolina to lead the House Democrats' Faith Working Group. "Jim Clyburn is a man of deep faith and profound moral courage," Pelosi said. "He applies his faith every day in the values he brings to his work in Congress. With his leadership, the Faith Working Group will grow both as a source of strength for our Members and as an avenue to reach out to people of faith across the country." Clyburn today led a discussion on communicating faith and values at the Democratic Caucus' 2005 Issues Conference in Williamsburg, Virginia. "The Democratic agenda is deeply rooted in faith, but we have been less effective than we could be in communicating how our moral values guide our policies," Clyburn said. "I look forward to leading House Democrats' efforts to more effectively communicate our Democratic values, which are fundamentally American values." The Faith Working Group provides Members of strong and authentic faith with a venue to share their values and to collaborate with other people of faith on issues of mutual concern. The Group works with faith communities on common values such as fighting poverty, improving schools, speaking out against materialism and greed, providing better housing, and fighting for social and economic justice. # # #
02.02.2005	(Washington, DC) - House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair James E. Clyburn, (SC-6) issued the following statement on the occasion of the President's State of the Union address: "The State of the Union is a matter of perception. Every American has their own assessment rooted firmly in their point of view. The view from my Congressional district, and many others around this nation, is of a country at crossroads. "We hear the call to spread liberty around the world, but do not see proportionate sacrifices by our sons and daughters, neighbors and friends. "We clearly heard the President's call to arms against Iraq and his resounding "mission completed," but a deaf ear has been turned to our calls for an exit strategy. "We hear the urgency to privatize Social Security, but hear nothing about how we protect our most vulnerable citizens, the disabled, and surviving children. "We hear of the need to extend tax cuts for the wealthy, but nothing about the 4.3 million Americans that have been pushed into poverty or the additional 4.5 million Americans that lost their health insurance in the last four years. "We hear the promise of No Child Left Behind, but nothing is said about adequate funding for its implementation. We hear support for additional college funding, but not a sound about making a college more affordable. "We hear our constituents long for the days when Democrats employed fiscal restraint, balanced the budget and created surpluses, but they stand in silence while deficits grow greater and our national debt careens out of control. "We hear pronouncements of a healthy economy, but there is silence as one million private sector jobs have been lost over the past four years and median household incomes fall for three consecutive years. "Despite our challenges, residents of my Congressional district remain hopeful their elected leaders will work together in our nation's best interest. Democrats stand ready to address the challenges before us if we are properly included in the process. With a bipartisan spirit and a willingness to work hard, we can improve the State of the Union for Americans of all points of view." # # #
01.18.2005	(Santee, SC) - Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn made the following remarks at the groundbreaking for the Lake Marion Regional Water System's water treatment facility in Santee, South Carolina: "I consider today's groundbreaking to be one of the most significant events with which I have ever been involved. This is an exemplary step towards embracing the regional cooperation needed to improve the plight of residents and communities along the I-95 corridor; residents who are suffering from poor health indices and reeling from high unemployment, and communities that are being ravaged by the lack of infrastructure, and stifled by under funded schools. For some residents this is the first step toward quality drinking water and for some communities it is the first step toward attracting much needed economic investments. "When I went to Congress 12 years ago, I pledged to do everything humanly possible to eliminate the negatives and accentuate the positives in this region. It took many years to create many of our current conditions, but in the last 12 we have begun to put the pieces of a complicated puzzle in place to improve the quality of life for the people who live, work and recreate in this area. "The LakeMarionwater project, whose physical plant begins with today's ceremony, has been more than 11 years in the making. Eventually this water system will provide up to 12 million gallons of potable water per day. It will utilize this area's extraordinary asset, LakeMarion, to bring quality water to communities in Calhoun, Clarendon, Dorchester, Orangeburg and Sumtercounties. This is the first piece, and a very key piece, in the puzzle that will develop the water and sewer infrastructure that is pivotal to attracting new economic investments needed to create jobs and improve tax bases, which are the only ways to increase funding for education, access to quality health care and affordability of housing. "There are other pieces of this metaphoric puzzle that are being put in place. Just 10 minutes from here, OrangeburgCountyofficials recently dedicated the JohnW.MatthewsIndustrial Parkat U. S. Highways 301 and 178. Fifteen minutes from here, is the I-95/I-26 interchange, an untapped asset that is beginning to receive some serious attention from private developers. If done correctly, that intersection can provide the engine that drives the economy of this region for many years to come. The South CarolinaWorldTradeCenterhas already committed to the pursuit of a WorldTradeParkand is seeking to partner with South CarolinaStateUniversityto establish an EducationResearchCenterat the site. This proposed development could be the perfect compliment to an inland port and inter-modal facility at that intersection, to which I remain committed and private developers are beginning to express interest. "Although it will take time, more time than I think is necessary, I am optimistic that in the foreseeable future we will be putting these pieces of the puzzle in place as well. Just as transportation infrastructure is the asset that will drive the economy along the I-95 corridor, the lack of this crucial puzzle piece in other areas of this region has contributed to the most pronounced negative conditions in remote areas of this region. "LakeMarionis a tremendous tourism asset, but for those who live on the upper end of this man-made treasure it has created literal and figurative dead ends. At the urging of elected officials and local residents, I remain committed to the Briggs-Delaine-Pearson Connector. Connecting State Highways 33 and 120 will create a commerce and recreational corridor that would enhance tourism and facilitate local accessibility. Building this bridge and connecting two dead end state highways will create a new route that will connect Bambergto Florenceand Orangeburg to Sumter. This essential puzzle piece, just 15 minutes from America's newest National Park, will connect the northern and southern routes of two national bicycle trails. It will connect the Palmetto Trail to the South Carolina National Heritage Corridor that was created by an amendment that I proudly authored. This region, labeled by a few of my detractors as "nowhere," has been needlessly and unwisely neglected. We have made it almost impossible for natives to remain there, and uncomfortable for others to visit. "Let me tell you a few things about this "nowhere." It is home to hundreds of my classmates and schoolmates at South CarolinaStatewho, upon graduation, were compelled to seek suitable employment and professional development outside of the state and area. Scores of them return to the area on Sundays to attend church but are forced to live in Sumter, Columbia, Florence, Charlestonand other South Carolinacities during the week. Many of them have shared with me their preferences to live on their land and raise their children in their native environments. And they would do so if they had sufficient water and sewer, and suitable roads and bridges. I do not have to tell you what has happened too much of the land many of them were forced to abandon. We must do better by these people and their property. "In addition to the above, it is now being acknowledged that tourism is South Carolina's number one industry. Over 40,000 cars travel through our state each day along the I-95 corridor. We have to give them a reason to leave the interstate and enjoy the treasures South Carolinahas to offer in addition to its coast. LakeMarionis a tremendous source of recreation and heritage tourism along I-95, and provides a wealth of nature-based activities like hunting, fishing and boating. There are wonderful golf courses throughout this area, and I believe more should be developed along State Highways 33 and 120, which I believe could become an attraction that will rival the Robert Trent Jones Golf Trail in Alabama. "Our state has a rich history and heritage. For that reason, I have been one of the leading advocates in Congress for heritage and cultural corridors that will enable tourism officials to promote our historic treasures. Along the I-95 corridor is the potential to highlight South Carolina's significant Revolutionary and Civil War sites. All along the I-95 corridor are communities with Native American names -- Santee, Eutawville, Eutaw Springs, Coosawhatchie, Edisto, Pocotaligo. I believe there is enough untapped and untold history of Native Americans in South Carolina to create nature trails that draw on these treasures, not the least of which are the cave right here in Santee and the burial mound on the other side of the lake. "While promoting our historic treasures, these heritage corridors can also be a vehicle to preserve them as well. Although Congress adjourned last year before my Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Act could become law, I will pursue it again this session because it will tap into the heritage tourism industry, which is the fastest growing tourism sector. It will protect the land ownership rights of the indigenous people and help preserve their culture and their resources that are currently being threatened. These are a few other pieces of the puzzle that need to be put in place to help make the entire picture more complete. "Obviously, opportunities to enhance the I-95 corridor are not limited to areas surrounding LakeMarion. In ColletonCounty, the Buzz Aldrin Business and TechnologyPark, named for the famous astronaut, is a piece of the puzzle that holds promise for bringing development to the southern end of I-95. ColletonCountyofficials are developing the Great Swamp Sanctuary in Walterboro that contains walking and canoe trails with plans to create a discovery center for educational opportunities. And considering its heritage and history, ColletonCountycould very well benefit disproportionately from my Gullah-Ghechee legislation. "The Pee DeeTouchstoneEnergyCommerceParkat Highway 327 and I-95 anchors the northern end of this major interstate that runs for 130 miles through the 6th district. This facility covers 714-acres, and is the largest industrial park to be developed on the I-95 corridor from Floridato Virginiain the last ten years. It is served by the Pee Dee Area Water Agency serving Florence, Darlington, Marlboro and Dillon, for which I am proud to have secured federal funding. "I am also proud to have secured federal funds for Science South that is developing a hands-on science center at a site along I-95 in DillonCountyto enhance current projects that provide resources to educators in their school settings. Although most of these projects obviously capitalize on their proximity to I-95 and are commercial in nature, many of them are also beneficial to residential communities as well. In fact, one of my priorities for the Pee Deearea this year is the Pine Needles Roadproject. "Airports are another important infrastructure needed for many potential employers. Both the LowCountryRegionalAirportin Walterboro and the FlorenceRegionalAirport, have made improvements that can accommodate all sizes of aircraft. And similar improvements need to be made to the St.GeorgeAirportas well. "I hope the pieces of the puzzle begin to fit together more clearly now. Water, sewer, roads and bridges are the corners that anchor the puzzle in place. They are the foundation on which the rest of the pieces are built. To create the full picture, however, we must put some other pieces in place, to not only enhance the quality of life for those who live and work in the area, but also attract others to come and enjoy the region as well. And we can do it while protecting the environment and enhancing wildlife, two things to which I am unalterably committed, not by words but by deeds. A number of independent studies have validated this contention, and my personal and Congressional records on the subjects are clear and unmatched. "Each of the pieces I have mentioned are projects I am actively supporting and in some instances have already secured funds to help bring to fruition. Of course they are by no means the only cylinders needed to propel the economic engine we are trying to help create. But I am driven by my desire to see this region - where I was born and have spent my entire 64 years, that is rich in assets and traditions - rise above the years of neglect and notice to realize its great potential. "I see this challenge as a puzzle, and I draw my strength from days like today when I see an integral piece fall into place. It is my pleasure to be with you here today as we begin to see the dreams and hard work of so many people being realized. All of you hold special places in my heart, and I thank you for sharing your time and vision to make this day a reality." # # #
01.14.2005	(Washington, DC) - South Carolina Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn is pleased to announce he has recommended three Midlands area high school seniors for appointments to the U.S. military academies. Congressman Clyburn nominated Caleb P. Gibson, a native of Columbia stationed with his family at an Air Force base in the Netherlands, to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Mr. Gibson is the son of Parks and Penny Gibson, and he attends AFNORTH International High School. The Congressman nominated Kevin Scott Seery of Hopkins to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Mr. Seery is the son of Kevin and Sherill Seery, and he attends Lower Richland High School. The Congressman nominated Patrick Evan Tysinger of Eastover to the U.S. Naval Academy. Mr. Tysinger is the son of Roger and Sue Tysinger, and he attends Lower Richland High School. "I'm proud to have nominated each of these outstanding students for their potential to lead other proud men and women in uniform as they serve their country," Congressman Clyburn said. "Each of them has demonstrated their ability to be successful at these institutions and as a member of the United States military." Congressman Clyburn's recommendations don't guarantee acceptance to an academy, as each academy has its own admissions board to review applications and take into consider such recommendations. # # #
01.14.2005	(Washington, DC) - South Carolina Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn is pleased to announce he has recommended six Pee Dee area high school seniors for appointments to the U.S. military academies. Congressman Clyburn nominated the following students to the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, New York. Sarah Elizabeth Casper of Florence, the daughter of Thomas Kevin and Barbara Jean Casper, is a student at the Governor's School for Math and Sciences in Hartsville. Shameka Fitzpatrick of Florence, the daughter of David Fitzpatrick, attends West Florence High School. Jeramy Oliver Singletary of Timmonsville, the son of Norris and Cynethia Singletary, is a senior at Timmonsville High School. Congressman Clyburn nominated three Pee Dee area students to the U.S. Navel Academy in Annapolis, Maryland. Tyler Clark of Florence, the son of Brozia and Dixie Clark, attends West Florence High School. James Sterling Hutton of Greeleyville, the son of Dargan and Marty Easler, is a student at Williamsburg Academy in Kingstree. James Hodges Scruggs, III, of Marion, the son of James H. Scruggs, II and Karen Scruggs, attends Marion High School. "I'm proud to have nominated each of these outstanding students for their potential to lead other proud men and women in uniform as they serve their country," Congressman Clyburn said. "Each of them has demonstrated their ability to be successful at these institutions and as a member of the United States military." Congressman Clyburn's recommendations don't guarantee acceptance to an academy, as each academy has its own admissions board to review applications and take into consider such recommendations. # # #
01.14.2005	(Washington, DC) - South Carolina Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn is pleased to announce he has recommended a high school senior from Sumter for appointment to one of the U.S. military academies. Congressman Clyburn nominated Roger William Long, Jr., of Sumter to the U.S. Naval Academy. He is the son of Roger and Patti Long, and is a student at St. Francis Xavier High School. "I'm proud to have nominated this outstanding student for his potential to lead other proud men and women in uniform as he serves his country," Congressman Clyburn said. "Roger has demonstrated his ability to be successful at this challenging institution and as a member of the United States Navy." Congressman Clyburn's recommendation doesn't guarantee acceptance to the U.S. Naval Academy, as it has its own admissions board to review applications and take into consider such recommendations. # # #
01.12.2005	(Washington, DC) - Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn announced today the Columbia Fire Department will receive a $175,398 operations and firefighter safety grant from the U.S. Fire Administration, a division of the Fire Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These federal funds can be used to support training equipment, personal protective equipment, wellness and fitness, and modifications to fire stations and facilities. "I'm extremely pleased the Columbia Fire Department has sought federal funds as a means of continuing its excellence in public safety and protection," Congressman Clyburn said. "This department has aggressively pursued every means possible to insure the safety and security of local residents. Because of this department's tenacity, the people of this City can feel secure that their first responders are prepared to protect them in a time of need." Over the past few months, Congressman Clyburn has announced similar federal grants for local departments in cities and towns like Bamberg, Fort Motte, Britton's Neck, Kingstree, Orangeburg, and Summerton. Congressman Clyburn has supported the FEMA fire assistance grant program since its inception in 2001. In all, nearly $2 million in federal support has been directed to the Sixth Congressional District. Grants like this one are given to urban, suburban and rural departments across the country. Departments must demonstrate a need for the use of the training or equipment and a financial incapacity to acquire it on its own. # # #
01.06.2005	(Washington, DC) - Two South Carolina Congressmen, James E. Clyburn and Henry E. Brown, Jr., from opposing political parties are joining together to host a retreat for their Congressional colleagues sponsored by The Faith & Politics Institute at Mepkin Abbey in Moncks Corner, South Carolina on January 7-9. Away from the charged atmosphere of Capitol Hill, the annual bipartisan event will allow Members of Congress and their spouses to reflect on the topic "Historical Memory & Healing" from their perspective of faith and consider implications for their leadership in the political arena and among their constituency. The retreat will be led by Rev. Dr. Greg Jones, Dean of the Divinity School at Duke University, and Dr. Karla Holloway, Professor at Duke University. Cistercian monks established Mepkin Abbey in 1949 on a 3,000-acre site along the Cooper River in South Carolina's Low Country. The property was donated to the Abbey by Henry R. Luce and the Hon. Claire Booth Luce. # # #
01.03.2005	(Washington, DC) - House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair James E. Clyburn (SC-6) issued the following statement on the passing of former Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm. "The passing of Shirley Chisholm marks the end of an extraordinary era. As the first African American woman to serve in Congress and the first person of color to seriously run for President of the United States, Shirley Chisholm broke barriers and set standards. "I knew Shirley well before I would follow her into Congress. As President of the South Carolina Young Democrats, I brought her to South Carolinain 1972 shortly before she launched her historic run for President. I worked in her Convention Whip operation and proudly voted for her nomination at the convention. I never thought she could win but I could not ignore the historic implications of the moment. Shirley Chisholm held a place of honor in most African American homes and hearts. She represented the realization of a dream, and the hope for a better tomorrow. Her book, "Unbought and Unbossed" helped mold my political persona and approach to governance. As the highest ranking African American serving in Congress today, I hope my service meets the tremendous standard Shirley Chisholm set. She was a trailblazer and triumphant spirit. Her legacy burns bright and her example will always be remembered." # # #
01.02.2005	(Columbia, SC) - House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair James E. Clyburn (SC-6) released the following statement today after learning of the passing of Congressman Robert Matsui: "I am deeply saddened by the death of my friend and colleague, Bob Matsui, and my thoughts and prayers are with his family at this difficult time. "During the 12 years we served together, the last two in the Democratic Caucus Leadership, I discovered we were political soul mates. We both were passionate about civil rights, social security and children's issues. Bob was never flamboyant; he was smart and thoughtful. His work as Chair of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee won him the respect and admiration of all who support the democratic process. Bob's leadership, wisdom, and compassion will be sorely missed in Congress, California's 5th Congressional district and this nation." # # #
12.08.2004	(Washington, DC) -- Congressman James E. Clyburn (D-SC) today praised the U.S. Senate for its passage of his Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Act. This authorization bill creates a Commission under the auspices of the National Park Service to oversee the development of three interpretive centers and administer grants aimed at preserving this unique blend of African and Anglo language and traditions. "I have been amazed at the tremendous support and interest this bill has generated nationwide," Congressman Clyburn said. "Senators Hollings and Graham were among the bill's ardent supporters, and I thank them for their efforts to insure this legislation passed before adjournment." Congressman Clyburn introduced HR 4683 in July in response to a National Park Service study, which underscored the culture's rapid disappearance as development infringes on the coastal communities in Georgia and South Carolina where this culture has thrived in isolation for generations. The National Register of Historic Places echoed the concerns of the Park Service by including the Gullah/Geechee coast on its list of 11 most endangered sites. "The overwhelming support of this legislation is confirmation that the Gullah/Geechee culture is a national treasure and worth our immediate efforts to protect it from further encroachment," Congressman Clyburn said. The bill authorizes $1 million per year for ten years to carry out the mission of the Commission. The money must be appropriated in separate legislation. ###
11.23.2004	(Washington, DC) - Congressman James E. Clyburn has secured more than $25 million for important infrastructure and energy projects that impact South Carolina's Sixth District. First, Congressman Clyburn received a $3 million appropriation for the Lake Marion Regional Water Agency. This money is in addition to the $33 million in local, state and federal funding already allocated to the project, which is expected to break ground next year on a water treatment plant in Santee. The agency is expected to provide potable water and sewer to counties along the I-95 corridor. Second, the Congressman secured $14 million for the Charleston Harbor, $3.4 million for the Georgetown Harbor, and $3.3 million for the Cooper River for operations and maintenance. These funds are appropriated through the Army Corps of Engineers. Third, Congressman Clyburn secured $1.5 million for the Savannah River Technology Center's Southeast Universities Research Reactor Project. Through this unique partnership among Westinghouse Savannah River Site, the University of South Carolina and South Carolina State University, South Carolina is leading the way in the rejuvenation of nuclear education in the United States by creating the first new University nuclear programs in the last twenty years. These new nuclear programs will conduct nuclear research using a research reactor conveniently located at the Savannah River Site. These projects are in addition to the previously announced $2 million for the University of South Carolina's Clean Energy Research and Education program and the $6 million secured for Sixth District Historically Black Colleges and Universities to increase the number of minority graduates in science and technology related fields. "These projects range from providing for the basic needs of Sixth Congressional District residents to improving economic engines for our state and enhancing cutting-edge scientific education and research at our colleges and universities," Congressman Clyburn said. "By looking at these appropriations you can see the contrast of the extreme challenges and the amazing accomplishments of the region of South Carolina I represent." # # #
11.23.2004	(Washington, DC) - Congressman James E. Clyburn has secured more than $1.6 million for infrastructure and community development projects in the Sixth Congressional District. The appropriations were included in the Housing and Urban Development section of the Omnibus Bill that passed Congress on Saturday. The lists of projects include: Recipient Amount Project Towns of Olar and Govan $750,000 To improve current water systems that have been condemned by DHEC City of Columbia $100,000 To set up a revolving loan fund City of Columbia $100,000 For an industrial park South Sumter Resource Center $145,500 To complete structural improvements to its training facility Five Rivers Community Development Corporation $145,500 To acquire a site to provide business training and development to low-to-moderate income aspiring entrepreneurs in Georgetown County EngenuitySC $400,000 To fund the partnership among the City of Columbia, Lexington & Richland County Councils, the University of South Carolina, Midlands Technical College and business leaders to promote the growth and development of a knowledge-oriented business economy in Richland and Lexington counties "Each of these projects will enhance the quality of life for the communities they serve," Congressman Clyburn said. "I supported these requests when the recipients brought them to me because I believe in providing opportunities to all my constituents." # # #
11.23.2004	(Washington, DC) - Congressman James E. Clyburn has secured $1.5 million to fund law enforcement projects in the Sixth Congressional District. These appropriations were included in the Justice Department Appropriations that passed Congress as part of the Omnibus Bill on Saturday. The projects include: Recipient Amount Project FlorenceCrittenton of South Carolina (CharlestonCounty) $200,000 To provided psychiatric services to at-risk pregnant teens Bamberg County Sheriff's Department $400,000 To implement a records management system and update computer and communication equipment City of Manning (ClarendonCounty) $200,000 To implement an effective communication network among police agencies, fire departments, emergency medical services and public service organizations St. Matthews Police Department (CalhounCounty) $200,000 To hire and train additional officers to stem the growing rate of methamphetamine trafficking and abuse RichlandCounty $250,000 For the ScoutReach program, coordinated by the Sheriff's Department and the Columbia Housing Authority, to prevent gangs in high-risk neighborhoods South Carolina Department of Juvenile Justice $250,000 To modernize the network for South Carolinalaw enforcement, the courts, and the DJJ to share information from juveniles who are served by the agency "These are all critical programs to the communities they serve throughout the Sixth District," Congressman Clyburn said. "This $1.5 million in federal funds will help at-risk youth, improve law enforcement's effectiveness, and fight the spread of methamphetamines - all worthy and necessary efforts." # # #
11.23.2004	(Washington, DC) - Congressman James E. Clyburn has secured $2.3 million for a variety of education and health-related projects in the Sixth Congressional District. These projects were funded in the Education and Health and Human Services appropriation portion of the Omnibus Bill that passed Congress on Saturday. Recipient Amount Project Colleton Memorial Library $50,000 For purchase of materials Williamsburg County Public Library $50,000 For purchase of materials Big Brothers Big Sisters of Columbia $200,000 To fund programs Clemson University $250,000 For the Call Me Mister program that trains African-American men to be teachers Eau Claire Cooperative Health $400,000 To purchase equipment for a Ridgeway facility From Darkness to Light (Charleston) $450,000 To help sexual abuse victims Technical Expositions & Conferences, Inc. $100,000 For Camp Success Save the Children $450,000 To expand the Accelerated Reader program in South Carolina "As a former teacher, I am a staunch supporter of education programs to improve the opportunities available to every child," Congressman Clyburn said. "In addition to quality education, access to quality health care is essential for all Americans to enjoy a better life. These programs are designed to provide my constituents with the support they need to be successful." # # #
11.22.2004	(Washington, DC) - Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn was successful in securing $8 million for South Carolina Historically Black Colleges and Universities in the Energy-Water appropriations in the Omnibus Bill that passed Saturday. Six million of the funds are through the National Nuclear Security Administration account. According to the legislation, "it is in the Nation's best interest to support the HBCU institutions across the country in order to deepen the recruiting pool of diverse scientific and technical staff available to the NNSA and its national laboratories in support of the national security programs." The bill contains the following: Recipient Amount Clafin University in Orangeburg $2 million Allen University in Columbia $2 million Voorhees College in Denmark $1 million Morris College in Sumter $500,000 Benedict College in Columbia $500,000 In addition, South Carolina State University's James E. Clyburn Transportation Center will receive $2 million for its SCSU Environmental Institute. This Institute was approved by the South Carolina Higher Education Commission earlier this year and will study and research the transportation and disposition of hazardous waste and materials. "As a graduate of South Carolina State, I have long believed that it and other Historically Black Colleges and Universities and most especially those that are 1890 Land Grant institutions have been under-funded and under-utilized in our efforts to better the quality of life of rural America," Congressman Clyburn said. "These funds will begin to bridge that gap of support between HBCUs and white majority institutions." The measure is on the way to the White House where the President is expected to sign it into law. # # #
11.22.2004	(Washington, DC) - Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn has secured more than $2.5 million for projects at the University of South Carolina. As part of the Energy and Water appropriations, USC will receive $2 million for its Clean Energy Research and Education Program. USC is recognized as a national leader in several research and education areas related to clean energy, including fuel cells, hybrid power system, nuclear engineering and hydrogen production. These funds will allow for the expansion and coordination of this expertise by bringing the three Engineering Departments involved (Chemical, Electrical and Mechanical) to come under one umbrella. Congressman Clyburn also secured $300,000 to initiate a partnership between the Library of Congress and USC to preserve the Fox Movietone Newsreels. The Library of Congress and USC have both acquired extensive collections of these 35mm productions released in American between 1919 and 1962. This initial funding will enable USC to inventory the Movietone treasures, which constitute 22 million feet of film and 130 filing cabinets of associated documents. Ultimately the Newsreels will be digitally scanned and the originals restored so they will be available for future generations. Congressman Clyburn obtained an additional $275,000 in funding for the Arnold School of Public Health to expand its efforts to address health disparities. The Health and Human Services appropriation will continue the mission of the Institute for Partnerships to Eliminate Health Disparities that the Congressman helped established. "These appropriations fund very different projects, but each one establishes the University of South Carolina's leadership in vital arenas," Congressman Clyburn said. "I am confident that we will hear more about these projects in the future as USC continues to build on its reputation as an innovative and unique institution." These appropriations are included in the Omnibus bill that awaits the President's signature to become law. # # #
11.19.2004	(Washington, DC) - Congressman James E. Clyburn (D-SC) has received unanimous support by acclamation to continue his work as Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus. During his speech to the Caucus at Wednesday's reorganization session, Congressman Clyburn made the following remarks. "We have just come through a tough election and it's tempting to get down on yourself and your party, but I am reminded of something Winston Churchill once said. 'If we open a quarrel between the past and the present, we shall find that we have lost the future.' We need to look to the future. "The Republicans talk about America's values, but these are values that we as a party hold and have always held. We are not in a contest for values, but in a contest for the stewardship of those values." # # #
