11.15.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. John K. Delaney (MD-06) and Rep. Dave Trott (MI-11) introduced the Veteran Debt Fairness Act of 2018. This bipartisan legislation aims to protect veterans’ financial stability from being harmed by accounting and processing errors made by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) in the disbursement of earned monthly benefits. The bill would prevent the collection of overpayment debt that originated from errors at the VA, and in all other cases, would cap the amount the VA can deduct from a veteran’s monthly payment for recoupment of debt. Senator Jon Tester (D-MT), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, introduced similar legislation earlier this year. The VA is responsible for distributing monthly earned benefits to veterans and their beneficiaries. Currently, when the VA makes an overpayment in error to a veteran, the VA can then withhold some or all of a veteran's benefit, without limitation, including monthly disability payments. For veterans who live on a fixed income, withholding a benefit payment due to no fault of their own can present an undue hardship in their ability to pay rent or buy groceries. “Our veterans have sacrificed enough for our nation,” said Congressman Delaney. “The least we can do is ensure they don’t have their financial wellbeing threatened by other people’s errors. This is just one small way we can show our appreciation for their service and provide some certainty in their financial planning.” “Too many veterans have suffered financial hardships due to VA’s unclear or inaccurate collection of overpayments. The VFW thanks Congressman Delaney for introducing the Veteran Debt Fairness Act, which would fix how VA manages overpayments and improve the due process afforded to veterans with respect to recovery of overpayments,” said VFW National Legislative Service Director Carlos Fuentes. "The American Legion is happy to see legislation that offers protections to veterans and their families who have incurred VA-related debt through no fault of their own. The American Legion works with the VA Debt Management office to assist veterans experiencing financial hardship, and believes this legislation will further show our nation's gratitude to our veterans by assisting them with collection issues related to the VA,” said Brett P. Reistad, National Commander of The American Legion. In 2016, almost 238,000 veterans received overpayments. Overpayments can occur due to a variety of reasons, but a common occurrence is that the VA does not process veteran correspondence in a timely manner. In 2014, the Baltimore VA Regional Office improperly handled over 8,000 documents and the Office of Inspector General report stated the documents contained unprocessed “claims-related mail with the potential to affect benefits payments.” While the VA has taken steps to reduce overpayments and address the issue at the source, veterans are still on the hook for errors that are not their fault. In addition, since payments are automatic and monthly, overpayments may not be identified right away, causing the debt to accumulate over time, creating an even greater hardship. Additional measures in the Veteran Debt Fairness Act require the VA to: Conduct a secondary review when the overpayment total is above $2,500 and creates an administrative 120-day process through which veterans can dispute debt; Conduct audits to determine the frequency of VA errors resulting in overpayments and how that is affected by vacancies at the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA); and Provide veterans with a way to update dependency information on their own, eliminating a common delay that can affect a veteran’s benefits. ##
10.31.2018	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, Rep. John K. Delaney (MD-06) and Rep. Chris Stewart (UT-02) introduced H.R. 7103, the Suicide Prevention Analytics Act of 2018. This bipartisan legislation aims to address the gap in data reporting as it relates to self-harm and suicidal behavior. This pilot program will help improve the compilation and sharing of near real-time suicidal behavior information among care providers, prevention experts, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Emergency Room medical practitioners record suicidal and self-harm behaviors using standard medical data recording processes, including privacy regulations and safeguards. However, reports on suicidal behavior can take one to two years to compile. By enabling near real-time data sharing, community care providers can respond more quickly to changes in trends, deliver more timely prevention resources, and track the success of such resources. “Suicide rates in America are alarming and this is just one of the many necessary steps to improving mental health care,” said Congressman Delaney. “This legislation would enable the CDC to work in partnership with local communities, creating far more effective prevention efforts based on near real-time analysis. I applaud the efforts by mental health leaders – especially the AFSP – in pushing for this critical improvement in care. We will save lives with this bill.” “Too many of us have experienced the tragic loss of life and heartbreak that results from suicide. I'm proud to be the lead co-sponsor for this legislation that focuses on a better way to track and monitor self-harm and suicidal behavior,” said Congressman Stewart. “Up-to-date reporting will allow federal and state resources to be made available in a more effective and timelier manner. There is still a lot to be done, and I am committed to continuing this critical work.” “As the nation’s largest suicide prevention organization, the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention is grateful to Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-06) for being a true champion of mental health. When our advocates from Maryland reached out to him - he really listened. He listened and he acted. We thank Congressmen Delaney and Stewart for introducing this bill and hope other members of Congress will follow their lead in making mental health a priority for our nation.” The program provides grants to state or local public health departments and is staggered to increase the number of grants over a five-year period, allowing CDC to build on its initial rollout to reach more communities each year. In 2016, 1.3 million Americans attempted suicide and in 2015, 505,507 people visited a hospital for injuries due to self-harm. Suicide is the 10th leading cause of death in the United States, reflecting the need for a more comprehensive review of suicidal behavior trends and effective prevention and reduction methods. This is the second collaborative mental health effort by Delaney and Stewart this year, after pushing for more program funding during the appropriations process. ##
10.26.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, Congressmen Steny H. Hoyer, Elijah E. Cummings, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John P. Sarbanes, Anthony G. Brown, John K. Delaney and Jamie Raskin (All D-Md.) have announced that the Maryland State Police will receive a grant of $2,544,800 through the Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) to support law enforcement agencies in combating the illegal manufacturing and distribution of methamphetamine, heroin, and prescription opioids. The funds come from the Anti-Heroin Task Force Program (AHTFP), a competitive grant program that provides two years of funding directly to law enforcement agencies in states with high per capita levels of primary treatment admissions for heroin and other opioids. Maryland was one of 17 states awarded funding this week. According to DOJ, these grants will support the location or investigation of illicit activities related to the distribution of heroin or the unlawful distribution of prescription opioids. AHTFP grants are managed and dispersed through COPS, the component of the DOJ responsible for advancing the practice of community policing through information sharing and financial assistance. “There is no simple answer to the opioid crisis, which has touched every corner of our state, but we do know that it takes partnership at all levels of government, and all available resources, to stem this tide of opioid addiction and abuse,” said Senator Cardin. “The COPS Program continues to actively support Maryland and our communities in need. I’ll keep fighting to ensure the federal government remains an aggressive partner in Maryland’s fight to combat the opioid epidemic.” “As Maryland and states across the country work to combat this public health crisis, they need a partner in the federal government. This funding will help our state combat opioids and will provide crucial resources to fight this epidemic. That’s why I have strongly supported this funding and will continue fighting for this program in the Senate. But we are only getting started. Together, we must keep fighting for prevention, treatment, and recovery services for individuals struggling with substance abuse and other mental health issues. We won't stop until we've ended this scourge and addressed the terrible personal and economic toll that the opioid epidemic and substance abuse takes on our communities," said Senator Van Hollen, a member of the Senate Budget and Appropriations Committees. “There isn’t a zip code in Maryland that hasn’t been harmed by opioids and giving law enforcement the resources they need to crack down on illicit and illegal activity is an important part of ending this terrible crisis. There is strong bipartisan support for this program because it delivers federal assistance to the local agencies so that they can do their essential work,” said Congressman Delaney. “I’m pleased that the Department of Justice has awarded this grant funding to the state of Maryland,” said Congressman Hoyer. “These funds are an important step in addressing this crisis and will further help our law enforcement agencies tackle the heroin and opioid epidemic, which has affected thousands of families in our state. I am a strong proponent of the Community Orientated Policing Services Program, which brings together law enforcement and health providers, a critical partnership in addressing the drug epidemic. I look forward to continuing to work with our local law enforcement, health care providers, and other stakeholders to better address the opioid crisis.” “As a lifelong resident of Baltimore, I’ve seen the destructive nature of opioid and heroin addiction, which destroys lives and tears apart families and communities,” said Congressman Cummings. “The over $2.5M in grant funding for the Maryland State Police will be vital in combating the illegal manufacturing and distribution of heroin and prescription opioids in Maryland.” “As an Appropriator, I fought the White House’s efforts to gut the COPS program, successfully restoring full funding in the Commerce, Justice and Science funding bill,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Now, Maryland is getting a piece of the pie, helping our state law enforcement crack down on heroin manufacturing and distribution in our communities. The COPS program is the type of investment in the basics that our constituents want us to prioritize.” “This new federal grantmaking commitment will help boost Maryland’s efforts to tackle the opioid epidemic,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “In addition to providing local and state law enforcement with the resources they need to reduce the availability of heroin and other opioids, we must continue fighting this terrible crisis by expanding addiction treatment and recovery services in communities across Maryland and around the country.” “I applaud the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services’ decision to send over $2.5 million to Maryland's police to help stem the flow of illegal opioids to our state. Like much of the country, my district is suffering from this epidemic, and relies heavily upon federal aid for local and state law enforcement officers who are working on the ground, in our communities,” Congressman Brown said. “I am proud to support this federal funding and the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services; they are essential partners in our fight against the opioid epidemic.” “I am pleased that the Department of Justice has awarded this crucial funding to Maryland to help us combat the opioid crisis affecting so many people in our state,” said Congressman Raskin. “It will help Maryland State Police curb the illegal manufacturing and distribution of heroin and prescription opioids. But we can’t stop there. We have to work together with local law enforcement, health care providers, medical researchers, and other community members to work to stop prescription abuse and to end this devastating epidemic and help everyone affected by it.” Earlier this week the President signed into law H.R. 6, the “Substance Use Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment for Patients and Communities Act,” also known as the “SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act.” The legislation reauthorized a number of key law enforcement programs important to Maryland through the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), such as the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA), drug courts, the COPS Anti-Meth Program, and the COPS Anti-Heroin Task Force Program. ###
10.04.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen with Congressman John K. Delaney (All D-Md.) announced Thursday that Hagerstown Regional Airport, Richard A. Henson Field (HGR) has received an extension of its Essential Air Service (EAS) funding through March 2019. The EAS Program, funded through the U.S Department of Transportation (USDOT), provides critical air service that connects rural and remote areas to major hubs, helping to grow area businesses and support economic growth. In FY2017, it provided nearly $1.5 million to Hagerstown Regional Airport (HGR) supporting commercial flights. Currently, Southern Airways Express has daily flights from HGR to BWI and Pittsburgh International Airport. On Wednesday, the Senate passed a bipartisan reauthorization for the FAA that extends the EAS program for five years. The legislation had already passed the House of Representatives and will go to the President, who is expected to sign it. “Hagerstown Regional Airport is an economic hub for western Maryland’s rural communities -- for business, tourism and private travel. We’ve been fighting hard to maintain jobs and this important economic anchor for Washington County,” said Senator Cardin, Ranking Member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee. “Extension of the EAS eligibility for Hagerstown and the overall program is a tremendous boost to the region and the passengers who rely on HGR’s service.” “The Hagerstown Regional Airport is a crucial resource to the Hagerstown community and supports the region’s businesses and trade. I applaud the decision to maintain the Airport’s status in the Essential Air Service program – this designation will ensure the Airport’s continued ability to serve Marylanders and contribute to our state’s economic growth,” said Senator Van Hollen, a member of the Budget and Appropriations Committees. “I will continue working to ensure Maryland’s airports – big and small – have the resources they need.” “Western Maryland needs a successful Hagerstown Regional Airport and Essential Air Service status is a key part of the equation. This is about the federal government partnering with the local community to serve the common interests of the people and I’m proud to work with Sen. Cardin and Sen. Van Hollen to make sure Hagerstown’s voice is heard in Washington. You can’t have a strong national infrastructure without rural air service,” said Congressman John K. Delaney. “The airport is grateful to receive the extension of Essential Air Service funding through March 2019. This waiver ensures passengers commuting to BWI and Pittsburgh International, will continue receiving this valuable service,” said HGR Airport Director Phil Ridenour. “We thank The Department of Transportation, Senators Cardin and Van Hollen along with Congressman Delaney for their continued support of this vital funding program.” The Airline Deregulation Act of 1978 allowed airlines to provide air service to domestic markets as they saw fit, but Congress had the foresight to create the EAS Program to ensure a minimal level of scheduled air service in small communities. Without the EAS Program, it would be much harder for smaller communities like Hagerstown to attract and keep a commercial carrier. ###
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed by a vote of 361 to 61 the bipartisan, bicameral Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 6157 – Department of Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Act, 2019 and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2019. This package appropriates necessary Fiscal Year 2019 funding for these agencies, as well as temporary funding through December 7 for all other government agencies that were not included in earlier spending packages passed by Congress. As part of this legislation, Congress provides $10 million in funding for The Fisher House Foundation, a nonprofit that builds houses to provide free temporary lodging near hospitals so military and veteran families can be close to their loved ones while they seek medical treatment. Since joining the House in 2013, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has championed Fisher House and its mission, leading the effort to raise annual funding from its initial level of $4 million. “I’ve spoken time and time again how highly I value The Fisher House Foundation,” said Congressman Delaney. “I was proud to lead the fight to them get more resources and will continue to wholeheartedly support their mission. This additional funding will allow Fisher House to help more families and that’s something both Republicans and Democrats have united behind.” In June, the House approved the bipartisan amendment authored by Congressman Delaney that increased Fisher House funding from $5 million to $10 million. The Delaney amendment passed by voice vote and was cosponsored by Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Rep. Don Young (AK – AL), Rep. Ann Wagner (MO-2), Rep. Darren Soto (FL-9) and Rep. Peter Welch (VT – AL). Congressman Delaney had introduced a version of this amendment every year since 2013. Fisher House Background Founded in 1990, Fisher House has served over 335,000 families, provided over eight million days of lodging and saved military families more than $407 million in out-of-pocket expenses. On any given night, up to one thousand families are staying in one of the 76 Fisher Houses in districts all across the country. Fisher House has a four star (out of four) rating from Charity Navigator and an A+ rating from Charity Watch, and the Independent Charities Seal of Excellence. The Fisher House Foundation builds new houses, assists in the coordination of support for the homes, and donates them to the United States government. There are currently 76 Fisher Houses located on 24 military installations and 32 VA medical centers, with eight more currently under construction and locations identified for 20 more houses in the future. ##
09.17.2018	WASHINGTON –U.S. Senator Ben Cardin and Senator Chris Van Hollen, and Congressmen Steny H. Hoyer, Elijah E. Cummings, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John P. Sarbanes, John K. Delaney, Anthony G. Brown and Jamie Raskin, released the following statement after the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced its denial of Maryland’s Clean Air Act 126(b) petition to reduce harmful emissions from power plants in upwind states. Maryland's full Congressional delegation had urged the EPA to reconsider its denial of Maryland’s petition and take action to provide relief against out-of-state air pollution. “Regrettably, the EPA has denied the petition from Maryland requesting reductions in emissions of ozone-forming nitrogen dioxide from 36 power plants in 5 upwind states—Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. Today’s decision is a dereliction of duty that fails to protect Marylanders from the harmful pollution emitted from power plants in upwind states. These emissions create dangerous ground-level ozone pollution that make it harder for Maryland to protect vulnerable populations, like our children and older adults. The EPA fails to recognize that pollution does not stop at state border lines and fails to ensure that all states are good neighbors. “For decades, Maryland has been working hard to reduce harmful emissions that contribute to its ozone problem. Marylanders have a right to breathe healthy air, which means upwind, polluting states must be good neighbors, every day. EPA must hold these states accountable for these harmful emissions, and Maryland is simply asking their neighbors to run already-installed pollution control technology in order to better protect our residents. We urge the state to take all measures possible to appeal and overturn this decision.” ###
09.17.2018	WASHINGTON – As part of the FY2019 Department of Defense Appropriations bill released last week, Congress will provide $10 million in funding for The Fisher House Foundation, a nonprofit that builds houses to provide free temporary lodging near hospitals so military and veteran families can be close to their loved ones while they seek medical treatment. Since joining the House in 2013, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has championed Fisher House and its mission, leading the effort to raise funding from its 2012 level of $4 million per year. In June, the House approved the bipartisan amendment authored by Congressman Delaney that increased Fisher House funding from $5 million in the base bill to $10 million. The amendment was cosponsored by Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Rep. Don Young (AK – AL), Rep. Ann Wagner (MO-2), Rep. Darren Soto (FL-9) and Rep. Peter Welch (VT – AL). Congressman Delaney has introduced a version of this amendment every year since 2013. In March, Delaney co-led a bipartisan letter to the Chair and Ranking Member of the House Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on Defense urging them to increase federal support for Fisher House. “Each time Fisher House is able to receive more resources, military families across the country breathe a little easier and I’m glad to see my amendment carried through into the final version of the Defense bill,” said Congressman Delaney. “The bipartisan support for Fisher House is a reflection of the positive impact of their work and I will continue to do all I can to support their mission.” “I would like to thank Congress, and especially Congressman Delaney, for their continued support of our military, veterans and their families,” said Ken Fisher, Chairman and CEO, Fisher House Foundation. “This generous appropriation will allow us to serve even more communities who need Fisher Houses.” Founded in 1990, Fisher House has served over 335,000 families, provided over eight million days of lodging and saved military families more than $407 million in out-of-pocket expenses. On any given night, up to one thousand families are staying in one of the 76 Fisher Houses in districts all across the country. Fisher House has a four star (out of four) rating from Charity Navigator and an A+ rating from Charity Watch, and the Independent Charities Seal of Excellence. The Fisher House Foundation builds new houses, assists in the coordination of support for the homes, and donates them to the United States government. There are currently 76 Fisher Houses located on 24 military installations and 32 VA medical centers, with eight more currently under construction and locations identified for 20 more houses in the future. ##
09.07.2018	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) sent a letter to Chairman Tom Cole (OK-5) and Ranking Member Rosa L. DeLauro (CT-5) of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Service, Education, and Related Agencies applauding the bipartisan effort to address the mental health crisis in our country. In the letter, also signed by Reps. Jose Serrano (NY-15), Chris Stewart (UT-2), and John Faso (NY-19), and the Congressmen request additional funding in this year’s appropriations bill to close gaps in providing comprehensive care to mental health patients. “These recommendations will allow for a more holistic approach to mental health,” said Congressman Delaney. “We need to ensure that no one is falling through the cracks when it comes to education, treatment, and addressing spikes in specific communities. I thank Chairman Cole and Ranking Member DeLauro for their past leadership on this issue and appreciate the work of Congressmen Serrano and Stewart in highlighting these critical areas.” “The mental health crisis in our country has reached alarming levels. According to the CDC, the rates of suicide and substance abuse have skyrocketed in nearly every state during the past two decades. Congress must act to provide those on the front lines with the resources they need to help prevent those who are considering self-harm from doing so. This bipartisan package includes additional resources, research funding, and real-time data to meet this public health crisis head on, help people better cope during difficult times, and ultimately save lives,” said Congressman Serrano. “Too many of us have experienced the tragic loss of life and heartbreak that results from suicide,” said Congressman Stewart. “Access to suicide prevention resources is critical, and I believe Congress can do more to help those in crisis. I’m hopeful that these imperative resources will be fully funded in this year’s appropriations.” “We must continue to enhance the resources available for programs that are dedicated to understanding and treating mental health issues,” said Congressman Faso. “Unfortunately, suicide is a growing problem in New York and throughout our country, demonstrating the need to increase funding for grant programs aimed at suicide prevention. This letter shows a bipartisan commitment in support of various suicide prevention programs aimed at real results.” The requested funding increases would allow already existing programs to more effectively serve patients and those most at-risk, including greater resources for 24/7 national call centers, implementation of new youth and campus-based prevention programs, heightened resources for Native American and Alaskan Native prevention programs, more efficient data capture and resource allocation at emergency rooms, and the building of new, scalable research models using big data and algorithms. The programs that would receive additional funding include the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline, the National Institutes of Mental Health, The Garrett Lee Smith Youth and Campus Suicide Prevention and State Grant Programs, the National Strategy for Suicide Prevention, and the Syndromic Surveillance of Self-Harm Behaviors and Suicidal Ideation. Additionally, next week is the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention (AFSP)’s 2018 National Suicide Prevention Week. The following themes for each day are: 9/10- Monday- Crisis Lines 9/11- Tuesday- Research Funding 9/12- Wednesday- Veteran and Service Member Suicide Prevention 9/13- Thursday- Mental Health Parity ##
09.06.2018	WASHINGTON – House Committee on Financial Services Chairman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5), Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Congressman Jim Himes (CT-4) released a discussion draft of the Bipartisan Housing Finance Reform Act, a proposal to preserve the fixed-rate 30-year mortgage and multifamily market while protecting American taxpayers from future bailouts. The discussion draft also creates a pathway for a substantial increase in funding for affordable housing solutions. This draft proposal is a bipartisan effort to restart the much-needed dialogue around housing finance reform. The Hensarling-Delaney-Himes proposal creates a new program through Ginnie Mae that provides borrowers access to conventional home loans and maintains the full faith and credit of the federal government and protects taxpayer investment by requiring necessary private sector capital and accurate pricing of government risk. The bipartisan discussion draft incorporates numerous elements of the Partnership to Strengthen Homeownership, legislation first filed by Delaney, Himes and former Rep. John Carney (Delaware) in 2014. A summary of the proposal is available here. “Today, on the ten-year anniversary of the federal takeover of the failed housing government sponsored enterprises, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, we’re putting forward a bipartisan compromise to rid the toxic mess of systemic risk that consumes the housing market. By repealing the GSEs’ charters, and permanently ending their monopoly, we can preserve much of what is demanded in the current system: liquidity, the TBA market, and the 30-year pre-payable fixed-rate mortgage. Congressman Delaney and Congressman Himes have been thought leaders on this issue for years, and I thank them for working with me to put forward this plan to truly fix our broken housing finance system to protect taxpayers and our economy,” said Chairman Hensarling. “Ten years after the financial crisis, our housing finance system remains broken. There’s still too much entity risk, not enough affordability, and we haven’t taken comprehensive action to make the system safer for taxpayers long-term. It’s imperative we deliver a solution and this discussion draft is a bipartisan blueprint for how we can substantially increase our investment in affordable housing, make the housing finance system more stable, protect the thirty-year fixed-rate mortgage, and preserve the successful GSE multi-family business,” said Congressman Delaney. “The American Dream really depends upon access to affordable housing and a workable and secure housing finance system. I thank Chairman Hensarling for working with Congressman Himes and me on this draft and I look forward to hearing from stakeholders and constituents so we can continue to move forward on a solution.” “I’m proud to join Chairman Hensarling and Representative Delaney in promoting this vital piece of reform. This bipartisan discussion draft ensures that new homeowners will have access to the affordable, predictable financing options they need, makes access to affordable housing a priority, and shields taxpayers and our economy from future housing-related downturns,” said Congressman Himes. “This draft brings together market efficiency in pricing risk with government's ability to provide scale to create a safer, more liquid housing market that preserves access to affordable housing for American families.” ##
09.04.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) reacted to the Trump Administration’s announcement of a pay freeze for federal employees: “Millions of families and hundreds of thousands of federal employees would be hurt by this decision, and I stand with my fellow members of Congress to push back against this decision. That’s why I was an original cosponsor of the FAIR Act (H.R. 4775), which would provide a 3 percent pay increase for the federal workforce in FY2019. We need to have an honest discussion about improving our terrible fiscal trajectory, but arbitrarily attacking the hardworking public servants of our federal workforce - who have already taken cuts in pay and benefits over the past decade - is not responsible or thoughtful governing.” ##
08.21.2018	WASHINGTON – The Trump administration has announced its plans to roll back Obama-era clean energy rules setting strict carbon dioxide limits for power plants. “While the West burns and scientists warn of constantly increasing temperatures, the Trump administration’s thought is to roll back efforts to reduce emissions? This is incredibly misguided and backwards-looking policy,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “Every American should be alarmed by what this White House is doing. President Trump doesn’t want to just ignore climate change, he wants to make things worse – this is going to impact our economy, public health and national security. Cities, states, and the responsible members of Congress alike must do everything we can to stop this assault on our environment. It is clear that what we need is a carbon tax – a powerful tool that will use market forces to reduce emissions and encourage private sector investment in alternative energy sources all while raising revenues that can be used to actually help those impacted.” Congressman Delaney is the author of legislation that establishes a tax on greenhouse gas emissions and uses revenues generated to provide extensive benefits to displaced coal industry workers and provide payments to low and middle income Americans. Delaney is a member of the bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus and the Sustainable Energy and Environment Coalition. ##
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-06) and Congressman Ted Budd (NC-13), today introduced the Children and Media Research Advancement (CAMRA) Act, legislation that authorizes the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to lead a research program on technology and media’s effects on infants, children, and adolescents in core areas of cognitive, physical, and socio-emotional development. Senator Edward J. Markey (MA) introduced the legislation in the Senate, which was cosponsored by Senators Ben Sasse (NE), Brian Schatz (HI), Roy Blunt (MO), Michael Bennet (CO), and Susan Collins (ME). This research would investigate the impact of exposure to and use of media such as mobile devices, computers, social media, applications, websites, television, motion pictures, artificial intelligence, video games, and virtual and augmented reality. The bill authorizes $15 million for fiscal years 2019 through 2021, and $25 million for each of fiscal years 2022 and 2023. Research indicates that children’s use of technology has increased dramatically in recent years. A 2017 report finds that children eight years old and younger spend 48 minutes a day on mobile devices, up from 15 minutes in 2013. Similarly, 42 percent of kids eight years old and younger have their own tablets, a major increase from seven percent 2013 and a mere one percent in 2011. “In an era of rapid technological change, we should periodically examine the impact these technologies have on our society – especially our children. This bipartisan legislation will require and fund independent scientific research into the impact various forms of media and devices are having on our children’s mental and physical development, learning capabilities, emotional states, and their general health. With our phones and tablets such an integral part of our lives, we need definitive answers sooner than later, and I thank Senator Markey (MA), Rep. Budd (NC-13) and the rest of our bipartisan partners for teaming up on this important measure,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “While technology educates and entertains our children every day, we need a better understanding of how it impacts their social, psychological, and physical well-being,” said Senator Markey. “This bill will enable experts to conduct critical research that will inform parents and policymakers about how best to protect American children’s bodies and minds in the digital age.” “We’ve seen in recent years how much of our daily lives are consumed by technology,” said Congressman Ted Budd (NC-13). “You can’t even walk outside these days without seeing someone looking down at their phone. This is worrisome, from a societal perspective, because it's part of a larger social crisis in our country. We’re becoming more connected, yet more isolated from one another. By researching the developmental effects of media, it will give us more insight on how things such as social media, video games, and TV are impacting our kids. I’m glad to help lead in this bipartisan effort and hope we can continue working together to address this important issue.” “Parents urgently need independent scientific research into the impacts on our kids of growing up online,” said James P. Steyer, CEO & Founder of Common Sense Media. “Digital devices are constant companions in this digital age, but we don’t understand the impact on child development, education, or overall well-being. Without good research, we are performing an unprecedented experiment on our kids. The CAMRA Act is our chance to support quality research into the digital health of America's kids and families. The well-being of children is non-partisan, and we commend Congressman Delaney (D-Maryland) and Ted Budd (R-NC) for their bipartisan leadership on this issue impacting all American families." “The media we use and how we use them affect the physical, mental, and social health of us all – and have the strongest and most lasting effects on children, whose brains and bodies are still developing,” said Dr. Michael Rich, Director of the Center on Media and Child Health at Boston Children’s Hospital. “I urge Congress to pass the CAMRA Act because it is essential that we have 21st Century scientific research to determine how we can promote health and mitigate harm from this ubiquitous and powerful 21st Century public health issue.” “Internet companies care deeply about the safety and well-being of their users and welcome scientific research on this important issue funded through the CAMRA Act. Existing research lacks the rigor, quality, and independence of an NIH study into this important topic. IA members invest in programs, partnerships, policies, controls, and resources to promote a safe and positive online experience for people of all ages, and look forward to identifying more ways to enhance people’s well-being on and offline,” said Internet Association Senior Vice President of Global Government Affairs Melika Carroll. Other companies and organizations endorsing the legislation include: Facebook, the Internet Association, American Association of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood, Center for Digital Democracy, Common Sense Media, Consumers Union, Children and Screens: Institute of Digital Media and Child Development, Dr. Jenny Radesky (Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Developmental Behavior, University of Michigan Medical School), Family Online Safety Institute, and the Massachusetts Association for Mental Health. ###
07.19.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Congressman Andy Harris, M.D. (MD-1) have filed bipartisan legislation that requires that election systems vendors associated with federal elections be owned and controlled by domestic companies. Earlier this month, the FBI informed Maryland officials that ByteGrid LLC, a firm used by the State for elections data, has ties to Russian oligarch Vladimir Potanin, an ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin. The Protect Election Systems from Foreign Control Act is cosponsored by Rep. Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-9), Rep. Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20), Rep. Steve Cohen (TN-9), Rep. Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Rep. Suzan K. DelBene (WA-1) and Rep. William R. Keating (MA-9). “What’s happened in Maryland is very alarming and demands a legislative response,” said Congressman Delaney. “We have to take concrete steps to protect our elections infrastructure, because the integrity of the system is essential to the integrity of our democracy. Importantly, this is a bipartisan bill and I appreciate Congressman Harris’s partnership and understanding that this is bigger than politics.” “Foreign election interference is a critical threat to the United States’ national security,” said Congressman Harris. “The Protect Election Systems from Foreign Control Act will protect our elections from foreign interference by requiring election systems to be owned and operated by American companies. I am confident that our colleagues in the House will quickly consider this important, bipartisan legislation.” The firm in question, ByteGrid LLC owns the servers that hold the data for voter registration, election management and election night results for Maryland. To date, there are no indications that the firm took any actions to tamper with or influence Maryland elections, but Maryland officials have asked both the state Attorney General and federal officials to help the State Board of Elections review the system. The Protect Election Systems from Foreign Control Act: Requires that elections systems vendors are owned and controlled by domestic companies Requires the Department of Homeland Security and the Election Assistance Commission to provide guidance and technical assistance to state and local election agencies Establishes a database so agencies can verify that an election vendor is not foreign controlled Create an annual review process to examine changes in vendor ownership or control ##
07.19.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted against H.Con.Res. 119, a resolution vilifying a carbon tax, and spoke on the floor in opposition. (Video of Remarks) “Beyond the fact this is just a partisan stunt, people deserve better from Congress,” added Rep. Delaney. “We should have a real debate with hearings and experts, and determine smart policy that can protect our environment AND lead to economic growth. We don’t have to choose between the two, we just need to work together.” As a proponent of a carbon pricing mechanism, Congressman Delaney has previously introduced legislation and joins business and environmental leaders from across the country who believe this is a commonsense step toward protecting our planet from the negative effects of climate change, while helping distressed communities and investing in a cleaner, more sustainable future. ##
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Congressman Andy Harris, M.D. (MD-1) will introduce legislation, the Protecting Election Systems from Foreign Control Act, to require that election systems vendors are owned and controlled by domestic companies for federal elections. Last week, the FBI informed Maryland officials that ByteGrid LLC, a firm used by the State of Maryland has ties to Russian oligarch Vladimir Potanin, an ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin. “It’s alarming that so much of our elections systems could be controlled by foreign-owned entities. This legislation will prevent this from happening again,” said Congressman Delaney. “Our election systems are targets of attacks, and we must take steps to harden and protect our democratic institutions. The integrity and security of our elections transcends partisanship and I thank Congressman Harris for working with me on this important legislation.” “Our nation’s free and fair elections are the foundation of our democracy. Congress must act to protect our future elections from the possibility of interference by hostile nations or foreign entities trying to undermine our democratic institutions,” said Congressman Harris. In addition to requiring that elections systems vendors are owned and controlled by domestic companies, the Protecting Election Systems from Foreign Control Act will also require the Department of Homeland Security and the Election Assistance Commission to provide guidance and technical assistance to state and local election agencies, establish a database so agencies can verify that an election vendor is not foreign controlled and to create an annual review process to examine changes in vendor ownership or control. ByteGrid LLC owns the servers that hold the data for voter registration, election management and election night results for the State. To date, there are no indications that the firm took any actions to tamper with or influence Maryland elections, but Maryland officials have asked both the state Attorney General and federal officials to help the State Board of Elections review the system. ##
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement following President Trump’s appearance with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Finland: “President Trump’s remarks in Helsinki regarding the 2016 election were against the interests of the United States and therefore dangerous. Instead of defending our nation, our intelligence community, and our democracy our Commander-in-Chief sided with the leader of the nation who attacked America’s electoral process. Instead of standing firm, he drew a false moral equivalence between the United States and Russia. While our countries should cooperate on areas of shared interest, we absolutely cannot tolerate their interference in our elections. Not for a minute. Today’s events also draw a sharp line under the continued partisan attacks on the FBI, the Department of Justice and the Special Counsel by many in the House Republican Caucus, highlighting just how unwarranted these efforts have been.” ##
07.02.2018	WASHINGTON – The Maryland congressional delegation sent a joint letter to President Trump on Friday urging the Administration to move swiftly to approve the state’s request for federal major disaster declaration and supplementary assistance following the mid-May flash-floods that devastated Howard County, Baltimore County and Baltimore City. “We are writing to express our strong support for Maryland Governor Larry Hogan’s request for the declaration of a major disaster for Howard County, Baltimore County, and Baltimore City…” the delegation wrote. “Given the massive impact that this flooding had on state and local resources in Maryland, we respectfully request that you expeditiously approve the provision of supplementary federal assistance, pursuant to the Stafford Act.” The full congressional delegation, including Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, and Congressmen Steny H. Hoyer, Elijah E. Cummings, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John P. Sarbanes, Andy Harris, M.D., John K. Delaney, Anthony G. Brown and Jamie B. Raskin, noted that the May 27-29 storm overwhelmed water and transportation infrastructure, causing severe damage to residences and small businesses in the region. In Howard County, Ellicott City’s historic Main Street – which suffered $23 million in damages from a major flood in 2016 – felt the largest impact. Flooding there ravaged streets, sidewalks and buildings, leading to the tragic death of a Good Samaritan and veteran, and the displacement of business owners and residents. Flood waters also caused critical damage to Baltimore’s Frederick Avenue, and left residents with ongoing damages to their homes. In Baltimore County, several bridges will need to be fully replaced, while sewer and water systems are in need of extensive repairs. The congressional delegation cited initial estimates for public infrastructure damages and repair caused by the storm at more than $10.5 million in Howard County, $8.6 million in Baltimore County, and $3 million in Baltimore City – all of which far exceed local Public Assistance thresholds. The Disaster Declaration would allow state and local government officials and certain private non-profit organizations to access federal public assistance funding for emergency work and the repair or replacement of damaged buildings and infrastructure. The Hazard Mitigation Grant Program would provide grants to states and local governments to implement long-term hazard mitigation measures after a major disaster declaration, in order to reduce the loss of life and property in future disasters. The full letter follows and can be found here. June 29, 2018 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to express our strong support for Maryland Governor Larry Hogan’s request for the declaration of a major disaster for Howard County, Baltimore County, and Baltimore City, due to strong storms, heavy rain and flash flooding between May 27 and May 28, 2018. Given the massive impact that this flooding had on state and local resources in Maryland, we respectfully request that you expeditiously approve the provision of supplementary federal assistance, pursuant to the Stafford Act. In Howard County, historic Ellicott City experienced significant flooding for the second time in two years, and led to one tragic death. The largest impact was along Main Street, which suffered severe damage to infrastructure, including streets, sidewalks, and buildings. The flooding displaced a large number of residents including business owners, and caused power outages and extensive damage to the sewer and water system. In Baltimore County, flash flooding overwhelmed roads, storm drain infrastructure, and sewer outflows, and damaged other county infrastructure and buildings. First responders performed several water rescues of stranded motorists. Several damaged bridges will have to be fully replaced, and recreational trails will need repairs. In Baltimore City, flash flooding in the southwest portion of the city caused significant damage to Frederick Avenue, including a slope failure. Residents confronted flooding basements, sewage backups, and power outages, and have ongoing concerns about mold remediation. State and local officials took appropriate action under Maryland law, declaring states of emergency where appropriate. The Maryland Emergency Management Agency, in conjunction with local officials and the Federal Emergency Management Agency, conducted joint-preliminary damage assessments which confirmed widespread damage. We agree that this event was of such severity and magnitude that effective recovery is beyond the capabilities of the State of Maryland and Howard County, Baltimore County, and Baltimore City alone. MEMA estimates that the damages in the affected counties will far exceed the per capita Public Assistance threshold. The initial estimate for public infrastructure damages and repair in Howard County is more than $10.5 million, over ten times the county threshold. Baltimore County estimates damages of $8.6 million, more than three times the county threshold. Baltimore City estimates damages of $3 million, which is over the city threshold. We therefore strongly support Governor Hogan’s request for a major disaster declaration and for supplementary federal assistance, including all categories of Public Assistance for the affected jurisdictions, in addition to statewide Hazard Mitigation assistance. We therefore urge you to expeditiously review Governor Hogan’s request and declare a major disaster for Howard County, Baltimore County, and Baltimore City. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Cc: Regional Administrator Mary Ann Tierney, FEMA Region III ###
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “Senator McConnell’s decision to ignore President Obama’s nomination of Merrick Garland in 2016 will go down in history as a shameless betrayal of the spirit of our democracy and of the purpose of the Supreme Court: to uphold the Constitution in an unbiased and non-political way. In a single move, he exposed as hollow decades of his own rhetoric about his supposed belief in the institutional history of the United States Senate. At the moment of truth, he put party over country. “So now, we have before us a sadly familiar dilemma – how do we respond after so many norms of respect, civility and non-partisanship have been destroyed? Upon reflection, it is clear that we really only have one option, which is to restore civility, judicial independence, and begin acting with integrity again. Senator McConnell has an opportunity to do the right thing and make right his prior neglect for our democracy. He should do so. “For the good of our nation, President Trump should nominate a Supreme Court Justice in Kennedy’s mold of reasonable deliberation, and that is exactly what Senator McConnell, and the Senate as a whole, should demand. We should return to a 60-votes requirement for Supreme Court nominees, and if President Trump and Senator McConnell can’t meet that standard, then they should meet their own and wait until after the next election is held.” ##
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON – The House has passed the fiscal year 2019 Department of Defense Appropriations bill with a bipartisan vote of 359-49 in favor of the legislation. The bill increases military funding overall to improve readiness, includes provisions to boost cybersecurity and cyber-defense programs and measures to counter Russian aggression and conforms to spending levels set by the bipartisan budget agreement signed in February,. The Defense bill fully funds a pay raise for our troops and funds Defense health care programs and sexual assault prevention programs at levels above the Administration’s request. The bill also included Congressman John K. Delaney’s (MD-6) bipartisan amendment to increase federal funding for The Fisher House Foundation, a non-profit that provides free lodging near hospitals for military and veteran families. Congressman Delaney’s amendment doubles federal support for Fisher House, increasing funding from $5 to $10 million. This increased funding is fully offset. “This is one of the most important votes we take each year in Congress. Providing for the national defense is one of the fundamental responsibilities of the federal government and the country is better off when both parties work together on this bill. That’s what happened here and while this isn’t a perfect bill, it makes the appropriate investments in national security that we need and includes important measures like a military pay raise that we should all support,” said Congressman Delaney. ##
06.27.2018	Delaney Amendment to Increase Funding for Fisher House Added to Defense BillBipartisan Delaney amendment doubles federal support for Fisher House WASHINGTON – The House of Representatives has approved a measure by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) to increase federal funding for The Fisher House Foundation, a nonprofit that builds houses to provide free temporary lodging near hospitals so military and veteran families can be close to their loved ones while they seek medical treatment. The increased funding comes via a bipartisan amendment authored by Congressman Delaney to the fiscal year 2019 Department of Defense Appropriations bill. The Delaney amendment passed by voice vote during floor debate Wednesday. The amendment was cosponsored by Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Rep. Don Young (AK – AL), Rep. Ann Wagner (MO-2), Rep. Darren Soto (FL-9) and Rep. Peter Welch (VT – AL). Congressman Delaney’s amendment doubles federal support for Fisher House, increasing funding from $5 to $10 million. This increased funding is fully offset by a decrease in the Operation and Maintenance, Defense Wide account. “My amendment will help more military and veteran families be together while their loved ones receive care and I think that’s something we can all agree on,” said Congressman Delaney. “Fisher House does amazing work and is truly beloved across the country and they’ve also been a very good partner with the federal government for a long time. Unfortunately, there is a growing need for their services and we should increase our support for what they do. I’d like to thank our bipartisan group of cosponsors for their support for this amendment.” Congressman Delaney has introduced a version of this amendment every year since 2013. Founded in 1990, Fisher House has served over 335,000 families, provided over eight million days of lodging and saved military families more than $407 million in out-of-pocket expenses. Fisher House has a four star (out of four) rating from Charity Navigator and an A+ rating from Charity Watch and has been awarded the Independent Charities Seal of Excellence. There are currently 76 Fisher Houses located on 24 military installations and 32 VA medical centers. The Fisher House Foundation builds new houses and assists in the coordination of support for the homes and donates these homes to the United States government. ##
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON –Today, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted against H.R. 6136 – which overwhelmingly failed by a margin of 301-121 and was the second Republican attempt to make our currently broken immigration system even worse – after voting against H.R. 4760 six days ago. “In ways that are similar to the bipartisan comprehensive immigration bill that passed the Senate five years ago, we must find solutions that are reflective of our values, our humanity, and our economic and security needs,” said Congressman Delaney. “Neither of these bills accomplishes any of those objectives, nor is a true compromise or comprehensive solution. The vast majority of Americans say immigration is good for the country and I wholeheartedly agree. It’s time to get back to the table in a good-faith effort to create real reform.” H.R. 6136, the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act, is only a “compromise” within the Republican caucus. The bill was rushed to the floor, with no hearings or consultation with the other side of the aisle and does little to address the real challenges facing the immigration system. While it includes a provision to stop family separation, it also authorizes prolonged detention and eliminates all of the court-ordered requirements around conditions of confinement that are appropriate for children – including protections governing the availability of toilets, clean drinking water, medical assistance, and temperature control. It essentially allows for children to be held in prison-like conditions indefinitely, instead of being released from detention as soon as possible. Further, it severely limits the DACA population eligible for a pathway to citizenship, limits access to relief for asylum seekers, and cuts other legal immigration pathways, including abandoning almost three million approved, family-based applications in the pipeline. Last week, H.R. 4760, the Securing America’s Future Act, failed in every measurable way to positively impact the immigration system. It provided no path to citizenship for DACA recipients, similarly limited access to relief for asylum seekers, did not offer any changes to President Trump’s family separation policy, and was an even more dramatic cut to other legal immigration pathways. ##
06.26.2018	WASHINGTON – The Maryland congressional delegation today praised the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for its swift approval of Maryland’s request for a federal major disaster declaration and supplementary assistance following the devastating mid-May rain, landslides and flooding in Fredrick County, including the City of Frederick, and Washington counties. “When disasters hit our communities, Team Maryland speaks with one strong voice on behalf of all Marylanders caught in crisis,” the delegation said in response. “These storms came fast and brought incredible damage to Frederick and Washington Counties. Without question, partnering with our local governments and nonprofits to rebuild and restore damaged neighborhoods was the right thing to do.” In a joint letter one week ago, the full congressional delegation, including Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, and Congressmen Steny H. Hoyer, Elijah E. Cummings, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John P. Sarbanes, Andy Harris, M.D., John K. Delaney, Anthony G. Brown and Jamie B. Raskin, had called on President Trump to approve the federal assistance since the “severity and magnitude” of the storms and flooding because “effective recovery is beyond the capabilities of the State of Maryland and Frederick and Washington County governments alone.” The congressional delegation cited initial estimates for public infrastructure damages and repair in Washington County at about $4.5 million, and for Fredrick County, including the City of Frederick, at around $8 million. Based on the disaster declaration, federal public assistance funding is available to state and eligible local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis for emergency work and the repair or replacement of facilities damaged by the May 15-19, 2018 storm. Funding is now also available through the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program, which provides grants to states and local governments to implement long-term hazard mitigation measures after a major disaster declaration, in order to reduce the loss of life and property in future disasters. The U.S. Small Business Administration has already approved a similar request for a physical disaster declaration for Frederick County and surrounding areas due to the same storm events. ###
06.22.2018	WASHINGTON – Over the past two weeks, the House of Representatives passed nearly 60 opioid-related pieces of legislation, including today’s bipartisan package, H.R. 6, Substance Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment for Patients and Communities Act or the “SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act.” “With opioid addiction ravaging our nation, I’m glad that we were able to come together and make it easier and more affordable to get treatment,” said Congressman Delaney. “These bipartisan efforts were done the right way, with debate, consideration, and the American people in mind. But even with these very substantial steps, we still have a ton of work to do to end the opioid epidemic and heal our communities.” The bills passed include provisions to: Expand Medicare and Medicaid coverage of, and access to, Opioid Treatment Programs and Medication-Assisted Treatment Expand the type of providers who can prescribe and dispense buprenorphine for substance use disorder Provide or expand coverage for at-risk and foster youth Create better oversight for the manufacturing and distribution for synthetic opioids Stop the proliferation and trafficking of opioids Improve the coordination of care and access to patient-related substance information Ensure funding for local communities to further combat opioid abuse ##
06.20.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) reacted to the signing of the Executive Order by President Trump to halt the separation of families: “I’m relieved our nation will no longer be separating these children and without the aggressive coverage of our independent media outlets, this change would have never happened. We should thank our First Ladies, faith leaders, medical community, and lawmakers, activists, and compassionate Americans for voicing their opposition, yet we have more work to do. First and foremost, we all must demand immediate, tangible steps to reunite the thousands of separated children with their families. This cruel plan and practice was hatched, initiated, and enforced solely by the President and his administration, specifically Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen. While President Trump may have bowed to political pressure and finally recognized that the separation of families is a problem, his Executive Order ultimately does little to reform our broken immigration system into one that is reflective of our humanity, values, and the American dream.” ##
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON – On Wednesday evening, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) successfully amended the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 5515) to include a provision that reaffirms the commitment of the United States to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. It applauds NATO’s continued efforts in combating terrorism and states NATO’s collective defense founding principle is a deterrent to external security threats. The bipartisan amendment passed by voice vote and was cosponsored by Rep. Ann Wagner (MO-2). Delaney is also the author of a bipartisan House Resolution reaffirming the commitment of the United States to NATO. “As Congress debates defense policy, we must recognize that NATO is an essential part of our national security portfolio,” said Congressman Delaney. “Despite the rise of isolationist rhetoric in recent years, this bipartisan amendment removes any doubt as to where this Congress stands and where our country stands. It is essential that the United States maintains and supports the NATO Alliance and this amendment sends a clear message to our key partners that we remain committed to NATO.” The amendment officially reaffirms our nation’s commitment to NATO as the foundation of transatlantic security and defense, highlighting NATO’s critical role in preserving peace and stability in the transatlantic region. It also credits NATO with enhancing national security and strengthening the United States’ ability to combat evolving security threats and encourages each NATO member country to meet or exceed the commitment to spend two percent of its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) on defense. Text of Congressman Delaney’s NATO amendment can be found here. ##
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted for H.R. 5515, the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which passed by a vote of 351-66. The bill includes his bipartisan amendment passed by voice vote and cosponsored by Rep. Ann Wagner (MO-2) to reaffirm the commitment of the United States to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. The amendment applauds NATO’s continued efforts in combating terrorism and states NATO’s collective defense founding principle is a deterrent to external security threats. The FY2019 NDAA spending levels conform to the new bipartisan budget caps established in the two-year Bipartisan Budget Agreement for FY 2018 and FY 2019 and contains provisions that support the needs of our military, including a 2.6% pay raise for servicemembers. In addition, it requires master plans to address climate and energy resiliency initiatives aimed at ensuring the ability to sustain mission-critical operations and provides $15 million above the budget request for the Energy Resiliency Conservation Investment Program. It also includes $6.3 billion for the European Deterrence Initiative (EDI), which supports efforts to counter Russian aggression in the region. As founder and co-chair of the Congressional AI Caucus, Rep. Delaney is encouraged to see the inclusion of an additional $30 million to address Artificial Intelligence, and a requirement to establish an Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Policy and Oversight Council to continuously improve research, innovation, policy, joint processes, and procedures that facilitate the development, acquisition, integration, advancement, and sustainment of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning throughout the Department of Defense. The bill also invests in cybersecurity needs. “While this legislation certainly isn’t perfect, I’m glad we could come together and support our Armed Forces,” said Congressman Delaney. “Before partisan politics, our priority must be preserving our national security and investing in the readiness of our men and women in uniform. And as I’ve said before, the U.S. needs to do a better job preparing for AI and future technology and the provisions included in this bill are another step in the right direction.” ##
05.22.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted for the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (S. 2155). The bipartisan legislation establishes new consumer protections and provides targeted regulatory relief for credit unions and community banks, including provisions designed to make it easier for small financial institutions to lend to families and small businesses. S.2155 passed the House in a 258-159 vote and passed the Senate in a 67-31 vote earlier this year. The Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act includes Congressman Delaney’s Protecting Veterans Credit Act (H.R. 2683), bipartisan legislation to ensure that veterans’ credit scores and credit reports are not negatively affected by delayed medical payments associated with the Department of Veterans Affairs’ Veterans Choice Program and other VA Community Care programs. Delaney’s Protecting Veterans Credit Act has 34 cosponsors and was endorsed by the nation’s leading veterans organizations. The bill also includes the Encouraging Employee Ownership Act (H.R.1343) – Congressman Delaney is the lead Democratic cosponsor – which would allow private companies to offer more company stock options to their employees. “This legislation is bipartisan, pragmatic and solutions-oriented, combining new consumer protections with targeted regulatory relief for small community banks and credit unions. It’s certainly not perfect and we must continue to make sure that regulators use their full statutory power to protect consumers, investors and the financial system, but it does include dozens of commonsense bills that have wide support. Consumers, working families and entrepreneurs all benefit from having a variety of choices and healthy competition for their business and that’s why we need this bill, because around the country, community banks have been closing and pulling back their business. “I’m proud that two bipartisan bills I worked on, the Protecting Veterans Credit Act and the Hultgren-Delaney Encouraging Employee Ownership Act, were included in this bill and I thank all of our cosponsors for their support. No veteran should have their credit score ruined because of delayed VA medical payments, and when this bill is signed into law that will no longer be the case. “Unfortunately, the reaction to this bill is an example of what’s wrong with our politics. Some of the loudest voices – on both sides of the aisle – are falsely claiming that this legislation is a massive rollback of Dodd-Frank, when that simply isn’t true. This is the same divisive playbook and dishonest rhetoric we see all too often, and the American people deserve better,” said Congressman Delaney. The Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (S. 2155): Keeps the central tenets of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act unchanged. According to former Rep. Barney Frank, who co-authored Dodd-Frank, the bill, “does not in any way weaken the regulations we put in there for the largest banks or that were there to prevent the kind of crisis we had 10 years ago”; Preserves the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and its mission; Includes new consumer protections for servicemembers and veterans, including free credit monitoring for active duty military along with provisions to protect veterans from predatory lending; Provides free credit freezes for consumers, along with further protections for minors, seniors, and student loan borrowers; Includes foreclosure protections for tenants and active duty servicemembers; Provides targeted regulatory relief and simplified capital requirements for small community banks and credit unions so that it is easier for them to extend credit to families and small businesses. ##
05.21.2018	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, Rep. John K. Delaney (MD-6) called for the establishment, and swift implementation, of a formal national strategy regarding artificial intelligence in a WIRED opinion piece titled, “France, China, and the E.U. All Have An AI Strategy. Shouldn’t the U.S.?” Congressman Delaney is the founder of the House AI Caucus. As the only former CEO of a publicly traded company in the Congress, Rep. Delaney knows the importance of keeping up with global trends and the disadvantages our nation faces if we aren’t leading the conversation surrounding technological advancement: “Right now, in the United States there’s an incredible discussion taking place about AI, automation, the future of work, and privacy—but all of that is taking place in the private sector, academia, and think tanks. Government is woefully behind. Elected officials need to look at the facts and work to find common ground. Whether you are a conservative or a progressive, this future is coming,” Delaney writes. The op-ed is copied below and available online here: https://www.wired.com/story/the-us-needs-an-ai-strategy/ France, China, and the E.U. All Have An AI Strategy. Shouldn’t The U.S.? By Rep. John K. Delaney May 20, 2018 French President Emmanuel Macron’s recent visit to Washington highlighted how differently our two nations are thinking about the future. In March, the French government unveiled a national strategy for artificial intelligence technology that has a clear goal: make France a global leader in AI. In the last year, China and the European Union have taken similar steps. If we’re serious about having a prosperous economy for decades to come, the United States should do the same. The French strategy—ambitiously titled “For a Meaningful Artificial Intelligence”—was outlined in a comprehensive 147-page document authored by world-renowned mathematician and a member of French Parliament Cédric Villani. Importantly, the report shows the French government anticipating AI’s impact on the job market and attempting to get ahead of change so that their citizens can benefit. As President Macron recently told WIRED, “I think artificial intelligence will disrupt all the different business models and it’s the next disruption to come. So I want to be part of it. Otherwise I will just be subjected to this disruption without creating jobs in this country.” France’s national strategy also reveals that Macron’s government is wrestling with how to ensure that AI supports inclusivity and diversity, and to make certain that its implementation is transparent. The French aren’t just theorizing; they’re taking action. France plans to invest 1.5 billion euros (almost $1.8 billion dollars) in the next five years in artificial intelligence research. The French are looking to create their own AI ecosystem, train the next generation of scientists and engineers, and make sure that their workforce is prepared for an automated future. France isn’t alone. Last month, the European Union’s executive branch recommended its member states increase their public and private sector investment in AI. It also pledged billions in direct research spending. Meanwhile, China laid out its AI plan for global dominance last year, a plan that has also been backed up with massive investment. China’s goal is to lead the world in AI technology by 2030. Around the world, our global economic competitors are taking action on artificial intelligence. It’s therefore striking that the United States doesn’t have a national artificial intelligence plan. Despite the recent private meeting with tech executives at the White House, the administration has taken little action in this area. That’s why last year I joined with a bipartisan group of lawmakers in the House and Senate in introducing the Future of AI Act, the first bill of its kind to be introduced in Congress. The bill looks at some of the same key questions that the French have examined, because when you zoom out it is clear that these concerns are universal: How can we make sure that workers and society will benefit? How can we encourage and support economy-boosting and job-creating research? And how can we ensure that AI will be implemented ethically and without bias, while also protecting user privacy? The legislation creates an advisory committee at the Department of Commerce composed of scientists, engineers, ethicists, and civil liberties experts, as well as representatives from labor groups, technology companies, and federal officials. The committee will have 18 months to issue recommendations on how to ensure that artificial intelligence is a positive for the country. The United States needs a full assessment of the state of American research and technology, and what the short and long-term problems and opportunities are. The Future of AI Act, along with the work of the AI Caucus—a bipartisan group I founded—are all about starting the conversation. Right now, in the United States there’s an incredible discussion taking place about AI, automation, the future of work, and privacy—but all of that is taking place in the private sector, academia, and think tanks. Government is woefully behind. There’s no focus on the future. The strength of the United States' private sector makes us the envy of the world, but without a national strategy and increased public investment, we risk having a few companies control the most elemental science of the future. A healthy marketplace needs competition and innovation. Elected officials need to look at the facts and work to find common ground. Whether you are a conservative or a progressive, this future is coming. As I look at where the world is headed, I believe that we need to expand public investment in research, encourage collaboration between the public and private sector, and make sure that AI is deployed in a way that is wholly consistent with our values and with existing laws. Policymakers must understand that machine learning and automation's impact on the economy and job market will mirror that of globalization. The US needs a plan to prepare the workforce to not only survive this change but thrive. The US also needs a much more prominent public debate over the policies around artificial intelligence, since this will be a massively influential technology. Today, we’re not even having the discussion. There’s no plan for where we want to go. China and France already have a plan. If the US doesn't act, we’re in danger of falling behind. ##
05.18.2018	WASHINGTON – Maryland’s bipartisan congressional delegation has written a joint letter to Secretary of the Treasury Steve Mnuchin and Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar in support of Maryland’s waiver for a state reinsurance program, which was authorized by the Maryland General Assembly earlier this year. Reinsurance is a reimbursement system that protects insurers from very high claims by having a third party (the federal or state government) pay part of the insurance company’s claims once they pass a certain amount. “The Governor and both Democratic and Republican leaders strongly support this effort to address premium costs and access to affordable healthcare in our state. The Maryland Insurance Administration estimates that the State Reinsurance Program would lower premium rates market-wide by as much as 30 percent and would lead to a reduction in federal payments of advance premium tax credits,” the Maryland lawmakers wrote in their letter. The letter to Treasury and HHS was signed by the full federal delegation, including U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, Congressmen Steny H. Hoyer, Elijah Cummings, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John P. Sarbanes, Andy Harris, M.D., John K. Delaney, Anthony G. Brown and Jamie Raskin. Earlier in May, the Maryland Insurance Administration (MIA) released the 2019 proposed rates for silver level health plans sold on the individual market. CareFirst has requested a premium rate increase of 18.5 percent for their HMO plans and a premium rate increase of 91.4 percent for their PPO plans. Kaiser Permanente requested a premium rate increase of 37.4 percent. These rates do not reflect the possibility of a state reinsurance program. MIA estimates that a state reinsurance program could have a premium reduction impact of 30 percent, which could result in 2019 rates being lower than 2018 rates. The full letter follows and can be found at this link. May 17, 2018 The Honorable Steven Mnuchin The Honorable Alex Azar Secretary of the Treasury Secretary of Health and Human Services Department of the Treasury Department of Health and Human Services 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW 200 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20220 Washington, DC 20201 Dear Secretary Mnuchin and Secretary Azar, We write to request that the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services grant Maryland’s application for a Section 1332 State Innovation Waiver as soon as possible. We urge that this process include careful and thorough consideration of key stakeholder’s input such as the Maryland Medical Society. Earlier this year, the Maryland General Assembly voted to establish a state-based reinsurance program, the Maryland State Reinsurance Program. The Governor and both Democratic and Republican leaders strongly support this effort to address premium costs and access to affordable healthcare in our state. The Maryland Insurance Administration estimates that the State Reinsurance Program would lower premium rates market-wide by as much as 30 percent and would lead to a reduction in federal payments of advance premium tax credits. By contrast, without federal approval, rates for many individual market plans could increase substantially. The matter is urgent because the Maryland Insurance Administration must finalize the approval of the individual market rates by September 1, 2018. Accordingly, on behalf of our constituents, we urge you to complete your consideration of Maryland’s waiver application as soon as possible. Sincerely, ###
05.18.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives considered H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018 – more commonly known as the Farm Bill. While the Farm Bill has been traditionally drafted on a bipartisan basis to serve as the primary agricultural and food policy tool for the federal government, this year, it has been hyper-partisan. For the first time in 46 years, the Farm Bill passed out of the House Committee on Agriculture without bipartisan support. Congressman John K. Delaney opposed the bill, which failed by a 198-213 vote. This partisan Farm Bill drastically cuts the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). By reducing funding by $23 billion, it negatively impacts the 40 million struggling Americans who rely on this program to put food on their tables. Two out of every three people who receive assistance from SNAP are children, disabled, or elderly, and these cuts threaten the free school meals for 265,000 children and moves nearly 1.5 million veterans closer to poverty. The Farm Bill undermines efforts to protect farmland and its surrounding environment by eliminating the Conservation Stewardship Program (CSP), the nation’s largest working lands conservation program that helps farmers implement sustainable farming practices, and rolls back environmental safeguards. “It’s hard to overstate just how disastrous and shameful this bill is and it is a victory for the country that it was rejected by a bipartisan vote,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “This hyper-partisan distortion of a farm bill is a reversal of decades of good precedent and is a huge missed opportunity to actually work together in a constructive way. The fact is, 43% of U.S. households don't earn enough to afford a monthly budget and 70% of our children live in a county where there is no evidence of upward mobility. Yet, Republican leaders can somehow justify this attempted cut to SNAP after voting for a tax bill that adds nearly $2 trillion to our deficit, we simply have to have better priorities. Today’s vote shows that the answer is working in a bipartisan manner and focusing on the goals that we all agree on: to help farmers thrive in a global marketplace, encourage rural economic growth, and support families.” Providing only modest support of $1.40 per person per meal, SNAP lifts 8 million Americans out of poverty every year, including 4 million children, and is one of the most effective anti-poverty programs we have. Fundamentally, SNAP serves as a short-term fallback for families facing adversity through unemployment or underemployment, with the average SNAP recipient using the program for only 10 months. Research has shown the benefits of these programs continue for years after participation in the program has ended. ##
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON – Baltimore County Executive Kevin Kamenetz passed away early Thursday. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “April and I are deeply saddened by the news of County Executive Kamenetz’s passing. Kevin was a tireless public servant and a champion for the Baltimore area and his constituents. Our condolences and prayers go out to Jill, their two sons, and the entire Kamenetz family.” ##
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday, President Trump announced that the United States will withdraw from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “The President missed a significant opportunity to work with our allies to strengthen the weaknesses in the JCPOA and instead chose a misguided path that with either isolate the United States from our allies, accelerate Iran’s becoming a nuclear state, or lead to a military conflict with Iran. A President’s most fundamental responsibility is to the security of the American people at home and abroad. One of the central challenges still facing the world is nuclear proliferation. By withdrawing from the JCPOA without an articulated go forward strategy to work with the international community to curtail Iran’s nuclear ambitions, the President has compromised that responsibility. What makes matters worse, I fear it was done solely for political reasons. I hope that the damage is not permanent and that this mistake does not undermine the hugely important negotiations with North Korea and our national security more broadly.” ##
04.27.2018	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 4, the “FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018,” a bill to reauthorize the Federal Aviation Administration through 2023. The legislation included funding for the Essential Air Service (EAS) Program, the Federal Contract Tower Program, and important aviation training and workforce development efforts. The legislation also includes consumer protection and safety reforms. “I’m glad we were able to come together in a bipartisan way to pass FAA Reauthorization, including critical programs that benefit Maryland, the Hagerstown Airport and the local campus of the Pittsburgh Institute of Aeronautics,” said Congressman John Delaney (MD-6). “Importantly, this bill also includes new consumer protections to improve the flying experience, increase transparency and make sure that flights are safe. Continued federal support for aviation – including smaller, rural airports – is an important part of supporting our transportation infrastructure, which is so critical to economic growth.” The FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 includes: The Essential Air Service (EAS) Program: ensures a minimal level of scheduled, commercial air service in smaller communities. The Federal Contract Tower Program: provides air traffic control services at smaller airports through FAA-certified private contractors. The Ryan-Keating Amendment: directs FAA to evaluate workforce priorities and ensure aviation maintenance training programs are preparing the next generation of the aviation workforce, and GAO to make recommendations on how to best strengthen and expand aviation training programs. Consumer and Safety Provisions: minimum standards for the size of airline seats, better communication from airlines during flight disruptions, ban on voice/wireless calls, ban on bumping passengers already aboard full flights, one-page summaries of compensation available when a flight is diverted, and reinforced cockpit doors on new planes. The Hagerstown Regional Airport and the Frederick Municipal Airport provide the Sixth District with more than 2,500 jobs and $200 million in annual business revenue. Hagerstown Regional Airport is home to 40 defense and aviation firms with more than 700 total employees. Opening in 2011, PIA’s Hagerstown Branch Campus is Maryland’s exclusive FAA-certified Airframe and Powerplant training provider. ###
04.25.2018	WASHINGTON – The European Union’s executive branch, the European Commission, has announced that it will increase its investment in artificial intelligence (AI) research and development by €1.5 billion and called on member states to invest €20 billion as well. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6), the founder of the House AI Caucus, says that the European Union’s action should get the attention of U.S. policymakers. “Our economic competitors in Europe and Asia are moving forward on AI, while we stand still. I sincerely hope that today’s announcement from the EU gets the attention of Washington and serves as a wake-up call. If we want artificial intelligence technology to benefit our society, our economy and our workers, we’ve got to make sure that the United States remains the global leader – but make no mistake, we will have competition,” said Congressman Delaney. “Artificial intelligence technology promises to be transformative, disruptive and beneficial, while also creating new ethical and privacy problems. The time is now to increase our investment in research, make sure that we are encouraging continued private sector growth and protect individual rights.” Congressman Delaney is the author of the FUTURE of AI Act, first-of-its-kind legislation that would promote an enabling environment for the continued development of artificial intelligence (AI) technology. The legislation creates a new advisory committee at the Department of Commerce comprised of scientists and engineers, ethicists and civil liberties experts as well as representatives from labor groups, technology companies and federal officials. The advisory committee will have eighteen months to report back with their recommendations on what the next steps should be. ##
04.13.2018	WASHINGTON - During congressional testimony this week, Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg stated repeatedly that artificial intelligence (AI) technology will allow the platform to better combat the problem of disseminating fake news, hate speech, terrorist propaganda and false ads. According to reporting in the Washington Post, Zuckerberg mentioned AI more than 30 times. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Congressman Pete Olson (TX-22), the co-chairs of the AI Caucus, release the following statement: “Given that millions of Americans are Facebook users, the company’s conduct, ad policies and privacy measures are of national importance. We’ve all become painfully aware of just how important the content that gets posted on Facebook can be. In his testimony this week, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg made it very clear that AI will be an integral part of Facebook’s future and perhaps an instrumental part of its efforts to improve the platform. “While AI can be utilized to help Facebook and other entities tackle problems on a massive scale, we also need to make sure that AI is implemented in an unbiased way. As the Co-Chairs of the AI Caucus, we believe that Facebook should provide more information to Congress on how they plan to use AI and what steps they are taking to make sure that AI is being used in an unbiased manner that also respects users’ privacy. “More broadly, Mr. Zuckerberg’s testimony is a reminder of the increased role that AI will have across a variety of platforms in the years to come. If Congress isn’t aware of this by now, it is clear that they should be. This is why we urge our colleagues to support the FUTURE of AI Act, which establishes a federal advisory committee to study the emerging AI technologies and make recommendations to Congress and the Administration on how we can make sure society benefits from this new technology.” In December, Delaney and Olson introduced the FUTURE of AI Act, for more information click here. ##
03.21.2018	WASHINGTON – Today the House Financial Services Committee voted to approve legislation by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) to protect the credit scores of veterans dealing with delayed payments associated with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Veterans Choice Program and other VA Community Care programs. Congressman Delaney’s Protecting Veterans Credit Act (H.R. 2683) passed the committee in a 59-0 vote. Congressman Randy Hultgren (IL-14) is the lead Republican on the bill, which currently has 33 cosponsors. “We’ve got to make this right,” said Congressman Delaney. “No veteran should have their credit harmed because of the government’s mistake. This is really compounding a problem for a lot of men and women who have served our country, because they’re already using the Veterans Choice Program because of other delays or inadequacies in the system and then to be hit with these incorrect bills is really a double-whammy. So this is a commonsense, straight to the point, bipartisan bill that addresses this problem. I thank Rep. Hultgren for his partnership on this bill, appreciate the support of the committee and look forward to seeing it on the House floor.” The legislation creates a one year credit reporting grace period for the resolution of debt from medical services related to the VA’s Community Care programs. Delayed disbursement of associated VA payments has meant that potentially thousands of veterans could have large and inaccurate medical debts listed in their name as the VA and private providers work through billing. This can make it more difficult and more expensive for veterans to buy a home or car, rent a place to live or be hired at a new job. The bill has been endorsed by the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), the American Legion, Wounded Warrior Project, the Paralyzed Veterans of America and the Association of the United States Navy. Enacted in 2014, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Choice Program provides veterans with the ability to receive medical care in a non-VA facility if the VA cannot schedule an appointment within a specified time period or if the veteran lives more than 40 miles from the closest VA medical facility. Unfortunately, there have been widespread delays of Choice Program payments and inappropriately assigned bills to veterans. After setting up a hotline to help veterans enrolled in the Choice Program with these credit and billing issues, the VA received roughly 74,000 calls in the course of 14 months, illustrating the extent of the problem this bill seeks to address. ##
03.20.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney’s (MD-6) Protecting Veterans Credit Act will be considered this week by the House Financial Services Committee during a markup scheduled for Wednesday. The legislation is designed to protect veterans from unnecessary financial harm by ensuring that their credit ratings are not adversely affected by delayed payments associated with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Veterans Choice Program and other VA Community Care programs. Congressman Randy Hultgren (IL-14) is the lead Republican on the bill, which currently has 31 cosponsors. “No veteran should have their credit ruined because of delays at the VA and that’s why we need this bill,” said Congressman Delaney. “I’m looking forward to discussing this important legislation with my colleagues in the committee. This is the next step in getting the bill to the House floor for a vote.” The legislation creates a one year credit reporting grace period for the resolution of debt from medical services. Delayed disbursement of associated payments has meant that potentially thousands of veterans could have large and inaccurate medical debts listed in their name as the VA and private providers work through billing. The Protecting Veterans Credit Act has been endorsed by the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), the American Legion, Wounded Warrior Project, the Paralyzed Veterans of America, the National Consumer Law Center (on behalf of its low income clients) and the Consumer Federation of America. Enacted in 2014, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Choice Program provides veterans with the ability to receive medical care in a non-VA facility if the VA cannot schedule an appointment within a specified time period or if the veteran lives more than 40 miles from the closest VA medical facility. Unfortunately, there have been widespread issues with the implementation of the program, including delayed Choice Program payments and inappropriately assigned bills to veterans. ##
03.14.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) joined students at Thomas Wootton High School in Rockville today to protest gun violence. Congressman Delaney joined Wootton students as they spoke on the school football field and held a moment of silence for each person killed in Parkland, Florida last month. Delaney also took part in a Q&A session with students in the auditorium. Later in the morning, Delaney joined students from around the region who had gathered at the U.S. Capitol. “The next generation is speaking out and taking the lead and it’s inspiring to see,” said Congressman Delaney. “I was honored to be invited to join the students at Wootton High School and really appreciated the opportunity to speak with many of them one-on-one and to answer questions in the school auditorium. They’re making history, they’re making change and that’s what I told them. I’m proud to stand with them. There’s a massive bipartisan consensus that wants us to pass commonsense gun safety reforms and it’s time for lawmakers of all parties to come together, listen to the people, and get this done.” Congressman Delaney is a cosponsor of legislation to create universal background checks for all gun sales (H.R. 4240), a cosponsor of legislation to ban semiautomatic assault weapons (H.R. 5087), a cosponsor of legislation to lift the ban on federal research into gun violence (H.R. 1478) and is a cosponsor of legislation to ban bump stocks (H.R. 3947). ##
03.08.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Congressman Bradley Byrne (AL-1) have introduced bipartisan legislation to repeal the excise tax on endowments that was included in the tax reform bill signed into law last year. The tax bill passed last year creates a 1.4% excise tax on net endowment income for institutions with large endowments. Because the legislation did not include threshold adjustments for inflation, it is likely that more and more institutions will be subject to the tax in the future. The Delaney-Byrne Don’t Tax Higher Education Act eliminates the tax on endowments. The Delaney-Byrne bill is supported by the American Council on Education, the Council for Advancement and Support of Education (CASE), the National Association of College and University Business Officers, and the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities. “America’s colleges and universities are one of our singular assets as a country. We lead the world in higher education and it gives us an incredible advantage in today’s high-tech, high-skill global economy. We should be leaning into these advantages, not undermining them,” said Congressman Delaney. “Colleges and universities rely on their endowments to provide essential funding for financial aid, support difference-making research and teaching and effectively manage complex long and short term costs. I’m proud to work with Congressman Byrne on this bipartisan bill that ends the tax on higher education.” “While the impact of the excise tax on college endowments may be small today, I worry about future growth and expansion of this misguided tax on higher education. We should all be looking for ways to increase access to higher education, and endowments play a very important role in funding scholarships, student aid, and important research initiatives. As we continue working to build and train the workforce of the 21st Century, we must be doing more – not less – to improve higher education in America, and I am proud to partner with Congressman Delaney on this bipartisan legislation,” said Congressman Bradley Byrne. “We applaud Representatives Delaney and Byrne for their commitment to eliminating this unnecessary and misguided tax. Our tax policy should encourage donors to make charitable gifts supporting wider access through scholarships, research and academic programs at colleges, universities and independent schools. It should not penalize donor generosity by taxing the endowed charitable gifts of donors, redirecting critical funds away from supporting the important work of educational institutions,” said Sue Cunningham, President and CEO of the Council for Advancement and Support of Education (CASE). “The new excise tax on endowments at private colleges and universities will simply result in fewer dollars available for scholarships, student services, research, and college and university operating expenses at the impacted institutions. Eliminating this tax is a sound policy step squarely in the public interest,” said John Walda, President and CEO, National Association of College and University Business Officers. “The National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities fully supports Rep. Delaney's efforts to repeal the endowment tax. This new excise tax on private college endowments is an unprecedented intrusion into charitable giving. Private colleges rely on alumni gifts to support our students and missions the same way public colleges rely on the full faith and credit of the states. It's an unfair attack on one sector of higher education, creates a dangerous precedent of taxing charities, and does nothing to help students,” said Dr. David L. Warren, President, National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities. ##
02.28.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Congressman Tom MacArthur (NJ-3) launched the Entrepreneurship Caucus, a bipartisan effort to focus congressional attention on the importance of entrepreneurship and foster a new policy discussion on how to encourage more start-ups, innovation and small business growth. The Entrepreneurship Caucus will work to connect lawmakers with entrepreneurs and experts and advance legislation that helps new business formation and growth. Rep. Delaney founded and led publicly-traded companies before coming to Congress. On Wednesday, Delaney will speak at the 2018 State of Entrepreneurship Reception hosted by the Kauffman Foundation and the Rise of the Rest. “I’m proud to launch the Entrepreneurship Caucus with my friend and colleague Congressman MacArthur. Tom and I both worked extensively in the private sector and we know that a healthy private economy depends upon the energy and dynamism of new businesses,” said Congressman Delaney. “Entrepreneurship is an incredibly powerful experience for individuals, a key vehicle for creating more good jobs for workers and a necessary catalyst for innovation and growth in the economy at large. As a country, we’ve got to become more entrepreneurial and we’ve got to make it easier for more people, in more places, to start their own business. America absolutely cannot lose its entrepreneurial edge and this caucus is all about making sure that Capitol Hill stays focused on this topic.” “As a former businessman, who grew a small, local business into a multi-national company with thousands of employees, I know firsthand the challenges business owners and entrepreneurs face when trying to grow or create a new business. Entrepreneurship plays a vital role in our economy which is why we must make it easier for Americans to start their own small business or start-up. I look forward to working with my friend and colleague, Congressman Delaney, to advance legislation that will help new business creation and growth,” said Congressman MacArthur. Research indicates that the percentage of businesses that are new enterprises has declined in recent decades. According to data from the Census Bureau reported in the New York Times last fall, the share of younger companies in the United States has declined by almost half since 1980. In testimony before the Joint Economic Committee last year, John R. Dearie, the Founder and President of the Center for American Entrepreneurship, noted that new business formation has remained below pre-recession levels and that the long-term decline in entrepreneurship rates is “occurring in all 50 states… across a broad range of industry sectors, including high-technology.” Dearie testified that, compared to pre-recession levels of business formation, the United States currently faces a start-up deficit of 100,000 missing new firms every year. ##
02.16.2018	WASHINGTON – Today the Department of Justice announced that a grand jury in the District of Columbia returned an indictment presented by the Special Counsel’s Office. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “The Special Counsel’s indictments reveal a sophisticated, coordinated and large-scale attack on our democracy by a hostile foreign power. These indictments corroborate what our intelligence agencies have been saying for some time, that Russia attempted to sow discord in our country and flood voters with misinformation. It is absolutely essential that Mr. Mueller’s investigation be allowed to continue and that all partisan efforts to undermine and subvert the investigation cease. It is all the more disturbing that the White House continues to delay sanctions on Russia, while referring to these now extensively-documented activities as a ‘hoax.’ We must do everything possible to secure our election system and hold those that attack our democracy accountable.” ##
02.12.2018	WASHINGTON – On Monday, the White House released their infrastructure proposal. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “I am supportive of the goal of investing $1.5 trillion into our failing infrastructure using $200 billion of federal government funding and mixing that with investment from local governments and private capital. I think that it is very important that additional funding for rural infrastructure is a part of this plan, if done right this is an important way to get capital flowing into communities that have been left behind. “God or the devil is in the details, however, and it is essential that we end up with a net increase in infrastructure investment. A net increase in infrastructure funding is absolutely fundamental to this plan being a positive for the country and right now we have no details on how this plan would be paid for, but we do have a budget proposal from the White House that cuts other infrastructure programs. Simply moving infrastructure spending around and dressing up a deregulation bill as an infrastructure bill won’t be enough to rebuild America.” In January, Congressman Delaney wrote to the White House, proposing that the corporate tax rate be raised from 21% to 23%, with the money raised being used to pay for new infrastructure investment. In 2017, Delaney was named one of the World’s Greatest Leaders by Fortune for his work on a bipartisan infrastructure bill. Delaney has been the leading voice in Congress for using revenues from international tax reform to rebuild America. ##
02.01.2018	WASHINGTON – February is Black History Month. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “As President Obama noted during his first Black History Month as President, ‘the history of African-Americans is unique and rich, and one that has helped define what it means to be an American.’ Every February we are reminded that you cannot tell America’s story without telling the story of the African Americans who have contributed so much to our country. Black History Month is also a reminder that the fight for justice and equality continues to this day. The incredible history-makers of the past should also inspire us to continue to work towards a more perfect union, stand up for civil rights and make sure that everyone has an opportunity to live the American Dream.” ##
01.22.2018	WASHINGTON – On Monday, the Senate overwhelmingly advanced a bipartisan continuing resolution to fund the government through February 8 so that negotiations can continue on a long-term budget. As part of the compromise the Senate Majority Leader agreed to bring bipartisan immigration language to the floor for a vote. In the House, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted to reopen the government. Congressman Delaney will be donating his salary from the shutdown to the Mercy Health Clinic in Gaithersburg. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “We need a responsible long-term budget deal that addresses the needs of the country. We’re not all the way there yet, but we’re closer than we were on Friday. Unlike what was considered last week, this is a bipartisan bill that came out of negotiations between both sides. Voting yes is the right answer on this bill. Voting yes gets the government back open, locks in CHIP funding for six years and gets the negotiations going again on a bipartisan deal to save DACA and protect the Dreamers. “Congressional Republicans have – at least temporarily – moved from a hyper-partisan approach to actually negotiating with Democrats and I think that’s a good thing, so let’s take this up in good faith, and if they back out in three weeks, we hold them accountable. “I believe that it’s important to be honest: short-term continuing resolutions are a really bad way to govern, but shutdowns are even worse. That’s especially true for Maryland and my constituents. There’s a lot of work to be done, on the budget and on immigration, so let’s get down to it.” ##
01.20.2018	WASHINGTON – Government appropriations expired on January 19, leading to a government shutdown. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has cosponsored legislation to ensure that furloughed federal employees receive retroactive pay. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “Washington has tried the hyper-partisan approach for over a year now and it’s brought us to this point of total breakdown and dysfunction. Previous shutdowns have proven to be bad for the country, bad for the economy and bad for people that depend upon government services. Moreover, government shutdowns are especially damaging and disruptive to Maryland. There’s got to be a sense of urgency now to get a deal done. I hope everyone gets the hash-tagging and the blame game out of their system soon, because frankly the American people don’t care about that. It’s time for us to work together on a responsible long-term budget that addresses the pressing needs of the country.” ##
01.20.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) will donate any congressional pay he receives during the current government shutdown to a local charity. Congressman Delaney will donate to the Mercy Health Clinic in Gaithersburg. “I don’t think it’s right for me to get paid during a government shutdown while my constituents are being furloughed and important and necessary services are being limited or halted all together,” said Congressman Delaney. “It’s time to be responsible and come together on a bipartisan deal to fund the government.” In 2013, Congressman Delaney also donated his salary received during the government shutdown to Mercy Health Clinic. ##
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, as well as Congressman John Delaney (all D-Md.), have announced a $100,000 grant from the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) to the Garrett Regional Medical Center (GRMC). The grant will fund the purchase of a new telemedicine and telecommunications system that will allow the hospital’s healthcare providers to provide patients with real-time medical consultations from a distance. The telecommunications system will also give approximately 120 medical and hospital administrators greater access to licensing, training and certification programs, allowing them to improve their professional competencies. “The Garrett Regional Medical Center is the leading health care provider in all of Garrett County, where the rural nature of their communities often makes it difficult for residents to travel to receive the care and consultations they need. This grant will allow the center to implement game-changing technology that addresses that challenge, increasing health care access for hundreds of Marylanders,” said Senator Cardin, who last year wrote to ARC Executive Director Scott Hamilton requesting full consideration of the grant proposal. “These funds are a great example of how federal resources can be used to help local communities. I’m proud of the work ARC is doing and will keep fighting to ensure they remain fully funded.” “Whether Marylanders live in cities or small towns, their access to health care should be the same. This grant will provide crucial health services to residents of Garrett County and help the Medical Center better serve the patients of these communities,” said Senator Van Hollen, a member of the Budget and Appropriations Committees. “I was proud to support the Garrett County Regional Medical Center in their request for these funds, and I will continue fighting to expand access to health care across Maryland.” “A person’s location should not determine the quality of their healthcare and innovation and technology are important tools we should embrace to close the gap,” said Congressman John Delaney. “This federal grant is great news for Garrett County and is another example of how smart public investments can benefit local communities. I have been consistently impressed by the men and women at the Garrett Regional Medical Center and the work they have done under the leadership of President Boucot and am hopeful that this grant will lead to a direct bottom line in terms of patient care.” The Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) is a regional economic development agency that represents a partnership of federal, state and local government. Its mission is to invest in projects that expand rural communities’ access to the services and economic development assistance they need to thrive. ###
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) is an original cosponsor of bipartisan legislation to protect the pay of federal workers in the event of a government shutdown. The Federal Retroactive Pay Fairness Act (H.R. 4827) ensures that all federal employees receive retroactive pay for the duration of any shutdown, regardless of furlough status. “Federal workers shouldn’t be punished by Washington’s dysfunction,” said Congressman Delaney. “A government shutdown could impact hundreds of thousands of families and would be especially damaging to Maryland and that’s why this straightforward bipartisan bill is so necessary. Unfortunately, as the threat of a shutdown grows, so too does the anxiety of federal workers in the Sixth District, and I call on House leadership to pass this legislation immediately.” ##
01.09.2018	WASHINGTON – Bipartisan legislation authored by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) to protect the credit ratings of veterans was examined by the Financial Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit during a hearing on Tuesday. In May, Congressman Delaney and Congressman Randy Hultgren (IL-14) introduced the Protecting Veterans Credit Act (H.R. 2683), legislation to make sure that veterans do not suffer from unnecessary financial hardship due to delayed payments associated with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Veterans Choice Program and other Community Care programs. “It’s completely unacceptable to me that a veteran could see their credit rating ruined because of delayed VA payments, especially when they may be using the Choice Program because of delays or inconveniences in getting the care they need,” said Congressman Delaney. “There’s not a member of Congress that wants that, so let’s work together to solve this problem. Congressman Hultgren and I have been working on this issue for a number of years and I hope that today’s hearing was the next step in getting this legislation out of committee and to the House floor. I’d like to thank the many colleagues who voiced their support in today’s hearing as well as Subcommittee Chairman Luetkemeyer for including our bill today.” The slow disbursement of Veterans Choice Program payments has meant that potentially thousands of veterans have been adversely affected, having large and inaccurate medical debts wrongly listed in their name while the VA and private providers work through billing. This can make it more difficult and more expensive for veterans to buy a home or car, rent a place to live or be hired at a new job. The Protecting Veterans Credit Act delays medical debt from medical services received through non-VA medical care, including the Choice Program, from being reported on an individual’s credit report for one year. This delay provides adequate time for the VA and its contractors to resolve any billing issues, while retaining a route for resolution of any co-payments or other obligations. Tuesday’s hearing included testimony by Matthew Shuman, Director, Legislative Division of the American Legion in support of Congressman Delaney’s bill. In his written testimony for the subcommittee, Shuman stated, “The American Legion applauds Representative Delaney for introducing H.R. 2683, a piece of legislation aimed at protecting the fine men and women who have selflessly taken an oath to defend our great nation.” In addition to the American Legion, Delaney’s Protecting Veterans Credit Act has been endorsed by the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), the American Legion, Wounded Warrior Project, the Paralyzed Veterans of America, the Association of the United States Navy, the National Consumer Law Center (on behalf of its low income clients) and the Consumer Federation of America. The bill currently has 25 bipartisan cosponsors. ##
01.04.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) wrote to President Donald Trump, urging him to embrace a bipartisan approach on infrastructure. Multiple reports have indicated that infrastructure will be a top White House priority in 2018. In his letter to President Trump, Delaney wrote: “I have a very simple proposal for you to consider that I believe would be a win for workers, a win for the economy and a win for the country: let’s raise the corporate rate from 21% to 23% and use the $200 billion saved to upgrade our infrastructure.” Delaney also added: “The two areas where Congressional Republicans clearly gave away way too much to big business and investors was on lowering the corporate rate to 21% and on not making any real changes to carried interest. Wouldn’t it be a better deal if you were to claw some of that back and have a real infrastructure plan?” Congressman Delaney has been a leading advocate for using revenues from tax reform to pay for infrastructure since 2013 and his efforts to bring both parties together led to him being named one of the World’s Greatest Leaders by Fortune. The full text of the letter is copied below: January 4, 2018 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Trump, I hope that you had a joyous holiday season and a merry Christmas. As you know, the people expect big things from the government and want us to address the big problems facing the country. The last year was defined by hyper-partisanship, but a new year offers a new opportunity for a new approach focused on the common good and in finding common ground. That should start with infrastructure. Infrastructure is a way for Republicans and Democrats to work together in a bipartisan way to create good-paying jobs, boost our business climate, spur economic growth and really improve people’s quality of life. The benefits of infrastructure for our businesses and economic competitiveness cannot be understated and it will create millions of middle class jobs. As your administration finalizes your infrastructure plan, I have a very simple proposal for you to consider that I believe would be a win for workers, a win for the economy and a win for the country: let’s raise the corporate rate from 21% to 23% and use the $200 billion saved to upgrade our infrastructure. A 23% corporate rate would still be a significant cut from the prior 35% for businesses and would still be lower than the 25% rate many business organizations pushed for years. Moreover, this small change to the new tax law would be more than worth it, because smart infrastructure investment helps businesses compete and grow. Adjusting the corporate rate from 21% to 23% would raise $200 billion, enough to seed and fund multiple infrastructure initiatives that could – when leveraged with other private and public capital – pay for a $1 trillion infrastructure plan similar to the bipartisan Infrastructure 2.0 Act I have in the Congress. The fact is, regulatory relief and public-private partnerships won't be enough to fix America's infrastructure – we're going to have to also make a real investment at the federal level. The two areas where Congressional Republicans clearly gave away way too much to big business and investors was on lowering the corporate rate to 21% and on not making any real changes to carried interest. Wouldn’t it be a better deal if you were to claw some of that back and have a real infrastructure plan? Everyone would win, including big business and investors, and most importantly, hard-working Americans. Democrats are ready to work with you on infrastructure. Let’s work together in a bipartisan way so that we can advance a solution that is built to last. Please do not hesitate to reach out to my office if your staff has questions or concerns. Sincerely, John K. Delaney Member of Congress
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON – Today the House passed a short-term funding bill to avoid a government shutdown and keep the government open through January 19. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “I believe that a government shutdown would have been really bad for my constituents and bad for the country. I didn’t like the short-term bill that Speaker Ryan brought to the floor and it was disappointing that we again needed to do a short-term continuing resolution rather than a real funding bill that included long-term full funding for the many priorities we have for our nation, including CHIP and a DACA fix. But the terrible choice we were given was to either not get these things and keep the government open or not get these things and shut the government down on top of that. So I voted to keep the government open, keep paying federal workers and contractors, keep Social Security checks being delivered and to keep fighting for our priorities. This is a four week bill so the fight will resume in January and I plan on continuing to fight for full CHIP funding and continuing to fight for the Dreamers.” ##
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted against H.R. 1, the Republican tax bill. Congressman Delaney, the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in the House of Representatives, releases the following statement: “One of the things that used to be admirable about the Republican Party was that they espoused prudence and fiscal responsibility. It’s clear now that those days are long gone. By increasing our deficit, this legislation is going to make it much more difficult to invest in infrastructure, education and science and research – and that’s going to hurt our ability to thrive in the future that’s coming. This bill will also put increased pressure on important programs that help the most vulnerable in our society. I am deeply concerned that this bill will cement-in the stark inequality that has accelerated in recent decades. “This is a huge missed opportunity, because we really do need to do actual tax reform in a way that helps working people and helps our businesses compete. A bill that would have included infrastructure, tax breaks for the middle class and a lower corporate rate, would have passed with substantial bipartisan support, instead we have this bill that delivers 83% of its benefits to the top 1% according to the Tax Policy Center. This bill is being sold as a jobs bill, when the private sector is already saying they won’t use these cuts to hire people – it’s a classic bait and switch. “The rushing through and the hasty passage of this bill, with hardly any public hearings, open disdain for factual analysis and no effort at working across the aisle is a fitting conclusion to a 2017 that was defined by hyper-partisanship. For the good of the country I sincerely hope that we try a new approach in 2018.” ##
12.14.2017	WASHINGTON – Today in a 3-2 vote the Federal Communications Commission voted to end federal net neutrality rules which require internet providers to treat all online services equally. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) opposed this effort to roll back net neutrality. “I am very concerned that rolling back net neutrality will hurt consumers, entrepreneurs and small businesses and undermine our global leadership on innovation,” said Congressman Delaney. “I am strongly opposed to the FCC’s actions to end net neutrality and will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to oppose these drastic and unnecessary changes.” Congressman Delaney is a cosponsor of the Save Net Neutrality Act (H.R. 4584), which would have halted the FCC’s rulemaking process and was introduced by Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18). Congressman Delaney also joined 117 colleagues in the House of Representatives on a letter to FCC Chairman Ajit Pai urging him to halt his efforts to end net neutrality. The letter was led by Congressman Mike Doyle (PA-14), the Ranking Member on the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Communications and Technology. The Doyle letter to the FCC is available here. ##
12.14.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, and Congressman John K. Delaney (all D-Md.) applaud the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) Conference Report signed this week by the President, which includes a provision that would require a thorough study of the National Biodefense Analysis and Countermeasures Center (NBACC) at Fort Detrick. Using language similar to Senator Cardin's amendment passed in the Senate version of NDAA, which was cosponsored by Senator Van Hollen and Congressman Delaney’s amendment passed in the House version of NDAA, the mandated study would require a report on the implications of recent moves by the Trump Administration to close a unique lab that supports federal law enforcement investigations and identifies biological threats. The Maryland lawmakers wrote to President Trump in July urging him to reverse course on his budget plan to close the NBACC lab. “The Trump Administration’s move to close the NBACC are ill-advised and this congressionally mandated study should provide the thoughtful analysis needed to upend such plans that would run counter to our national security,” said Senator Cardin. “The need to protect the American people from biological threats continues to be very real and should not be brought to a screeching halt for arbitrary or political reasons,” said Senator Cardin. “Biological attacks are a serious threat to our homeland, and without the work of the NBACC we would undoubtedly be more vulnerable,” said Senator Van Hollen. “I hope this study will provide the Administration with a clear picture of NBACC’s mission and their vital importance to our country. I will continue to fight this Administration’s puzzling efforts to strip our homeland defense of such an important tool.” “The country needs NBACC and the efforts by the Trump Administration to abruptly close it have never made much sense. We know NBACC because it’s close to home, but the fact is this is of national importance because it is such a unique and critical facility,” said Congressman Delaney. “The inclusion of this provision protecting NBACC in the NDAA Conference Report reflects a strong bipartisan consensus that we need to hit the brakes here. I would hope that this provision being signed into law sends a clear message to the Administration that NBACC needs to be off the chopping block for good.” The NDAA conference report provision (Section. 1053) requires a joint report from the Departments of Homeland Security (DHS) and Defense (DOD) by March 1, 2018, on the functions and end users of the NBACC. The report must detail the cost and mission impact for users if NBACC is closed, including an analysis on NBACC functions that cannot be replicated elsewhere, and must include a transition plan for essential functions. The language requires DHS and DOD to consult with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Attorney General, Director of National Intelligence, and other DHS components, when drafting the report, which may include a classified annex. This provision prevents the use of any funds authorized under the NDAA to close or transfer NBACC until the report is submitted to Congress, and the heads of the Federal agencies that use the NBACC certify that its closure would not have a negative effect on biological defense capabilities. ###
12.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Todd Young (R-IN), and Ed Markey (D-MA), along with Representatives John K. Delaney (D-MD) and Pete Olson (R-TX), introduced first-of-its-kind legislation that would promote an enabling environment for the continued development of artificial intelligence (AI) technology. The forward-looking bill, known as the Fundamentally Understanding the Usability and Realistic Evolution of Artificial Intelligence Act of 2017 – or FUTURE of AI Act – establishes a federal advisory committee to examine and wrestle with the economic opportunities and impacts emerging AI technologies will have in many aspects of American life. AI technologies are evolving in capability and application at a rapid clip. Yet, the United States currently has no federal policy towards AI and no part of the federal government has ownership of the advancement of this technology. “We expect that artificial intelligence will be an incredibly transformative force for growth and productivity. We need to be ready for it,” said Senator Cantwell. “Artificial Intelligence has the ability to drastically boost our economy,” said Senator Young. “As Americans continue to interact with this technology every day, and as its capabilities expand, it’s important that we study and prepare for AI’s continued use in our society.” “While artificial intelligence holds the promise of providing goods and services more efficiently and effectively, increased automation has potentially broad negative impacts on our workforce and our privacy,” said Senator Edward J. Markey. “This bill serves as an important step in bringing together all stakeholders to better understand how this new technology will impact our lives. I thank Senators Cantwell and Young, as well as Representatives Delaney and Olson, for their partnership on this important bipartisan issue.” “It’s time to get proactive on artificial intelligence,” said Congressman Delaney, co-chair of the House AI Caucus. “AI is going to reshape our economy the way the steam engine, the transistor or the personal computer did and as a former entrepreneur, I believe the impact will be positive overall. Big disruptions also create new policy needs and we should start working now so that AI is harnessed in a way that society benefits, that businesses benefit and that workers benefit. This bill starts the process, by bringing together experts and policymakers. As co-chairs of the AI Caucus, Rep. Olson and I are shining a spotlight on these issues and this bipartisan bill makes sure that both Congress and the Executive Branch get engaged on this topic. I thank Senator Cantwell, Senator Young and Senator Markey for their leadership in the Senate.” Rep. Pete Olson said, “Artificial Intelligence has the power to truly transform our society, and as policymakers, we must be forward thinking about its applications. The AI Advisory committee will help ensure that the federal government enables growth and advancement in this exciting field, while empowering Congress to address potential AI issues going forward. I thank my AI Caucus Co-Chair John Delaney and our Senate colleagues for this collaborative effort and look forward to moving this bill forward.” The FUTURE of AI Act names the Department of Commerce responsible for leading government policy on artificial intelligence and directs the Department to create an advisory committee tasked with submitting recommendations within 18 months on how the government and business can work together to address concerns in four key areas: Potential growth, restructuring, and other changes for the U.S. workforce that result from adoption of AI, including potential actions to train and skill workers for an AI workplace Protecting the privacy rights of individuals as AI continues to grow Promoting a climate of innovation to ensure global competitiveness for American companies developing AI technologies Supporting the development and application of unbiased AI The AI advisory committee will pull from a wide array of sectors and perspectives. The committee will be comprised of civil liberties groups, labor groups, research institutions and universities, technology companies, the manufacturing sector, data scientists, and federal agency officials, among others. "This is a very thoughtful and timely bill. Gaining the expertise to make wise and inclusive policy around artificial intelligence is absolutely critical. I applaud Senator Cantwell and her co-sponsors for their leadership,” said Ryan Calo, an associate professor at the University of Washington School of Law and the faculty co-director of the University of Washington Tech Policy Lab. The section-by-section of the bill can be found HERE. The full text of the bill can be found HERE. ###
11.29.2017	WASHINGTON – Today the House of Representatives passed a bipartisan resolution to require all House Members and staff to complete mandatory anti-harassment and anti-discrimination training for every session of Congress. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) cosponsored the resolution which passed unanimously via voice vote on the House floor. “Sexual harassment and sexual assault are completely unacceptable – we must have a zero tolerance attitude and begin from a starting point that no one is irreplaceable,” said Congressman Delaney. “This resolution is a good first step in creating a more professional and safe work environment in Congress. The people’s House should be held to the highest standard and this resolution sends a clear message to the American people that there should be zero tolerance for any kind of harassment or discrimination in the workplace.” Under the resolution, Members and employees including interns and fellows must complete anti-harassment and anti-discrimination training during each session of Congress. For the current 115th Congress, each individual will complete the training no later than 180 days after the second session of Congress begins. Congressman Delaney already requires that his staff take anti-sexual harassment training. Congressman Delaney is also a cosponsor of the Congressional Education About Sexual harassment Eradication (CEASE) Resolution (H. Res. 604) introduced by Representative Speier (D-CA). ##
11.29.2017	WASHINGTON – During Wednesday’s Joint Economic Committee hearing on the economic outlook with Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) urged Chair Yellen to consider growing income inequality and the impacts that potential policy changes could have on the bottom 60% of Americans. During his question period with the Chair, Congressman Delaney spoke extensively about the economic outlook once the data has been disaggregated to account for widening gaps between the top 40% and the bottom 60% since 1980. “Increasingly, there are two Americas: the America that has benefited from three decades of globalization and automation and the America that has not,” said Congressman Delaney. “The first group has seen their incomes grow, their education and retirement circumstances improve and opportunities for their children expand; while the situation for those left behind by globalization and automation is much more precarious. There is an urgent need to implement policies that encourage both public and private investment in communities that have been hollowed out – infrastructure, broadband, expanded pre-k and community college access and tax incentives for private sector investors.” Video of the exchange available here, full transcript below: REP. JOHN K. DELANEY (MD-6): Chair Yellen, thank you for your incomparable service to our country. CHAIR YELLEN: Thank you. REP. JOHN K. DELANEY (MD-6): I think many of us will miss you very much. CHAIR YELLEN: Thank you. REP. JOHN K. DELANEY (MD-6): You gave a very nice overview of what’s happening in the economy in general, on average, if you will, the macro statistics you opened up your presentation with, which describe a fairly stable to slightly positive picture in many ways. But I wonder, when you think it’s time for us to start thinking a little differently about the data that we look at, because I saw some data recently where they disaggregated what’s happened to two kind of portfolios of the population, the top 40% and the bottom 60%, and they tracked this since 1980. And when you look at that data you see a very different picture. People in the top 40%, their incomes on average are up about 40% since 1980 and the bottom 60% they are flat. The top 40% on average used to be worth six times more than the bottom 60%, and now they are worth 10 times more than the bottom 60%. The top 40% used to spend twice as much on education for their children than the bottom 60%, now they spend four times as much on, education for their children. The retirement savings of the top 40%, on a relative basis, compared to what they’ll need for retirement, have actually improved since 1980, and the story is very bad for people in the bottom 60%. Life expectancies back in 1980 for both of these groups were actually extending, and now for the first time in quite some time we’re actually seeing life expectancies of people in the bottom 60% going down. So, I’m just wondering when do you think we as policymakers, you in your position at the Federal Reserve and us as policymakers here on the Hill have to actually start thinking differently about decisions we make based on the disparities that are starting to grow in our country. I’m not talking top 1% etc., I’m talking about large disaggregation pools, top 40% versus top 60%, because it seems to me that that bottom 60% is also particularly vulnerable to two macro trends that are going on. One, rapid change in the future of work based on automation and innovation. They are much more likely to have their jobs disrupted. Further, they rely much more on important government programs that are likely to come under continued stress. So, when you make decisions about what to do with monetary policy, how much have you started or has the Fed started to disaggregate some of this data and make the decisions differently? CHAIR YELLEN: Well, you describe in your question a set of very disturbing long term trends that the Fed is very focused on and in fact, some of the information that enables one to document these trends is produced by the Federal Reserve and our surveys of consumer finances and our surveys of household and economic decision making. And of course, there has been over decades a trend toward rising inequality of both income and wealth in the United States that, it’s not recent, it is something that has been going on for many decades. REP. JOHN K. DELANEY (MD-6): But, does it change, does it cause you to change decisions you would have otherwise made based on what’s happening for the average performance of the economy? Do you see what I mean? CHAIR YELLEN: Well to the extent that these shifts in income distribution do affect the pace of overall spending in the economy. For example, if high income households spend less of extra income they earn than lower income households, that shift in income distribution can make a difference to overall spending and it is something we would take account of. REP. JOHN K. DELANEY (MD-6): Right, because I would think hearing your average statistics that the position to actually continue towards a more normal rate environment makes sense, but when you look at this disaggregated statistics you’d be, I would at least be, really scared of how vulnerable this bottom 60% is to any kind of shock in the economy. And I guess, moving on to what we should be doing, I mean, in your judgement when we think about fiscal policy, tax policy decisions, spending policy decisions, how much should we really have a laser like focus on programs, whether they be investing in infrastructure, investing in human capital, creating incentives in the tax code for people to allocate capital to parts of the country that have been left behind economically? How high a priority should that be for us in making our decisions based on the statistics that you are looking at? CHAIR YELLEN: So for us, unfortunately, we don’t have tools that enable us to target particular groups so our own focus is when we take these trends and study them we really only have a blunt tool that can’t address this but Congress and the administration you have a much wider set of tools and obviously it’s up to you to formulate appropriate priorities. REP. JOHN K. DELANEY (MD-6): Would you consider it urgent for us to be addressing these trends? CHAIR YELLEN: Well I am very disturbed and have spoken out for many years about the disturbing trend toward rising inequality and the equity of the tax code is something that I think should importantly be taken into account. And as I said earlier, we are suffering from slow productivity growth and here too I think it’s quite important that in making fiscal policy and other decisions that the focus be on how can that be improved and that does point to investment in people, infrastructure, also private capital, technology, education. So these are squarely I think in Congress’s court and I do think they are urgent to address. REP. JOHN K. DELANEY (MD-6): Thank you again, Chair. ##
11.27.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) joined an amicus brief filed today in support of Leandra English’s position as Acting Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) in the English v. Trump case. Congressman Delaney is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services. “The American people deserve a strong CFPB that will protect consumers and safeguard our economy from bad actors,” said Congressman Delaney. “President Trump’s actions are a clear attempt to subvert the law and undermine the agency. Acting Director English is unquestionably qualified, and the Dodd-Frank Act is clear as to her authority to lead the Bureau until President Trump nominates and the Senate confirms a new Director. I stand in support of Acting Director English and call on President Trump to let her rightfully continue her role as Acting Director.” Leandra English was appointed to be the Deputy Director of the CFPB last week. As stated in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), in the absence or unavailability of the CFPB Director, the Deputy Director shall serve as the Acting Director. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, Leandra English lawfully became the acting Director of the CFPB upon CFPB Director Richard Cordray’s resignation. Despite the unambiguous reading of the Dodd-Frank Act, President Trump is attempting to usurp Acting Director English’s authority by naming his own Acting Director. Acting Director English filed a lawsuit requesting a temporary restraining order to block President Trump’s pick from taking over the CFPB. Representative Delaney, along with 25 current and former Members and Senators, submitted an amicus brief in support of Acting Director English’s lawsuit. The full text of the amicus brief can be read here. ##
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON – Today the House passed, H.R. 1, the tax bill introduced by Republican leadership. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted against the bill and releases the following statement: “This is one of the worst bills I’ve seen in Congress. Bad process, bad legislation and bad for the country. The irony is that Republican leadership seem to have forgotten how President Reagan did tax reform, which was to work with Democrats in a thoughtful and deliberate way, instead, they rushed through a massively consequential bill in two weeks. This is what hyper-partisan politics looks like and it’s pretty ugly. “This bill delivers massive tax cuts to very fortunate individuals that don’t need it. In exchange for these mostly needless measures like repealing the Estate Tax, they are ending important deductions that benefit the middle class and adding $1.5 trillion to the deficit. We all know who will pay the price for that fiscal irresponsibility: low and middle income people who rely on government services. The bill, should it become law, also would mean that there’s not going to be any real infrastructure plan from the White House, because there will be no money left to pay for it. “This legislation isn’t preparing us for the future that’s coming. In fact, by increasing taxes on students and universities, it jeopardizes access to education for working people and their children and threatens one of our singular national assets – our global leadership in higher education and research. It’s really shocking to me that Republican leaders and President Trump would look at where the world is headed and conclude they should tax education more.” ##
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, and Congressman John K. Delaney (all D-Md.) are praising the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) Conference Report approved by the House of Representatives Tuesday that would provide a thorough study of America’s National Biodefense Analysis and Countermeasures Center (NBACC) on Fort Detrick. Using language similar to Senator Cardin's amendment passed in the Senate version of NDAA, the mandated study would forestall bewildering moves by the Trump Administration to shutter a unique lab that supports federal law enforcement investigations and identifies biological vulnerabilities and hazards to our nation. The Maryland lawmakers wrote to President Trump earlier this year urging him to reverse course on his budget plan to close the NBACC lab. “The risk of biological and chemical agents being used is increasing. This is not the time to be weakening our defenses against such weapons,” they wrote. “The need to protect the American people from biological threats is very real and should not be brought to a screeching halt for arbitrary reasons,” said Senator Cardin. “Moves to close the NBACC are ill-advised and this congressionally mandated study should provide the thoughtful analysis needed to upend such plans that would run counter to our national security.” “Protecting our country from biological attacks is crucial to our national security and without the work of the NBACC our country would be more vulnerable to these threats,” said Senator Van Hollen. “I’m glad to see this provision to protect the NBACC included in the final NDAA legislation, and I will continue to fight this Administration’s perplexing efforts to strip our homeland defense of such an important tool.” “NBACC is an essential piece of our homeland security and national defense portfolio,” said Congressman Delaney. “I don’t understand why the Trump Administration wants to close the facility and it would be a huge mistake if they do. Senator Cardin, Senator Van Hollen and I have fought this proposed closure every step of the way and we’re going to continue to do so. Throughout the appropriations and defense authorization process it has been clear that there is bipartisan support for NBACC, which is why we’ve been able to pass multiple amendments in support of the facility. This agreement puts the brakes on closing NBACC, requiring that we are not going to close the lab until we get full confirmation that our biological defense capabilities won’t be weakened. It’s good news that this provision is in the conference version of NDAA, but we have more work to do. I thank Senator Cardin and Senator Van Hollen for their partnership on this issue.” The NDAA conference report provision (Section. 1053) requires a joint report from the Departments of Homeland Security (DHS) and Defense (DOD) by March 1, 2018, on the functions and end users of the NBACC. The report must detail the cost and mission impact for users if NBACC is closed, including an analysis on NBACC functions that cannot be replicated elsewhere in the government, and must include a transition plan for essential functions. The language requires DHS and DOD to consult with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Attorney General, Director of National Intelligence, and other DHS components, when drafting the report, which may include a classified annex. This provision prevents the use of any funds authorized under the NDAA to close or transfer NBACC until the report is submitted to Congress, and the heads of the Federal agencies that use the NBACC certify that its closure would not have a negative effect. ###
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON – Today the House passed the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) Conference Report. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted for the bill, which is a comprehensive package of bipartisan measures strengthening deterrence efforts against Russian aggression, authorizes a 2.4% pay raise for the military, and authorizes increases in military end strength and ongoing efforts to defeat ISIS. The bill also addresses military readiness gaps by authorizing $3.6 billion in additional operations and maintenance funds for the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force. The NDAA Conference Report is the final version of the bill that reflects the input of both the House and Senate. The Report updates the Uniform Code of Military Justice to include new protections against military sexual assault, includes landmark language stating that climate change is a direct threat to U.S. national security and strengthens U.S. cybersecurity efforts. The bill also includes provisions that Congressman Delaney has supported and successfully added to the House passed NDAA to forestall the closing of the National Biodefense Analysis and Countermeasures Center (NBACC) on Fort Detrick. The bill also features measures to reform the Small Business Administration’s Historically Underutilized Business Zones (HUBZone) program, protecting local jobs in Garrett County, Maryland. “There’s nothing more fundamental than providing for the national defense and making sure that the homeland is safe,” said Congressman Delaney. “This is an area that our constituents, above all else, demand that we focus on. I am proud to vote for a military pay raise and important measures to improve readiness, deter Russian aggression, defeat ISIS and boost our cybersecurity. This isn’t a perfect bill, but this is the product of a thoughtful and deliberative bipartisan process that kept partisan point scoring to a minimum. This is how big bills like this are supposed to work, reflecting rounds of input and amendments from both chambers.” ##
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON – The House has passed the fiscal year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) Conference Report, which includes provisions to reform the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) Historically Underutilized Business Zones (HUBZone) program and protect local jobs in Garrett County, Maryland. According to the Garrett County Chamber of Commerce, there are 11 HUBZone certified businesses countywide, employing nearly 500 people. Absent congressional action, Garrett County businesses were slated to lose HUBZone eligibility in 2018, potentially jeopardizing those jobs. The NDAA Conference Report extends Garrett County’s eligibility until at least 2020. The bill also creates a longer review period and changes the formula for how rural counties are designated, making it more likely that underdeveloped regions maintain their status. Each of the last two years Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has introduced the GARRETT HUBZone Redesignation Act, which also extends the county’s eligibility and reforms the redesignation process. In May, Delaney visited TDEC in Oakland and spoke with management and employees about the importance of saving their HUBZone status. Delaney and local leaders have spoken out in opposition to Garrett County losing their eligibility. “This is really good news for Garrett County because this bill is protecting a lot of good local jobs,” said Congressman Delaney. “This bill, which is soon headed to the President’s desk, would protect Garrett County’s HUBZone status until 2020 and make it much more likely that they keep it moving forward. This program is all about encouraging economic development in the parts of the country that need it the most and by any standard that should include Western Maryland. I have been proud to work with local leaders and the Garrett County Chamber of Commerce on my legislation and applaud these provisions in the NDAA, which accomplish the same goals. I also want to thank Small Business Committee Ranking Member Nydia Velázquez (NY-7) for her work in helping get this across the finish line.” The Historically Underutilized Business Zone Empowerment Contracting (HUBZone) program is a small business federal contracting assistance program designed to encourage economic development in economically underperforming areas. Section 1701 of the conference report creates a new 5-year review cycle for which areas are considered HUBZone eligible, promoting more stability and investment in underserved communities. These reforms also give the SBA access to more data, leading to better accuracy and reducing the odds that a community will lose status based on year-to-year fluctuations. Section 1701 also compares the median income of nonmetropolitan counties like Garrett County to the overall state median, rather than other nonmetropolitan counties under current law. The NDAA Conference Report is the final version of the bill that reflects the input of both the House and Senate. Congressman Delaney voted for the bill. ##
11.08.2017	FREDERICK- Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) held a Vietnam War Commemoration and Pinning Ceremony on Wednesday evening at Frederick High School. The event honored Vietnam War period veterans who served between November 1, 1955 and May 15, 1975, regardless of where they served during that time. The event was attended by 250 local veterans, their family members and area residents. During the ceremony 112 veterans received official pins, which are issued by the Department of Defense. “It was inspiring to see and hear from so many of our local veterans, and an honor to recognize the sacrifices they made for our country,” said Congressman Delaney. “Our veterans deserve our utmost respect and I hope this ceremony served as a small token of the tremendous gratitude we all have for their service to our nation.” Congressman Delaney is the author of the bipartisan Protecting Veterans Credit Act (H.R. 2587) legislation to ensure that veterans’ credit scores and credit reports are not adversely affected by delayed medical payments associated with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Veterans Choice Program and other VA Community Care programs and the bipartisan Medical Leave for Disabled Veterans Act (H.R. 1827), legislation to make it easier for working disabled veterans to receive medical care. ##
11.01.2017	WASHINGTON – House Republicans announced Tuesday that they would delay the release of their tax bill. “Here’s what we know: the hyper-partisan approach isn’t going to work. It’s not working now. Despite controlling the House, Senate and the White House, Republicans are still scrambling to cobble together something that can pass with only Republican support,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “They’ve had eleven months to put something together and there’s still a delay. The truth is, there really is a better way to do this, which is by working in a bipartisan fashion. My friends on the other side of the aisle should do what President Reagan did and work with Democrats on tax reform. The GOP is making a huge mistake in leaving infrastructure out of their plan, because that’s something that we all agree on and it’s a way to start having a real bipartisan negotiation. If they do jam through tax reform without any new funding for infrastructure, then they might as well put up a flashing billboard on the mall that says ‘There Won’t Be Any Infrastructure Bill’ because there won’t be any money left to pay for one. Let’s pair infrastructure with tax reform and deliver a fiscally-responsible tax package that is focused on economic growth and job creation.” Since 2013, Congressman Delaney has been the leading advocate for using revenues from international tax reform to rebuild America’s infrastructure. In March, Fortune named Congressman Delaney one of the World’s Greatest Leaders for working across the aisle on infrastructure legislation. During the last two Congresses, over 40 Democrats and 40 Republicans have cosponsored Delaney legislation to fund and finance new infrastructure investment using revenues from international tax reform. ##
10.25.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) is an original cosponsor of the State Public Option Act, legislation filed today that allows states to create a Medicaid buy-in program for all of their residents, regardless of income. The legislation to create this Medicaid-based public health care option was filed by Congressman Ben Ray Lujan (NM-3) and Senator Brian Schatz (HI). States that take up this option must offer the Medicaid buy-in on the health insurance exchange, providing additional options to Americans living in counties with few choices and creating more competition. “I am proud to cosponsor the State Public Option Act, legislation designed to make sure that every American has access to quality and affordable health care,” said Congressman Delaney. “Instead of tearing programs down and reducing access, which is what the extreme Republican measures in Congress have done, we should expand what works and fix the individual exchanges; that’s exactly what this bill addresses. In many places, consumers have limited options and costs are becoming prohibitive and adding a public option would make a tremendous difference. In addition to the millions of people who would directly benefit from being able to enroll in Medicaid, this legislation would also introduce more competition into the marketplace, which ultimately benefits all consumers. We have to be honest with the American people: health care is one-sixth of the national economy and we’re not going to fix real problems with slogans. A public option, along with additional measures such as lowering the age to qualify for Medicare and extending CSR payments would create universal access, improve quality and reduce costs.” Under the State Public Option Act, states would maintain the ability to setup their own programs, although their Medicaid buy-in benefit package must be at least equal to benchmark coverage and comply with the Affordable Care Act’s 10 Essential Health Benefits. The legislation also includes provisions to increase reimbursement rates for primary care providers. ##
10.24.2017	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday, the House of Representatives passed legislation (H.R. 3898) to establish financial sanctions on financial institutions that facilitate transactions or provide financial services to persons engaged in business with North Korea. These secondary sanctions would expand and strengthen sanctions passed earlier this year. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) is one of nine Democrats to cosponsor the legislation and also supported the legislation earlier this month in the Financial Services Committee. “These are some of the toughest sanctions ever brought forward by this body and I commend my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for supporting this bill,” said Congressman Delaney. “North Korea is a significant threat to our national security and to the security of our allies and to avoid a catastrophe, we must utilize every tool we have. As the world’s leading economy, we have tremendous leverage and we should make sure that North Korea lacks the resources to threaten the safety of the world. Unfortunately, that leverage in Asia has been significantly weakened by President Trump’s withdrawal from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which would have led to domestic economic growth and strengthened our hand with China. I look forward to this legislation passing the Senate and being signed into law so that we can start cracking down on those that do business with North Korea.” ##
10.17.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) is a cosponsor of the Opioid Immediate Suspension Order Act, legislation that restores the Drug Enforcement Administration’s (DEA) ability to suspend a pharmaceutical distributor’s license if the Attorney General believes there is an imminent danger to public health and safety. The Opioid Immediate Suspension Order Act was filed Monday by Congressman Gerry Connolly of Virginia. The Connolly legislation overturns part of a bill enacted in 2016 which passed by unanimous consent procedures and avoided a floor vote by members. “We absolutely have to restore the DEA’s ability to crack down on distributors who are flooding our communities with opioids,” said Congressman Delaney. “The opioid crisis has caused so much suffering in Maryland and it’s appalling that DEA authority was weakened via parliamentary procedure that is supposed to be reserved for non-controversial legislation. In addition to passing this legislation to empower the DEA to go after bad actors, we need to give law enforcement the resources they need, invest in public health, protect people’s access to treatment, and hold those who are responsible for this crisis accountable.” Congressman Delaney has hosted Opioid Addiction Workshops in Hagerstown and Frederick this year, connecting constituents with experts, law enforcement officials, treatment providers and community resources. ##
10.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Late Thursday the Trump Administration announced that it would immediately halt cost-sharing health subsidies that allow 7 million Americans to afford private coverage. According to the Washington Post, the move could push premiums to increase by 20% and prompt more insurers to withdraw from marketplaces. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “Once again, President Trump is taking a completely backwards approach on health care: instead of trying to solve problems, he is deliberately creating them and instead of trying to expand access to coverage, he is deliberately trying to take it away. “There’s no attempt at good policy here, no attempt at serving the people, just a blind and frenzied effort to secure some kind of political ‘win’ at any cost, all with nary a voice in his own party willing to speak out. We truly need thoughtful and responsible Republicans to stand up and put country before party, because we can’t let our great country be governed by tweets and empty slogans anymore. Decisions like this have a direct impact on people’s lives. There are bipartisan solutions in front of us that could fix the individual marketplaces – let’s put petty politics aside and actually do what’s right.” ##
10.10.2017	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday, Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) that begins the process of repealing the EPA’s Clean Power Plan, environmental protections aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions from existing power plants. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) strongly criticizes this decision. Delaney is the author of the Tax Pollution, Not Profits Act (H.R. 2014) and the bipartisan Climate Solutions Commission Act (H.R. 2326). “The seeds of climate change catastrophe are planted on days like this, when the President and his allies roll back some of the few carbon pollution measures we have. “Like pulling out of the Paris Agreement, this is a massive mistake that really hurts the country. In addition to undermining our environment, this is going to hurt our public health, hurt our ability to create new jobs in the industries of the future and hurt our economic leadership in alternative energy. Like so much of what the Trump Administration is doing, this is handing our global competitors a golden opportunity. “Instead of working in a bipartisan manner to combat climate change, the Trump Administration is doing everything they can to leave us with a dirtier and more impoverished future. It is incumbent upon members to work together on this issue. I’m proud to author carbon tax legislation that uses market forces to reduce carbon emissions and provides impacted coal industry workers with substantial benefits.” ##
10.03.2017	WASHINGTON – During today’s Joint Economic Committee hearing on entrepreneurship and tax policy Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) spoke about the passions that animate entrepreneurs and forcefully challenged the argument from the panelists that measures like repealing the estate tax would encourage entrepreneurship. Congressman Delaney argued that what is actually most important is creating the right environment where people want to start a business, in part through investing in science and research and getting capital flowing to under-invested areas. Congressman Delaney pointed out that the vast majority of professionally managed venture capital goes to Northern California, New York, and Massachusetts, three of the highest taxed places in the country. Congressman Delaney founded two companies before being elected to Congress and is a past winner of the Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year Award. Video of Congressman Delaney’s remarks are available here and copied below: Congressman Delaney: I want to thank the chairman for having this hearing; I want to thank all the witnesses for being here and providing their insight. So this is a topic that is near and dear to my heart. Before coming to Congress I was an entrepreneur. I started my first company in the early nineties, I took it public in 1996. I was the youngest CEO on the New York Stock Exchange at the time, sold it in 1999. Started my second business in 2000, took that public in 2003, and ran it until I decided to run for office. Ernst and Young gave me the Entrepreneur of the Year Award, so I’ve spent a lot of time around entrepreneurship. My second business was a commercial finance company, which meant we lend money to small and midsize businesses and we leant $30 billion to 3,000 small and midsize businesses all over the country. So when I think about being an entrepreneur, the thing that struck me about this hearing is this notion that tax policy matters to entrepreneurs. Being an entrepreneur is about a dream, it’s about thinking you can change the world, it’s about thinking you have some innovation that can make a disproportionate difference in the lives of your community, your country, your people. It’s about wanting to be independent, chart your own path, to be a pioneer. Those are all the emotions of an entrepreneur. I have never met an entrepreneur who was making a decision to be an entrepreneur based on tax policy. Because in fact most startup companies don’t make money for a while and most entrepreneurs would say “God, I hope to pay taxes one day because that means my business is working.” And to me, what allowed me to start my businesses is I was married to a wonderful woman who had a job. That job gave us healthcare and she was supportive of me doing this, so we could take the risk because we had that security in our own situation. I started my business in a market here in the DC area, in Chevy Chase, MD, where we had access to really terrific employees. And that allowed me to raise capital, because I had an idea, a plan, I was able to go do it. I was able to get a team and I went around the country and pitched people to give me money, which in the early 90s was hard, now it’s relatively easy. Not for venture capital… but for more professionally managed capital because that’s just a better risk/return for most people than venture capital. So this notion, I guess, Mr. Dearie, you said something earlier about how tax policy matters to entrepreneurs and startups, but right now 80% of the professionally managed venture capital goes to Northern California, New York, and Massachusetts, three of the highest taxed places in the country. How do you explain that if tax policy matters to them – these investors? John Dearie – Center for American Entrepreneurship: You are absolutely right, Congressman, that very few entrepreneurs think about tax policy as they’re thinking about becoming an entrepreneur; that they’re driven by passion, they’re driven by an idea exactly as you said. Congressman Delaney: So why does all the money go to the highest taxed places? John Dearie: Well, in talking about the importance of tax policy, I certainly don’t mean to say – it is the silver bullet issue. It is the most important issue. It is the dispositive issue. It’s relevant. It’s important. How do I – Congressman Delaney: The most important issue is creating that environment where people actually want to go and start a business. So, I mean, if you had to go and make a choice, and you have to answer the question based on my choice, you could either cut the estate tax or increase investments in research and development, what would you choose to create more entrepreneurs? John Dearie: I would do the latter. Congressman Delaney: Invest in research and development. Mr. Hodge if you had a choice, which was to lower the tax rate on wealthy individuals or do something like allow people with unrealized capital gains, to sell those positions and defer paying their capital gains tax for ten years if they invest that money in parts of the country that have very little economic growth. Some of the reaches that Ms. Donohue is advocating for, which would you choose? Those are the only two choices. Scott Hodge – Tax Foundation: I don’t agree with using the tax code to try to micromanage people’s investment decision. Congressman Delaney: So you don’t think it’s important to create policies, because really what’s happened in this country is – let me finish my time - you don’t believe in policies that actually help put intellectual capital and real capital in parts of our country that have been hollowed out based on changes in our economy. To create more entrepreneurs like Mr. Arensmeyer, if I’m pronouncing that right because you sound like a great entrepreneur, sir. You don’t think that’s a role of tax policy? Scott Hodge: We’ve tried thinks like enterprise zones for decades and they’ve had limited effect and I think we ought to reconsider those policies. Congressman Delaney: Ms. Donohue, do you think it’d be useful to have policies that get capital flowing to parts like Ohio where you’re trying to actually get investment capital? Falon Donohue - VentureOhio: I do, brilliance is not concentrated in the three states in the United States but the capital is. Congressman Delaney: Right well we’ve got to do something about that problem. Right? Thank you for your time. ##
09.26.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and 21 Democratic Members of the House Financial Services Committee, including Ranking Member Maxine Waters (CA-43), have written to U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Chairman Jay Clayton on the security of the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) system. The Delaney letter presses the SEC for more information on the 2016 EDGAR breach and on potentially illicit trading activity connected to the breach. Further, the letter questions what steps the SEC has taken to address vulnerabilities in the system. “From Equifax to the SEC, Americans are rightly concerned about the security of their financial and personal information, this is a massive issue that cuts across our entire economy,” said Congressman Delaney. “EDGAR holds massive amounts of information and we need detailed answers from the SEC as to what happened. I look forward to hearing from Chairman Clayton on what we can do to make the system more secure.” The text of the letter is copied below: September 26, 2017 The Honorable Jay Clayton Chairman U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 100 F Street, NE Washington, DC 20549 Dear Chairman Clayton: As members of the House Financial Services Committee, we write in regard to your statement from September 20, 2017, regarding cybersecurity and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) system. According to your statement, a “software vulnerability” in the EDGAR system was exploited and led to the unauthorized access of nonpublic information. This raises serious concerns for all market participants regarding the fairness of the capital markets and the security and accuracy of information stored on the EDGAR system. As you know, the EDGAR system is the central location in which companies must file SEC registration statements, periodic reports, and other required forms. In total, the system receives and processes approximately 1.7 million filings each year. Given the amount of information filed, disseminated, and stored through the system, the EDGAR system maintains an important role in the capital markets by increasing efficiency and fairness for all investors and companies while promoting transparency. However, the system only benefits all market participants when market participants are assured that the information contained on the system is properly safeguarded and that the underlying reports are accurate. In light of this cybersecurity breach, we request that you provide us answers to the following questions: When was the software vulnerability discovered and what steps did the SEC take to address this particular vulnerability? When did the SEC learn of potentially illicit trades using the information accessed through the software vulnerability? Please provide us with an overview of the potentially illicit trading activity, including the size and scope of the trades and number of companies involved. What types of information and/or filings were accessed through this software vulnerability? How many companies’ filings and/or data were improperly accessed through this breach? Has the SEC notified companies and shareholders affected by the unauthorized access of information? If not, does the SEC plan to do so and when? While you state that the SEC does not currently believe the breach resulted in the unauthorized access of personally identifiable information (PII) of investors, this is not guaranteed in future breaches. What steps does the SEC plan to take to ensure individuals’ identities are protected in the future? What steps, if any, does the SEC plan to take to better address cybersecurity vulnerabilities in the EDGAR system? Cybersecurity is a growing threat in the financial services industry, and we look forward to working with you to better address cyber vulnerabilities moving forward. Thank you in advance for your timely responses to our questions. Sincerely, ______________________________ ______________________________ John K. Delaney Maxine Waters ______________________________ ______________________________ Carolyn B. Maloney Josh Gottheimer ______________________________ ______________________________ David Scott Nydia M. Velázquez ______________________________ ______________________________ Juan Vargas Brad Sherman ______________________________ ______________________________ Kyrsten Sinema James A. Himes ______________________________ ______________________________ Wm. Lacy Clay Ed Perlmutter ______________________________ ______________________________ Gregory W. Meeks Joyce Beatty ______________________________ ______________________________ Vicente Gonzalez Stephen F. Lynch ______________________________ ______________________________ Gwen Moore Al Green ______________________________ ______________________________ Ruben J. Kihuen Keith Ellison ______________________________ ______________________________ Daniel T. Kildee Charlie Crist
09.21.2017	WASHINGTON – Today Maryland Governor Larry Hogan announced plans to widen I-495, I-270, and the Baltimore-Washington Parkway. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6), the Chairman of the Fix I-270 Coalition, and the author of the leading bipartisan infrastructure plan in Congress issues the following statement: “It’s good news that the state is making this a priority and now we need a bipartisan partnership across all levels of government to make a smart expansion a reality. Obviously, on projects of this scale, God or the devil is in the details, and I look forward to reviewing closely what’s being proposed, which will not be known in full for some time. At a minimum, we cannot lose any free lanes. Losing any free lanes would be wrong: everyone should have a right to get around and we must maintain the notion that infrastructure is for everyone. “Big picture, we desperately need to upgrade our local transportation infrastructure and expanding I-270 and improving the American Legion Bridge should have been at the top of the list for a very long time. The horrendous traffic on I-270 has been a quality of life and productivity tax on individuals and businesses in my district. In places like Gaithersburg and Frederick the constant terrible traffic is a drain on everything, from community life to the amount of time families spend together and that’s been a big motivating factor for me making infrastructure a top priority. “This is day one of what should be a considered process and we’ve got to carefully analyze the plan and the costs, but I am encouraged that we’re finally moving forward and I’m supportive of the state thinking about these kind of big solutions to big problems.” ##
09.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) is an original cosponsor of the GAIN Act, new legislation to increase take-home wages for working families by expanding the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC). Congressman Delaney joined the author of the legislation, Congressman Ro Khanna (CA-17), in a press conference Wednesday announcing the bill. For video of Congressman Delaney’s remarks, click here. The EITC is a benefit for working people who have a low to moderate income, reducing the amount of income tax that they owe. According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, the EITC lifted over six million people out of poverty in recent years. “Any conversation about tax reform should start with how we can help working people,” said Congressman Delaney. “The EITC has proven to be incredibly effective in rewarding and encouraging work and lifting families out of poverty – this is what the American Dream is all about. This bill really gets at a major problem in our economy, too many hard-working people are struggling: this bill gives a lot of those people a bigger paycheck. Globalization and technology have completely remade the economy in recent decades and with the rise of automation this will continue, so the cost of doing nothing is not nothing. Expanding EITC should be a part of a comprehensive portfolio that makes sure that working people aren’t left behind. I am proud to join Congressman Khanna on this bill and believe that it deserves significant bipartisan support.” The Grow American Incomes Now (GAIN) Act The GAIN Act would increase the maximum credit from $510 with no qualifying children to $3,000; $3,400 with one qualifying child to $6,528; $5,616 with two qualifying children to $10,783; and $6,318 with three or more qualifying children to $12,131. ##
09.07.2017	WASHINGTON – During floor debate Wednesday evening the House of Representatives passed an amendment authored by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) to fully fund the National Biodefense Analysis and Countermeasures Center (NBACC). Congressman Delaney’s amendment to restore NBACC funding had bipartisan support and was cosponsored by Republican Dan Donovan (NY-11). Congressman Delaney amended H.R. 3354, the appropriations bill for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and other agencies. A vote on final passage of the overall bill is expected Friday. President Trump’s budget for 2018 had eliminated funding for NBACC. This is the third time this summer Delaney has amended legislation to protect NBACC. In July, Delaney successfully amended the Defense authorization bill and the Department of Defense appropriations bill to protect the facility. “NBACC and labs like it are essential to our homeland security and the fight against bioterrorism. When we saw that President Trump’s budget zeroed out funding for this facility, we said we were going to fight it every step of the way, and that’s what we’re doing,” said Congressman Delaney. “I’d like to thank Congressman Donovan for his support – this isn’t a partisan cause, it’s about doing what’s right for the country, because these labs should not be eliminated. The passage of this amendment, along with previous measures we’ve passed this summer, sends a strong message to appropriators in both chambers that NBACC should be protected and that NBACC should remain open. This isn’t over and as the funding and appropriations process continues, we’re going to keep working every angle we have.” The Delaney amendment also restored funding to the Chemical Security Analysis Center (CSAC) and National Urban Security Technology Laboratory (NUSTL), all DHS labs. NBACC is located in Frederick, Maryland and is a one-of-a-kind facility dedicated to defending the nation against biological threats. Located at Fort Detrick, the National Biodefense Analysis and Countermeasures Center supports preparedness planning, intelligence assessments and bio-forensic analysis and is used by multiple agencies. The facility often assists the FBI in investigating bioterrorism and employs over 180 people. ##
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON – Today the Trump Administration announced that it will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), which allows young undocumented immigrants that were brought to the country as children to live without fear of deportation with an option to apply for a temporary renewable work permit. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “President Trump’s decision to end DACA is cruel, heartless and mean-spirited. President Trump has repeatedly shown that he lacks a moral compass and subjecting individuals who were brought here as children to the immediate threat of deportation is inhumane. “I find the rhetoric from the Administration that this isn’t a massive deportation threat to be laughably hollow; President Trump has made it very clear he thinks little of immigrants and is focused on enacting an economically illiterate and immoral crusade against them. Anti-immigrant policies have been one of the few areas of consistent behavior in his chaotic presidency. There is no evidence that the Trump Administration has much interest in a compassionate or humanitarian immigration agenda. “Congress should call Trump’s bluff and quickly pass the bipartisan DREAM Act. Republicans control both chambers of Congress and now it is time for GOP leaders to put country first and actually move forward on protecting a policy they say they support.” Since the DACA program began in 2012, over 780,000 young people have been approved by federal officials to receive renewable work permits. Only individuals who are currently in school, who have completed high school or are a veteran and who have not committed a felony or significant misdemeanor are eligible for the program. DACA applicants must also pay a $465 dollar fee. In addition to supporting the DREAM Act, Congressman Delaney is a cosponsor of The American Hope Act (H.R. 3591), which would expand the DACA program and includes a path to citizenship. ##
08.03.2017	WASHINGTON – On August 2nd two graduates of Quince Orchard High School, Lizandro Claros-Saravia and Diego Claros-Saravia were deported to El Salvador. Congressman John K. Delaney releases the following statement: “We need a sane immigration policy based on our national interest, not one motivated by blind ideology. The deportation of these two brothers, who were striving to receive an education and who had fled one of the most violent countries in the world, doesn’t do anything to serve our country, our state, or Montgomery County. This move doesn’t improve anyone’s life, it doesn’t make anyone safer and it doesn’t help anyone. We should focus our limited resources on deporting dangerous criminals and there is no indication that was the case here. The truth is that there is bipartisan consensus that we need to improve border security, create a fair and strenuous path to citizenship for the people that are already here and reform our VISA system – this approach received 68 votes in the United States Senate not long ago. Instead of trying to appease the alt-right, the Trump Administration should work with Congress on bipartisan immigration reforms that actually solve problems and help our country.” ##
07.28.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney successfully introduced an amendment to the 2018 Defense Appropriations Bill (H.R. 3219) Thursday that prohibits any Department of Defense funds from being used to close a biosafety level 4 laboratory, including the National Biodefense Analysis and Countermeasures Center (NBACC) in Frederick, Maryland. “This straightforward amendment blocks any DOD funds from being used to close a high-level lab like NBACC and I’m proud that there has been such strong bipartisan support for our efforts. Since President Trump released his budget in May that eliminated funding to NBACC, we’ve been fighting back and we’re going to use every tool we have to oppose this incredibly misguided decision,” said Congressman Delaney. “Closing NBACC would not only hurt Frederick, it would also undermine our nation’s biological defense and I remain 100% opposed to its closing, or the closing of any facility like it.” Earlier this month, Congressman Delaney successfully introduced an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act that prohibits any funds being used to close or transfer any biosafety level 4 laboratory, like NBACC, until the heads of the Federal agencies that use the laboratory jointly certify to Congress that the closure or transfer would not have a negative effect on the nation’s biological defense capabilities. ##
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has reintroduced the Early Learning Act for the 115th Congress, legislation to create access to universal pre-k nationwide. The Early Learning Act provides states with federal funding to establish high-quality free pre-k programs for all four year old children. Congressman Delaney first introduced the Early Learning Act in 2015. Congressman Delaney’s legislation establishes The Early Education Trust Fund which will distribute block grants to participating states. The Early Education Trust Fund is funded by a 1.5% increase on individual income, dividends and capital gains above $500,000. This provides states with up to $8,000 in funding per student, per year for pre-k. Enrollment in these new pre-k programs would not be mandatory, but the legislation would give all parents the opportunity to enroll their child in a high-quality program. This legislation provides states with federal funding to create and expand their existing pre-k programs so that all families, in all 50 states, have the option of utilizing pre-k. “Expanding access to pre-k is all about preparing our country for the future; I believe that every child, in every family, in every state, should have the opportunity to do great things. In the globally-connected, high-tech, high-skill economy of the future, education will be even more essential than it is today, and pre-k is an important first step in making sure young learners have a strong foundation,” said Congressman Delaney. “This legislation gives states federal funding to setup high-quality pre-k programs and is fully paid for by a surtax on the most fortunate Americans. The research is very encouraging that the benefits of pre-k are substantial and that it can help reduce the achievement gap.” The Early Learning Act Universal, High Quality Pre-K The Early Learning Act provides funding for states to establish universal access to pre-k for four-year-old students or expand existing programs. The Early Learning Act does not mandate participation in pre-k, but it does give all parents the option of enrolling their child in pre-k at the age of four Funding can only be directed towards state-certified programs that are accredited and not-for-profit. To participate, states must establish universal access to free pre-k programs. Funding is tied to the number of students enrolled, incentivizing high enrollment levels. National Funding for State-Based Programs The Early Learning Act establishes the Early Education Trust Fund, a federal fund administered by the Department of Education. The fund will provide block grants to participating states at a level of up to $8,000 per student per year. States will have flexibility to implement program details at their discretion. Paid For The Early Education Trust Fund is paid for by a surtax of 1.5% on income, dividends and capital gains above $500,000, impacting less than 1% of households in the United States. The Early Education Trust Fund acts as a lockbox, ensuring that this revenue can only be used for grants to state pre-k programs. The Early Learning Act does not increase the deficit and is budget neutral. The Early Learning Act funds new state-based programs and is not an unfunded mandate. ##
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman John K. Delaney successfully introduced an amendment to the 2018 defense appropriations bill (H.R. 3219) that provides an additional $5 million in funding to the Fisher House Foundation, increasing the total funds appropriated to Fisher House to $10 million. The Fisher House Foundation provides military families with free lodging near Department of Veterans Affairs and military hospitals. The Delaney Amendment was accepted during floor debate on H.R. 3219 Thursday. Congressman Delaney has fought for more funding for Fisher House each year that he has been in the House of Representatives. The increased support for Fisher House is offset by a reduction in the Operation and Maintenance, Defense Wide account. “Fisher House ensures that veterans and their families can be together while America’s heroes receive medical care. Before Fisher House, a common sight would be families camping out in the parking lot of hospitals,” said Congressman Delaney. “No family should have to make a choice between their finances and being together and that’s where Fisher House comes in. Fisher House is a beloved institution that’s made a huge difference. I am proud to keep fighting for Fisher House in the federal budget.” Since 1990, Fisher House has served over 305,000 families. In 2016 alone, Fisher House saved families over $6.7 million, provided over 1,300 families with lodging and distributed over 5,000 airline tickets to bring families together as our brave service members get the treatment they need. There are currently 72 Fisher Houses nationwide. ##
07.25.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted for the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (H.R. 3364). This legislation is a multifaceted approach to combatting acts of aggression from Russia, North Korea and Iran. As a result of recent ballistic missile tests and repeated human rights violations committed by both Iran and North Korea, this bill expands and strengthens sanctions on both nations. Furthermore, in response to Russian encroachment in Ukraine and their efforts to undermine our nation’s cybersecurity during the 2016 presidential elections, this bill requires congressional review before certain Russian sanctions are lifted. Delaney releases the following statement: “I am proud to vote for this legislation, which sends a strong, clear message to Russia, North Korea and Iran that they will each be held accountable for acts of aggression that threaten to destabilize the world. We must remain steadfast to our commitment to maintain peace and security and ensure U.S. security interests are protected.” ##
07.24.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6), the founder of the AI Caucus, has authored an op-ed in The Hill on artificial intelligence, the economy of the future and how lawmakers should respond. Delaney argues that Congress should begin looking at the challenges associated with AI thoughtfully, including making sure that the economy is dynamic and entrepreneurial and that social safety net programs meet changing needs. The op-ed is available online here and is copied below: Time to Get Smart on Artificial Intelligence By Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) One of the biggest problems with Washington is that more often than not the policy conversation isn’t grounded in the facts. We see this dysfunction clearly on technology policy, where Congress is largely uninformed on what the future of artificial intelligence (AI) technology will look like and what the actual consequences are likely to be. In this factual vacuum, we run the risk of ultimately adopting at best irrelevant or at worst extreme legislative responses. That’s why I was particularly interested to see the comments by Tesla CEO Elon Musk to the National Governors Association that “AI is a fundamental existential risk for human civilization.” Musk is a tremendous innovator and someone who understands technology deeply, and while I don’t agree with his assessment, his dramatic statement is a challenge to lawmakers to start seriously examining this topic. This is precisely why I’ve launched the Artificial Intelligence Caucus, a bipartisan initiative to better inform policymakers on the technological, economic and social impacts of AI. The AI Caucus is co-chaired by my colleague from Congressman Pete Olson and includes members from every region of the country. Congressman Olson is a Republican from Texas and I’m a Democrat from Maryland, we have different perspectives and political philosophies, but we both agree that step one is that educating Washington on what the changes to come will look like. The AI Caucus is working to bring together experts from academia, government and the private sector to discuss the latest technologies and the implications and opportunities created by these new changes. Already this year, we’ve been briefed by a variety of specialists and fellow policymakers from both Europe and the United States and the caucus participated in events this month organized by IBM. Congress needs to have a better grasp of what AI actually looks like in practice, how it is being deployed and what future developments likely will be, and that’s where the AI Caucus comes in. AI won’t just impact one specific field or region and the issues it will raise will not fall under the jurisdiction of a single committee; ironically, AI is potentially such a big change that we might not see the forest for the trees. It is clear that we are on the verge of a technological revolution. Artificial intelligence promises to be one of the paradigm-shifting developments of the next century, with the potential to reshape our economy just as fully as the internal combustion engine or the semiconductor. Contrary to some portrayals, AI is less about the Terminator and more about using powerful cognitive computing to find new treatments for cancer, improve crop yields and make structures like oil rigs safer. AI programming is a key component of emerging driverless car technology, new advances in designing robots to perform tasks that are too dangerous for humans to do and boosting fraud protection programs to combat identity theft. As a former entrepreneur, I believe that innovation should always be encouraged, because it’s fundamental to economic growth. Imagine if we’d tried to put the brakes on the development of telephone or radio technology a century ago, personal computer technology a generation ago or cell phone technology a decade ago. Innovation creates new opportunities that are hard to predict, new jobs, even entirely new industries. Innovation can also boost productivity and wages and reduce costs to consumers. But that doesn’t mean that there aren’t relevant concerns about the disruption that AI could bring. Again, it’s all about the facts, and in the past, new technologies have hurt certain jobs. While the overall impact might have been positive, there have still been industries and regions that have been hurt by automation. In manufacturing especially, we’ve seen automation reduce the number of jobs in recent years, in some cases to devastating effect. We need to be honest about the fact that AI technology will replace some jobs, just as what happened under advances. In my view, we need to start the conversation now and take a hard look at how we can help those individuals who will be hurt. As policymakers, we should be thinking about those people who are working in jobs that are at risk and seeing what we can do to get them through this eventual change. We should focus on preparing our country for this next wave of innovation. As I think about policies that help anticipate AI and the changes it will bring, it is my view that the country needs to become more entrepreneurial and more innovative. That means we should make it easier to start a business and encourage more startups, invest more in things like research and infrastructure, all to become a more dynamic economy. We have to think through how we can make benefits more portable and how we can create a more flexible high-skill workforce. Combined with long-term trends that will create an older society, we must anticipate that the shape of the economy and the job market will look very different in the decades to come. The emergence of AI is also another reminder of making sure that our social safety net programs will be able to meet the needs of the future. AI will also create new ethical and privacy concerns and these are issues that need to be worked out. I believe that it is imperative that we tackle these emerging issues thoughtfully and not rush into new programs or regulations prematurely. My colleagues on the AI Caucus each have their own ideas and concerns and part of the caucus’s function is to also facilitate a dialogue between lawmakers. Our choice is to either get caught flatfooted or to proactively anticipate how things will change and work on smart policies to make sure that the country benefits as much as possible overall. The only way to do that is to become focused on the facts and focused on the future and the AI Caucus is a bipartisan effort to make that happen.
07.21.2017	WILLIAMSPORT – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) held a Veterans Workshop and Panel Discussion Thursday night at Williamsport High School. Over 190 Marylanders attended the event, which offered constituents an opportunity to speak with representatives from the Department of Veterans Affairs and other agencies one-on-one and included a discussion moderated by Congressman Delaney on issues impacting veterans. The panel discussion included Antione Waller, Director Baltimore Regional Benefit Office, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs; Timothy J. Cooke, Director of the Martinsburg VA Medical Center; and Robert L. Finn, Deputy Secretary Maryland Department of Veterans Affairs. “America is America because of the heroism, courage and sacrifice of veterans and we have a fundamental responsibility to make sure that veterans and their families can thrive,” said Congressman Delaney. “Constituent workshops like this one are all about providing Marylanders with a one-stop-shop to get answers and learn more about programs and resources. It’s also an incredibly valuable opportunity for me to get feedback; we’ve ended up introducing legislation based off of problems brought to our attention at events such as this one. I’d like to thank our panelists for giving their time and sharing their expertise and I’d like to thank all the representatives of the state and local organizations who joined us as well. There are so many people who want to help veterans – including many veterans themselves. We have a lot of work to do to improve services and benefits and step one is making sure veterans are heard.” The workshop was the 33rd constituent services workshop Congressman Delaney has hosted since 2015 and the fifth workshop for veterans. Last week, Delaney filed legislation to improve veterans education and job training programs at the VA. Agencies and organizations in attendance included: VA Baltimore Regional Benefit Office Martinsburg VA Medical Center Maryland Department of Veteran Affairs Maryland Department of Labor, Licensing and Regulation Maryland Higher Education Commission Maryland Legal Aid Martinsburg Veteran Center American Foundation for Suicide Prevention AMVETS Career Center Washington County Health Department Hagerstown Community College – Veteran Advisors Hagerstown Community College Technical Innovation Center Operation Second Chance Maryland Center for Veterans Education and Training Morris Frock American Legion Post 42 North Point Veterans Home – Way Station, Inc. Vietnam Veterans of America Chapter 304 Welcome Home Veterans Program – Way Station, Inc. Homeless Veterans Reintegration Program – Way Station Inc. ##
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has successfully amended the National Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 2810) to include a provision that would protect the National Biodefense Analysis and Countermeasures Center (NBACC) in Frederick. The overall legislation, which now includes Congressman Delaney’s amendment, passed the House of Representatives on Friday. Congressman Delaney voted for the overall bill. President Trump’s 2018 budget – which is non-binding – eliminated funding for the facility, which prompted officials at NBACC to announce that it would be closing next year. However, all budget and appropriations matters are the provenance of Congress. Congressman Delaney announced in May that he was 100% opposed to the closing of NBACC. Congressman Delaney’s amendment was added to the National Defense Authorization Act during floor debate on Friday. Delaney’s amendment prohibits any funds being used to close or transfer any biosafety level 4 laboratory – which includes NBACC – until the heads of the Federal agencies that use the laboratory jointly certify to Congress that the closure or transfer would not have a negative effect on the nation’s biological defense capabilities. “My amendment puts the brakes on the closure of the National Biodefense Analysis and Countermeasures Center in Frederick. Closing NBACC would be bad for Frederick, but it would be worse for the country: we should not do anything to weaken our biodefense capabilities. My amendment is really commonsense; we’re not going to close NBACC or a high-level lab like it until we have assurances from every agency that relies on the lab that our biological defense won’t be undermined. This is good news for NBACC, but we’re going to keep fighting, because the budget and appropriations process has just begun.” The NBACC is operated by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and is a one-of-a-kind facility dedicated to defending the United States against biological threats. Located at Fort Detrick, the NBACC supports preparedness planning, intelligence assessments and bio-forensic analysis and is used by multiple government agencies. The lab often assists the FBI in investigating bioterrorism and bio-crime and employs over 180 people. The National Defense Authorization Act is legislation passed each year in Congress that authorizes funding levels and appropriate policies relating to national defense. ##
07.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) spoke out in defense of the Department of Labor’s Fiduciary Rule and challenged arguments made by opponents of the Rule that presume that the private sector cannot innovate and adapt. Congressman Delaney spoke during the Financial Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Securities, and Investment Enterprises hearing. During the hearing, Congressman Delaney stated that the arguments made by opponents of the rule are, “so contrary to how we think about our capital markets and our entrepreneurial economy.” In Delaney’s view, the private sector will be able to innovate and provide high-quality service, at a fiduciary standard, to their clients. For Delaney’s full remarks, see below. Congressman Delaney is the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in the House of Representatives and worked with the Obama Administration to finalize the Fiduciary Rule. Video here: Congressman Delaney: Thank You Mr. Chairman for permitting me to participate in this hearing and thanks for calling it. The reason I asked to participate is because I have been a strong supporter of the Fiduciary Rule and I found this conversation very interesting because, if you didn’t know better, you’d think the Fiduciary Rule prevents people from owning annuities. It in fact doesn’t prevent people from owning annuities. For example, it discourages people from selling annuity products if, when you include all the fees, it is deemed to be not in the best interest of the client and I think there is somewhat of a broad agreement here that investment products that are in a client’s best interest is a more important standard than the current standard, the suitability standard. I think that in a perfect world everyone here would agree that we would love for every client to receive investment advice that is in their best interests as opposed to just suitable. So the issue seems to be that because of this rule which, trust me, I agree would be terrific if the SEC put would have put forth this rule; they do probably have more expertise in the area, but they didn’t do it. And I think a future where the SEC comes up with a rule for all the investment advice and we synchronize Fiduciary Rule from the DOL with that could be a great outcome, but I wouldn’t want to delay the DOL Fiduciary Rule because it seems to be the forcing function to get the SEC to finally try to do something on this. I think that’s a false choice. I think we can have the SEC try do something on this and then we can see what they come up with and we can look at the Fiduciary Rule and we can synchronize them in one standard. But what I find amazing about this discussion is the notion that the current business model of, say your firm, Mr. Lombard, and I am sure the overwhelming majority of your advisors do a terrific job for their clients. Your firm has a great reputation, it’s got a good brand, the names on the door, and people wake up every day and do the best thing for their clients. But the issue with the Fiduciary Rule in the eyes of three of the four guests here seems to be that for some reason because of this rule, we will be left with a world that – it’s all robo-advisors and there is no innovation and no adaptation to this new standard. And that just seems so contrary to how we think about our capital markets and our entrepreneurial economy because, as someone who started two financial services companies from scratch and took them public on the New York Stock Exchange prior to being here, and specifically started companies that focused on opportunities that was created by larger financial institutions who weren’t adapting to the market’s needs either because they had legacy systems, or legacy compensation structures or some legacy practices that made them hard to respond to the model. I guess my question for Mr. Lombard and Dr. Holtz-Eakin, and I’m a huge admirer of your work by the way, so thank you for being here, why do you think for some reason that suddenly the private economy, the entrepreneurial economy of the United States won’t take this new standard, and if your firm can’t respond with a high quality product where human combined with technology allows people to get advice at a best interest standard – why don’t you think all kinds of entrepreneurs raising all types of private capital won’t start all kinds of new businesses to exactly meet that need and out compete you if you’re stuck throwing your clients out of your firm or putting them on some automated, Siri like, system. I just don’t understand why you’d bet against the entrepreneurial economy of the United States. Mr. Lombard: So, we’ve already made innovation. We’ve brought down our minimums on advisory fees fivefold, from $25,000 to $5,000. We still have upwards of 10,000 accounts with balances less than $5,000. We have certain fixed costs that those clients, if we charged those fixed costs to them, would pay an unreasonable fee. Congressman Delaney: So hearing that, I would say “Ok, I’m going to start a new company without those fixed costs and outcompete you and provide great service to these people.” Why don’t you think that’ll happen? Because that’s how it happens everywhere in this economy. Dr. Holtz-Eakin: So, I have two responses. It’s fantastic questions. Right on the mark. And there’s a broad concern, which is also going on in Financial Services, about the birth rate of firms in the U.S. economy which has been declining steadily and which, a few years ago, fell below the death rate of firms and that’s a troubling trend. Congressman Delaney: There’s other reasons for that. Dr. Holtz-Eakin: So I worry that the regulatory burden contributes to the inability to enter and to provide the competition you are describing. Congressman Delaney: I agree with you. Dr. Holtz-Eakin: I say this lovingly, I hope you are afraid of going out of business every day. You want that kind of competition. The second thing I’m worried about is exactly the mirror image of the concern that’s been expressed earlier, which is how long does that take? And in the interim, what happens to everybody who had advice and is now gone. Congressman Delaney: Transitions are tough, I acknowledge that and we ought to be smart about that but I just think that people will innovate out of this issue. ##
07.13.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S Senator Ben Cardin and Senator Chris Van Hollen, with Congressmen C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger and John K. Delaney, have written to President Trump urging him to prioritize protecting our nation from the real threats of chemical and biological weapons rather than diverting resources for a fruitless wall at our southern border. The lawmakers expressed their alarm not only that the administration was seeking to shut down the National Biodefense Analysis and Countermeasures Center (NBACC) on Fort Detrick and the Chemical Security Analysis Center (CSAC) on Aberdeen Proving Ground, but also that budget officials were giving shutdown instructions based on the president’s Fiscal Year 18 budget, which does not have the force of law and would require congressional appropriations to be enacted. Congress fully funded both the NBACC and CSAC in the Fiscal Year 2017 appropriations that were signed into law by President Trump. The Maryland lawmakers will be pursuing all options to reverse this decision by the administration. “These actions are alarming and will put the American people at greater risk of a chemical or biological terrorist attack,” the lawmakers wrote. “The NBACC’s two centers – the National Bioforensic Analysis Center (NBFAC) and the National Biological Threat Characterization Center (NBTCC) – conduct technical analyses in support of federal law enforcement investigations and identify biological vulnerabilities and hazards to our nation. …CSAC plays a proactive role in identifying vulnerabilities in our nation’s infrastructure, effectively mitigating damages from accidental chemical discharge to terrorist attacks.” “We urge you to suspend any actions that would lead to the closure of these two facilities, both of which play vital roles in America’s national security and the safety of the American people which cannot be replicated elsewhere. Closing these labs will only serve to put our country at risk by creating chemical and biological vulnerabilities that terrorists and adversaries are anxious to exploit. The risk of biological and chemical agents being used is increasing. This is not the time to be weakening our defenses against such weapons.” A Blue Ribbon Study Panel on Biodefense chaired by Senator Joseph Lieberman and Governor Tom Ridge also has expressed concerns with the planned lab closure: “NBACC is the only facility in the United States with the bioforensics capability needed to assist the [Federal Bureau of Investigation] in its investigations. … The Panel is troubled that the President's own budget states that the lab's work supports intelligence assessments, preparedness planning, emerging threat characterization, and bioforensic analyses, and that its closure may impact DHS' ability to characterize high-consequence pathogens before and during a biological event.” The full letter is below and at this link. Copies were sent to Mick Mulvaney, Director, Office of Management and Budget; Secretary John Kelly, Department of Homeland Security; Attorney General Jeff Sessions, Department of Justice; and Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats. The President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: You have said repeatedly that your number one priority is to protect the American people from harm. It is for that reason we write today with profound concern regarding plans in your Fiscal Year 2018 (FY18) budget request to reduce the Department of Homeland Security Science and Technology Directorate (S&T) by 28% in order to fund a border wall. Most specifically, immediately after the release of your budget, the S&T Directorate began planning the closure of the National Biodefense Analysis and Countermeasures Center (NBACC) on Fort Detrick and the Chemical Security Analysis Center (CSAC) on Aberdeen Proving Ground. These actions are alarming and will put the American people at greater risk of a chemical or biological terrorist attack. This fateful decision is compounded by the fact that your administration’s work toward closing these facilities is beginning well before Congress has enacted an appropriations bill for FY 2018, which runs afoul of the basic principles of checks and balances established in the Constitution. Congress fully funded both the NBACC and CSAC in the Fiscal Year 2017 appropriations measure you signed into law last month. The NBACC was directed in 2004 to provide our national security apparatus and federal law enforcement agencies with state-of-the art, cutting-edge laboratory capabilities to characterize newly identified biological threats and analyze their planned or actual capacity for delivery and to do forensic analysis in support of law enforcement investigations and prosecution. The work of this lab was considered so vital to U.S. national security that the federal government invested more than one half-billion dollars on the construction and staffing of the lab (which opened in 2011). The NBACC’s two centers – the National Bioforensic Analysis Center (NBFAC) and the National Biological Threat Characterization Center (NBTCC) – conduct technical analyses in support of federal law enforcement investigations and identify biological vulnerabilities and hazards to our nation. The NBACC labs have the unique ability to conduct classified work for the intelligence community and for the Department of Defense at biosafety level (BSL) 4, in order to counter emerging threats and study pathogens where no vaccine or treatment exists. The NBACC mission continues to be crucial to U.S. national security. The closure of this lab will be disastrous. This is a one-of-a-kind facility, with one-of-a kind capabilities that cannot be replicated, and it provides critical support to multiple agencies throughout the government. Fort Detrick is a center of gravity in the defense of our nation against biological threats and its selection as the home of the NBACC mission was purposeful for the expertise and knowledge found there. The scientists and technicians there now have spent years developing highly specialized expertise and are now our nation’s leading experts in the field. This talent is irreplaceable. The Department of Homeland Security established the CSAC in 2006 to address chemical threats and hazards to the homeland. This lab is the only government asset capable of providing around-the-clock reachback in the event of a chemical threat. The Center delivers immediate, accurate, and actionable instructions to first responders at the federal, state, and local level. CSAC plays a proactive role in identifying vulnerabilities in our nation’s infrastructure, effectively mitigating damages from accidental chemical discharge to terrorist attacks. The loss of this laboratory will significantly compromise our homeland security. We urge you to suspend any actions that would lead to the closure of these two facilities, both of which play vital roles in America’s national security and the safety of the American people which cannot be replicated elsewhere. Closing these labs will only serve to put our country at risk by creating chemical and biological vulnerabilities that terrorists and adversaries are anxious to exploit. The risk of biological and chemical agents being used is increasing. This is not the time to be weakening our defenses against such weapons. You should direct the Department of Homeland Security and Office of Management and Budget to reverse immediately any actions they have taken to shutter these facilities, while allowing Congress to carry out its constitutional responsibilities of oversight and appropriations. We will vigorously oppose any attempt to close the doors of these facilities, which are actively engaged in the daily protection of the people of this country. It is clear to Congress and should be clear to you that the threats our nation faces from chemical and biological terrorist attacks far exceed any perceived benefit of a wall on our southern border. Sincerely, ###
07.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has filed legislation to help ensure that education and job training programs at the Department of Veterans Affairs are meeting the needs of the 21st century economy. Congressman Delaney’s legislation (H.R. 3205) reauthorizes the Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education. The Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education advises the VA Secretary on existing benefit programs and recommends new and improved programs and services. Absent congressional action, the Committee will lose authorization at the end of 2017. Congressman Delaney’s bill reauthorizes the Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education through 2022. “In today’s rapidly-changing economy we must make sure that VA education and job training programs are meeting the needs of America’s veterans,” said Congressman Delaney. “The Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education is an important vehicle for making sure that experts and veterans are heard at the VA. There’s a lot of work to be done to make sure that the VA and government more broadly is forward-facing and future-oriented and this Committee is another way to help improve the programs we have and deliver feedback to the VA Secretary. I’m proud to lead this bipartisan effort to ensure that the Committee continues their work for years to come.” The Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education is intended to include persons eminent in their respective fields of education, labor and management and to include veteran representatives from the Global War on Terror and previous eras of service. The bipartisan legislation is cosponsored by Congressman Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Congressman Walter Jones (NC-3), Congressman Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-5) and Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-9). Congressman Delaney introduced similar legislation to reauthorize the Advisory Committee on Education in 2013. Delaney’s legislation passed the House that Congress in a 404-2 vote. ##
07.12.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) highlighted the economic impacts of automation and artificial intelligence during today’s House Committee on Financial Services hearing with Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen. Congressman Delaney argued that technology is likely to create more jobs that it displaces, but that we must start thinking about long-term trends on employment. Delaney asked Chair Yellen her views on these trends and what her policy recommendations would be. Congressman Delaney is the Chair of the House AI Caucus, which aims to inform lawmakers of the economic, social and technological impacts of artificial intelligence and other forms of automation and to ensure that these changes benefit as many Americans as possible. You can view video of Congressman Delaney and Chair Yellen’s remarks here. A transcript of the exchange is below: Congressman Delaney: Thank you Mr. Chairman and thank you Chair Yellen for your incomparable leadership at the Federal Reserve. It is always nice to have you here and we’re getting towards the end, so I thought I would ask a question and kind of tap into your knowledge as a macro-economist and think about some of the long-term trends of employment. There has been a lot of talk recently about what will happen to the future of work and jobs based on technological innovation, automation, machine learning, artificial intelligence, whatever the category may be. And while historically, innovation has created more jobs than it’s displaced, it generally does come with a lot of fear as to what will happen to the labor market and maybe that’s because we can see the jobs that will be displaced but we don’t really have a good ability to really imagine the jobs that will be created by this innovation. And this has caused many people to start talking about things like Universal Basic Income, where they are kind of talking about how there’ll be no jobs in the future and robots and machine learning will displace all the jobs and we’re going to have to figure out ways of supporting people. To me, that’s premature for obvious reasons. Unemployment is really low, there are a lot of jobs in society that are being done that no one gets paid for and we should certainly try to figure out how to pay those people for what they are doing before we start paying people to do nothing. And again, historically more jobs have been created, but what is your thoughts on this topic as someone who spends a lot of time, not only thinking about the macro, but obviously someone who cares deeply about employment and its importance to people’s dignity and ability to raise their family and earn a living. So how is this going to play out in your opinion? Chair Yellen: So I don’t have a crystal ball- Congressman Delaney: None of us do. I know- Chair Yellen: And these are very difficult issues- Congressman Delaney: But you’re very smart and you look at a lot of data so- Chair Yellen: I know technological change has been a tremendously important source of growth and improvement in living standards in the United States and around the world. And so, it’s something that we should want to see and foster, but it is disruptive and it can cause considerable harm to groups whose livelihood is disrupted by technological change that renders their skills less valuable or not at all valuable in the market. And I would expect that the kinds of technological changes that you describe will continue to change the nature of work, the kinds of jobs that will be available, and the skills that will be needed to fill those jobs, and to my mind, a very important focus for all of us – Congressman Delaney: So what should be the three things we should do to prepare – because I agree with you it’s going to change the nature of work, it’ll create jobs, it’ll displace jobs, and people need different skills – what would the two or three things you would do to best prepare the future to be able to succeed now? Chair Yellen: So to my mind, education and training are absolutely central to the ability of workers to fill the new kinds of jobs that will be available and have the skills – when I talk to businesses that are adopting new technologies, they tell me it’s also creating new kinds of jobs, that they find that younger workers, even those with less education, have nevertheless been exposed to the kind of training that will enable them to fill the kinds of technical jobs that have been created with appropriate training. But it’s a tremendous challenge for older workers who don’t have that kind of training to make adjustments. I would look both to ensure that we have appropriate training, education, apprenticeship programs and other things for younger people, and also to see what we can do to relieve the burdens on older workers who are displaced. Congressman Delaney: So if I could kind of summarize what, what I think I just heard you say, you’re not necessarily bearish on the future of jobs and work – Chair Yellen: Correct. Congressman Delaney: You agree that new jobs will get created, offset displacement, it will all be net positive– Chair Yellen: I believe so. I think that - Congressman Delaney: But you are worried that we’re not doing enough, or you think we should do more, in reforming education, training, apprenticeship programs, etcetera... Chair Yellen: That is certainly – Congressman Delaney: Because the challenges are going to be very significant. Chair Yellen: That is certainly a key focus for me. Congressman Delaney: Thank you again, Chair Yellen. ##
07.12.2017	WASHINGTON – The U.S. General Services Administration and the Federal Bureau of Investigations announced their decision to cancel the procurement for the FBI headquarters project. President Trump’s budget request released earlier did not support a new FBI headquarters. The Fiscal Year 2017 Omnibus Funding Bill included a commitment from Congress to fund the remainder of the project. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “America needs a FBI that can operate efficiently and effectively and it is in the national interest that the FBI has a new consolidated headquarters. This is a rash, rushed and wrong decision that’s bad for the country. Yes, this is terrible news for Maryland and the region, but the American people should know how illogical and self-defeating this is. National security, law enforcement and crime prevention are core functions of government and this move makes no sense in that context. The problems at the Hoover Building are well-documented and they are hindering the Bureau’s ability to function. I don’t understand how the Trump Administration can cite budget issues with a straight face, when they haven’t supported a new headquarters and Congress is working through the appropriations process as we speak. Moreover, this decision means that significant time and money at the federal, state and local level will have been wasted, this is another example of the Trump Administration hypocritically taking very fiscally-irresponsible actions while spouting rhetoric about belt-tightening.” ##
07.11.2017	FREDERICK – Over 200 Marylanders attended an Opioid Addiction Workshop hosted by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) Monday evening at Winchester Hall in Frederick. The workshop featured representatives from local, state and federal organizations and included a panel discussion featuring Dr. Brendan Saloner, Assistant Professor, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health; Dr. Barbara Brookmyer, Department Head, Frederick County Health Department; and Korey Shorb, Founder of the Up and Out Foundation. The workshop also included remarks by Frederick County Executive Jan Gardner. Earlier this year Congressman Delaney also held an Opioid Addiction Workshop in Hagerstown. “Opioid addiction is a nationwide public health crisis that’s being felt here at home; Frederick County is hurting, Maryland is hurting, families in small towns and big cities are hurting,” said Congressman Delaney. “With overdose deaths at record levels, we have to make sure that people have access to treatment, ensure that those responsible for this crisis are held responsible and that law enforcement has the resources they need. The goal of this workshop was to connect my constituents with resources available to them, provide them with the information they need to help their loved ones and prevent further tragedies and to get feedback from the community that I can take back to Washington.” The workshop included representatives from: Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) Maryland Heroin Awareness Advocates Frederick County Health Department Mental Health Association of Frederick County John Hopkins Bayview Medical Center Up & Out Foundation Well’s House & Gale Recovery The Youth Ranch ##
07.11.2017	WASHINGTON – A bipartisan group of forty lawmakers led by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6), Congressman Randy Hultgren (IL-14), Congresswoman Julia Brownley (CA-26) and Congressman Jodey Arrington (TX-19) have written Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary David Shulkin expressing their concerns that veterans may have adverse credit actions taken against them due to their participation in the Veterans Choice Program. The letter was sent to Secretary Shulkin July 10 and is copied below. The Veterans Choice Program allows eligible veterans to use a private medical provider that is a participant in the program. Delayed reimbursement practices from the VA have caused veterans to become subject to debt collection proceedings and to have negative information included in their credit reports, an action that can have serious long-term financial consequences. The Delaney-Hultgren-Brownley-Arrington letter makes clear that delayed payments are not acceptable and presses the VA for answers on what they are doing to rectify the adverse credit actions for which it is responsible. Congressman Delaney and Congressman Hultgren have also introduced legislation to protect the credit ratings of veterans in these circumstances. July 10, 2017 The Honorable David Shulkin United States Secretary of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue NW Washington, D.C. 20420 Dear Secretary Shulkin: We write you today in regards to inappropriate and delayed Veterans Choice Program (Choice) billing which has led to veterans experiencing adverse credit reporting and debt collection. Although Congress passed the Veterans Choice Improvement Act in April of this year,[1] legislation that makes the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) the primary payer under the Choice Program, we remain concerned that some veterans may have adverse credit actions taken because of their participation in the program. Congress has previously raised serious concerns regarding the implementation of the Choice Program by the VA. We believe reforms will improve medical treatment for our nation’s veterans, but it has come to our attention that the billing and reimbursement practices of the VA are leading to adverse credit actions against participants in the program, including debt collection proceedings and reporting of negative information on the participants’ credit reports. Delayed reimbursements to providers and bills inappropriately assigned to veterans are a grave disservice to those who served to protect our country. As of May 18, 2017, the Department had received 57,228 calls requesting assistance with adverse credit reporting resulting from the Veterans Choice Program. While billing and payments issues are being resolved between the Department, third party administrators, and medical providers, the unpaid bill can be incorrectly sent to the veteran, a debt collector, or credit reporting agency—ultimately leading to confusion, adverse credit report actions, or inappropriate debt collection efforts. For example, an eligible veteran may choose to use a private medical provider that is a participant in Choice. The expectation of the veteran, and of the Congress, is that the Department will reimburse this debt in a prompt manner.[2] In general, the rules require payment by the date specified in the contract or within 30 days after the agency has received a proper invoice.[3] Failure to comply with the prompt payment rules has negative consequences for veterans’ financial standing, through no fault of their own. If reimbursement from the Department to the medical provider does not occur in a prompt manner, the debt, which is in the name of veteran, may incur debt collection proceedings. This will be confusing for veterans who are under the correct presumption that the reimbursement will be made by the Department to the private medical provider. In addition, the unpaid debt may also be deemed an adverse action by the credit bureaus who simply treat it as unpaid medical debt. This adverse action – caused by reimbursement delays by the Department – will have a negative impact on the credit profile of the veteran. Depending on the amount of the debt, length of delay in completion of payment, and other factors, the long-term damage to credit scores could be severe. At a minimum, this increases the costs of credit and could it make it more difficult, if not impossible, for veterans to secure credit for life essentials such as a car or housing. In light of these adverse credit actions to veterans caused by reimbursement delays by the Department, please provide us the following information: What is the average time it takes the Department to provide payment for a claim made via the Veterans Choice Program? In terms of the distribution of time for repayment, how many payments fall within three, two and one standard deviations of the mean? How many payments for claims made via the Veterans Choice Program occurred after 30 days? What is the average time it takes providers to submit completed claims to the VA? How does the Department interpret its obligations under the Prompt Payment Rule? Under existing policies and contracts, how many days does the Department have to provide payment to participating medical providers? Is the Department aware of the adverse credit actions incurred by veterans due to reimbursement delays by the Department? What actions will the Department take to rectify the adverse credit actions for which it is responsible? We look forward to a prompt response regarding your action on these issues. Respectfully, [1] P.L 115-26. [2] P.L. 113-146, requirements to comply with the Prompt Payment Rule, 5 C.F.R. §1315. [3] Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Fiscal Service. See https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/fsservices/gov/pmt/promptPayment/payments.htm.
06.26.2017	WASHINGTON – This week, the House of Representatives is scheduled to consider House Resolution 397, which reaffirms the commitment of the United States to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s principle of collective defense. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) applauds the introduction and consideration of this resolution, which follows closely a bipartisan resolutions Delaney introduced in March and in the previous Congress. Congressman Delaney’s NATO resolution, H. Res. 202, has 24 cosponsors, 12 Democrats and 12 Republicans. Both Congressman Delaney’s bill and H. Res 397 call on each NATO member to spend two percent of Gross Domestic Product on defense. “I applaud the introduction of this resolution, which mirrors closely a bipartisan effort I have led in the House for over a year. It is essential that Congress cuts through the ignorant noise and sends a clear message to our NATO partners that the United States remains strongly committed to NATO and to Article 5,” said Congressman Delaney. “For six decades, NATO has been an essential component of our national security portfolio and a critical alliance defending the values of freedom and democracy. Let there be no doubt – there is bipartisan support for NATO and its mission in this Congress and in this country.” For text of Congressman Delaney’s NATO resolution, click here. ##
06.21.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has filed legislation to end gerrymandering and reform elections. Congressman Delaney’s Open Our Democracy Act requires that states establish independent commissions for congressional redistricting; makes Election Day a holiday; and institutes open top-two primaries for House and Senate elections, allowing all voters, including registered Independents and unaffiliated voters to participate in primaries. “The Open Our Democracy Act has a very simple goal – to make the House of Representatives truly representative,” said Congressman Delaney. “Gerrymandering, low voter turnout and a broken primary system have warped Congress and encouraged extreme partisanship that is hurting the country and blocking smart legislation. Right now, in too many districts, the only election that matters is the party primary and that means a small and disproportionately partisan percentage of the population has an outsized influence on Congress. The American people are deeply frustrated because they can see that Congress just doesn’t reflect the country’s priorities. The Open Our Democracy Act ends partisan gerrymandering nationwide, helps more people vote by making Election Day a holiday and creates open top-two primaries. This is a comprehensive reform bill to ensure that the districts are fair and that all voters are heard.” Delaney also introduced the Open Our Democracy Act in the 113th and 114th Congress. The Open Our Democracy Act Requires States Use Independent Commissions for Congressional Redistricting: Each commission is prohibited from using partisan or political considerations in developing the State’s redistricting plan and No political party in the State can have control over the commission. Makes Election Day a Federal Holiday The Open Our Democracy Act establishes that Election Day should be treated as a federal public holiday. Creates Open and Top-Two Primaries for House and Senate Elections Under the Open Our Democracy Act, House and Senate elections would use open primaries allowing Independents and non-affiliated voters to participate in primaries. Under this system, which is also known as a top-two primary, all candidates regardless of party appear on a single primary ballot, which is open to all voters. The top two candidates from the primary then advance to the general election. According to Gallup, 39% of Americans identify as independent. ##
06.20.2017	HAGERSTOWN – Today, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) met with representatives from state and local agencies in Hagerstown to discuss President Trump’s budget proposal and the impact it would have on Western Maryland. The White House budget includes major cuts to programs that support economic development, local infrastructure, public health, social services and community programs for those in need. “Today’s roundtable brought home the fact that President Trump’s budget would really hurt a lot of communities and families in Western Maryland, including a lot of people that have put their trust in his administration,” said Congressman Delaney. “Zeroing out the Appalachian Regional Commission or cutting food assistance programs might look good on a spreadsheet, but in the real world it will weaken our infrastructure, take away local economic development opportunities and hurt Maryland families and kids. Health care cuts are going to make it harder for us to respond to the opioid crisis which has been so devastating locally. Big cuts to domestic programs will hit home in Western Maryland, where a lot of federal programs are primarily block grants to local governments and local agencies. The feedback I received today makes it clear that this is a bad budget.” The White House proposal eliminates the Appalachian Regional Commission, which has provided millions of dollars in economic development grants to the three westernmost counties in Maryland; eliminates the Essential Air Service program that supports the Hagerstown Regional Airport; eliminates the Community Development Block Grant Program and eliminates the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, which assists families with heating and cooling costs. The budget includes major cuts to the National Parks Service, major cuts to the Department of Agriculture’s nutrition assistance program, major cuts to Temporary Assistance for Needy Families and major cuts to Department of Education funding for before and after school programs. Agencies and Organizations Participating in the Roundtable Included: Appalachian Regional Commission Maryland Center on Economic Policy Maryland Food Bank Maryland Farm Bureau City of Hagerstown Hagerstown Housing Authority Washington County Health Department Washington County Community Action Council Washington County Museum of Fine Arts Horizon Goodwill Industries ##
06.12.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has published an op-ed in U.S. News & World Report on President Trump’s infrastructure plan. Congressman Delaney’s op-ed argues that if the White House’s proposal is overly-reliant on public-private-partnerships, it will be insufficient. Since 2013, Congressman Delaney has been the leading advocate for using revenues from international tax reform to rebuild America’s infrastructure. In March, Fortune named Congressman Delaney one of the World’s Greatest Leaders for working across the aisle on infrastructure legislation. During the last two Congresses, over 40 Democrats and 40 Republicans have cosponsored Delaney legislation to fund and finance new infrastructure investment using revenues from repatriation. Congressman Delaney’s op-ed is available online here and is copied below. Public-private partnerships are part of the solution, but America needs a more comprehensive infrastructure program By Congressman John K. DelaneyU.S. News & World Report June 9, 2017 The Trump Administration has not established a legacy of policy clarity, but it is increasingly apparent that the President’s infrastructure plan will be heavily reliant on public-private partnerships. Public-private partnerships (P3s) should be a part of rebuilding America’s infrastructure, but if the White House’s plan is overly reliant upon private capital, it will ultimately be insufficient and inadequate. As someone who spent two decades as an entrepreneur before being elected to Congress, I believe that the private sector is an incredible source of innovation and expertise. In the case of infrastructure, the private sector can and should also be considered as a viable source of capital and financing. A P3 can take various forms, but fundamentally it is a collaborative effort between a federal, state or local government entity and a private entity to build, maintain, finance or operate an infrastructure project. Australia, Canada, France, the United Kingdom and others have all embraced P3s as part of their infrastructure portfolio and in many cases this has led to these nations being able to address pressing infrastructure needs more effectively than has sometimes been the case here. This is another example of the United States falling behind. According the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE), the U.S. faces an infrastructure crisis. In their 2017 Infrastructure Report Card, ASCE gave the country a cumulative grade of a D+ and pointed out that the country now has over 600,000 structurally deficient bridges, over 2,000 high-hazard deficient dams and a $90 billion dollar transit repair backlog. Each year, over 200,000 water mains break and Americans waste billions of hours each year in traffic. We didn’t get here overnight, this problem was created by decades of under-funding across all levels of government. This is where the President’s outline of a plan runs into trouble, more public-private partnerships are needed, but the bottom line is that we can’t rebuild America’s infrastructure using P3s alone. So how do we get this done? How do we end the gridlock in Washington and on our highways and really improve our infrastructure? Clearly, we need a new solution that dramatically increases public and private investment. After working on this issue for over four years, I believe that the only way we can tackle this problem is to pair international tax reform with infrastructure. This addresses the single biggest obstacle – funding – by also solving a major problem in our tax code. An estimated $2 trillion of U.S. corporate cash is overseas, locked-out by the highest corporate tax rate in the world and a system that perversely encourages companies not to repatriate their earnings back to the U.S. by allowing them to defer paying any U.S. tax on international earnings if they keep the cash generated from international earning overseas. So that’s what these companies do, they keep their profits abroad. This is bad for our economy because it blocks economic activity here and it’s also bad for public services and our fiscal health, because its tax revenue that we don’t collect. This also encourages companies to invert and to move operations abroad. Whether you’re a conservative, a progressive or somewhere in the middle, you should be concerned. Under my framework, we would lower our international tax rate and end the ability to defer and invest the revenues that we raise in infrastructure. My framework creates the American Infrastructure Fund, which would provide financing to state and local projects and would encourage the further expansion of both P3s and traditional publicly-built infrastructure. It’s a triple bottom line for our country: a better tax code, more domestic investment and the jobs and growth created by more infrastructure investment. Despite all the partisan warfare in Washington, this solution has received bipartisan support. Over 40 Democrats and 40 Republicans have cosponsored my infrastructure legislation over the last four years. Sometimes, all that’s needed is a new idea. When President Trump was elected, I made it clear that if he came to Congress with a good infrastructure plan, I’d be willing to work with him. For the good of the country, I still hope that this is the case. P3s are part of the solution but if that’s all that the President does, it just won’t be enough. ##
06.09.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has published an op-ed in The Hill urging Democrats not to demonize coal workers and to push for policy solutions on climate change that also help the workers and communities that will be disrupted. Congressman Delaney is the author of the Tax Pollution, Not Profits Act, legislation that establishes a carbon tax and uses the revenues raised to 1) lower the corporate tax rate 2) provide extensive benefits to displaced coal workers including health care, early retirement, retraining and relocation expenses so they can find new jobs and 3) provide benefits to low and middle income Americans. The op-ed is available online here and is copied below. Acting on climate change and supporting coal workers – we have to do both By Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) The Hill 6/8/2017 President Trump’s astounding decision to pull out of the Paris Climate Accord, packaged like a reality television season finale, was the culmination of a terrible series of events for those of us that care about the environment. From the beginning of his term, President Trump has set out on an openly anti-environmental agenda, proposing to shrink the Environmental Protection Agency’s budget by 31 percent and reshape what’s left into a climate-skeptic orientated organization. We have every right to be angry, but we must make sure to direct our criticism in the right direction. Walking away from a truly global agreement to reduce emissions is a shocking abdication of America’s leadership role and a decision that threatens our future. In his remarks announcing that the U.S. was taking this action, President Trump struck a familiar cord, returning to a longstanding theme of protecting coal jobs and stating that “I happen to love the coal miners.” We’re losing time and we have to do a better job of building consensus for action. We better focus on this fact and not make the very fatal mistake of demonizing coal workers. For many progressives, President Trump is wholly inscrutable and his appeal is difficult to even acknowledge. We need to acknowledge that in some ways he’s a very effective communicator – and we see this very clearly on environmental policies. To devastating effect, President Trump has made United States environmental policy a debate about coal workers and coal miners specifically. Environmental advocates and lawmakers cannot ignore this fact or adopt rhetoric and positions which play into President Trump’s hands. Of course, the image of the coal-killing EPA is a massive distortion of what’s actually happened in the energy market, where the explosion of cheap natural gas supply has largely accounted for the recent decline in coal’s fortunes. Moreover, like nearly all industries, coal jobs have been hurt by mechanization, as fewer and fewer workers are needed to extract coal from the ground. We should have deep admiration for the hard-work and dangerous risks a coal miner takes to provide for their family. We should have a profound appreciation for the work that coal miners did, for decades, and continue to do, to build the United States into an industrial power and an advanced economy. Their impact was huge, contributing to our military strength and powering a technological engine that transformed the world. President Trump has taken this collective memory and admiration and literally made it the backdrop of his agenda, taking every opportunity to be flanked by coal workers. The irony is that the cause of coal miners should be a Democratic cause. It certainly has been in the past, when Democrats fought for safer work conditions, better benefits and a seat at the table for miners. Last week, Democrats got a big win as healthcare benefits for coal miners was included in the spending bill. While coal country’s embrace of President Trump has been painful to Democrats, we can’t turn our back on these communities and the hard working men and women who work in the industry. Instead we need to listen to their complaints and make the case for our argument. But it must be a respectful dialogue, not a lecture. Entire regions don’t develop a point of view without some basis in fact. As Democrats, we have to reengage, we have to make the case that the economy will continue to rapidly change and that we have an agenda that will help everyone thrive in the future. Part of that honest discussion has to be about the economy and the environment. The truth is there’s no magic formula President Trump can enact to reverse decades of macroeconomic trends that have hurt coal, and the truth is there’s no way around the fundamental fact that if we care about the environment, about the future of our economy, national security and public health, we’re going to have to, in the long run, burn less coal. Climate change left unchecked is going to hurt everyone. So we can ignore reality – Trump’s approach – or we can try to actually create better outcomes, not better photo ops. The most effective way we can reduce greenhouse gas emissions and encourage the development of cleaner alternative fuels is to use market forces. Despite being told that it was politically unpopular, I’m proud to have authored legislation that establishes a carbon pricing mechanism. The free market economy is the most powerful tool we have to change behavior and this is the most straightforward and most effective tool we have to reduce the impact of climate change. My legislation uses the massive amounts of revenues raised by a carbon tax to do three things: 1) reduce other taxes on businesses so that they can stay competitive and create jobs 2) provide direct payments and tax credits to low-income people and the middle class to offset increased costs from carbon pricing and 3) establish a massive new multi-billion dollar benefit program to help coal workers and their families. Under my legislation, impacted coal workers would have access to worker retraining programs, financial assistance with relocation expenses, healthcare, early retirement and other benefits. As a Democrat, I believe there’s a role for government to solve problems, help the most vulnerable and to create a level playing field. But when a government action disproportionally hurts certain communities, there’s also a responsibility to help those who have been harmed. We’ve seen this with trade policy over the last three decades, we haven’t done enough to help those that have been harmed by big economic shifts and new trade flows. That philosophy undergirds my carbon tax bill, which was the first to give direct benefits to coal miners and their communities. Looking at the data, it is clear that the country as a whole – and the entire world – would benefit by a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. But in the short term, we have to help coal workers and their communities’ transition and adjust. This involves investing in them and their communities so that they can play a different, but no less impactful role, in building our economy. A rapidly warming planet and the economic devastation that it will bring will hurt working people the hardest. I was proud to attend the national climate march, but there weren’t many people there that looked like the blue collar working class people I grew up with. We have to change that. If we continue to debate environmental policy on Trump’s terms, we’ll continue to lose. John K. Delaney represents Maryland’s Sixth District in the House of Representatives. Delaney is the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in the House and was named one of the World’s Greatest Leaders by Fortune in 2017.
06.08.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted against the Financial Choice Act (H.R. 10), legislation to repeal and weaken significant provisions of the Dodd-Frank investor protections and financial reforms that were implemented after the financial crisis. Congressman Delaney is a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and is the only former CEO of a publicly traded company in the House. Delaney releases the following statement: “During the financial crisis nearly all of the largest financial institutions in the United States either required a bailout or significant support from taxpayers. Millions of Americans suffered deeply, people lost their homes, people lost huge chunks of their savings and people lost their jobs when the economy crashed. Clearly, reform was needed and Dodd-Frank was that reform. Since Dodd-Frank was put in place, consumer protections have improved materially, the banking system is safer and more sound, and our financial institutions and our markets have far outpaced their international competitors. Dodd-Frank is working. Is it a perfect piece of legislation? Of course not. Anytime Congress does major legislation we should sign up as a body for ten years of fixes, but that’s not what the Financial Choice Act is. This is a misguided and time-consuming repeal effort, an effort driven by a narrow partisan agenda. This is a bad bill and a tremendous missed opportunity – instead of working together on areas where there is bipartisan consensus, like helping community banks and credit unions provide access to capital for families and small businesses, House leadership is again focusing on ideology, not real solutions.” ##
06.01.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, President Trump announced that the United States will leave the Paris Climate Accord. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “This is an astoundingly bad decision that delivers no appreciable benefit to the United States, while incurring massive costs. President Trump is abdicating American leadership on a crucial global issue and empowering our global competitors to shape future agreements without any American influence. Worse still, this is an expression of an economically-illiterate and science-denying ideology that goes against the best interests of the American people. There is little evidence that the President has the understanding of the facts at hand or the competence to negotiate a better deal, despite his rhetoric. President Trump found a policy so unwise that it could be opposed by scientists, business leaders, Republicans, Democrats and nearly every country in the entire world. President Trump appears to have no faith in the ability of our private sector to innovate. “This is a betrayal of our future. Left unchecked, climate change has the potential to devastate our economy, to create massive public health and agricultural problems including the spread of disease and to increase global instability, which is why climate change is considered a threat-multiplier by our military. Given that the White House has shown zero forward-thinking, it is now more important than ever that Congress and the states implement smart policy responses. I am proud to be the author of legislation that uses market forces to reduce emissions via a carbon tax, with the revenues raised used to help working families and businesses, while creating a huge new benefit program for impacted coal workers.” Congressman Delaney’s Tax Pollution, Not Profits Act, establishes a tax on carbon pollution and uses the revenues raised to 1) provide monthly payments to low-income and middle-class households 2) reduce the corporate tax rate to increase employment and reduce consumer costs and 3) fund job training, early retirement and health care benefits to coal workers. Congressman Delaney is also the author of the bipartisan Climate Solutions Commission Act, a bill which creates a bipartisan National Climate Solutions Commission to undertake a thorough review of economically viable public and private actions or policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The National Climate Solutions Commission is required to give the White House, Congress and the states their recommendations within eighteen months. ##
05.31.2017	WASHINGTON – Multiple reports have indicated that President Trump will withdraw the United States the 2015 Paris Climate Agreement. The President tweeted today that he will make his final decision soon. The agreement has been ratified by 147 nations to date and focuses on reducing greenhouse gas emissions with a target of holding global warming below 2 degrees Celsius. If the United States withdraws, it will join just Syria and Nicaragua as non-participants. “Withdrawing from the Paris Climate Accords would put the United States on the sidelines of one of the defining issues of this century. To even flirt with such a decision is a shocking abdication of leadership. This is pretty much the opposite of putting America first,” said Congressman Delaney. “Unchecked climate change threatens our public health, our environment, our economy and our national security. Instead of leaving the Paris Accord, we should be leading the global push for further action on climate, starting with implementing a carbon tax domestically. My Tax Pollution, Not Profits Act would dramatically reduce carbon emissions, use market forces to create new alternative energy jobs, help businesses compete and provide massive benefits to impacted coal industry workers.” Congressman Delaney’s Tax Pollution, Not Profits Act, establishes a tax on carbon pollution and uses the revenues raised to 1) provide monthly payments to low-income and middle-class households 2) reduce the corporate tax rate to increase employment and reduce consumer costs and 3) fund job training, early retirement and health care benefits to coal workers. Congressman Delaney is also the author of the bipartisan Climate Solutions Commission Act, a bill which creates a bipartisan National Climate Solutions Commission to undertake a thorough review of economically viable public and private actions or policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The National Climate Solutions Commission is required to give the White House, Congress and the states their recommendations within eighteen months. ##
05.26.2017	WASHINGTON – President Trump’s fiscal year 2018 budget, released this week, zeroes out funding for the National Biodefense Analysis and Countermeasures Center (NBACC) in Frederick, Maryland and calls for its closure. The NBACC is operated by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and is a one-of-a-kind facility dedicated to defending the United States against biological threats. The NBACC supports preparedness planning, intelligence assessments and bio-forensic analysis. The lab often assists the FBI in investigating bioterrorism and bio-crime and employs over 180 people. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “I am 100% opposed to the closing of the National Biodefense Analysis and Countermeasures Center in Frederick and will fight this deeply misguided move by the Trump Administration. “While DHS may be moving forward with plans to close the facility based on the assumption that the President’s request will be enacted, I want to stress that President Trump’s budget proposal is not law yet, that all funding and appropriations matters must go through Congress and that Trump’s budget overall has very little support in the House and Senate. “Closing the National Biodefense Analysis and Countermeasures Center will hurt Frederick, but it would be even worse for our country. The National Biodefense Analysis and Countermeasures Center is a unique facility that is crucial to our homeland security, intelligence and anti-terrorism endeavors. This is the lab that protects us against anthrax attacks, ricin attacks and other bioterrorism threats. I am concerned that this is part of an ill-advised agenda by the Trump Administration to reduce investments in actually effective and important parts of our security portfolio in order to pursue a political agenda. This looks like they’re cutting everything they can find to pay for a wall along the Mexican border.” ##
05.25.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has reintroduced the Protecting Veterans Credit Act, bipartisan legislation to ensure that veterans’ credit scores and credit reports are not adversely affected by delayed medical payments associated with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Veterans Choice Program and other VA Community Care programs. The lead cosponsors are Congressman Randy Hultgren (IL-14), Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-9) and Congresswoman Jackie Walorski (IN-2). In total, the bill has 20 cosponsors. The Delaney-Hultgren-Sinema-Walorski legislation creates a one year credit reporting grace period for the resolution of debt from medical services. The slow disbursement of Veterans Choice Program payments has meant that potentially thousands of veterans could be adversely affected, with large and inaccurate medical debts wrongly listed in their name while the VA and private providers work through billing. This error could make it more difficult and more expensive for veterans to buy a home or car, rent a place to live or receive a small business loan. The Protecting Veterans Credit Act has been endorsed by the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), the American Legion, Wounded Warrior Project, the Paralyzed Veterans of America, the National Consumer Law Center (on behalf of its low income clients) and the Consumer Federation of America. Congressman Delaney first introduced the legislation in 2016. Companion legislation has also been filed in the Senate. “No veteran should have their financial record wrongly ruined because of someone else’s delays,” said Congressman Delaney. “This is a straightforward bill that shields veterans and their families from what could be a very damaging predicament and I am proud that this bill has been supported by so many veterans and consumer organizations. Republicans and Democrats are standing together on this bill and we’re going to keep working to build support. Credit reports are so impactful and I don’t think anyone believes that the current situation is right, so we’ve got to solve this problem.” “Enough veterans have faced collateral damage from delays at the VA—their credit score shouldn’t be another casualty of this bureaucracy,” said Congressman Hultgren. “Veterans and their families deserve accurate and timely billing and reimbursements from the VA. This legislation will ensure our veterans aren’t held responsible for bureaucratic ineptitude.” “Veterans should not be held responsible for the VA’s missed payments and billing errors,” said Congresswoman Sinema. “A damaged credit score makes it more difficult for veterans and their families to rent an apartment, buy car, or apply for a loan. That’s just wrong. This bill is a bipartisan, commonsense solution that ensures bureaucracy does not stand in the way of the American Dream.” “Veterans shouldn’t have to worry about damage to their credit scores and financial futures due to errors and delays on the part of the VA,” Congresswoman Walorski said. “I’ve heard from too many veterans who need help because the VA or a VA contractor hasn’t paid their medical bills for authorized non-VA care. This commonsense bill will protect veterans while the VA, contractors, and providers work to resolve these billing issues.” “The Protecting Veterans Credit Act is needed to ensure veterans’ credit ratings are not damaged through no fault of their own,” said Lt Gen Dana T. Atkins, USAF (Ret.), president of the Military Officers Association of America. “While it is understandable VA needs time to resolve medical billing issues, veterans should not suffer unintended negative consequences in the meantime. MOAA applauds Congressman Delaney for developing creative solutions to assist VA and veterans.” “When VA authorizes a veteran to receive care in the community and commits to pay for it, the veteran’s credit score shouldn’t hang in the balance. The Protecting Veterans Credit Act would help veterans avoid credit damage because of billing issues beyond their control. We thank Congressman Delaney for his leadership on this issue and urge Congress to pass this bill to help veterans access quality health care without risking undue harm to their financial well-being,” said Wounded Warrior Project Senior Vice President René Bardorf. Veterans have paid for their VA health care through their unwavering commitment and sacrifice to our nation. The Protecting Veterans Credit Act of 2017 would ensure veterans are not financially impacted when they are erroneously billed for care they have earned and deserve. The Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States thanks Congressman Delaney for his leadership in correcting this issue,” said VFW National Legislative Director Carlos Fuentes. The Protecting Veterans Credit Act The Problem Created in 2014, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Choice Program provides veterans with the ability to receive medical care in a non-VA facility if the VA cannot schedule an appointment within a specified time period or if the veteran lives more than 40 miles from the closest VA medical facility. The Choice Program is one of several VA programs for veterans to receive non-VA medical care. Unfortunately, all programs that offer non-VA care have had billing and payment issues. This includes the Choice Program which has had issues with delayed payments and inappropriately assigned bills to veterans. Because of delays in payment processing and incorrectly assigned bills, veterans have received adverse actions on their credit reports. Adverse credit action makes it more difficult and more expensive for a veteran to get a home mortgage, an auto loan or even to rent an apartment. To address Choice Program billing issues, the VA set up a call center for veterans to contact the VA to resolve debt collection and adverse credit reporting. The call center received thousands of calls within just a few months, showing the extent of the billing issues with the Choice Program. While the VA is reforming its non-VA care billing procedures, veterans need immediate and retroactive relief from erroneous credit reporting actions. No veteran should have their credit score hurt because of a delay in the VA paying the medical bills. The Solution The Protecting Veterans Credit Act delays medical debt from medical services received through non-VA medical care, including the Choice Program, from being reported to credit reporting agencies for one year. This delay provides adequate time for the VA and its contractors to resolve any billing issues, while retaining a route for resolution of any co-payments or other obligations. The bill provides a mechanism for veterans to easily dispute adverse actions already on their credit reports. Benefits By instituting a one year grace period, it will allow sufficient time for the multiple parties involved in the VA community care programs to process the payments, so that veterans receive the care they need, doctors are fairly compensated, and veterans don’t suffer a credit loss for something that isn’t their fault. ##
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has launched the Artificial Intelligence (AI) Caucus for the 115th Congress. The AI Caucus is co-chaired by Republican Congressman Pete Olson (TX-22).The goal of the caucus is to inform policymakers of the technological, economic and social impacts of advances in AI and to ensure that rapid innovation in AI and related fields benefits Americans as fully as possible. The AI Caucus will bring together experts from academia, government and the private sector to discuss the latest technologies and the implications and opportunities created by these new changes. The AI Caucus has already begun meeting with experts this Congress and will participate in a congressional briefing hosted by IBM on June 28, with more events to follow. “Artificial Intelligence promises to be one of the paradigm-shifting developments of the next century, with the potential to reshape our economy and daily life just as fully as the internal combustion engine or the semiconductor. As lawmakers, our choice is to either get caught flat-footed or to proactively anticipate how things will change and work on smart policies to make sure that the country benefits as much as possible overall. We have to start becoming future-focused when it comes to policy,” said Congressman Delaney. “In my view, there is tremendous potential for AI to be a positive transformational force, but also understandable concern about the impact that disruption could have on existing jobs. Step one is hearing from those working at the cutting edge, as well as from experts who are modelling the changes to come so that we can start an entirely new discussion. That is what is needed and that’s why this caucus is so important. I look forward to working with Congressman Olson on this important issue and leading a bipartisan and forward-looking discussion.” “Artificial Intelligence is no longer science fiction. For many, it is part of daily life – from social media feeds to the digital assistant on our phones,” said Congressman Olson. “AI will only continue to grow and policymakers have a responsibility to be forward thinking with respect to the revolutionary applications of it in our society. I agree with Congressman Delaney that it will a positive transformational force. This AI Caucus will give us a platform to engage in smart policies to improve outcomes as this technology continues to be part of our daily lives.” The AI Caucus also includes Congressman Jared Polis (CO-2), Congressman Derek Kilmer (WA-6), Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Congressman Andre Carson (IN-07) and Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12). Congressman Delaney first founded the AI Caucus in 2015. This year, Fortune Magazine named Congressman Delaney was named one of 50 World’s Greatest Leaders. ##
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday, the White House released its budget proposal for fiscal year 2018. President Trump’s budget includes major cuts to education, environmental protection and cleanup, science and research, health care and the social safety net. The White House budget also includes $1.6 billion to build a wall along the U.S. border with Mexico and large tax cuts for the wealthy. The budget includes baseline economic growth projections that have been challenged by both conservative and progressive economists and numerous instances of double-counting and basic errors. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6), releases the following statement: “President Trump’s budget doesn’t help prepare our country for a better future and reflects the wrong priorities and the wrong goals. I am appalled by the values expressed in this budget, which will greatly harm the most vulnerable among us and reward those who least need it. This is a backwards-looking Tea Party budget that doesn’t position the country to succeed in a high-tech global economy or to lead in the industries of the future. “The initial ‘skinny budget’ released in March was a declaration of war on the state of Maryland and this is now the first shot. From Western Maryland to the Bay, this budget is disastrous for our state. I called on every elected official in Maryland to speak out against Trump’s budget and we need a united voice now more than ever. Once again, it would be helpful if our Governor dared to criticize the President, who is pushing an agenda that would be terrible for our economy and state budget.” President Trump’s budget: Eliminates the Appalachian Regional Commission, which provided over $1.8 million in economic development grants to Western Maryland in 2016. Eliminates funding for the TIGER grant infrastructure program, a $499 million dollar cut to America’s infrastructure. Eliminates the Essential Air Service program which supports rural airports, including the Hagerstown Regional Airport. Eliminates the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, which assists families with heating and cooling costs. Eliminates funding for the National Endowment for the Arts and the National Endowment for the Humanities. Includes a 19% cut to the National Institutes of Health, reducing funding by $5.8 billion. Includes an elimination of the cost of living adjustment for current and future Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS) participants and an increase in employee contributions, costing Federal employees and retirees nearly $150 billion. Includes $600 billion in cuts to Medicaid, a 47% reduction, and $193 billion in cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program over the next decade. Includes $40 billion in cuts to the Earned Income Tax Credit and Child Tax Credit over the next decade. Includes $72 billion in cuts to the Social Security Disability Program. Includes $21 billion in cuts to Temporary Assistance for Needy Families. Includes a 28% cut to the State Department, including major cuts to diplomacy, development and climate change programs. Includes a 31% cut to the Environmental Protection Agency and a full elimination of federal support for Chesapeake Bay cleanup as well as over 50 other environmental programs. Includes a 21% cut to the Department of Agriculture with major cuts to nutrition assistance programs and cuts to programs that serve rural communities. Includes a 13% cut to the Department of Education, including reductions to before-school and after-school programs, financial aid and federal work-study programs for higher education. Includes a 6% cut to the Department of Energy and major cuts to climate science and clean energy programs. Eliminates the Community Development Block Grant Program, which has supported $746 million in Maryland community development projects since 2003. ##
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday, the White House released its budget proposal for fiscal year 2018, which includes a 13% reduction in funding for the Department of Transportation along with a fact sheet in the budget’s appendix outlining a potential “infrastructure initiative” from the Administration. The fact sheet refers to $200 billion in outlays, but with little information on how the initiative will be funded or how it will work. President Trump’s budget ends the competitive TIGER infrastructure grant program entirely and includes major cuts to surface transportation funding through the Highway Trust Fund and the competitive New Starts program. The infrastructure initiative fact sheet includes broad rhetoric expressing the Administration’s goals, but only lists “illustrative examples of funding proposals.” The budget also eliminates programs such as the Appalachian Regional Commission, which supports local infrastructure in economically-depressed areas. Since 2013, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has been the leading advocate for using revenues from international tax reform to rebuild America’s infrastructure, authoring the Partnership to Build America Act and the Infrastructure 2.0 Act. These bills have been cosponsored by over 40 Republicans and 40 Democrats, leading Delaney to be recognized as one of the World’s Greatest Leaders by Fortune magazine. “The White House is flashing red lights and green lights at the same time on infrastructure and the most likely outcome is that we all end up crashing,” said Congressman Delaney. “What we’re seeing is the inherent dissonance that is generated by the President campaigning like a New Deal Democrat on infrastructure and then governing like a Tea Partier. On the one hand, we have cuts being outlined very definitively, on the other hand there are hypothetical increases given as examples – it’s difficult to take it too seriously as policy or really know what it means. It’s possible that if everything proposed was implemented, we’d see no real changes in total infrastructure investment or even cuts. The White House fact sheet refers to some things that need to be done, but the truth is, we need to massively upgrade our nation’s infrastructure and we need a comprehensive solution and this isn’t a comprehensive approach. It is obvious that if the White House and Republican leaders push through partisan tax reform and a hardline domestic agenda this spring and summer, there will be no money left for a real infrastructure program. All of the evidence suggests that the only way we can get a deal done, the only way President Trump can keep his only remotely bipartisan campaign promise, is for the White House and congressional leaders to adopt our bipartisan solution and combine infrastructure and international tax reform.” The White House FY 2018 budget on infrastructure includes: A 13% overall funding cut for the Department of Transportation. A $95 billion dollar cut to surface transportation funding though the Highway Trust Fund over the next decade. The elimination of the TIGER grant program, an annual $499 million reduction in national infrastructure investment. A 45% cut to the Federal Transit Administration’s Capital Investment Program (New Starts), limiting future funding to projects with existing full funding grant agreements only. The elimination of the Essential Air Service program, which supports commercial air service to rural America and a $630 million dollar reduction in federal support for Amtrak. A fact sheet with proposals for the White House’s new infrastructure initiative, including expansions of TIFIA and the Private Activity Bonds program, increased use of tolling and changes in the permitting process and federal accounting. ##
05.17.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed the Caesar Syria Civilian Protection Act (H.R. 1677), legislation to impose new sanctions on entities supporting the Assad Regime’s ability to wage war on civilians through the sale of military equipment, technologies and financing to the Central Bank of Syria. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) cosponsored the legislation. The Assad Regime has consistently targeted civilians during the Syrian Civil War, including using chemical weapons, barrel bombs and blocking access to food. “The atrocities in Syria represent one of the largest systematic attacks on the human rights of innocent people in decades and as a force for good in the world the United States should be a leader in a comprehensive global effort to stop further suffering and help those in need,” said Congressman Delaney. “Sanctions are an important tool in weakening the murderous Assad Regime and bringing this conflict to an end. I am proud to join members of both parties in supporting this legislation and look forward to its implementation. I hope that the strong support in the House for this bill will also remind my colleagues of our responsibility to help those fleeing Assad and ISIS and the value of welcoming refugees.” ##
05.15.2017	WASHINGTON – Late today the Washington Post reported that “President Trump revealed highly classified information to the Russian foreign minister and ambassador in a White House meeting last week, according to current and former U.S. officials, who said that Trump’s disclosures jeopardized a critical source of intelligence on the Islamic State.” “This report, if true, is one of the more shocking and distressing news stories we’ve seen, which is really saying something given the constant chaos and lies churned out by the Trump Administration,” said Congressman Delaney. “If this report is true, President Trump has undermined our fight against terrorism. Revealing highly-classified information to an adversary like Russia is either pure incompetence or an attempt to place Russia above our allies and key partners – either way the implications are amazingly worrying.” ##
05.15.2017	WASHINGTON – As Infrastructure Week begins, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) calls on the White House and congressional leaders to prioritize infrastructure and to embrace a bipartisan approach. Since 2013, Congressman Delaney has been the leading advocate for using revenues from international tax reform to rebuild America’s infrastructure. This year, Fortune named Congressman Delaney one of the World’s Greatest Leaders for working across the aisle. “Another Infrastructure Week, another year without the big transformative infrastructure bill that we need. For the sake of our country’s future, I hope next year we’re celebrating the implementation of an actual solution,” said Congressman Delaney. “President Trump and congressional leaders need to listen to the smart policy analysts and state and local officials that will be making the case this week, because every day we don’t act is a day that repairs get more expensive and a day that our roads get more dangerous. We have years of evidence that pushing one-party plans will only mean one thing: nothing will get done. I am worried that the American people will be the victim of a bait and switch by the President, big talk about infrastructure followed by a hollow plan dominated by a tax break for private projects that were already going to happen – that’s not going to cut it. The good news is that we have a bipartisan solution ready to go and an approach that pencils out and has the votes. Let’s fix our broken international tax code and use a portion of the revenues we bring back to build infrastructure.” During the last two Congresses, over 40 Democrats and 40 Republicans have cosponsored Delaney legislation to fund and finance new infrastructure investment using revenues from repatriation. Delaney is a Co-Chair of the New Democrat Coalition’s Task Force on Infrastructure. The Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 1669) The American Infrastructure Fund The Partnership to Build America Act creates the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) to provide financing to state and local governments for new infrastructure. Transportation, energy, communications, water and education projects are eligible to receive AIF financing. Local governments would apply directly to the AIF for support. To encourage public-private partnerships 35% of AIF supported projects must have at least 10% of their financing be private debt or equity. The AIF will be capitalized by $50 billion in infrastructure bond sales and leveraged at a 15:1 ratio to provide up to $750 billion in loans or guarantees. Funded by an Infrastructure Bond Sale Rather than using appropriated funds out of the federal budget to establish the American Infrastructure Fund, the Partnership to Build America Act uses a bond sale. AIF bonds would have a 50-year term, pay a 1% fixed rate return and would not be guaranteed by the U.S. government. These bonds are not intended to be a good investment on their own and are transferable after purchase. To incentivize companies to purchase these bonds, U.S. companies would be allowed to repatriate a certain amount of their overseas earnings tax free for every $1.00 they invest in the bonds. This multiplier will be set by a “reverse Dutch auction” – which allows the market to set the rate, ensuring that enough funds are raised. Assuming a 1:4 ratio is set by the auction; a company will be able to repatriate $4.00 tax-free for every $1 in AIF bonds they purchase. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act (H.R. 1670) Building a World Class 21st Century Infrastructure with Revenue from Deemed Repatriation at 8.75% Tax Rate Under the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, existing overseas profits accumulated by U.S. multi-national corporations would be subject to a mandatory, one-time 8.75% tax, replacing deferral option and current rate of 35%. $120 billion to the Highway Trust Fund, enough to meet funding gap at increased levels for six years. $50 billion to capitalize the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) $25 million pilot program to create regional infrastructure accelerators, similar to the West Coast Infrastructure Exchange This frees the estimated $2 trillion in overseas earnings to return to the United States, spurring private sector re-investment and growth. Creating Long-term Highway Trust Fund Solvency and Policy Certainty The Infrastructure 2.0 Act provides six years of Highway Trust Fund solvency, providing immediate certainty to the private sector and policymakers. The legislation also establishes a bipartisan and bicameral commission that is tasked with developing a solution for permanent solvency of the Highway Trust Fund. Building a Path for Broader Tax Reform The Infrastructure 2.0 Act creates an eighteen-month deadline for international tax reform. To encourage action, the legislation includes a forcing function: if reform is not enacted, a fallback international tax package to make U.S. business climate more competitive would be implemented. This pro-growth fallback reform package would end deferral, reduce anti-competitive over taxation, decrease taxes for companies paying fair rates abroad but increase taxes for companies in tax havens. This would eliminate the lock-out effect and allow for the free flow of profits back to the United States. Under this option, for Active Market Foreign Income, a company would pay a 12.25% tax to the U.S. on overseas profits if they are currently paying no tax and a 2% tax to the U.S. if they are already paying the OECD average of 25% abroad, with a sliding scale in-between. ##
05.12.2017	HAGERSTOWN – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) hosted a College, Trade School and Financial Aid Workshop Thursday evening in Hagerstown at Washington County Technical High School. Over 175 people attended the event, which featured representatives from over 60 schools and organizations. Congressman Delaney also hosted a college workshop the night before in Germantown and is the author of bipartisan legislation to help Americans struggling with excessive student loan debt. “Thank you to all the schools and organizations that participated in our workshop, which was designed to give Marylanders a chance to get more information about the opportunities available to them and their families,” said Congressman Delaney. “Education is more important than ever in securing a good-paying job and in developing the skills to thrive in today’s world.”
05.11.2017	GERMANTOWN – Over 300 people attended a College, Trade School and Financial Aid Workshop hosted by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) Wednesday evening in Germantown. The event was free to attend and open to the public and took place at Northwest High School. The workshop is the 30th constituent services workshop Congressman Delaney has hosted since 2015. Congressman Delaney will also host a College, Trade School and Financial Aid Workshop Thursday evening at Washington County Technical High School in Hagerstown. Over 80 schools and organizations participated in the workshop, giving local parents and students an opportunity to speak one-on-one with representatives. A full list of participating schools is below. “Education is one of the keys to the American Dream, especially in today’s high-tech global economy,” said Congressman Delaney. “I know first-hand how powerful education can be, my parents weren’t able to attend college, but thanks to their hard work and scholarships I was able to go to college and then on to law school and a career in business. I’d like to thank all of the schools and organizations that participated in this workshop, which was designed to give Marylanders an opportunity to ask questions, learn more about the options available to them and make a more informed decision for their family.” Colleges, Trade Schools and Financial Aid Organizations Participating in the Workshop: University of Maryland, College Park The Ohio State University West Virginia University Frostburg University University of California, Berkeley Plumbers Local 5 Training Facility University of Georgia Salisbury University University of Alabama Indiana University – Bloomington University of Pittsburgh Stevenson University Potomac Edison Power System Institute Hood College University of Maryland, Baltimore County North America’s Building Trades Unions’ CHOICE Program University of Maryland, Eastern Shore Lehigh University I.A.M.A.W. CREST Program Hofstra University Shepherd University Kent State University Denison University Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute U.S. Military Academy at West Point U.S. Air Force Academy Morgan State University Bowie State University Allegany College of Maryland Garrett College West Virginia State University Slippery Rock University Millersville University Cheyney University University of the District of Columbia Delaware State University Widener University Montgomery College U.S. Army Frederick Community College Pittsburgh Institute of Aeronautics University of Maryland College of Agriculture University of the Potomac Omega Recording Studios Aesthetic Institute of Cosmetology Universities at Shady Grove Notre Dame of Maryland University Penn State University Mount St. Mary’s University George Mason University Virginia Tech The Temple (Paul Mitchell Partner School) AmeriCorps IBEW U.S. Coast Guard Academy Shippensburg University Port Covington Boot Camp Virginia Commonwealth University Capitol Technology University University of Iowa Stanford University University of Arizona Washington Adventist University Rice University United States Marine Corps University of Tennessee: Knoxville Boston University Goucher College Villanova University Washington University in St. Louis Johnson and Wales University California University of Pennsylvania University of Kansas Bucknell University U.S. Air Force U.S. Department of Education Maryland Higher Education Commission Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services United Negro College Fund Montgomery Educational Opportunity Center Maryland 529 ##
05.05.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has filed bipartisan legislation to help Americans struggling with excessive student loan debt. Congressman John Katko (NY-24) is the lead Republican cosponsor of the bill. The Discharge Student Loans in Bankruptcy Act (H.R. 2366) reforms federal bankruptcy rules to establish parity between student loan debt and other forms of debt. Under current law, student loan debt cannot be discharged. “Student loan debt is dragging down economic growth and keeping the American Dream out of reach for many. While student loan debt is a complex problem that will require many solutions – increased support for grant programs, efforts to increase affordability, improved consumer education and transparency – we also need to reform our bankruptcy laws to help those with the absolute greatest need. Right now, there is effectively a huge student loan loophole in bankruptcy law that’s hurting real people,” said Congressman Delaney. “Bankruptcy has long been an option of last resort for individuals facing an irresolvable level of debt; bankruptcy isn’t easy or enjoyable, but it’s a necessary part of our financial system. It doesn’t make sense for students with heavy debt burdens to be worse off than someone with credit card debt or mortgage debt. Every member of Congress from every state in the country has constituents who are struggling severely because of student loan debt. At the very least we should have some basic fairness in the law.” “In this economy, new graduates are faced with many difficulties as they transition out of college and enter the workforce – and student loan debt is at the top of that list. Addressing the high cost of college and the crushing burden of student loan debt requires innovative and thoughtful changes in policy,” said U.S. Representative John Katko. “In the case where financially stressed student loan borrowers have no other option but to seek bankruptcy relief, these individuals are unable to discharge their student loan debt. While this is a last option for many, it should not be the case that student loan debt is the only form of debt that cannot be discharged and the measure that I’ve put forth with Rep. Delaney corrects that problem. We must continue to explore ways to make borrowing simpler and more manageable for students so that higher education can remain accessible to students from all backgrounds.” Last year, total U.S. student loan debt reached a record level of $1.3 trillion dollars, the 18th consecutive year with a cumulative increase, according the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. ##
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON – Today the House of Representatives passed the American Health Care Act, Republican legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted against the legislation. “This legislation is illogical, immoral and wrong for the country,” said Congressman Delaney. “The American Health Care Act is a reckless, ideologically-motivated bill that will increase pain and suffering across the country so that political actors can claim a ‘win.’ Millions of the most vulnerable among us are now at risk of losing their health care coverage so that tax cuts can be given to the most fortunate. The American people have made it clear they don’t want this bill, they don’t like this bill and they’re flat-out afraid of the consequences this bill will bring. We must continue to speak out against this disastrous legislation and do everything we can to make sure it does not become law.” The vote took place less than 20 hours after the final text of the legislation was released to the public. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, the underlying legislation – which was amended in the last week – would mean that the number of uninsured Americans would increase by 14 million people next year and increase by 24 million over the next decade. The American Health Care Act cuts Medicaid funding and reduces provisions that help low-income and middle-class families afford insurance. These cuts are used to pay for tax cuts for the most fortunate. The latest version of the legislation allows states to opt-out of protections for Americans with pre-existing conditions and to opt-out of Essential Health Benefits protections, meaning that insurance plans would no longer have to include basic provisions such as ambulance services, emergency room visits, prescription drugs and pediatric and maternity care. This means that Americans living in states that opt-out – even those on employer-provided plans – would be at risk of seeing the quality of their coverage decrease. According to reports today, rape, postpartum depression, Cesarean sections and surviving domestic violence could be considered pre-existing conditions under the American Health Care Act, which also defunds Planned Parenthood. ##
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Congressman John J. Faso (NY-19) have introduced bipartisan legislation to address climate change and initiate a bipartisan solution to the environmental crisis of our time. The Climate Solutions Commission Act creates a bipartisan National Climate Solutions Commission to undertake a thorough review of economically viable public and private actions or policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The National Climate Solutions Commission is required to give the White House, Congress and the states their recommendations within eighteen months. The legislation is endorsed by the Environmental Defense Fund, The Nature Conservancy, The Partnership for Responsible Growth, the National Wildlife Federation and the Friends Committee on National Legislation. The Delaney-Faso legislation is cosponsored by six Republicans and six Democrats, including: Rep. Curbelo, Rep. Deutch, Rep. Meehan, Rep. Lowenthal, Rep. Fitzpatrick, Rep. Scott Peters, Rep. Stefanik, Rep. Schneider, Rep. Ros-Lehtinen and Rep. Suozzi. “Climate change is real and the threat it poses is real,” said Congressman Delaney. “It is imperative that we act on climate and reduce greenhouse gas emissions and in today’s Washington the surest way to do so is to build bipartisan consensus; that’s what this bill does. I am proud to work with Congressman Faso on this bill, which brings both parties together, studies the data and the options and puts forward a workable solution.” “Creating a bipartisan commission will help bring the public and private sectors together to provide smart solutions to the problems we face in the world today from the negative impacts of climate change,” said Congressman John Faso. Both Congressman Delaney and Congressman Faso are members of the bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus. Congressman Delaney first filed the Climate Solutions Commission Act in 2016 during the 114th Congress. “This bill demonstrates bipartisan recognition that climate change is a serious issue, and one that requires innovative thinking from across the political spectrum,” said Elizabeth Thompson, president of EDF Action. “It sends a strong signal that bipartisan cooperation on climate change is possible and necessary. These members of Congress deserve praise for their leadership.” “Thank you Rep. Delaney for your leadership in introducing the Climate Solutions Commission Act of 2017. Communities across the nation want effective policies that control carbon emissions,” says Mark Bryer, Interim Executive Director for The Nature Conservancy’s Maryland and DC program. “These solutions are not only less costly than unchecked climate impacts, but offer opportunities for cleaner air, less expensive, more efficient energy, and more consumer choice.” “Our nation won't be able to meet the climate change challenge unless Congress plays a leadership role, and we applaud the sponsors of this bill for taking a bipartisan step to find science-based solutions that will benefit both the planet and our economy,” said former Congressman Walt Minnick, Partner of Partnership for Responsible Growth. “Confronting climate change requires leadership from both political parties. We applaud the bipartisan sponsors for embracing science-based climate protection goals to protect wildlife and ensure a sustainable future. We encourage more Members from both sides of the aisle to answer the call for climate action and we look forward to working with both parties to craft meaningful, bipartisan solutions to climate change,” said Collin O’Mara, President and CEO, National Wildlife Federation. “I am encouraged by the leadership of Rep. John K. Delaney and Rep. John Faso, who demonstrate today that there is bipartisan political will to address climate change in Congress with the introduction of the Climate Solutions Commission Act of 2017. Our nation has a moral obligation to act on climate change. By creating a bipartisan commission committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, based upon the latest scientific findings, they take an important step forward towards protecting God’s creation and future generations,” said Diane Randall, Executive Secretary, Friends Committee on National Legislation. Climate Solutions Commission Act Establishes the National Climate Solutions Commission: The commission will have 10 members, five appointed by Democrats and five appointed by Republicans. The National Climate Solutions Commission will 1) undertake a comprehensive review of economically viable public and private actions or policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 2) make recommendations to the President, Congress and the states and 3) use as its goals for emissions reductions the estimated rates of reduction that reflect the latest scientific findings of what is needed to avoid serious health and environmental consequences. The National Climate Solutions Commission is required to release their recommendations within eighteen months of the enactment of the legislation. The Climate Solutions Commission Act also directs the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to study and report on the financial tools, policies and institutions most successful at reducing greenhouse gas emissions while protecting economic growth and employment. ##
04.27.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) joined every Democratic member of the Maryland Congressional Delegation in urging National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) to protect two missions vital to Maryland’s leadership in earth and space science. In a letter led by Senator Chris Van Hollen sent today to NASA’s Acting Administrator Robert Lightfoot, the lawmakers warned that cutting or eliminating the Restore-L satellite servicing mission and the Plankton, Aerosol, Cloud, and ocean Ecosystem (PACE) mission, as proposed in President Trump’s budget, would have harmful impacts on Maryland jobs and our ability to understand and monitor critical environmental issues such as climate change. In addition to Congressman Delaney, the Van Hollen letter was signed by Senator Ben Cardin and Congressmen Steny Hoyer, Elijah Cummings, Dutch Ruppersberger, John Sarbanes, Anthony Brown, and Jamie Raskin. The text of the letter is as follows: Dear Administrator Lightfoot: We write to express our grave concerns with proposed funding reductions to NASA’s Restore-L satellite servicing mission and the proposed elimination of the Plankton, Aerosol, Cloud, and ocean Ecosystem (PACE) mission. Both missions support between 400 – 800 high-skill, high-paying jobs that would be adversely affected by these changes – scientists and engineers who drive innovation and discovery, and contribute to their communities and the entire state of Maryland. NASA’s robotic spacecraft servicing technologies and satellite observations are also critical to our understanding of Earth and exploration of our solar system. We urge you to advocate for the essential role that these programs play in the NASA mission. Restore-L will help establish a technology testbed for rendezvous, proximity operations, docking, inspection, refueling, and relocation of satellites – even for existing satellites not designed to be serviced on-orbit. These cost-saving capabilities could lengthen the lifespan of satellites, providing new methods for operators to manage their satellites more effectively. Such demonstrations and operations are also fundamental to future NASA platforms and missions, including human exploration of Mars, the Moon, and asteroids. NASA, particularly the Goddard Spaceflight Center (GSFC), located in Greenbelt, Maryland, has extensive experience operating in satellite servicing, and Restore-L will continue that work. Similarly, GFSC has had a lasting legacy at the forefront of Earth Science research. The PACE mission will build upon this important history by providing observations of Earth’s oceans and atmosphere that have direct consequences for our lives. Using PACE’s data, NASA can answer critical questions about changing climate conditions on the overall health of Earth’s oceans, how ecosystems respond to changes in the environment, and their relationship with airborne particles and clouds. Applications for policymakers and private industry include monitoring fisheries and water resources, detecting potential natural disasters, and protecting our communities against poor water and air quality. We believe restructuring and consolidation of the Restore-L mission will lead to irreversible capability reductions. Eliminating the PACE mission would jeopardize NASA’s ability to monitor some of our most critical environmental issues, such as harmful algal bloom and atmospheric quality predictions, and respond appropriately. As budget talks proceed, we ask that you vigorously support and advocate on behalf of the Restore-L and PACE programs to keep NASA on the cutting edge of technology and exploration. Sincerely, ##
04.27.2017	WASHINGTON – This week the House Freedom Caucus announced their support for an amended version of the American Health Care Act (AHCA), legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act. The MacArthur Amendment to the AHCA would significantly weaken the essential health benefits provision established by the Affordable Care Act, by allowing states to opt-out of requiring that plans include basic features like prescription drug coverage, emergency services, hospitalization, maternity services and addiction treatment. The amended AHCA would also allow states to opt-out of community rating protections, which means that Americans with pre-existing conditions could lose coverage or pay more. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), under the initial version of the legislation the number of Americans without insurance would have increased by 24 million. The CBO has stated they are still weeks away from being able to provide Congress with an updated analysis of the current legislation. “The latest version of this legislation is even worse than before and I will oppose it on the House floor should it ever come to a vote. We still have the same framework, which means the uninsured rate will skyrocket and that costs will increase for far too many. On top of the original bad bill, this amendment means that there is significant risk that the quality of coverage will go down for millions and that people with preexisting conditions will either lose coverage all together or face significantly increased costs. “I’m proud to support the Affordable Care Act, but I’ve also said from the beginning that ACA isn’t perfect and we should work together diligently to fix it and address the problems that remain. But the American Health Care Act just isn’t a serious and responsible effort to do so. It is profoundly disappointing to see Republican leadership in Congress and the White House continue to try to jam through this incredibly significant legislation with no due diligence, no vetting and no serious attempt to examine the consequences. Bills to rename post offices often get more consideration than this legislation, which impacts the health of nearly every single American.” ##
04.26.2017	WASHINGTON – Today the Trump Administration unveiled the outlines of their tax reform proposal, which included major changes for both individuals and corporations. The White House plan did not include using revenues from international tax reform to rebuild infrastructure. Pairing international tax reform and infrastructure was first proposed by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) four years ago and has received significant bipartisan support since 2013. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “President Trump’s tax plan will explode the deficit and disproportionally benefit wealthy Americans. As someone who has spent decades in the private sector and understands how the economy actually works, I believe that President Trump’s tax plan will significantly hurt our long term fiscal health and economic competitiveness. Strategically, this is a strong sign by President Trump that they’re not serious about infrastructure, it’s a punch in the gut on infrastructure, frankly. Today the White House essentially announced they aren’t doing infrastructure. After working on this issue for four years, it is clear to me that the only way you can pay for a real infrastructure program is by using revenues from repatriation. It’s a shame because the framework is here for a legitimately bipartisan deal and we’ve got two good bills in the House that could pass tomorrow.” In March, Congressman Delaney reintroduced the Infrastructure 2.0 Act and the Partnership to Build America Act, with Congressman Ted Yoho (FL-3) and Congressman Rodney Davis (IL-13) as the Republican lead cosponsors. Congressman Delaney has also written to President Trump, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Chief Economic Advisor Gary Cohn urging them to adopt this framework. The Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 1669) The American Infrastructure Fund The Partnership to Build America Act creates the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) to provide financing to state and local governments for new infrastructure. Transportation, energy, communications, water and education projects are eligible to receive AIF financing. Local governments would apply directly to the AIF for support. To encourage public-private partnerships 35% of AIF supported projects must have at least 10% of their financing be private debt or equity. The AIF will be capitalized by $50 billion in infrastructure bond sales and leveraged at a 15:1 ratio to provide up to $750 billion in loans or guarantees. Funded by an Infrastructure Bond Sale Rather than using appropriated funds out of the federal budget to establish the American Infrastructure Fund, the Partnership to Build America Act uses a bond sale. AIF bonds would have a 50-year term, pay a 1% fixed rate return and would not be guaranteed by the U.S. government. These bonds are not intended to be a good investment on their own and are transferable after purchase. To incentivize companies to purchase these bonds, U.S. companies would be allowed to repatriate a certain amount of their overseas earnings tax free for every $1.00 they invest in the bonds. This multiplier will be set by a “reverse Dutch auction” – which allows the market to set the rate, ensuring that enough funds are raised. Assuming a 1:4 ratio is set by the auction; a company will be able to repatriate $4.00 tax-free for every $1 in AIF bonds they purchase. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act (H.R. 1670) Building a World Class 21st Century Infrastructure with Revenue from Deemed Repatriation at 8.75% Tax Rate Under the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, existing overseas profits accumulated by U.S. multi-national corporations would be subject to a mandatory, one-time 8.75% tax, replacing deferral option and current rate of 35%. $120 billion to the Highway Trust Fund, enough to meet funding gap at increased levels for six years. $50 billion to capitalize the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) $25 million pilot program to create regional infrastructure accelerators, similar to the West Coast Infrastructure Exchange This frees the estimated $2 trillion in overseas earnings to return to the United States, spurring private sector re-investment and growth. Creating Long-term Highway Trust Fund Solvency and Policy Certainty The Infrastructure 2.0 Act provides six years of Highway Trust Fund solvency, providing immediate certainty to the private sector and policymakers. The legislation also establishes a bipartisan and bicameral commission that is tasked with developing a solution for permanent solvency of the Highway Trust Fund. Building a Path for Broader Tax Reform The Infrastructure 2.0 Act creates an eighteen-month deadline for international tax reform. To encourage action, the legislation includes a forcing function: if reform is not enacted, a fallback international tax package to make U.S. business climate more competitive would be implemented. This pro-growth fallback reform package would end deferral, reduce anti-competitive over taxation, decrease taxes for companies paying fair rates abroad but increase taxes for companies in tax havens. This would eliminate the lock-out effect and allow for the free flow of profits back to the United States. Under this option, for Active Market Foreign Income, a company would pay a 12.25% tax to the U.S. on overseas profits if they are currently paying no tax and a 2% tax to the U.S. if they are already paying the OECD average of 25% abroad, with a sliding scale in-between. ##
04.25.2017	WASHINGTON – According to reports President Trump will unveil his tax reform proposal Wednesday. Since 2013, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has been the leading voice in Congress for using revenues from international tax reform to rebuild America’s infrastructure. Over 50 Democrats and 50 Republican have cosponsored Delaney legislation using this framework. “This is a moment of truth decision for President Trump and his domestic agenda,” said Congressman Delaney. “Pairing infrastructure and tax reform is the surest way to really create jobs and help businesses grow in a fiscally-responsible way. If the President wants to get a deal done, if he wants a win, this is the way you do it, by using revenues from international tax reform to rebuild our failing infrastructure. After working on this issue for four years, we’ve had liberals, moderates and conservatives cosponsor our bills, we’ve won the backing of members of the Freedom Caucus and the Progressive Caucus. The American people deserve to see a serious proposal tomorrow, a proposal that encourages broad growth and prosperity and the best way to do that is to include a smart infrastructure program.” In March, Congressman Delaney reintroduced the Infrastructure 2.0 Act and the Partnership to Build America Act, with Congressman Ted Yoho (FL-3) and Congressman Rodney Davis (IL-13) as the Republican lead cosponsors. Congressman Delaney has also written to President Trump, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Chief Economic Advisor Gary Cohn urging them to adopt this framework. The Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 1669) The American Infrastructure Fund The Partnership to Build America Act creates the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) to provide financing to state and local governments for new infrastructure. Transportation, energy, communications, water and education projects are eligible to receive AIF financing. Local governments would apply directly to the AIF for support. To encourage public-private partnerships 35% of AIF supported projects must have at least 10% of their financing be private debt or equity. The AIF will be capitalized by $50 billion in infrastructure bond sales and leveraged at a 15:1 ratio to provide up to $750 billion in loans or guarantees. Funded by an Infrastructure Bond Sale Rather than using appropriated funds out of the federal budget to establish the American Infrastructure Fund, the Partnership to Build America Act uses a bond sale. AIF bonds would have a 50-year term, pay a 1% fixed rate return and would not be guaranteed by the U.S. government. These bonds are not intended to be a good investment on their own and are transferable after purchase. To incentivize companies to purchase these bonds, U.S. companies would be allowed to repatriate a certain amount of their overseas earnings tax free for every $1.00 they invest in the bonds. This multiplier will be set by a “reverse Dutch auction” – which allows the market to set the rate, ensuring that enough funds are raised. Assuming a 1:4 ratio is set by the auction; a company will be able to repatriate $4.00 tax-free for every $1 in AIF bonds they purchase. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act (H.R. 1670) Building a World Class 21st Century Infrastructure with Revenue from Deemed Repatriation at 8.75% Tax Rate Under the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, existing overseas profits accumulated by U.S. multi-national corporations would be subject to a mandatory, one-time 8.75% tax, replacing deferral option and current rate of 35%. $120 billion to the Highway Trust Fund, enough to meet funding gap at increased levels for six years. $50 billion to capitalize the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) $25 million pilot program to create regional infrastructure accelerators, similar to the West Coast Infrastructure Exchange This frees the estimated $2 trillion in overseas earnings to return to the United States, spurring private sector re-investment and growth. Creating Long-term Highway Trust Fund Solvency and Policy Certainty The Infrastructure 2.0 Act provides six years of Highway Trust Fund solvency, providing immediate certainty to the private sector and policymakers. The legislation also establishes a bipartisan and bicameral commission that is tasked with developing a solution for permanent solvency of the Highway Trust Fund. Building a Path for Broader Tax Reform The Infrastructure 2.0 Act creates an eighteen-month deadline for international tax reform. To encourage action, the legislation includes a forcing function: if reform is not enacted, a fallback international tax package to make U.S. business climate more competitive would be implemented. This pro-growth fallback reform package would end deferral, reduce anti-competitive over taxation, decrease taxes for companies paying fair rates abroad but increase taxes for companies in tax havens. This would eliminate the lock-out effect and allow for the free flow of profits back to the United States. Under this option, for Active Market Foreign Income, a company would pay a 12.25% tax to the U.S. on overseas profits if they are currently paying no tax and a 2% tax to the U.S. if they are already paying the OECD average of 25% abroad, with a sliding scale in-between. ##
04.17.2017	WASHINGTON – On Friday the Trump Administration announced that it will not disclose White House visitor logs. Breaking with precedent, the Administration will not share with the public the names of the visitors who meet with President Trump, Vice President Pence and their senior staff. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) is a cosponsor of legislation that would require the disclose of visitor logs at the White House, the Vice President’s residence and any place the President regularly conducts business, including the Mar-A-Lago resort. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “President Trump’s actions betray a fundamental contempt for democracy and a lack of respect for the American people. It is now clear that this country is being subjected to a deeply secretive presidency, one that believes the public is not worthy of knowing even a bare minimum about their activities and conflicts of interest. Long-standing norms that were respected and followed by leaders from both parties are being brazenly ignored by President Trump. The question remains: what is the President trying to hide?” ##
04.10.2017	WASHINGTON – A correctional officer at the North Branch Correctional Institution was assaulted by an inmate while on duty Monday. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “An attack on one of our officers is an attack on our entire system of justice. The entire community stands with the officer who was injured and I join his coworkers in praying for a full and speedy recovery. This is an alarming attack on an officer who was on-duty, serving the people of Maryland. “It is very troubling that a state correctional officer was attacked at work, there needs to be a top-down review of the safety of our facilities. “We know that correctional officers have a very tough job, but we have to do more to make sure that they can go home healthy to their families each day. Attacks like this simply cannot happen and when they do we have to reevaluate everything that’s been done to lead up to this point. There have been serious safety concerns at these state facilities for a long time, including concerns tied to chronic understaffing that is putting our talented officers in harm’s way. We must do better for our officers, staff, visitors and inmates at these facilities.” ##
04.07.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has filed bipartisan legislation to extend federal HUBZone eligibility for Garrett County businesses to 2022. The GARRETT HUBZone Redesignation Act (H.R. 2013) reforms the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) Historically Underutilized Business Zone Empowerment Contracting (HUBZone) program, giving Garrett County and similar communities around the country significantly more time to utilize the program and adjust to potential changes in their eligibility. Congressman Delaney’s legislation also provides the additional time necessary to implement potential changes to the designation process without undermining any economic growth achieved through the program. Congressman Delaney first introduced the GARRETT HUBZone Redesignation Act in 2016. The bill is cosponsored by Republican Chuck Fleischmann of Tennessee and Democrat Dave Loebsack of Iowa. Absent congressional action, Garrett County will lose HUBZone status in 2018. According to the Garrett County Chamber of Commerce, there are 11 HUBZone certified businesses countywide, employing nearly 500 people. The HUBZone program is a small business federal contracting assistance program designed to encourage economic development in economically underperforming areas. “I’m honored to stand with Garrett County and again introduce this important legislation to protect local jobs,” said Congressman Delaney. “Federal HUBZone eligibility supports hundreds of Garrett County jobs and I will continue to work with local business leaders to fight to extend their status. The HUBZone program needs to be reformed nationwide and that’s why it’s so important that this bill has bipartisan support. By definition the communities using this program need sustained economic development and it is just pure common sense to give them additional time to benefit from the program and adjust to future changes.” “The HUB Zone program is vitally important to Garrett County as we have 11 companies employing nearly 500 people utilizing the program,” said Nicole Christian, President & CEO of the Garrett County Chamber of Commerce. “The County will lose its HUB Zone status in the near future and the legislation that Congressman Delaney is sponsoring will soften the blow for these companies and provide additional time for Garrett County to work to retain our HUB Zone designation. We are appreciative of Congressman Delaney’s efforts to help our community and the companies that are thriving because of the HUB Zone program.” “The HUBZone designation is the main reason that two of our largest employers (Garrett Container Systems and GCC Technologies) located to Garrett County (and why they have remained) and we currently have 11 companies participating in the program,” said Paul Edwards, Chairman Garrett County Board of Commissioners. “Being a struggling rural county with the 4th lowest per capita income in the state, these businesses are invaluable to our economy and to our community. This legislation would help provide more time to work with these companies to hopefully retain them, as well as to help the community transition and diversify.” “A major objective of the HUBZone program is to spur economic development and generate jobs in economically distressed areas by setting aside federal contracting dollars towards small businesses servicing those areas,” said Shirley Bailey of GCC Technologies, headquartered in Oakland, Maryland. “One of the major deterrents to companies investing in these areas is the business uncertainty associated with area redesignations and the short time frame associated with the current 3 year re-designation period. By increasing the re-designation period from 3 to 7 years, communities and businesses will be provided a level of business certainty that will enable them an opportunity to diversify and maintain the business investments in the re-designated communities while mitigating financial impacts. The HUBZone Council considers this legislation to be a major step in creating jobs in our nation's most distressed communities and helping those communities continue to move towards economic stability.” “For 15 years, TDEC has effectively used the HUBZone certification to substantially grow our business while creating new jobs in Garrett County, MD, an area of persistent unemployment,” said R. Dennis DuFour, President of TDEC, headquartered in Oakland, Maryland. “Extending the redesignation period to 7 years will allow companies in Garrett and other affected areas to continue to leverage the certification creating even more new jobs which is good for business and the economy.” “HUBZones have made a huge difference to the communities which continue to struggle in this economy. The loss of HUBZone status, as now faces more than 86 counties across 25 states will have certain unintentional consequences, setting these economically-fragile communities back significantly and impacting 5000 livelihoods,” said Keith Haller, National Director, Save Our HUBZone. “‘Save Our HUBZone’ came together in an unusual way to prevent this tragedy from happening. It’s about jobs and economic vitality. Congress can quickly solve this problem through House Bill 2013 and Senate Bill 690. We will not relent until Congress takes action.” The legislation is also supported by the HUBZone Contractors National Council, a non-profit trade association providing information and support for companies and professionals participating in the HUBZone Contracting Program. The GARRETT HUBZone Redesignation Act (H.R. 2013) Background The Small Business Administration (SBA) administers the Historically Underutilized Business Zone Empowerment Contracting (HUBZone) program. Created in 1997, HUBZone is a small business federal contracting assistance program designed to encourage economic development in economically underperforming rural and urban areas. HUBZone-certified companies receive competitive and sole source contracting and a 10% price evaluation preference in full and open contract competitions, as well as subcontracting opportunities. The Census Bureau periodically analyzes data to determine which counties are designated as HUBZones. If a HUBZones no longer qualifies, they are assigned as “redesignated” for 3 years with full elimination of HUBzone benefits at the conclusion of the term. Six HUBZone types currently exist: Qualified census tracts Qualified nonmetropolitan counties Difficult development areas Qualified Indian reservations/Indian Country Military bases closed under the Base Realignment and Closure Act (BRAC) Qualified disaster areas The Problem Entities residing in areas that lose their HUBZone designation only have three years to prepare for the loss of HUBZone Status. For example, in 2015, Garrett County, MD, was redesignated, meaning the community will lose the HUBZone status in 2018. For some companies, federal contracts represent approximately 50% of their revenue and a loss of HUBZone status will have a significant impact not just on their individual business, but on the local economy and the local tax base, impacting the private and public sectors significantly. The short redesignation period also inhibits more substantial, long-term investments from businesses due to lack of certainty. Time is needed for local governments to prepare to keep and attract businesses and jobs. The Solution Extend the “redesignation” period to 7 years. Such an extension will provide communities and businesses an opportunity to diversify their business to transition seamlessly. An extension will also provide the confidence needed for businesses to further increase the investment in currently designated HUBZones. ##
04.07.2017	WASHINGTON – Thursday evening the United States carried out a missile strike in response to the Syrian government’s chemical weapons attack this week. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “United States airstrikes appear to target airfields where the recent chemical weapons attack originated. This response to the immoral attack by Assad on his own people sends a clear message that the United States is willing to hold Assad accountable for his atrocities. The White House now needs to work with Congress on a strategy for Syria that ends the conflict and facilitates Assad’s removal, addresses the refugee and humanitarian crisis created by Assad and defeats ISIS. Thus far the Administration has provided no details on any of these items. We thank the extraordinary men and women of our military for their service in this operation.” ##
04.06.2017	WASHINGTON – Today Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) introduced the Tax Pollution, Not Profits Act, legislation that establishes a tax on greenhouse gas emissions. Congressman Delaney’s legislation uses revenues generated by this carbon tax to 1) lower the corporate tax rate, 2) provide extensive benefits to displaced coal industry workers and 3) provide payments to low and middle income Americans. “The power of markets is the one tool we must harness if we are going to respond to climate change effectively,” said Congressman Delaney. “The truth is, there are significant hidden costs we’re already paying, as greenhouse gas emissions place a burden on public health and the health of our environment. Greenhouse gas emissions are also a down-payment on incredibly expensive damages in the future wrought by climate change, which threatens our economy, our infrastructure and our national security. By accurately pricing carbon and other greenhouse gasses, we create market incentives around new innovation and new energy technologies, which is the single most important thing we need to tackle climate change. Importantly, we put these revenues to good use, using them to reduce the corporate tax rate overall, provide benefits to coal workers and make payments to low income and working Americans.” By utilizing market forces to respond to climate change, Congressman Delaney’s legislation positions the United States to become a global leader in new energy technology and production. For his work to forge innovative bipartisan solutions Congressman Delaney was named one of the “World’s Greatest Leaders” by Fortune magazine last month. The Tax Pollution, Not Profits Act Establishes a Federal Tax on Green House Gas Emissions Places a tax on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions at $30 per metric ton of carbon dioxide or carbon dioxide equivalent, increasing each subsequent year at 4% above inflation. New carbon tax uses market forces and private sector innovation to reduce greenhouse gas pollution. Businesses benefit from predictable, market-driven approach. Lowers the Corporate Tax Rate to Boost Economic Growth The legislation reduces the corporate tax rate from 35% to 28%, helping companies mitigate higher energy costs and, importantly, makes U.S. companies more competitive. Increasing U.S. economic competitiveness in a global economy will lead to gains in job creation, economic growth and increased domestic investment. Helps Impacted Coal Industry Workers Creates a new multi-billion dollar aid program administered by the Department of Labor (DOL) to assist workers in the coal industry that may be displaced as a result of the legislation. The assistance can include: worker retraining programs, financial assistance with relocation expenses, health, early retirement and other benefits. There is precedent for the DOL to administer this kind of program. Since 1973 the Department of Labor has administered benefits to coal miners and their survivors impacted by black lung disease. Provides Middle Class and Working Families with Payments A portion of the revenues collected from the pollution tax will be redirected to low-income and middle-class working families. Households at or below 150% of the federal poverty line will receive direct monthly payments to fully offset increased energy costs. Households between 150-200% of the federal poverty line will receive a reduced monthly payment on a sliding scale. Households over 200% poverty level will be eligible for a refundable tax credit, with benefits also on a sliding scale. ##
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed bipartisan legislation to boost employee ownership in private companies. The Encouraging Employee Ownership Act (H.R. 1343) was introduced by Congressman Randy Hultgren (IL-14), with Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) serving as the lead Democratic cosponsor of the bill. Congressman Delaney is the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in the House of Representatives and was recently named one of the 50 “World’s Greatest Leaders” by Fortune. The bill passed by a bipartisan 331-87 vote and now heads to the Senate. To view Congressman Delaney’s remarks during floor debate on the bill, click here. “Employee ownership is good for the company and good for employees and we should be doing more to encourage it,” said Congressman Delaney. “One of the biggest issues facing our economy is that low-income and middle class people haven’t benefited enough from economic gains and increases in productivity and profitability. More employee ownership addresses this problem head on by giving workers a literal stake in the companies they are building and that’s why this bill is so important. This bill eliminates de facto barriers to companies issuing additional stock to their employees and introduces a sensible inflation adjustment so that we can update a rule that both parties have long supported. I am proud to work with Congressman Hultgren on this bill and look forward it passing the Senate and becoming law.” The legislation updates the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) Rule 701 to allow private companies to offer more company stock options to their employees. Under Rule 701 currently, if a private company offers more than $5 million dollars in stock options in a given year as part of a compensation arrangement, they are subject to additional reporting requirements which could place them at a competitive disadvantage. H.R. 1343 raises that threshold to $10 million dollars, which would represent the first update in decades. ##
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON – Last night, President Donald J. Trump signed, S.J. Res 34, legislation that allows internet providers to collect, sell and share consumers’ browsing history, app usage, emails, location information and more without the permission of the user. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted against this bill on the House floor, where it passed in a 215-205 vote. S.J. Res 34 repealed existing Federal Communications Commission (FCC) user protections “President Trump refuses to release his tax returns and his visitor logs from Mar-A-Largo, but he’s happy to let internet providers sell people’s browsing history to the highest bidder. The bottom line is that President Trump cares about his privacy, but he doesn’t care about your privacy,” said Congressman Delaney. “My constituents are outraged by this and my office has been flooded with calls, emails and letters on this topic. If there’s one thing that the President has shown that he cares about it is public opinion and I encourage everyone to continue to speak out.” ##
03.30.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Congressman Walter B. Jones (NC-3) have re-introduced legislation to make it easier for working disabled veterans to receive medical care. The Delaney-Jones Medical Leave for Disabled Veterans Act expedites access to protected medical leave for veterans with service-connected disabilities, allowing them to receive treatment, while continuing to support themselves and their families. The Medical Leave for Disabled Veterans was first introduced by Delaney last Congress and has been endorsed by the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the American Legion, Disabled American Veterans, the Military Order of the Purple Heart, the Blue Water Vietnam Veterans Association and the Military Veterans Advocacy. “The Medical Leave for Disabled Veterans Act addresses two big issues that the American people are demanding action on: making sure disabled veterans have access to health care and helping them transition to civilian life. Access to protected medical leave is an important part of the puzzle and this commonsense bill speeds up their eligibility,” said Congressman Delaney. “I’m proud to work with Congressman Jones on the Medical Leave for Disabled Veterans Act and look forward to continuing to build support for this important bill.” “Our disabled veterans should not have to wait an entire year to receive the medical leave they need,” said Congressman Jones. “Thank you to Congressman Delaney and my fellow colleagues for lessening the burden of transition to civilian life and cosponsoring this important piece of legislation.” “Veterans who are ill or injured as result of their military service should not be forced to choose between their jobs or receiving health care for service-connected disabilities. The VFW thanks Congressman Delaney for his leadership in ensuring veterans have access to their earned health care benefits,” said Carlos Fuentes, Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) Legislative Director “It is imperative that this bill pass quickly, Disabled veterans need to have appropriate access to VA health care and this bill will ensure they can access that care with a minimum of problems. We owe our veterans smooth access to medical care,” said Commander J.B. Wells U.S. Navy (Retired), Executive Director, Military Veterans Advocacy, Inc. “This legislation will help veterans and their families when they are confronted by medical situations that require for them to be away from their jobs. MOPH fully Supports the Medical Leave for Disabled Veterans Act, and thanks Congressman Delaney for his work on this issue,” Aleks Morosky, National Legislative Director, Military Order of the Purple Heart. Under current law, disabled veterans – as well as all other workers – become eligible for job-protected unpaid medical leave only after they have been employed for a year under the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA). The Delaney-Jones legislation provides for FMLA protected leave for veterans with a disability rating of 30-50% after eight months on the job and FMLA protected leave for veterans with a disability rating of over 50% after six months. This bipartisan legislation is cosponsored by 25 House Members. ##
03.28.2017	WASHINGTON –Congressman John K. Delaney urges the White House and the Trump Administration to focus on pairing infrastructure and tax reform in a letter sent today to President Donald J. Trump, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and the White House’s Chief Economic Advisor Gary Cohn. Congressman Delaney has been the leading voice in Congress for using revenues from international tax reform to rebuild America’s infrastructure, authoring the Partnership to Build America Act and the Infrastructure 2.0 Act. In his letter, Congressman Delaney concludes, “a major deal on infrastructure and tax reform should be bipartisan and my colleagues and I have the blueprint for such a deal.” In his letter, Congressman Delaney writes, “accordingly and respectfully, I urge you to focus on areas where there is broad bipartisan agreement, which includes simplifying the code, lowering the corporate rate through the elimination of tax shelters and certain deductions, and most importantly, fixing our broken international tax system as part of a major infrastructure investment program. Such an approach would achieve important economic goals while also creating the framework for a bipartisan deal, something the country is desperately seeking.” The full letter is viewable online here and copied below. Congressman Delaney’s innovative infrastructure solution and years of work to build bipartisan consensus has led to him being named one of Fortune’s “World’s Greatest Leaders” in 2017. March 28, 2017 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, D.C. 20500 The Honorable Steven Mnuchin Secretary of the Treasury U.S. Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, D.C. 20220 Mr. Gary D. Cohn Chief Economic Advisor The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Trump, Secretary Mnuchin, and Mr. Cohn, I am pleased that you are moving on from repealing the Affordable Care Act and onto tax reform and infrastructure investment, but I am worried proposals to implement a misguided Border Adjustment Tax or unfair tax cuts for wealthy Americans will lead to the same divisive and wasteful process as the Affordable Care Act repeal. Accordingly and respectfully, I urge you to focus on areas where there is broad bipartisan agreement, which includes simplifying the code, lowering the corporate rate through the elimination of tax shelters and certain deductions, and most importantly, fixing our broken international tax system as part of a major infrastructure investment program. Such an approach would achieve important economic goals while also creating the framework for a bipartisan deal, something the country is desperately seeking. Across the last four years I have introduced two bills - the Partnership to Build America Act and the Infrastructure 2.0 Act - that pair fixing our broken international tax system and launching a massive infrastructure investment program. Each of these bills is bipartisan and collectively, since 2013, have garnered over 100 cosponsors total in the House and Senate, nearly equally split between parties. In particular, Infrastructure 2.0 would fund and fully pay for a $1 trillion national infrastructure program, it would lower international tax rates, broaden the base and create a pathway for over a trillion dollars of overseas cash to repatriate back to the United States. A major deal on infrastructure and tax reform should be bipartisan and my colleagues and I have the blueprint for such a deal. Sincerely, John K. Delaney Member of Congress
03.27.2017	WASHINGTON – During an interview with Bloomberg Television Friday, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) urged the White House to adopt a new bipartisan approach. Congressman Delaney argued that the health care debacle proved that working to implement the House Republican agenda unilaterally will not prove successful and that the President should drop the Border Adjustment Tax and begin gathering ideas from all sides on how to fix the tax code and fund a major infrastructure program. Congressman Delaney – who was named one of Fortune’s “World’s Greatest Leaders” last week – is the author of two pieces of bipartisan legislation to rebuild America’s infrastructure using revenues from international tax reform. The clip is viewable online here. The transcript of the discussion of infrastructure and tax reform is as follows: Margaret Talev - Bloomberg: So now the President is saying he wants to turn his focus to tax reform and to infrastructure. These are areas where it’s entirely possible that he would need some cooperation from Democrats, certainly they would want that in order to get the biggest deal that they could, but they may actually need that to get anything across the finish line. What’s the takeaway from the way that this healthcare debated vote has played out and what is the Democrats’ incentive to work with the Administration at this point on anything? Congressman Delaney: So I think moving to tax reform is the right answer. I think we should keep the Affordable Care Act in place, obviously, and we should work on fixing it. Whether we do that now or later in the year, I don’t think that’s as important as coming together to work on tax reform and infrastructure together. What you said there, Margaret, is really important, that we should be doing infrastructure and tax reform together because we’re never going to have a major infrastructure spending program unless we do it as part of tax reform because we need to generate the revenues to pay for it. I’ve got a bipartisan proposal to tie infrastructure investment to international tax reform. For example, when we fix the system that’s causing U.S. companies to keep all their cash overseas, and so I’m hopeful that after this defeat, and this embarrassment really, that the Administration actually comes to the Congress, both sides of the aisle, and says we’re not just going to follow the House Republican playbook, which is to try to get things done on a partisan basis. We’re going to work with the other side of the aisle. We’re not going to pursue this Border Adjustment Tax, which my colleagues in the House, on the Republican side of the aisle, have been pushing. I don’t think the Administration is that much in favor of it. I think it’s a really bad policy on a number of levels. I don’t know why you’d bet the whole U.S. economy on kind of a theory that’s intellectually interesting, but has never really been played out in this country. So what I’m hoping the president does is says to the country, I’m going to work with the Congress. I’m going to work on a bipartisan basis. This was a bad start here will healthcare. We’re going to move on to tax reform. We’re not just going to follow the playbook that the Republicans of the Congress are putting forth, which is this Border Adjustment Tax, and we’re going to try to do smart tax reform and pair it with infrastructure. Mark Crumpton - Bloomberg: But Congressman, it sounds good in theory when you talk about a bipartisan gathering of trying to get things done. Could you just give us an example of how poisoned the well is in Washington? Can you and the Republicans work together? Can you and the White House work together? Congressman Delaney: You know I think it’s really going to be a question for the House Republicans whether they want to work with the Democrats. I think the Democrats want to work with the President on infrastructure, we’ve said that repeatedly. A lot of us would like to work on tax reform. Right, so I think what the Administration should do is they should come to the Congress and say listen, let’s hear the various ideas for tax reform and infrastructure. Hear them from the Democrats. Hear them from the Republicans. Hear them from the different caucuses within the parties. Get the ideas out in the open, circulating in the public, and then try to work together, and obviously the Republicans control the Administration, and they control the Congress, so they’re ultimately going to set the agenda. But I think trying to start this next endeavor, tax reform, differently than what they did with healthcare because what they basically did with healthcare is they took an existing kind of Republican proposal, it wasn’t really vetted broadly, it certainly wasn’t vetted broadly with the American people, and then they quickly tried to jam it through. So the White House basically followed the lead of the House Republicans. I think on this next effort, on tax reform, they should pursue a different tact. What they should do is say they want to have an open process. They want to hear a bunch of ideas, including their own. They’re obviously going to shape the policy, but I think they should be taking a lead instead of letting the House Republicans take the lead and I think if they really want to lead on this, they should get a whole bunch of opinions. Get them out in the open, and have a transparent process where we come up with a tax reform infrastructure proposal that has an opportunity to get bipartisan support. Whether we can do that or not, who knows, but at least we should try. ##
03.24.2017	WASHINGTON – Following the Republicans’ failure to keep their core campaign promise to repeal the Affordable Care Act and take away the health care coverage of 24 million people, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) calls upon President Trump to avoid another policy debacle and focus on policies that actually benefit the United States and grow the economy. Congressman Delaney calls upon President Trump to denounce Speaker Ryan’s border adjustment tax and work with both parties on an infrastructure package funded by international tax reform. This week, Congressman Delaney reintroduced bipartisan legislation to use repatriation to rebuild America. “President Trump should learn from this health care debacle and chart a new strategy that’s based on good policy, not keeping empty campaign promises. He should denounce the anti-growth border adjustment tax and start working with a bipartisan coalition on a real infrastructure deal,” said Congressman Delaney. “If Trump doesn’t reject the border adjustment tax and other pet projects from congressional leadership, any positive pieces of his agenda will drown in the swamp.” Congressman Delaney and Congressman Rodney Davis (IL-13) have introduced the Partnership to Build America Act, legislation that creates a new American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) to finance state and local infrastructure projects. The AIF is capitalized through a one-time bond sale to U.S. corporations looking to repatriate a portion of their international earnings. Congressman Delaney and Congressman Ted Yoho (FL-3) have filed the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, which creates both the American Infrastructure Fund and provides additional revenues to expand the Highway Trust Fund using more comprehensive international tax reform. Congressman Delaney first introduced this framework - combining international tax reform and increased infrastructure investment in 2013. The Partnership to Build America Act – Filed by Rep. Delaney, Rep. Davis Lead Cosponsor The American Infrastructure Fund The Partnership to Build America Act creates the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) to provide financing to state and local governments for new infrastructure. Transportation, energy, communications, water and education projects are eligible to receive AIF financing. Local governments would apply directly to the AIF for support. To encourage public-private partnerships 35% of AIF supported projects must have at least 10% of their financing be private debt or equity. The AIF will be capitalized by $50 billion in infrastructure bond sales and leveraged at a 15:1 ratio to provide up to $750 billion in loans or guarantees. Funded by an Infrastructure Bond Sale Rather than using appropriated funds out of the federal budget to establish the American Infrastructure Fund, the Partnership to Build America Act uses a bond sale. AIF bonds would have a 50-year term, pay a 1% fixed rate return and would not be guaranteed by the U.S. government. These bonds are not intended to be a good investment on their own and are transferable after purchase. To incentivize companies to purchase these bonds, U.S. companies would be allowed to repatriate a certain amount of their overseas earnings tax free for every $1.00 they invest in the bonds. This multiplier will be set by a “reverse Dutch auction” – which allows the market to set the rate, ensuring that enough funds are raised. Assuming a 1:4 ratio is set by the auction; a company will be able to repatriate $4.00 tax-free for every $1 in AIF bonds they purchase. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act – Filed by Rep. Delaney, Rep. Yoho Lead Cosponsor Building a World Class 21st Century Infrastructure with Revenue from Deemed Repatriation at 8.75% Tax Rate Under the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, existing overseas profits accumulated by U.S. multi-national corporations would be subject to a mandatory, one-time 8.75% tax, replacing deferral option and current rate of 35%. $120 billion to the Highway Trust Fund, enough to meet funding gap at increased levels for six years. $50 billion to capitalize the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) $25 million pilot program to create regional infrastructure accelerators, similar to the West Coast Infrastructure Exchange This frees the estimated $2 trillion in overseas earnings to return to the United States, spurring private sector re-investment and growth. Creating Long-term Highway Trust Fund Solvency and Policy Certainty The Infrastructure 2.0 Act provides six years of Highway Trust Fund solvency, providing immediate certainty to the private sector and policymakers. The legislation also establishes a bipartisan and bicameral commission that is tasked with developing a solution for permanent solvency of the Highway Trust Fund. Building a Path for Broader Tax Reform The Infrastructure 2.0 Act creates an eighteen-month deadline for international tax reform. To encourage action, the legislation includes a forcing function: if reform is not enacted, a fallback international tax package to make U.S. business climate more competitive would be implemented. This pro-growth fallback reform package would end deferral, reduce anti-competitive over taxation, decrease taxes for companies paying fair rates abroad but increase taxes for companies in tax havens. This would eliminate the lock-out effect and allow for the free flow of profits back to the United States. Under this option, for Active Market Foreign Income, a company would pay a 12.25% tax to the U.S. on overseas profits if they are currently paying no tax and a 2% tax to the U.S. if they are already paying the OECD average of 25% abroad, with a sliding scale in-between. ##
03.24.2017	WASHINGTON – Today Speaker Paul Ryan pulled the American Health Care Act, Republican legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act, from the floor after it was clear that it did not have the votes to pass the House. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, the legislation would have meant that the number of Americans without insurance would have increased by 24 million. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) strongly opposes the American Health Care Act and releases the following statement: “I stand with my constituents in opposition to the American Health Care Act. Because the American people spoke up and made their voices heard we were able to defeat this effort to pass this bill. “This legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act is one of the cruelest and most poorly-constructed policy proposals I have ever seen. This bill will mean millions of people lose their health care coverage outright. For many other Americans, costs will increase and the quality of coverage options will decrease. Somehow, over the last week, this bill got even worse, as essential health benefits were taken out and as the President and hardliners scrambled to jam through legislation that will impact the lives of nearly every American with no oversight, no transparency and no deliberation. “I make it a point of principle to take every bill we see in this House in good faith, whether it comes from a Republican or a Democrat and give it a fair and impartial analysis. Sadly, from the very beginning it was clear that this was a devastating bill for millions of people, designed to quickly meet a partisan campaign agenda, not actually help the country or reform our health care system in a thoughtful way. Like all pieces of legislation, the Affordable Care Act isn’t perfect and we should work together diligently to fix it, because for too many people quality and affordable health care is still out of reach.” ##
03.23.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has been named one of the World’s Greatest Leaders by Fortune. Congressman Delaney was the only member of the House of Representatives to make the list, which highlights those who “excel at leading effectively in today’s environment.” According to Fortune, the leaders on their list – which includes Pope Francis, Joe Biden, Jeff Bezos and Melinda Gates – acknowledge reality and offer hope, bring followers physically together and build bridges. Since first taking office in 2013, Congressman Delaney has been recognized for his innovative solution to the nation’s infrastructure crisis and broken tax code: using revenues from international tax reform to rebuild roads and bridges at home. Congressman Delaney comes in at 13 on the Fortune Greatest Leaders list. Fortune writes: “Being a House Democrat in a government Republicans dominate entirely sounds like a recipe for irrelevance. But one of the new administration’s signature issues, rebuilding the nation’s infrastructure, is a problem Delaney has focused on since he arrived in Congress four years ago. Delaney is pushing a business-friendly solution: He wants to tap proceeds from repatriated foreign profits to seed public-­private partnerships that will take on new projects. That may be the best option for unleashing major spending without blowing a hole in the federal deficit.” This week, Congressman Delaney re-introduced the Partnership to Build America Act and the Infrastructure 2.0 Act with bipartisan support. Delaney has advocated for this framework for the last four years, drawing support from over 40 Republican and 40 Democratic cosponsors in the House and Senate since 2013. Delaney’s framework was also included in President Obama’s budget. President-elect Donald Trump has repeatedly stated his support for new infrastructure and for international tax reform. ##
03.22.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has filed today two bipartisan infrastructure bills that use revenues from international tax reform to rebuild America, create good-paying jobs and improve our economic competitiveness. As Congress and the White House debate America’s infrastructure policy, these two bills offer a framework that has bipartisan support and is fully paid-for. Congressman Delaney and Congressman Rodney Davis (IL-13) have introduced the Partnership to Build America Act, legislation that creates a new American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) to finance state and local infrastructure projects. The AIF is capitalized through a one-time bond sale to U.S. corporations looking to repatriate a portion of their international earnings. Congressman Delaney and Congressman Ted Yoho (FL-3) have filed the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, which creates both the American Infrastructure Fund and provides additional revenues to expand the Highway Trust Fund using more comprehensive international tax reform. Congressman Delaney first introduced this framework - combining international tax reform and increased infrastructure investment in 2013. “Our infrastructure solution delivers a triple bottom-line: it creates good-paying jobs, boosts our long-term economic competitiveness and improves the quality of life of millions of people,” said Congressman Delaney. “There is a lot of interest on both sides of the aisle in infrastructure and our solution bridges the partisan gap. Our broken tax code and our crumbling infrastructure are two problems that are dragging down productivity and economic growth and tackling these two problems at once would be completely transformative for our long-term trajectory. I’m proud to work with Congressman Davis and Congressman Yoho to rebuild America and build support on both sides of the aisle to get a smart bipartisan deal done.” “If our country is going to invest in infrastructure and spur job creation, we need innovative, bipartisan funding solutions like this legislation that brings public and private entities together to leverage more investments,” said Congressman Davis. “Local governments in my district are always looking for opportunities to advance new projects and fix their infrastructure, but too often they come up short because of a lack of funding from Washington. I’m encouraged by President-elect Trump's interest in passing an infrastructure bill and reforming our tax code. I hope the Partnership to Build America Act will be part of it.” “Infrastructure 2.0 is a common sense bill that repatriates overseas profits at 8.75%, creates jobs, and improves our nation’s infrastructure,” said Congressman Yoho. “By bringing those profits home, in addition to funds already appropriated, it will bolster the Highway Trust Fund. Along with the Partnership to Build America Act, it will create a new investment bank for our towns and cities. This will allow them to leverage private funds to repair our neglected infrastructure. By doing this, we will be able to bring our crumbling infrastructure into the 21st century.” The Partnership to Build America Act – Filed by Rep. Delaney, Rep. Davis Lead Cosponsor The American Infrastructure Fund The Partnership to Build America Act creates the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) to provide financing to state and local governments for new infrastructure. Transportation, energy, communications, water and education projects are eligible to receive AIF financing. Local governments would apply directly to the AIF for support. To encourage public-private partnerships 35% of AIF supported projects must have at least 10% of their financing be private debt or equity. The AIF will be capitalized by $50 billion in infrastructure bond sales and leveraged at a 15:1 ratio to provide up to $750 billion in loans or guarantees. Funded by an Infrastructure Bond Sale Rather than using appropriated funds out of the federal budget to establish the American Infrastructure Fund, the Partnership to Build America Act uses a bond sale. AIF bonds would have a 50-year term, pay a 1% fixed rate return and would not be guaranteed by the U.S. government. These bonds are not intended to be a good investment on their own and are transferable after purchase. To incentivize companies to purchase these bonds, U.S. companies would be allowed to repatriate a certain amount of their overseas earnings tax free for every $1.00 they invest in the bonds. This multiplier will be set by a “reverse Dutch auction” – which allows the market to set the rate, ensuring that enough funds are raised. Assuming a 1:4 ratio is set by the auction; a company will be able to repatriate $4.00 tax-free for every $1 in AIF bonds they purchase. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act – Filed by Rep. Delaney, Rep. Yoho Lead Cosponsor Building a World Class 21st Century Infrastructure with Revenue from Deemed Repatriation at 8.75% Tax Rate Under the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, existing overseas profits accumulated by U.S. multi-national corporations would be subject to a mandatory, one-time 8.75% tax, replacing deferral option and current rate of 35%. $120 billion to the Highway Trust Fund, enough to meet funding gap at increased levels for six years. $50 billion to capitalize the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) $25 million pilot program to create regional infrastructure accelerators, similar to the West Coast Infrastructure Exchange This frees the estimated $2 trillion in overseas earnings to return to the United States, spurring private sector re-investment and growth. Creating Long-term Highway Trust Fund Solvency and Policy Certainty The Infrastructure 2.0 Act provides six years of Highway Trust Fund solvency, providing immediate certainty to the private sector and policymakers. The legislation also establishes a bipartisan and bicameral commission that is tasked with developing a solution for permanent solvency of the Highway Trust Fund. Building a Path for Broader Tax Reform The Infrastructure 2.0 Act creates an eighteen-month deadline for international tax reform. To encourage action, the legislation includes a forcing function: if reform is not enacted, a fallback international tax package to make U.S. business climate more competitive would be implemented. This pro-growth fallback reform package would end deferral, reduce anti-competitive over taxation, decrease taxes for companies paying fair rates abroad but increase taxes for companies in tax havens. This would eliminate the lock-out effect and allow for the free flow of profits back to the United States. Under this option, for Active Market Foreign Income, a company would pay a 12.25% tax to the U.S. on overseas profits if they are currently paying no tax and a 2% tax to the U.S. if they are already paying the OECD average of 25% abroad, with a sliding scale in-between. ##
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) filed bipartisan legislation today reaffirming the United States’ commitment to North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). Congressman Mike Coffman (CO-6), Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53) and Congresswoman Ann Wagner (MO-2) are the lead cosponsors of the resolution, which has 18 cosponsors. NATO’s collective defense agreement was invoked for the first time following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and NATO has been a critical partner in U.S. efforts to combat terrorism. Last summer, at the Warsaw Summit, NATO leaders recognized cyberspace as a new operational domain and agreed to strengthen the Alliance’s military presence in Eastern Europe. The Delaney-Coffman-Davis-Wagner resolution sends a clear message that members of both parties in the House of Representatives believe that NATO is vital to U.S. security interests. The resolution restates U.S. commitment to NATO, establishes that NATO is a crucial component of broader transatlantic security, affirms NATO’s importance in the fight against terrorism and encourages each member of the Alliance to make proper investments in defense. “If you care about America’s national security, you have to care about having a strong NATO,” said Congressman John K. Delaney. “This bipartisan resolution cuts through the noise and sends a clear message to our closest security partners and allies that the United States is fully committed to NATO. There are few promises more powerful than collective defense and when the United States was attacked, our NATO partners were there. NATO is also an essential part of our security portfolio when it comes to counter-terrorism, intelligence and cybersecurity. As Russian aggression continues and the threat of terrorism rises in Europe, the last thing we should do is undermine NATO, which is why this resolution calls for a stronger and more robust Alliance. I thank Congressman Coffman, Congresswoman Davis, Congresswoman Wagner and all of our cosponsors for their partnership on this resolution.” “As a Marine Corps combat veteran and member of the Armed Services Committee, I understand fully that NATO is a critical component of our national security and foreign policy,” said Congressman Mike Coffman. “Given the serious threats and challenges we face today—not only from the actions of nation states like Russia, Iran, and North Korea, but also from terrorist organizations like Al Qaeda and ISIS—America’s leadership and support of NATO is more important than ever. I am proud to help lead introduction of this important resolution that expresses our continued support for NATO, while encouraging our allies to meet or exceed their commitment to spend two percent of GDP on defense.” “As a senior member of the House Armed Services committee, I have personally seen the enduring strength and necessity of the NATO alliance,” said Congresswoman Susan Davis. “NATO was founded with the ideals of democracy, individual liberty, and the desire for peaceful resolutions of disputes; all things that we as Americans must continue to fully support around the world. I will encourage all of my colleagues to reaffirm our commitment to NATO as the foundation of transatlantic security and defense.” “Our strong alliance with NATO is critical to the national security and defense of the United States,” said Congresswoman Ann Wagner. “In the face of threatening geopolitical challenges ranging from cyber warfare to terrorism to Russian aggression, it is incumbent on the United States and our European allies to reinvigorate our global commitment to international order and improve our deterrence capabilities. As a former United States Ambassador to Luxembourg and a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I urge my colleagues to defend our country’s commitment to NATO and safeguard the freedom and security of all its members.” ##
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON – President Trump’s budget proposal includes major cuts in infrastructure investment, cutting the Department of Transportation’s budget by 13%. The White House proposal eliminates the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant program entirely, a $499 million dollar reduction in America’s infrastructure investment. Trump’s proposal also cuts infrastructure investment in rural airports and rail. Later this month Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) will reintroduce two pieces of bipartisan legislation to rebuild America’s infrastructure using revenues from international tax reform, the Partnership to Build America Act and the Infrastructure 2.0 Act. “President Trump’s hypocrisy on infrastructure is astounding,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “Less than a month ago the President talked about building gleaming new infrastructure, but when it comes time to put up or shut up, we see cuts, not anything signaling new investment. Instead of pulling a bait-and-switch on the American people, the President should embrace the only real bipartisan solution that exists, our plan to use international tax reform to rebuild America.” During the last two Congresses, over 40 Democrats and 40 Republicans have cosponsored Delaney legislation to fund and finance new infrastructure investment using revenues from repatriation. Delaney is a Co-Chair of the New Democrat Coalition’s Task Force on Infrastructure. The Partnership to Build America Act The American Infrastructure Fund The Partnership to Build America Act creates the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) to provide financing to state and local governments for new infrastructure. Transportation, energy, communications, water and education projects are eligible to receive AIF financing. Local governments would apply directly to the AIF for support. To encourage public-private partnerships 35% of AIF supported projects must have at least 10% of their financing be private debt or equity. The AIF will be capitalized by $50 billion in infrastructure bond sales and leveraged at a 15:1 ratio to provide up to $750 billion in loans or guarantees. Funded by an Infrastructure Bond Sale Rather than using appropriated funds out of the federal budget to establish the American Infrastructure Fund, the Partnership to Build America Act uses a bond sale. AIF bonds would have a 50-year term, pay a 1% fixed rate return and would not be guaranteed by the U.S. government. These bonds are not intended to be a good investment on their own and are transferable after purchase. To incentivize companies to purchase these bonds, U.S. companies would be allowed to repatriate a certain amount of their overseas earnings tax free for every $1.00 they invest in the bonds. This multiplier will be set by a “reverse Dutch auction” – which allows the market to set the rate, ensuring that enough funds are raised. Assuming a 1:4 ratio is set by the auction; a company will be able to repatriate $4.00 tax-free for every $1 in AIF bonds they purchase. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act Building a World Class 21st Century Infrastructure with Revenue from Deemed Repatriation at 8.75% Tax Rate Under the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, existing overseas profits accumulated by U.S. multi-national corporations would be subject to a mandatory, one-time 8.75% tax, replacing deferral option and current rate of 35%. $120 billion to the Highway Trust Fund, enough to meet funding gap at increased levels for six years. $50 billion to capitalize the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) $25 million pilot program to create regional infrastructure accelerators, similar to the West Coast Infrastructure Exchange This frees the estimated $2 trillion in overseas earnings to return to the United States, spurring private sector re-investment and growth. Creating Long-term Highway Trust Fund Solvency and Policy Certainty The Infrastructure 2.0 Act provides six years of Highway Trust Fund solvency, providing immediate certainty to the private sector and policymakers. The legislation also establishes a bipartisan and bicameral commission that is tasked with developing a solution for permanent solvency of the Highway Trust Fund. Building a Path for Broader Tax Reform The Infrastructure 2.0 Act creates an eighteen-month deadline for international tax reform. To encourage action, the legislation includes a forcing function: if reform is not enacted, a fallback international tax package to make U.S. business climate more competitive would be implemented. This pro-growth fallback reform package would end deferral, reduce anti-competitive over taxation, decrease taxes for companies paying fair rates abroad but increase taxes for companies in tax havens. This would eliminate the lock-out effect and allow for the free flow of profits back to the United States. Under this option, for Active Market Foreign Income, a company would pay a 12.25% tax to the U.S. on overseas profits if they are currently paying no tax and a 2% tax to the U.S. if they are already paying the OECD average of 25% abroad, with a sliding scale in-between. ##
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON – Today President Trump released his first budget proposal, outlining his blueprint for the next fiscal year. The White House budget includes drastic cuts to domestic programs, including large reductions in education grants, transportation, science and research, economic development programs, and assistance to the poor. President Trump’s budget includes a 19% cut to the National Institutes of Health, a complete elimination of federal support for Chesapeake Bay cleanup and an elimination of the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), an agency tasked with boosting economic development in Appalachia, including the three western most counties in Maryland. In 2016 alone, local projects in Garrett, Allegany and Washington County received over $1.8 million in ARC funding. According to analysis by Moody’s Analytics reported in the Washington Post, President Trump’s budget proposals could increase unemployment in the capital region by 1.8%, reduce personal income by 3.5% and lower home prices by 1.9%. “Donald Trump’s economically illiterate budget is an attack on Maryland and a disaster for our economy,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “Every elected official in Maryland should be marching to the White House to object to this budget. This budget guts the National Institutes of Health, eliminates federal funding to clean up the Chesapeake Bay and eliminates federal economic development grants to Western Maryland. There’s no way of spinning this: from Cumberland to the Chesapeake to St. Mary’s this budget is an assault on Maryland’s economy, environment and quality of life. This budget is terrible national policy but it’s even worse for Maryland, and anyone who doesn’t fight back is doing a disservice to our state. I call on Governor Hogan in particular, since he is in the same party as the President, to forcefully reject this budget. “By cutting federal support for education, science and medical research, clean energy and transportation, this budget hurts our long-term economic prospects and hurts America’s ability to compete in a global economy. I don’t think anyone expected President Trump’s budget to help the vulnerable and less fortunate and predictably this budget cruelly punishes those in need, but it’s shocking to see a purported business leader actively hurt our long-term business climate so brazenly. President Trump’s budget flat-out hurts our ability to compete in high-wage industries like next generation energy production, biosciences, medicine and cyber. You don’t put America first by making the country less educated, dirtier and more isolated.” President Trump’s budget: Eliminates the Appalachian Regional Commission, which provided over $1.8 million in economic development grants to Western Maryland in 2016. Eliminates funding for the TIGER grant infrastructure program, a $499 million dollar cut to America’s infrastructure. Eliminates the Essential Air Service program which supports rural airports, including the Hagerstown Regional Airport. Eliminates the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, which assists families with heating and cooling costs. Eliminates funding for the National Endowment for the Arts and the National Endowment for the Humanities. Includes a 19% cut to the National Institutes of Health, reducing funding by $5.8 billion. Includes a 29% cut to the State Department, including major cuts to diplomacy, development and climate change programs Includes a 31% cut to the Environmental Protection Agency and a full elimination of federal support for Chesapeake Bay cleanup as well as over 50 other environmental programs. Includes a 21% cut to the Department of Agriculture with major cuts to nutrition assistance programs. Includes a 14% cut to the Department of Education, including reductions to before-school and after-school programs and financial aid. Includes a 6% cut to the Department of Energy and major cuts to climate science and clean energy programs. ##
03.13.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Senators Chris Van Hollen and Ben Cardin (both D-Md) led the full Maryland Congressional Delegation, including Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6), in urging Department of Transportation Secretary Chao to consider critical state infrastructure projects as part of the FASTLANE grant system. The lawmakers highlighted three projects, making clear that each are vital to improving the economy and transportation across the state: Howard Street Tunnel project, which is aimed at improving freight movement out of the Port of Baltimore Access I-95 Project, which will increase accessibility to growth and development in Baltimore City while ensuring efficient movement of traffic on the I-95 corridor I-81 Corridor Widening Project, which would increase capacity on a critical freight corridor that carries over 19,400 trucks per day and has seen its accident rate double between 2010 and 2015 “As members representing Maryland, a state with a diverse network of urban and rural environments and multiple modes of transportation in close proximity to our nation’s capital, we look forward to working with you to develop and implement innovative and effective ways to create 21st century transportation systems,” they wrote. The letter was signed by U.S. Senators Chris Van Hollen and Ben Cardin and Congressmen Steny Hoyer, Elijah Cummings, Dutch Ruppersberger, John Sarbanes, Andy Harris, John Delaney, Anthony Brown, and Jamie Raskin. The full text is below: Dear Secretary Chao, Congratulations on your new position as Secretary of the Department of Transportation. As members representing Maryland, a state with a diverse network of urban and rural environments and multiple modes of transportation in close proximity to our nation’s capital, we look forward to working with you to develop and implement innovative and effective ways to create 21st century transportation systems. As you know, Congress created an important tool for addressing large-scale transportation problems in the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST Act). This new program for projects of national or regional significance, the Fostering Advancements in Shipping and Transportation for the Long-term Achievement of National Efficiencies (FASTLANE) grants, was authorized at $4.5 billion for fiscal years 2016 through 2020. Funds are already being used on projects across the country to reduce congestion, improve connectivity between modes, and move people and goods more efficiently. In October of 2016, the Department of Transportation announced a Notice of Funding Opportunity for a second round of FASTLANE grants. Maryland applied for three projects of critical significance to more efficient movement of freight and reduction of bottlenecks in our state that have implications on the national freight system. The Department of Transportation did not award these grants before the last Administration left office, and we urge you to review this program and these applications and make second round awards as quickly as possible. We believe Maryland has submitted highly-competitive applications for this program. The Howard Street Tunnel project is aimed at improving freight movement out of the Port of Baltimore, a productive port with deep water berths and on-dock rail service that can handle larger ships out of the Panama Canal. The Port’s major challenge is the 121-year-old Howard Street Tunnel, which cannot accommodate double-stack rail. For years, such modifications carried a price tag of over $1 billion, but technology advancements by CSX on other projects have reduced costs significantly, and CSX and the State of Maryland have committed to funding their share. Modernizing the Howard Street Tunnel will benefit 24 states and the District of Columbia who depend on the efficient movement of goods from the Port of Baltimore. The Access I-95 Project will increase accessibility to growth and development in Baltimore City while ensuring efficient movement of traffic on the I-95 corridor. The package of improvements is intended to accommodate increased traffic around the Port Covington redevelopment and ensure that it is connected to surrounded communities. It would add capacity to allow for near- and long-term economic development. The I-81 Corridor Widening Project would increase capacity on a critical freight corridor that carries over 19,400 trucks per day and has seen its accident rate double between 2010 and 2015. The project would add two travel lanes, rebuild bridges and overpasses, and make interchange improvements along the congested 12 mile segment between the West Virginia and Pennsylvania state lines. This will accommodate increasing freight traffic for decades to come and improve safety for all drivers. We urge you to consider these important projects and move expeditiously to award the second round of FASTLANE grants. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, ###
03.09.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) released their 2017 Report Card for America’s Infrastructure, giving the United States a cumulative grade of D+. Among the specific grades, ASCE graded America’s roads a D, America’s dams a D, drinking water a D and ports a C+. “American families, workers and businesses deserve better than a D+ infrastructure. After getting this report card, if Congress and the President don’t act, everyone should be sent to detention,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “Reading this report should be mandatory homework for every member of Congress and President Trump. This alarming report makes it clear that we have a national infrastructure crisis and we need a real solution - no more gimmicks, no more patches. In today’s political climate, the only way we can solve a problem this big is with an innovative solution that cuts through the gridlock and that’s using revenues from international tax reform to rebuild here at home.” Since taking office in 2013, Congressman Delaney has been a national leader on infrastructure policy, spearheading the effort to rebuild America’s infrastructure using revenues from international tax reform. Over 40 Democrats and 40 Republicans have cosponsored Delaney legislation to fund and finance new infrastructure investment using repatriation. Congressman Delaney has two bills combining international tax reform and infrastructure investment. The Partnership to Build America Act creates a new American Infrastructure Fund to finance state and local infrastructure projects. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act, which includes more comprehensive tax reforms, creates both the American Infrastructure Fund and provides additional long-term revenues to stabilize and expand the Highway Trust Fund. (Full bill summaries below.) ASCE’s full 2017 Report Card for America’s Infrastructure is available online here. The American Society of Civil Engineers represents more than 150,000 members of the civil engineering profession and was founded in 1852. The Partnership to Build America Act The American Infrastructure Fund The Partnership to Build America Act creates the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) to provide financing to state and local governments for new infrastructure. Transportation, energy, communications, water and education projects are eligible to receive AIF financing. Local governments would apply directly to the AIF for support. To encourage public-private partnerships 35% of AIF supported projects must have at least 10% of their financing be private debt or equity. The AIF will be capitalized by $50 billion in infrastructure bond sales and leveraged at a 15:1 ratio to provide up to $750 billion in loans or guarantees. Funded by an Infrastructure Bond Sale Rather than using appropriated funds out of the federal budget to establish the American Infrastructure Fund, the Partnership to Build America Act uses a bond sale. AIF bonds would have a 50-year term, pay a 1% fixed rate return and would not be guaranteed by the U.S. government. These bonds are not intended to be a good investment on their own and are transferable after purchase. To incentivize companies to purchase these bonds, U.S. companies would be allowed to repatriate a certain amount of their overseas earnings tax free for every $1.00 they invest in the bonds. This multiplier will be set by a “reverse Dutch auction” – which allows the market to set the rate, ensuring that enough funds are raised. Assuming a 1:4 ratio is set by the auction; a company will be able to repatriate $4.00 tax-free for every $1 in AIF bonds they purchase. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act Building a World Class 21st Century Infrastructure with Revenue from Deemed Repatriation at 8.75% Tax Rate Under the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, existing overseas profits accumulated by U.S. multi-national corporations would be subject to a mandatory, one-time 8.75% tax, replacing deferral option and current rate of 35%. $120 billion to the Highway Trust Fund, enough to meet funding gap at increased levels for six years. $50 billion to capitalize the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) $25 million pilot program to create regional infrastructure accelerators, similar to the West Coast Infrastructure Exchange This frees the estimated $2 trillion in overseas earnings to return to the United States, spurring private sector re-investment and growth. Creating Long-term Highway Trust Fund Solvency and Policy Certainty The Infrastructure 2.0 Act provides six years of Highway Trust Fund solvency, providing immediate certainty to the private sector and policymakers. The legislation also establishes a bipartisan and bicameral commission that is tasked with developing a solution for permanent solvency of the Highway Trust Fund. Building a Path for Broader Tax Reform The Infrastructure 2.0 Act creates an eighteen-month deadline for international tax reform. To encourage action, the legislation includes a forcing function: if reform is not enacted, a fallback international tax package to make U.S. business climate more competitive would be implemented. This pro-growth fallback reform package would end deferral, reduce anti-competitive over taxation, decrease taxes for companies paying fair rates abroad but increase taxes for companies in tax havens. This would eliminate the lock-out effect and allow for the free flow of profits back to the United States. Under this option, for Active Market Foreign Income, a company would pay a 12.25% tax to the U.S. on overseas profits if they are currently paying no tax and a 2% tax to the U.S. if they are already paying the OECD average of 25% abroad, with a sliding scale in-between. ##
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON – Wednesday the House passed H.R. 1301, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for 2017. The legislation reflects a bipartisan agreement between the House and Senate on funding the Department of Defense (DOD). Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted for the bill, which now is sent to the Senate for approval. The bill increases overall funding levels, includes a pay raise for members of the military and civilian DOD employees as well as important measures to improve military readiness, combat terrorism and counter Russian aggression. The bill also supports cooperative security programs with Israel and includes increased funding for cybersecurity and defense health care programs and funding for sexual assault prevention programs. “I’m proud to work with members on both sides of the aisle to strengthen our national security, strengthen key alliances and fight our enemies,” said Congressman Delaney. “This bill includes important measures that will improve our readiness, help us fight terrorism, boost cybersecurity and give our military a well-deserved raise. This isn’t a perfect bill, but it is a very necessary piece of our national security portfolio and I urge its prompt passage in the Senate and signature from the White House.” ##
03.06.2017	WASHINGTON – President Trump signed a new travel ban Monday that imposes a 90-day ban on new visas from six majority-Muslim nations and a 120 day suspension of refugee resettlement from any nation among other changes. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “In a very short time in office, President Trump has done much to undermine our standing in the world, jeopardize our counter-terrorism efforts and endanger innocent people, who are fleeing our common enemies sometimes simply because of their faith. The Administration has given no coherent explanation as to why individuals from these six countries are subject to a ban but not individuals from numerous other nations that have hosted radicalized terrorists in the past. Past actions by the Administration - including those that resulted in chaos at airports around the world – have made it plain that the President and his team have limited understanding of the current refugee vetting process, which can take years already, or no desire to ground their policies in the facts. This attempt to revive his first unconstitutional executive order appears to be nothing more than an attempt to repackage that prior order, which is effectively a religious ban. I would prefer he focus on policies that will actually make us safer." ##
03.03.2017	HAGERSTOWN – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) hosted an Opioid Addiction Workshop Thursday evening at Northern Middle School in Hagerstown. Over 200 Marylanders attended the event, which featured federal, state and local agencies as well as addiction treatment and recovery experts and providers. The workshop was the 26th constituent services workshop Congressman Delaney has held since 2015 and included a panel discussion and an opportunity for attendees to speak with agency and organization representatives one-on-one. “Opioid addiction is a crisis that has hit home in every zip code in Maryland and so many families have been hurt. Everyone in the room felt that at our workshop as there was deeply powerful testimony from parents, friends and family and people who work to help others,” said Congressman Delaney. “This workshop was designed to bring federal, state and local resources together in one room, so that attendees can learn more about what’s available to them and how they can help their friends and families. This is a massive problem and complex problem and I think we have to work together at all levels of government. Some initial steps have been taken but we’ve got so much more to do and I support more federal funding into research, treatment and grants to state and local programs. I also believe that Congress should listen to local leaders in communities like Hagerstown and highlight what’s working and take back to Washington feedback on what’s not working as well.” The workshop featured representatives from: Federal Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) Hagerstown Resident Office Martinsburg VA Medical Center Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (DHMH) Washington County Health Department Allegany County Health Department Western Maryland Health Insurance Connector Waystation Inc. Meritus Medical Center Frederick Memorial Hospital Local and regional addiction treatment, recovery and therapy providers Local addiction support groups ##
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON – The Washington Post reported late Wednesday that then-Senator Jeff Sessions spoke twice last year with Russia’s ambassador to the United States according to Justice Department officials. Sessions did not disclose any encounters of this nature during his confirmation process to become the Attorney General. During testimony under oath on January 10, Sessions stated that he “did not have communications with the Russians.” “Attorney General Sessions mislead the Senate about a matter of grave national security importance which has already eroded the confidence of the American people in the new Administration. Sessions’s continued presence as Attorney General will continue to call into question whether or not we can have a full and independent investigation into the relationship between Russia, the Trump campaign and the Trump Administration. Instead of corroding public confidence in the bedrock of our institutions any further, Mr. Sessions, for the good of the country, should resign immediately.” ##
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON – Maryland’s bipartisan Congressional delegation, led by Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, with Congressmen Steny H. Hoyer, Anthony Brown, Elijah E. Cummings, John K. Delaney, Andy Harris, Jamie Raskin, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger and John P. Sarbanes have written to Rod Rosenstein, U.S. Attorney for the District of Maryland, and his counterpart at the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI), Gordon B. Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, Baltimore, to use “the full resources of the Justice Department to investigate and prosecute hate crimes and violence in the state of Maryland.” As recent as Monday, another wave of threats to Jewish day schools and institutions occurred across the country, including Jewish day schools in Rockville and Annapolis, and a Jewish Community Center in Owings Mills. The delegation wrote: “In Maryland, bomb threats have disrupted classroom activities as well as events at Jewish community centers, coupled with the rise of neo-Nazi propaganda. These hate-filled threats are intended to strike fear across the country and represent a troubling trend that we must bring to an end. … Each threat needs to be treated with the utmost seriousness as we band together to discourage such vicious language and activity.” The full letter is below and can be found at this link. March 1, 2017 Mr. Rod J. Rosenstein Mr. Gordon B. Johnson U.S. Attorney for the District of Maryland Special Agent in Charge, Baltimore U.S. Department of Justice Federal Bureau of Investigation 36th S. Charles Street, 4th floor 2600 Lord Baltimore Drive Baltimore, MD 21201 Baltimore, MD 21244 Dear U.S. Attorney Rosenstein and Special Agent in Charge Johnson: We write to express our grave concern about the recent rise in the number of anti-Semitic and religious discrimination incidents in the state of Maryland and the need for a strong federal response. In Maryland, bomb threats have disrupted classroom activities as well as events at Jewish community centers, coupled with the rise of neo-Nazi propaganda. These hate-filled threats are intended to strike fear across the country and represent a troubling trend that we must bring to an end. Leaders from the national level to the neighborhood level must speak out forcefully against this kind of intolerance. This is not only a concern of Jewish communities. Religious-based threats, vandalism and threats of violence, whether anti-Semitic or targeted at Muslim-Americans or other religions, are not only criminal but fan the flames of extremism that tears apart societies. Each threat needs to be treated with the utmost seriousness as we band together to discourage such vicious language and activity. We ask you to use the full resources of the Justice Department to investigate and prosecute hate crimes and violence in the state of Maryland when jurisdiction exists to protect federal civil rights, including the resources available from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Civil Rights Division, and Community Relations Service. We urge you to work closely with state and local law enforcement authorities to ensure close cooperation on investigation and prosecution of hate crimes and to improve training and reporting of such crimes to the federal government. We pledge our full cooperation in these efforts. Thank you for your consideration. We look forward to your timely response and working closely with your offices to protect the civil rights and civil liberties of all Marylanders. Sincerely, Cc: Attorney General Jeff Sessions, DOJ Jim Comey, FBI Director Brian Frosh, Maryland Attorney General ###
02.28.2017	WASHINGTON – Tonight, President Trump will address a Joint Session of Congress. Earlier this week the President stated he would make a “big statement” on infrastructure during his remarks. Since taking office in 2013, Congressman Delaney has been a national leader on infrastructure policy, spearheading the effort to rebuild America’s infrastructure using revenues from international tax reform. “If the President is serious about infrastructure, and I sincerely hope that he is, he should embrace our bipartisan solution,” said Congressman Delaney. “Our approach – using revenues from international tax reform to pay for infrastructure – has strong bipartisan support, will create good-paying jobs, will help businesses grow and will help us compete globally. There will be a lot of us in the Chamber tonight who have done the hard work, run the numbers and found an innovative policy fix that can break the gridlock. We could literally hand him the bill. President Trump has a lot to answer for tonight, but if he wants to have a real discussion about infrastructure, he should embrace our plan.” During the last two Congresses, over 40 Democrats and 40 Republicans have cosponsored Delaney legislation to fund and finance new infrastructure investment using revenues from repatriation. Delaney has proposed creating a new American Infrastructure Fund and expanding existing programs such as the Highway Trust Fund. This spring, Congressman Delaney will re-introduce two bipartisan pieces of legislation to rebuild America, the Partnership to Build America Act and the Infrastructure 2.0 Act. The Partnership to Build America Act The American Infrastructure Fund The Partnership to Build America Act creates the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) to provide financing to state and local governments for new infrastructure. Transportation, energy, communications, water and education projects are eligible to receive AIF financing. Local governments would apply directly to the AIF for support. To encourage public-private partnerships 35% of AIF supported projects must have at least 10% of their financing be private debt or equity. The AIF will be capitalized by $50 billion in infrastructure bond sales and leveraged at a 15:1 ratio to provide up to $750 billion in loans or guarantees. Funded by an Infrastructure Bond Sale Rather than using appropriated funds out of the federal budget to establish the American Infrastructure Fund, the Partnership to Build America Act uses a bond sale. AIF bonds would have a 50-year term, pay a 1% fixed rate return and would not be guaranteed by the U.S. government. These bonds are not intended to be a good investment on their own and are transferable after purchase. To incentivize companies to purchase these bonds, U.S. companies would be allowed to repatriate a certain amount of their overseas earnings tax free for every $1.00 they invest in the bonds. This multiplier will be set by a “reverse Dutch auction” – which allows the market to set the rate, ensuring that enough funds are raised. Assuming a 1:4 ratio is set by the auction; a company will be able to repatriate $4.00 tax-free for every $1 in AIF bonds they purchase. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act Building a World Class 21st Century Infrastructure with Revenue from Deemed Repatriation at 8.75% Tax Rate Under the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, existing overseas profits accumulated by U.S. multi-national corporations would be subject to a mandatory, one-time 8.75% tax, replacing deferral option and current rate of 35%. $120 billion to the Highway Trust Fund, enough to meet funding gap at increased levels for six years. $50 billion to capitalize the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) $25 million pilot program to create regional infrastructure accelerators, similar to the West Coast Infrastructure Exchange This frees the estimated $2 trillion in overseas earnings to return to the United States, spurring private sector re-investment and growth. Creating Long-term Highway Trust Fund Solvency and Policy Certainty The Infrastructure 2.0 Act provides six years of Highway Trust Fund solvency, providing immediate certainty to the private sector and policymakers. The legislation also establishes a bipartisan and bicameral commission that is tasked with developing a solution for permanent solvency of the Highway Trust Fund. Building a Path for Broader Tax Reform The Infrastructure 2.0 Act creates an eighteen-month deadline for international tax reform. To encourage action, the legislation includes a forcing function: if reform is not enacted, a fallback international tax package to make U.S. business climate more competitive would be implemented. This pro-growth fallback reform package would end deferral, reduce anti-competitive over taxation, decrease taxes for companies paying fair rates abroad but increase taxes for companies in tax havens. This would eliminate the lock-out effect and allow for the free flow of profits back to the United States. Under this option, for Active Market Foreign Income, a company would pay a 12.25% tax to the U.S. on overseas profits if they are currently paying no tax and a 2% tax to the U.S. if they are already paying the OECD average of 25% abroad, with a sliding scale in-between. ##
02.23.2017	WASHINGTON – This morning Axios reported that President Trump and Republican leadership plan to “push off until next year any consideration of the massive infrastructure plan Trump wants” so that Republican lawmakers have more “breathing room” to work on other issues. “Delaying something for a year is just the first step to never doing it in the first place,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “Despite a lot of big talk about infrastructure, since the election we’ve seen increasing signs that a truly transformative infrastructure plan isn’t coming any time soon. The American people are the losers in this political game, because we’re passing up a golden opportunity to create economic growth and good-paying jobs and tackle an infrastructure crisis that’s impacting safety, productivity and quality of life. The truth is, we can get this done. We have a bipartisan solution that’s shovel-ready and I encourage the White House and Congressional leaders to put politics aside and move forward.” Since taking office in 2013, Congressman Delaney has been a national leader on infrastructure policy, spearheading the effort to rebuild America’s infrastructure using revenues from international tax reform. During the last two Congresses, over 40 Democrats and 40 Republicans have cosponsored Delaney legislation to fund and finance new infrastructure investment using revenues from repatriation. This spring Congressman Delaney will introduce two bipartisan pieces of legislation to rebuild America, the Partnership to Build America Act and the Infrastructure 2.0 Act. The Partnership to Build America Act The American Infrastructure Fund The Partnership to Build America Act creates the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) to provide financing to state and local governments for new infrastructure. Transportation, energy, communications, water and education projects are eligible to receive AIF financing. Local governments would apply directly to the AIF for support. To encourage public-private partnerships 35% of AIF supported projects must have at least 10% of their financing be private debt or equity. The AIF will be capitalized by $50 billion in infrastructure bond sales and leveraged at a 15:1 ratio to provide up to $750 billion in loans or guarantees. Funded by an Infrastructure Bond Sale Rather than using appropriated funds out of the federal budget to establish the American Infrastructure Fund, the Partnership to Build America Act uses a bond sale. AIF bonds would have a 50-year term, pay a 1% fixed rate return and would not be guaranteed by the U.S. government. These bonds are not intended to be a good investment on their own and are transferable after purchase. To incentivize companies to purchase these bonds, U.S. companies would be allowed to repatriate a certain amount of their overseas earnings tax free for every $1.00 they invest in the bonds. This multiplier will be set by a “reverse Dutch auction” – which allows the market to set the rate, ensuring that enough funds are raised. Assuming a 1:4 ratio is set by the auction; a company will be able to repatriate $4.00 tax-free for every $1 in AIF bonds they purchase. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act Building a World Class 21st Century Infrastructure with Revenue from Deemed Repatriation at 8.75% Tax Rate Under the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, existing overseas profits accumulated by U.S. multi-national corporations would be subject to a mandatory, one-time 8.75% tax, replacing deferral option and current rate of 35%. $120 billion to the Highway Trust Fund, enough to meet funding gap at increased levels for six years. $50 billion to capitalize the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) $25 million pilot program to create regional infrastructure accelerators, similar to the West Coast Infrastructure Exchange This frees the estimated $2 trillion in overseas earnings to return to the United States, spurring private sector re-investment and growth. Creating Long-term Highway Trust Fund Solvency and Policy Certainty The Infrastructure 2.0 Act provides six years of Highway Trust Fund solvency, providing immediate certainty to the private sector and policymakers. The legislation also establishes a bipartisan and bicameral commission that is tasked with developing a solution for permanent solvency of the Highway Trust Fund. Building a Path for Broader Tax Reform The Infrastructure 2.0 Act creates an eighteen-month deadline for international tax reform. To encourage action, the legislation includes a forcing function: if reform is not enacted, a fallback international tax package to make U.S. business climate more competitive would be implemented. This pro-growth fallback reform package would end deferral, reduce anti-competitive over taxation, decrease taxes for companies paying fair rates abroad but increase taxes for companies in tax havens. This would eliminate the lock-out effect and allow for the free flow of profits back to the United States. Under this option, for Active Market Foreign Income, a company would pay a 12.25% tax to the U.S. on overseas profits if they are currently paying no tax and a 2% tax to the U.S. if they are already paying the OECD average of 25% abroad, with a sliding scale in-between. ##
02.21.2017	GAITHERSBURG – Over 300 Marylanders attended a Seniors Workshop hosted by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) today in Gaithersburg. The Workshop featured federal, state and local agencies and organizations that serve seniors, including Social Security, the Maryland State Health Insurance Program, the Montgomery County Office of Aging and Disability Services and AARP. The event was the 25th constituent services workshop Congressman Delaney has held since 2015 and gave local seniors an opportunity to speak directly with Delaney and with representatives from agencies and organizations. “Seniors deserve to retire with economic security, health care benefits they can depend on and opportunities to thrive,” said Congressman Delaney. “This workshop was designed to bring resources and organizations together under one roof, giving local seniors an opportunity to learn more about programs that are available and to get answers from key agencies like Social Security. It’s also an important opportunity for me to speak with constituents directly, get their feedback and connect them with our caseworkers who can help with benefits. The huge turnout at today’s event underlines that there is a lot of concern locally with potential policy changes that the new Administration might pursue. I am opposed to radical plans to cut Social Security, voucherize Medicare and repeal the Affordable Care Act and as these issues are debated in Congress, I will continue to make sure that the voices of Maryland Seniors are heard.” Next week Congressman Delaney will hold an Opioid Addiction Workshop in Hagerstown. Participating organizations included: Social Security Administration Maryland State Health Insurance Program (MD SHIP) Maryland Insurance Administration Montgomery County Department of HHS Montgomery County Office of Aging and Disability Services Montgomery County Department of Recreation Montgomery County Department of Transportation Montgomery County Housing Opportunities Commission Montgomery College AARP Mercy Health Clinic Maryland Legal Aid Jewish Council for the Aging of Greater Washington National Active and Retired Federal Employees Association Grass Roots Organization for the Well-Being of Seniors (GROWS) ##
02.16.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) filed legislation today to implement comprehensive reforms to the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) and increase federal funding for WMATA. Congressman Delaney’s WMATA Improvement Act includes an additional $150 million in annual funding ($75 million from the federal government, $75 million total from the three jurisdictions), provided that WMATA and the member jurisdictions upgrade governance and management and certify that the system’s collective bargaining agreement allows WMATA to improve system safety for riders and employees, reliability and customer service while maintaining key wage protections. If changes are not made within 18 months, Congress withdraws its consent from the WMATA Compact. (Full bill summary below.) “Metro needs big improvements and riders can’t wait any longer,” said Congressman Delaney. “The problems facing Metro have been widely understood for a very long time and my constituents have endured a long decline in safety, reliability and service. The WMATA Improvement Act tackles the causes of Metro’s decline comprehensively, changing the governance structure so that a new culture can be created and providing additional funding. This legislation removes the brakes that have held back reform for too long. We give the jurisdictions a powerful two-pronged incentive – more funding coupled with a ticking clock on the Compact – to take two necessary actions: create a world-class Board of Directors for Metro comprised of experts with a fiduciary responsibility and make sure that management-labor provisions allow the system to perform better and become safer for everyone. As someone who represents thousands of Marylanders who depend upon Metro I believe that Congress cannot consent to a broken Metro forever and if these changes are not met we should withdraw from the Compact.” In the last three weeks over 1700 Metro riders participated in Congressman Delaney’s Metro survey, overwhelmingly stressing that Metro needs to improve. Only 25% of respondents stated that in the last year Metro has improved. The WMATA Improvement Act Background: The Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA), has been plagued with numerous incidents of compromised safety, including instances leading to injury and death, and consistent problems with reliability, which has led to a years-long decrease in ridership. This has put additional pressure on Metro’s finances and led to increased roadway gridlock in the region, impacting riders and non-riders alike. WMATA’s Proposed FY 2018 Budget announced a significant operating budget shortfall that is “in part a product of Metro’s governance and funding structure, as well as Metro’s ridership decline in the face of Metro’s need to rebuild key system infrastructure.” WMATA is currently governed by a 16 member Board of Directors, with four members appointed by each of the jurisdictions. Currently, there are no clearly defined qualifications for Board Members across all jurisdictions. The Need: WMATA needs Board Members with the skills and expertise necessary to run a transit agency of its size and importance to the federal government and the Capital region. WMATA needs increased funding from all jurisdictions, including the federal government. WMATA needs a collective bargaining agreement that provides Metro management with the flexibility to operate the system to a high level of service and safety for its riders and fair wages and safe working conditions for its employees. WMATA and the respective jurisdictions need a clear spur to action to guarantee comprehensive improvement to the system. The WMATA Improvement Act: Provides WMATA with an additional $150 million per year, with $75 million coming from the federal government and $25 million from each of the three jurisdictions (Maryland, Virginia, and the District of Columbia). To receive this additional funding, the three non-federal jurisdictions must take the following actions to ensure that WMATA is well-managed and positioned to succeed long-term: 1) Reforming WMATA’s Board of Directors: Each Board Member must be certified experts in either transit, safety, management or finance, effective within 18 months; The Board must have a primary fiduciary duty to WMATA; The WMATA Board shall be compromised of nine members, who are all voting members: two appointed by each jurisdiction, along with the CEO of Metro 2) Certifying that WMATA’s Collective Bargaining Agreement Allows Necessary Improvements: The Board must certify that any amendments to the collective bargaining agreement allow WMATA to improve safety, reliability, and service and lower costs; while ensuring that any amendments comply with Transit 13(c) and Davis-Bacon requirements. Creates a forcing function for necessary change: If the jurisdictions have not implemented these changes within 18 months of the legislation’s enactment, the federal government withdraws its consent from WMATA’s Compact. The legislation includes an option for a 3-month extension for good-faith progress. ##
02.14.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement on the resignation of President Donald Trump’s National Security Advisor General Michael Flynn: “General Flynn may be gone but the concerns that the American people have about Russia’s undue influence on the Trump Administration remain. For weeks, the White House knew that General Flynn had lied and was considered vulnerable to blackmail and did nothing. This is not normal, it’s terrifying. Putin’s government is not our ally and does not share our values or our interests. We cannot wait until the next scandal uncovered by the press forces the White House to act, we need an independent and bipartisan congressional investigation into the White House’s connections to Russia and Russian interference in our government.” ##
02.14.2017	WASHINGTON – Over 1700 people have responded to Congressman John K. Delaney’s request for feedback and suggestions on the state of Metro, with users expressing overall concern and frustration with the system. Congressman Delaney’s survey was launched on January 31 of this year. Respondents were asked to rate Metro on safety, reliability and customer service; on whether the system has improved, stayed the same or gotten worse in the last year and to share their specific comments, experiences and suggestions. Congressman Delaney has announced that he will be filing legislation soon to improve Metro service by initiating a new Metro compact, a move that will allow comprehensive reforms. As of February 14, using a 1-10 scale, with 1 being the worst and 10 being the best, respondents gave Metro an average score of 5.41 for safety, 4.87 for reliability and 4.73 for customer service. Additionally, in evaluating the system in the last year, 38% said that Metro has been getting worse, 37% said it has stayed the same and 25% said it has been getting better. (Additional details and a representative sample of rider feedback copied below.) “The survey response was overwhelming in volume and crystal clear in meaning: Metro needs big transformative improvements,” said Congressman Delaney. “I represent a lot of Marylanders who absolutely depend on Metro and too many of them are worried about safety, frustrated by a lack of reliability and worried that they’re not being heard. This region simply does not work if we don’t have a world-class Metro. For years we’ve heard from Marylanders about Metro problems, but as I work on legislation to improve the system, I wanted to hear from riders in a comprehensive way. The stories we received really highlight how people are being driven away from Metro, men and women who board each morning at Shady Grove and day after day endure really nightmarish commutes. This is why I’m drafting legislation that will increase Metro’s funding and reform Metro’s governance so that we can give riders a real upgrade.” Delaney Metro Survey Responses & Feedback As of February 14, over 1700 people had responded to Congressman Delaney’s Metro survey online or via email, which included a series of questions and an option to send direct and specific feedback. The survey was posted on Congressman Delaney’s website, social media channels and distributed by email. The survey asked respondents to rate Metro on safety, reliability and customer service on a 1-10 scale, with 1 being the worst, 10 being the best. The survey also asked if the overall experience on Metro has improved, stayed the same or gotten worse in the last year. Respondents rated Metro a 5.41 on safety on a 1-10 scale 13% of respondents gave Metro a 1 or 2 rating on safety, compared with just 7% who gave Metro a 9 or 10 rating Respondents rated Metro a 4.87 on reliability on a 1-10 scale 19% of respondents gave Metro a 1 or 2 rating on reliability, compared with just 6% who gave Metro a 9 or 10 rating Respondents rated Metro a 4.73 on customer service on a 1-10 scale 23% of respondents gave Metro a 1 or 2 rating on customer service, compared with just 7% who gave Metro a 9 or 10 rating In the last year: 38% of respondents said that Metro has overall been getting worse 37% of respondents said Metro has stayed the same 25% said it has been getting better. Individual responses included both positive and negative feedback on Metro. Positive messages included individual customer service experiences, very good service during the Women’s March in January and the overall importance of Metro to the region. Some respondents did voice support for the SafeTrack program and recent efforts to make improvements. Many responders lamented a long-term decline and growing frustration with the system, including a number who stated that they have decided to stop riding due to problems. Concerns about safety and reliability were widespread, as were complaints about rising fares being combined with a decline in service. Requests that Metro rail service expand were frequent, as were complaints about transparency, communication with riders and cleanliness. Representative comments include: “I am hopeful safety is getting better, but I state this simply because I have not encountered the multiple weekly problems I experienced in the past. I do not, however, have great confidence that the trains and lines are safe.” “A wonderful transit system has gradually deteriorated over the years due to lack of financial commitment and mismanagement.” “I left a job with 27 years of history, and a relevant Masters Degree from JHU for a much less secure job because I couldn't take the red line delays any more. The frustration factor just got too high.” “I stopped using Metro due to sporadic Red Line service, both when repairs are announced and when it's allegedly running 'normal.' I just don't need the aggravation” “I am a senior woman traveling alone and become very nervous at the thought of delays or problems with the train. In addition, the cost of Metro has gotten very high and I don't feel like I'm getting much ‘bang for my buck’” “I have not used the Metro in almost 3 years now specifically due to both safety concerns and service cuts. I can no longer even attend religious classes in DC due to the fact that I would end up stranded with no way home.” “Regarding reliability, quite frankly I never trust Metro to get me anywhere on time” “Having taken the Red Line Metro for almost 20 years, I have seen a steady deterioration of service.” “A complete nightmare!” “Based on my experience using Metro to get to and from the women's march in January, Metro is improving. I have never experienced such good customer service on Metro before” “I have used Metro on a nearly daily basis since the late 1980s and although I have seen a few glimmers of hope lately, it has been a long, sad slide to the bottom that could and should have been prevented in this very wealthy region. It is really shameful that this situation has gone on for so long. I really do hope you can help put Metro back on track.” “I am very concerned about increased fares and decreases in service. Elevators and escalators are broken down (even those out of service for months and recently replaced), continued delays, trains are not being cleaned, shorter service hours even during big events, etc. It is expensive for me to use the Metro as is, and I often have to supplement it with another form of transportation” “Outside, government-controlled oversight is needed to allow optics on the inner workings of this miasma. Reductions of any service will only bring about further loss of revenue, spiraling the organization into further trouble.” “Accountability is the word.” “In general, Metro does a good job.” “The new GM is really do(ing) some good things and is making some difficult decisions for the better. I would recommend supporting his budget proposal for Metro. “Let's get tough on safety, buy more of the new cars (which are lovely), make sure basic issues like brakes, on-time arrivals, overcrowding are addressed. And stop raising prices on the poor.” “I don't feel safe on metro with equipment failures and attacks on the passengers both of which have resulted in deaths. The new management seems to be competent and taking action.” “The customer service is abhorrent. They are unfriendly and seem to lack basic customer service skills.” “Metro was once a great system. But now the service is bad and getting worse. Safety is abysmal. Governance is all but absent” “Years of neglect - no ownership or leadership. – it’s what one can expect when by a system run by a committee ( political appointees). The current general manager is trying to fix it but he walked into a huge challenge.” “Metro should be reviewed on a yearly basis and maintenance performed as needed.” “While I appreciate the efforts of ‘Safe Track’, there are still safety issues (one of their own employees almost run over by a train!) And the metro just isn't reliable -- seems like every time I get on metro, trains are running late.” “There are too many escalator malfunctions. Many escalators have been replaced over the last few years at great inconvenience to passengers. Yet those same escalators still go out of service.” “DC Metro is by far the worst transportation system I have ever used and that includes New Jersey. It was a huge factor in me beginning a job hunt outside of Maryland.” “I think any changes in funding source need to be accompanied by changes in management and / or oversight. I don't think giving Metro more money without some system of accountability is a very good idea. I think metro has come a long way in considering the customer in their decisions and actions, but there is always room for improvement. Every decision, every action, should be considered from the perspective of customer service. And, as a rider, many times it just doesn't feel like that is the case.” “I have a one line, 25 minute train commute and I have to factor in a 20 minute cushion to get to work on time and sometimes am still late. Weekend service is almost non-existent anymore as multiple stations are shut down.” “Each year gets progressively less reliable. It's really sad as I chose where to live for 30 years based on being 1 mile from Metro.” “The biggest complaint that I have is communication. The speaker system throughout metro station is terrible. No one can understand anything they say.” “Public transport does more than just get people around, it reduces pollution and congestion on the roads. During the reform effort, I would like to see routes that make it easier for low income families to get to school, work and shopping.” “The delays are awful. But I had a very good experience the day of the Women's March. Plenty of trains and very helpful staff.” “I think Metro service on the Red Line can and should be extended to Frederick, MD. That would do a lot to alleviate at least some of the morning and evening rush hour traffic on I-270.” “Metro's biggest failing, IMO, is COMMUNICATION. I don't use Metro any more. The reason is, too many times, I have been held in one place on the train, on the tracks for extended periods without ANY information from anyone about the source of the delay or the expected wait time.” “Without continued dedicated funding, all the delayed maintenance will ultimately be wasted. Metro needs more federal oversight, specifically with regard to safety and clearly needs better employee practices.” “It would be great if we had more Metro, more stations, and more track extensions. We need to do something about the traffic in Montgomery County and all of the DC area.” “Slow, expensive, unsafe, unreliable” “I'm an original RedLine rider from the grand opening at the Bethesda station in 1980... I've seen the downfall, demise, danger, corruption & overuseage in my adult lifetime.” “Metro is incredibly inconsistent. It's getting impossible to plan a commute, because I could either have a dream of a day on the Red Line and get to DuPont Circle in 20 minutes, or for no real reason take over an hour. Visible station employees seem bothered when they're asked to do their job and help customers.” “Red Line needs to be extended to Upper Montgomery County and Frederick County.” “I can tell that the new Metro administration is trying hard to change the culture and improve safety but it is a hard to steer an ice burg. The reliability is still hit and miss.” “I'm worried about safety issues & the ability to communicate for help if needed.” “I was impressed with Metro's operating service during the Women's March recently. What I have never really understood about Metro is why fares always rise after a service concern and yet those rate hikes never translate to service improvements.” “Metro has consistently failed me almost every day on my commute to and from work. It is so unreliable that when I have an important meeting that I know I can't be late to, I make sure to get up extra early and take an Uber to my office. That is how awful the Metro is. That I have to wake up before the sun rises and pay three times as much to get to work just to make a meeting on time.” “I have traditionally been one that gives Metro a little slack. However, over the past couple years I have become more and more disillusioned. I believe the non-rush hours wait times are too long.” “Metro is organized for failure. Serious restructuring of the governing body, an ensured source of funding, and continued management attention to deficiencies are all needed. Cutting service and raising fares will only contribute to the downward spiral.” “Metro did a GREAT job getting ALL of the participants to the March on 1/21/17!! Great job. My main concern about Metro is that they have to stop the lapses in service.” “We need a new professional governing Board for Metro and a dedicated funding source for Metro.” “I would, however, like to point out something that has been a particular irritant to me, namely, Metro's customer service philosophy, which seems to be summed up in three words: ‘Blame the passenger.’” “I think the new leadership is trying to do the right thing, making some hard choices, but the deck was really stacked against them due to years of negligence and kicking the can do the road, over and over.” “I want to love metro again. I'm very willing and very forgiving but it's gotta actually improve for me to start the forgiveness process.” ##
02.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed the WINGMAN Act, bipartisan legislation designed to cut through the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) bureaucratic backlog. The bill would allow certified advocates in congressional offices who are working on a veteran’s behalf to have read-only access to the status of a pending VA claim and related necessary files. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) is a lead cosponsor of the legislation, which was authored by Congressman Ted Yoho (FL-3). The WINGMAN Act has been endorsed by AMVETS and has 170 cosponsors. The WINGMAN Act passed by voice vote. “We owe so much to our veterans and step one is making sure they receive the benefits they’ve earned and they get the answers they need,” said Congressman Delaney. “Maryland veterans contact us week after week looking for help and the WINGMAN Act cuts out steps in the bureaucracy. This commonsense legislation allows congressional offices to get updates and information on claims right away electronically, rather than having to contact the VA, wait for a response and then deliver that information back to our constituent. That can simply take too long and creates another administrative burden on the VA, which only furthers delays. The faster that veterans can receive information on the status of their applications, the faster they can make changes, update their records and ultimately receive their benefits. I thank Congressman Yoho for his leadership on this issue and hope that the strong support for the WINGMAN Act in the House will lead to its prompt passage in the Senate.” Currently, as caseworkers in congressional offices work with veterans and their families on a benefits claim they must contact regional VA offices for status updates. Due to the large number of VA claims nationwide, this additional step places an additional burden on the VA and delays the flow of information from the VA back to veterans. The WINGMAN Act simply allows them to directly access the electronic system used by the VA, cutting out the middleman and improving the level of service the caseworker can provide to the veteran and their family. ##
02.07.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has joined the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus, a bipartisan group of 102 Members committed to achieving full and equal rights for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) people in the United States. “LGBT Americans are our neighbors, our coworkers, members of our families; they deserve a full and equal chance to live the American Dream,” said Congressman Delaney. “We’ve made incredible progress on equal rights and equal respect for LGBT Americans, but our work is not done. I’m proud to stand with my colleagues in the LGBT Equality Caucus to make sure we keep moving forward and not take a single step backward.” The caucus is chaired by the six openly LGBT members of the House of Representatives. Congressman Jared Polis (CO-02), Congressman David N. Cicilline (RI-01), Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Congressman Mark Pocan (WI-02), Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-09), and Congressman Mark Takano (CA-41). ##
02.03.2017	WASHINGTON – Members of the Maryland Congressional delegation, led by U.S. Senator Ben Cardin (D-Md.), have written to Governor Larry Hogan (R-Md.) urging him to protect the needs of his constituents by speaking out against the repeal of the Affordable Care Act without a viable replacement. The letter, signed by Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, and Representatives Steny Hoyer, Elijah E. Cummings, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John Sarbanes, John K. Delaney, Anthony G. Brown and Jamie Raskin, urges the governor to write to the President of the United States, the Majority Leader of the United States Senate, and the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives on behalf of Marylanders who would be affected by the repeal of the ACA. “As you know, Maryland’s uninsured rate has dropped significantly as a result of the ACA – from 10.2 percent in 2013 to 6.6 percent in 2015, with over 400,000 Marylanders gaining health care coverage.[1] These individuals and families are now at risk of losing that insurance. While you have been vocal about defending Maryland’s All Payer Model, a goal we all share, it is absolutely critical that you also go on record defending the expansion of coverage,” the members wrote in their letter. “Wholesale repeal of the ACA will result in more uninsured patients which will drive up costs for the entire system and could put the All Payer Model at risk. To properly defend one, you must also defend the other,” they added. “Both Democratic and Republican governors across the country have said they oppose the repeal of the ACA. We ask you to stand with us and them in keeping the promise of affordable, accessible, high quality health care for Marylanders.” The full text of the letter is below and can be found at this link. February 3, 2017 The Honorable Larry Hogan Governor of Maryland 100 State Circle Annapolis, MD 21401 Dear Governor Hogan: As members of the Maryland Congressional Delegation, we are extremely concerned about current Republican proposals to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The ACA expanded coverage to 20 million Americans, including 400,000 individuals in Maryland, provided vital consumer protections in health insurance plans, and created thousands of healthcare-related jobs. For these important reasons, we encourage you to add your voice to those who are forcefully and publicly opposing efforts to simply repeal the ACA, by, among other measures, sending a letter to the President of the United States, the Majority Leader of the United States Senate, and the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives. As you know, Maryland’s uninsured rate has dropped significantly as a result of the ACA – from 10.2 percent in 2013 to 6.6 percent in 2015, with over 400,000 Marylanders gaining health care coverage.[2] These individuals and families are now at risk of losing that insurance. While you have been vocal about defending Maryland’s All Payer Model, a goal we all share, it is absolutely critical that you also go on record defending the expansion of coverage. Wholesale repeal of the ACA will result in more uninsured patients which will drive up costs for the entire system and could put the All Payer Model at risk. To properly defend one, you must also defend the other. A repeal of the ACA would affect millions in Maryland— not just those who gained health coverage. That’s because the ACA was successful in reforming predatory practices by insurance companies that were used to exclude millions of consumers from purchasing affordable, quality health insurance. Often referred to as the Patient’s Bill of Rights, these consumer protections require insurance companies to cover emergency services, adults and children with preexisting conditions, and preventive services with no cost-sharing, as well as eliminate annual and lifetime limits and allow children to stay on their parents’ plan until they turn 26. Repealing the ACA will not only dissolve these patient protections, it will eliminate critical financial assistance such as premium tax credits and cost-sharing reductions. Congressional Republicans have proposed either eliminating premium tax credits entirely or replacing them with fixed, flat amounts that don’t account for income, age or plan cost like they do under the ACA. This would reduce people’s ability to afford comprehensive coverage and would hit lower and moderate-income families the hardest. In 2015, 70 percent of the consumers who enrolled in private plans through the Maryland Health Connection were eligible for premium tax credits, and 50 percent were eligible for cost-sharing reductions or subsidies so this would have a devastating impact on many of our constituents.[3] Our state’s economy would also suffer if the ACA is repealed with the loss of critical federal funding and thousands of jobs. In 2012, the Hilltop Institute at the University of Maryland estimated that the ACA with Medicaid expansion would add nearly 27,000 jobs in all sectors of Maryland’s economy.[4] But the State of Maryland actually surpassed those initial estimates and stands to lose approximately 52,000 jobs in 2019 if the ACA’s premium tax credits and Medicaid expansion provisions are repealed.[5] Eliminating Medicaid expansion would strip billions of dollars in Federal Medical Assistance Percentage (FMAP) funds from Maryland. According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, Maryland would lose an estimated $1.9 billion in federal Medicaid funding in 2019 and $23.4 billion between 2019 and 2028.[6] Further, turning Medicaid into a block grant or per capita cap program will affect the state’s ability to provide comprehensive, affordable health coverage for millions of otherwise uninsured low-income Marylanders and would also weaken the state’s ability to address public health emergencies and other crises that require quick and immediate action. According to estimates, states would see a reduction of almost $170 billion in federal funding in the tenth year of the plan—a 33 percent cut to state Medicaid budgets.[7] Without a doubt, repealing the ACA and eliminating comprehensive, affordable coverage for the 400,000 Marylanders who have gained insurance along with critical consumer protections will have dire consequences for our state. But promoting the repeal of the ACA without a proposal that safeguards the progress we have made in helping millions gain quality, affordable coverage is unacceptable. Both Democratic and Republican governors across the country have said they oppose the repeal of the ACA. We ask you to stand with us and them in keeping the promise of affordable, accessible, high quality health care for Marylanders. Sincerely, ### [1] "Assessing the Impact of Health Care Reform in Maryland." Maryland Department of Legislative Services. Office of Policy Analysis, 9 Jan. 2017. https://dls.state.md.us/data/polanasubare/polanasubare_heaandhumser/Assessing-the-Impact-of-Health-Care-Reform-in-Maryland_FINAL.pdf [2] "Assessing the Impact of Health Care Reform in Maryland." Maryland Department of Legislative Services. Office of Policy Analysis, 9 Jan. 2017. https://dls.state.md.us/data/polanasubare/polanasubare_heaandhumser/Assessing-the-Impact-of-Health-Care-Reform-in-Maryland_FINAL.pdf [3] “June 30, 2015 Effectuated Enrollment Snapshot.” Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, 8 Sept. 2015. https://www.cms.gov/Newsroom/MediaReleaseDatabase/Fact-sheets/2015-Fact-sheets-items/2015-09-08.html [4] Fakhraei, S. H. "Maryland Health Care Reform Simulation Model: Detailed Analysis and Methodology." The Hilltop Institute, UMBC. Table 10, July 2012. https://www.hilltopinstitute.org/publications/MarylandHealthCareReformSimulationModel-Feb2014.pdf [5] Ku, Leighton, et.al. "The Economic and Employment Consequences of Repealing Federal Health Reform: A 50 State Analysis.” Center for Health Policy Research (2017): Table A-1. Milken Institute School of Public Health, 5 Jan. 2017 https://publichealth.gwu.edu/sites/default/files/downloads/HPM/Repealing_Federal_Health_Reform.pdf [6] "476,000 Maryland Residents Would Lose Coverage in 2019 Under ACA Repeal." Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, 7 Dec. 2016. https://www.cbpp.org/sites/default/files/atoms/files/12-7-16health-factsheets-md.pdf [7] Park, Edwin. "Medicaid Block Grant Would Slash Federal Funding, Shift Costs to States, and Leave Millions More Uninsured." Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, 30 Nov. 2016. https://www.cbpp.org/sites/default/files/atoms/files/11-30-16health_0.pdf
02.02.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has been named a co-chair of the New Democrat Coalition’s Task Force on Infrastructure, one of seven policy task forces launched this week. Since taking office in 2013, Congressman Delaney has been a national leader on infrastructure policy, spearheading the effort to rebuild America’s infrastructure using revenues from international tax reform. During the last two Congresses, over 40 Democrats and 40 Republicans have cosponsored Delaney legislation to fund and finance new infrastructure investment using revenues from repatriation. The New Democrat Coalition’s Task Force on Infrastructure will be co-chaired by Congressman Delaney and three other members: Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty (CT-5), Congresswoman Stacey Plaskett (VI) and Congresswoman Norma Torres (CA-35). The Vice-Chair for Policy is Congressman Derek Kilmer (WA-6). “Infrastructure should be a top priority in Congress, it creates good jobs, improves people’s quality of life and helps businesses grow and compete,” said Congressman Delaney. “I am excited to work with my colleagues in the New Democrat Coalition to make the case for smart, fiscally-responsible infrastructure investment. As a former entrepreneur, I am always an optimist and I truly believe we can get a bipartisan deal done that creates good middle class jobs, upgrades our infrastructure and improves our business climate. If we focus on the clear benefits new infrastructure delivers, we can avoid hitting political potholes.” There are 54 members of the New Democrat Coalition. Summaries of Congressman Delaney’s Partnership to Build America Act and Infrastructure 2.0 Act are below: The Partnership to Build America Act The American Infrastructure Fund The Partnership to Build America Act creates the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) to provide financing to state and local governments for new infrastructure. Transportation, energy, communications, water and education projects are eligible to receive AIF financing. Local governments would apply directly to the AIF for support. To encourage public-private partnerships 35% of AIF supported projects must have at least 10% of their financing be private debt or equity. The AIF will be capitalized by $50 billion in infrastructure bond sales and leveraged at a 15:1 ratio to provide up to $750 billion in loans or guarantees. Funded by an Infrastructure Bond Sale Rather than using appropriated funds out of the federal budget to establish the American Infrastructure Fund, the Partnership to Build America Act uses a bond sale. AIF bonds would have a 50-year term, pay a 1% fixed rate return and would not be guaranteed by the U.S. government. These bonds are not intended to be a good investment on their own and are transferable after purchase. To incentivize companies to purchase these bonds, U.S. companies would be allowed to repatriate a certain amount of their overseas earnings tax free for every $1.00 they invest in the bonds. This multiplier will be set by a “reverse Dutch auction” – which allows the market to set the rate, ensuring that enough funds are raised. Assuming a 1:4 ratio is set by the auction; a company will be able to repatriate $4.00 tax-free for every $1 in AIF bonds they purchase. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act Building a World Class 21st Century Infrastructure with Revenue from Deemed Repatriation at 8.75% Tax Rate Under the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, existing overseas profits accumulated by U.S. multi-national corporations would be subject to a mandatory, one-time 8.75% tax, replacing deferral option and current rate of 35%. $120 billion to the Highway Trust Fund, enough to meet funding gap at increased levels for six years. $50 billion to capitalize the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) $25 million pilot program to create regional infrastructure accelerators, similar to the West Coast Infrastructure Exchange This frees the estimated $2 trillion in overseas earnings to return to the United States, spurring private sector re-investment and growth. Creating Long-term Highway Trust Fund Solvency and Policy Certainty The Infrastructure 2.0 Act provides six years of Highway Trust Fund solvency, providing immediate certainty to the private sector and policymakers. The legislation also establishes a bipartisan and bicameral commission that is tasked with developing a solution for permanent solvency of the Highway Trust Fund. Building a Path for Broader Tax Reform The Infrastructure 2.0 Act creates an eighteen-month deadline for international tax reform. To encourage action, the legislation includes a forcing function: if reform is not enacted, a fallback international tax package to make U.S. business climate more competitive would be implemented. This pro-growth fallback reform package would end deferral, reduce anti-competitive over taxation, decrease taxes for companies paying fair rates abroad but increase taxes for companies in tax havens. This would eliminate the lock-out effect and allow for the free flow of profits back to the United States. Under this option, for Active Market Foreign Income, a company would pay a 12.25% tax to the U.S. on overseas profits if they are currently paying no tax and a 2% tax to the U.S. if they are already paying the OECD average of 25% abroad, with a sliding scale in-between. ##
01.31.2017	WASHINGTON – As Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) drafts legislation to improve Metro, he encourages constituents to share their experiences and offer him their feedback, concerns and suggestions. Comments can be sent via email to delaneymetrofeedback@mail.house.gov, by calling Congressman Delaney’s office at 202-225-2721 or via online survey here. “I want to hear from Marylanders on Metro – the good, bad and the ugly – and get their feedback on the most pressing areas of need,” said Congressman Delaney. “Making Metro safer and more reliable has been a huge topic of discussion from the time I’ve taken office, but concerns have only increased following a number of accidents in recent years. Metro needs big changes and we’re drafting legislation to increase funding and put Metro on the right track to better service and as we work on this issue, I want Marylanders to share their thoughts.” Earlier this month, Congressman Delaney announced he will be filing legislation to improve Metro service by initiating a new Metro compact, a move that will allow comprehensive reforms. Last year, Delaney introduced bipartisan legislation that would require that federal appointees to Metro’s board be certified experts in transportation, management, finance or safety. ##
01.30.2017	WASHINGTON – On Sunday, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) attended protests at Washington Dulles International Airport and Baltimore-Washington International Airport (BWI), joining thousands of Marylanders in speaking out against President Trump’s executive order on immigration. Congressman Delaney is a cosponsor of the Statue of Liberty Values Act, legislation that overturns the Administration’s actions. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “I was proud to join thousands of Marylanders this weekend in standing up and speaking out against these profoundly wrong new policies being implemented by the Trump Administration. We should always work to improve screening procedures for people entering the country, but we must do so in a way that actually makes us safer and is consistent with our values and laws. The huge crowds at BWI, Dulles and airports across the country speak to how deeply this is a violation of the American way. “It is clear that President Trump’s rushed, radical and wrong executive order goes way too far and sends a dangerous message of intolerance to the world, which emboldens our enemies and undermines our alliances with the Muslim nations who are working with us to fight terrorism. President Trump is betraying what America has always stood for, undermining our national security and creating chaos and legal confusion. Tragically, innocent people fleeing our common enemies are going to suffer because of this order. “We are going to fight this in Congress, we are going to fight this in the courts and we’re going to continue to stand shoulder to shoulder with the millions of Americans who are truly disturbed by the direction that President Trump wants to take the country.” ##
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Senate Democrats announced a comprehensive infrastructure plan funded by direct federal spending. For the last four years, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has been the leading advocate in Congress for using revenues from international tax reform to pay for rebuilding America’s infrastructure. Congressman Delaney has introduced two bills that have generated broad bipartisan support, drawing over 40 Republican and 40 Democratic cosponsors in the House and Senate since 2013. “We all want infrastructure improvements, the real issue is how to pay for it in a way that can get the bipartisan support needed to become reality,” said Congressman Delaney. “The best solution is to use revenues from international tax reform, bringing back money being held overseas to rebuild America. I am encouraged by the Senate proposal, which includes both funding and financing, and am interested in seeing further details on how it is paid for. We have a Republican-led government, but infrastructure will need Democratic votes, so the key now is finding a way to get to a bipartisan bill and after meeting with hundreds of members of Congress over the last four years on this issue, I am convinced the best way to get this done is through international tax reform.” This spring, Congressman Delaney and Congressman Davis will re-file The Partnership to Build America Act, legislation that creates a new American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) to finance state and local projects. Congressman Delaney and Congressman Yoho will re-file The Infrastructure 2.0 Act, legislation that includes the AIF and provides additional long-term revenues to stabilize and expand the Highway Trust Fund. The Partnership to Build America Act – To Be Introduced by Rep. Delaney & Rep. Davis The American Infrastructure Fund The Partnership to Build America Act creates the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) to provide financing to state and local governments for new infrastructure. Transportation, energy, communications, water and education projects are eligible to receive AIF financing. Local governments would apply directly to the AIF for support. To encourage public-private partnerships 35% of AIF supported projects must have at least 10% of their financing be private debt or equity. The AIF will be capitalized by $50 billion in infrastructure bond sales and leveraged at a 15:1 ratio to provide up to $750 billion in loans or guarantees. Funded by an Infrastructure Bond Sale Rather than using appropriated funds out of the federal budget to establish the American Infrastructure Fund, the Partnership to Build America Act uses a bond sale. AIF bonds would have a 50-year term, pay a 1% fixed rate return and would not be guaranteed by the U.S. government. These bonds are not intended to be a good investment on their own and are transferable after purchase. To incentivize companies to purchase these bonds, U.S. companies would be allowed to repatriate a certain amount of their overseas earnings tax free for every $1.00 they invest in the bonds. This multiplier will be set by a “reverse Dutch auction” – which allows the market to set the rate, ensuring that enough funds are raised. Assuming a 1:4 ratio is set by the auction; a company will be able to repatriate $4.00 tax-free for every $1 in AIF bonds they purchase. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act – To Be Introduced by Rep. Delaney & Rep. Yoho Building a World Class 21st Century Infrastructure with Revenue from Deemed Repatriation at 8.75% Tax Rate Under the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, existing overseas profits accumulated by U.S. multi-national corporations would be subject to a mandatory, one-time 8.75% tax, replacing deferral option and current rate of 35%. $120 billion to the Highway Trust Fund, enough to meet funding gap at increased levels for six years. $50 billion to capitalize the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) $25 million pilot program to create regional infrastructure accelerators, similar to the West Coast Infrastructure Exchange This frees the estimated $2 trillion in overseas earnings to return to the United States, spurring private sector re-investment and growth. Creating Long-term Highway Trust Fund Solvency and Policy Certainty The Infrastructure 2.0 Act provides six years of Highway Trust Fund solvency, providing immediate certainty to the private sector and policymakers. The legislation also establishes a bipartisan and bicameral commission that is tasked with developing a solution for permanent solvency of the Highway Trust Fund. Building a Path for Broader Tax Reform The Infrastructure 2.0 Act creates an eighteen-month deadline for international tax reform. To encourage action, the legislation includes a forcing function: if reform is not enacted, a fallback international tax package to make U.S. business climate more competitive would be implemented. This pro-growth fallback reform package would end deferral, reduce anti-competitive over taxation, decrease taxes for companies paying fair rates abroad but increase taxes for companies in tax havens. This would eliminate the lock-out effect and allow for the free flow of profits back to the United States. Under this option, for Active Market Foreign Income, a company would pay a 12.25% tax to the U.S. on overseas profits if they are currently paying no tax and a 2% tax to the U.S. if they are already paying the OECD average of 25% abroad, with a sliding scale in-between. ##
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Today the House voted a concurrent budget resolution for 2017, designated as the initial legislative step by the House Majority in repealing the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted against the measure. To view Congressman Delaney’s remarks during floor debate on the bill, click here. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “Repealing the Affordable Care Act with no replacement could lead to a significant public health crisis, increases our national debt and is an irresponsible way to govern and for these reasons I must oppose it. “Hard-edged partisan politics has eroded confidence in our government and caused government to function at a low standard and I’ve never seen a better example of that than this resolution here today. This budget resolution doubles our deficits across ten years, it increases the national debt by $10 trillion dollars and its sole legislative purpose is to repeal the Affordable Care Act. This resolution does not amend the Affordable Care Act, makes no effort to maintain its strengths and address its weaknesses; instead this resolution repeals the Affordable Care Act in a cold, hard way and lets the chips fall where they may for the millions of Americans that benefit from the Affordable Care Act. “Repealing the Affordable Care Act with no replacement is irresponsible and is being done for purely political reasons. The Affordable Care Act has expanded health care coverage to over 20 million people, has slowed the increase in overall health care costs and has enacted critical new protections that the American people want to keep in place, like protecting those with preexisting conditions, allowing young people to stay on their parents’ plans and eliminating lifetime caps on coverage.” ##
01.12.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) is a lead cosponsor of the WINGMAN Act, bipartisan legislation introduced today by Congressman Ted Yoho (FL-3). The WINGMAN Act is designed to cut through the bureaucratic backlog. The bill would allow certified veterans’ advocates in congressional offices who are working on a veteran’s behalf to have read-only access to the status of a pending VA claim and related necessary files. The legislation has been endorsed by AMVETS and has over 140 cosponsors. The WINGMAN Act’s lead cosponsors are Congressman Delaney, Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-9) and Congressman Rodney Davis (IL-13). “We should be doing everything we can help America’s veterans, starting with making sure they receive the benefits they’ve earned,” said Congressman Delaney. “Maryland veterans come to us nearly every day because they are frustrated and need assistance. The WINGMAN Act cuts out the middleman, helps veterans get answers more quickly and reduces VA bureaucracy. The faster that veterans can receive information on the status of their applications and appeals, the faster they can update their claims, provide additional materials and find resolution. I thank Congressman Yoho for introducing this bill and am proud to stand with him in working to improve services for veterans.” “Our nation’s Veterans have answered the call to protect us and the freedoms we enjoy every day,” said Congressman Yoho. “It is only right that we do all we can to support and care for them. WINGMAN aims to do just that by expediting the claims process for all veterans who seek assistance. No service member should have to wait to receive benefits they have more than earned. I want to thank Rep. Delaney for his leadership on this important bill and his dedication to fighting for our nation’s veterans. It is a privilege to have your support and I thank you for helping to lead the charge to enact this change, that is so desperately needed to better assist veterans and their families.” Currently, as caseworkers in congressional offices work with veterans and their families on a benefits claim they must contact regional VA offices for status updates. Due to the large number of VA claims nationwide, this additional step places an additional burden on the VA and delays the flow of information from the VA back to veterans. The WINGMAN Act simply allows them to directly access the electronic system used by the VA, cutting out the middleman and improving the level of service the caseworker can provide to the veteran and their family. The WINGMAN Act passed the House in the 114th Congress, but was not taken up in the Senate. ##
01.11.2017	WASHINGTON – The Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) has awarded the City of Cumberland a $250,000 grant to conduct planning, engineering and design for road improvements on Baltimore Street and surrounding roads in Cumberland. The grant will be matched by investment from the City and is estimated to support 50 local jobs. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) applauds this federal support for economic development in Cumberland and is a strong supporter of ARC in the House of Representatives. Congressman Delaney has repeatedly opposed measures to defund ARC and is the author of bipartisan legislation that would create a new infrastructure fund to support local infrastructure projects. “This ARC grant is all about jobs and economic development; it’s good for Cumberland and is another step in downtown revitalization,” said Congressman Delaney. “This is a partnership between the City and the federal government, and I commend Mayor Grim and all city officials for stepping up and getting this done. Projects like this are why I’m fighting hard for a new infrastructure program in Congress and why I’ve called for more federal support for Western Maryland and Appalachia.” The Appalachian Regional Commission was established by Congress in 1965 as a regional economic development agency that represents a partnership between federal, state and local governments. Allegany, Garrett and Washington County are designated ARC counties. Congressman Delaney’s Partnership to Build America Act and Infrastructure 2.0 Act would each create a new American Infrastructure Fund. State, county and city governments would be able to apply directly to the American Infrastructure Fund for support for local projects. The Maryland State Highway Administration will administer the project and the Federal Highway Administration will serve as the federal agency for the project. ##
01.09.2017	WASHINGTON – In the coming weeks Congressman John K. Delaney (D-MD-6), Congressman Ted Yoho (R-FL-3) and Congressman Rodney Davis (R-IL-13) will introduce a pair of bipartisan infrastructure bills using revenues from international tax reform to upgrade America’s infrastructure. Congressman Delaney and Congressman Davis will bring forward The Partnership to Build America Act, legislation that creates a new American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) to finance state and local projects. Congressman Delaney and Congressman Yoho will file The Infrastructure 2.0 Act, legislation that includes the AIF and provides additional long-term revenues to stabilize and expand the Highway Trust Fund. Delaney has advocated for this framework for the last four years, drawing support from over 40 Republican and 40 Democratic cosponsors in the House and Senate since 2013. Delaney’s framework was also included in President Obama’s budget. President-elect Donald Trump has repeatedly stated his support for new infrastructure and for international tax reform. “If the next President and leaders in Congress want to rebuild America in a fiscally-responsible way that has deep bipartisan support, we’ve given them a blueprint. A bold infrastructure-tax deal that combines legitimate support for new projects and pro-growth reform would be transformative for the country, for our economy and our quality of life,” said Congressman Delaney. “Congressman Yoho, Congressman Davis and I represent different districts and bring different perspectives to Washington, but we see the same set of facts and we’re excited to lead the effort to get a smart and fair infrastructure-tax deal done.” “The Infrastructure 2.0 Act is a common sense piece of legislation that provides secure long-term funding for our nation’s ailing infrastructure,” said Congressman Yoho. “The bill provides dependable funding to the Highway Trust Fund (HTF) outside of the usual Washington appropriations process and tax payer contributions - which often underfunds the HTF. This will bring an air of certainty to funding America’s roads and bridges while allowing for long term planning. Additionally this will remove the uncertainty that accompanies Washington’s usual short term budget band-aids and gimmicks.” “If our country is going to invest in infrastructure and spur job creation, we need innovative, bipartisan funding solutions like this legislation that brings public and private entities together to leverage investments,” said Congressman Davis. “I am encouraged by President-elect Trump's interest in passing an infrastructure bill and I hope the Partnership to Build America Act will be part of it.” The Partnership to Build America Act – To Be Introduced by Rep. Delaney & Rep. Davis The American Infrastructure Fund The Partnership to Build America Act creates the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) to provide financing to state and local governments for new infrastructure. Transportation, energy, communications, water and education projects are eligible to receive AIF financing. Local governments would apply directly to the AIF for support. To encourage public-private partnerships 35% of AIF supported projects must have at least 10% of their financing be private debt or equity. The AIF will be capitalized by $50 billion in infrastructure bond sales and leveraged at a 15:1 ratio to provide up to $750 billion in loans or guarantees. Funded by an Infrastructure Bond Sale Rather than using appropriated funds out of the federal budget to establish the American Infrastructure Fund, the Partnership to Build America Act uses a bond sale. AIF bonds would have a 50-year term, pay a 1% fixed rate return and would not be guaranteed by the U.S. government. These bonds are not intended to be a good investment on their own and are transferable after purchase. To incentivize companies to purchase these bonds, U.S. companies would be allowed to repatriate a certain amount of their overseas earnings tax free for every $1.00 they invest in the bonds. This multiplier will be set by a “reverse Dutch auction” – which allows the market to set the rate, ensuring that enough funds are raised. Assuming a 1:4 ratio is set by the auction; a company will be able to repatriate $4.00 tax-free for every $1 in AIF bonds they purchase. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act – To Be Introduced by Rep. Delaney & Rep. Yoho Building a World Class 21st Century Infrastructure with Revenue from Deemed Repatriation at 8.75% Tax Rate Under the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, existing overseas profits accumulated by U.S. multi-national corporations would be subject to a mandatory, one-time 8.75% tax, replacing deferral option and current rate of 35%. $120 billion to the Highway Trust Fund, enough to meet funding gap at increased levels for six years. $50 billion to capitalize the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) $25 million pilot program to create regional infrastructure accelerators, similar to the West Coast Infrastructure Exchange This frees the estimated $2 trillion in overseas earnings to return to the United States, spurring private sector re-investment and growth. Creating Long-term Highway Trust Fund Solvency and Policy Certainty The Infrastructure 2.0 Act provides six years of Highway Trust Fund solvency, providing immediate certainty to the private sector and policymakers. The legislation also establishes a bipartisan and bicameral commission that is tasked with developing a solution for permanent solvency of the Highway Trust Fund. Building a Path for Broader Tax Reform The Infrastructure 2.0 Act creates an eighteen-month deadline for international tax reform. To encourage action, the legislation includes a forcing function: if reform is not enacted, a fallback international tax package to make U.S. business climate more competitive would be implemented. This pro-growth fallback reform package would end deferral, reduce anti-competitive over taxation, decrease taxes for companies paying fair rates abroad but increase taxes for companies in tax havens. This would eliminate the lock-out effect and allow for the free flow of profits back to the United States. Under this option, for Active Market Foreign Income, a company would pay a 12.25% tax to the U.S. on overseas profits if they are currently paying no tax and a 2% tax to the U.S. if they are already paying the OECD average of 25% abroad, with a sliding scale in-between. ##
01.05.2017	WASHINGTON – Today the House of Representatives passed House Resolution 11, expressing bipartisan opposition to United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) cosponsored H. Res. 11 and voted for it. H. Res. 11 states that United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334 is an “obstacle to Israeli-Palestinian peace” and that it undermines the long-standing position of the United States to oppose U.N. resolutions that are “one-sided and anti-Israel.” Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “Israel is our closest ally in the Middle East, a vital partner in fighting terrorism and a nation that shares our core values. U.N. Security Council Resolution 2334 is a one-sided, anti-Israel measure that does not serve the interests of peace, security or human rights in the region. I am particularly disturbed that this U.N.S.C. Resolution defines Israeli presence in Jerusalem and at the Western Wall as illegal, potentially limiting access to the most sacred place for Jews around the world. I continue to believe that we need a fair two-state solution and do not support efforts to expand settlements in the West Bank. However, this U.N.S.C. Resolution goes much too far. We will never see peace in the region achieved by one-sided measures led by outside bodies, which is what this U.N.S.C. Resolution represents. I am proud to stand with my colleagues in the House in support of Israel and in support of this bipartisan condemnation of U.N.S.C. Resolution 2334.” ##
01.03.2017	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday, Members of the House of Representatives were sworn in for the 115th Congress. Congressman John K. Delaney begins his third term representing Maryland Sixth District. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “I am truly humbled to represent the people of Maryland’s Sixth District in the House, and I look forward to standing up for them again this Congress. After a very contentious 2016 and with a new Administration moving into the White House, many Marylanders are anxious about what will happen next. I believe that we must reembrace our core values of fairness, civility and respect for all and rededicate ourselves to advancing policies that create jobs and make government more effective. The oath we take today is to uphold the Constitution and we must take seriously the responsibility to defend justice and liberty for all Americans. “As I meet with Marylanders across the district, it is clear that they want Congress to address the nation’s most pressing needs and find common ground. I will continue to work to bring my colleagues together around a new infrastructure jobs package, support innovation and job creation and focus on improving benefits and services for veterans and service-members. We will maintain our existing office locations in Gaithersburg and Hagerstown, and I encourage my constituents that need help working with a federal agency or assistance receiving their benefits to contact my office.” ##
12.12.2016	WASHINGTON - Thursday, two bills were introduced by a bipartisan group of members on the House Financial Services Committee to lay the groundwork for housing finance reform next Congress -- H.R. 6500, the Moving Housing Forward Act, introduced by Congressmen John K. Delaney (D-MD), John Carney (D-DE), and Jim Himes (D-CT) and H.R. 6487, the Taxpayer Protections and Market Access for Mortgage Finance Act introduced by Congressman Ed Royce (R-CA) and Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-WI). Both proposals seek to address issues in housing finance through pilot programs at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. “An all-of-the-above approach to credit risk transfers by the GSEs is critical, as we look for ways to decrease taxpayer exposure to future losses and maintain a stable housing market. Members of both sides of the aisle agree that the status quo of a housing market dominated by the federal government is unsustainable,” said Congressman Royce. “Owning a home has long been a key part of the American Dream. If Congress isn’t ensuring access to affordable housing and a stable housing market, we are failing millions of middle class families,” said Congressman Delaney. “With the current difficulty millions of Americans face getting mortgages, it’s time for Congress to end the gridlock on housing finance reform and start advancing reasonable bipartisan ideas like these innovative pilot programs that will help Congress finalize larger reforms. I’m proud to work with Congressman Himes and Congressman Carney on our bill and I’m grateful for Congressman Royce and Congresswoman Moore’s efforts to also advance housing reform. In these two bills, we advance reform efforts that combine the strengths of the private sector and public sector to keep an affordable fixed-rate thirty-year mortgage alive and preserve a government guarantee, while introducing greater fiscal responsibility and stability to the housing finance system. I look forward to working with my colleagues in both parties next Congress.” “Ensuring the stability of our housing market is crucial to our communities and our economy,’ said Congressman Carney. “These bills seek to address critical issues at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and to do so in a responsible way. While I’m disappointed that I won’t be in Congress to continue this work, I’m glad we were able to keep the ball rolling.” “Congress needs to make progress on issues that affect the lives of working families in tangible ways, and it is hard to think of anything that can build wealth and change lives more significantly than home ownership,” said Congressman Himes. “Our plan combines the best ideas and resources from the private and public sector, which is an approach that has wide support from the experts most knowledgeable in the field. This legislation can set the tone for a new way of doing business on Capitol Hill that puts the priorities of the American people first.” Eight years after the financial crisis housing finance reform remains unaddressed. Government conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac places taxpayers at risk for future bailouts and impacts access to credit for borrowers. On average, borrowers need a FICO score that is 50 points higher than they did 15 years ago. As a leading economic driver for the United States and an important asset for middle-class savings, stability in the housing sector and adequate access to mortgages for home buyers is imperative. To address these issues, House Financial Services members have introduced two proposals that establish pilot programs at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. It is crucial that Congress take up legislation to fix the structure of both Government Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs) to prevent future housing crises and protect American taxpayers while also ensuring that Americans retain the dream of owning their own home. Both bills seek to test strategies and gain feedback to better inform future Congressional actions. The Moving Housing Forward Act would test a pari passu finance pricing structure for Credit Risk Transfers, while Taxpayer Protections and Market Access for Mortgage Finance Act expands mortgage insurance to lessen risk for the enterprises. In addition, both efforts push the regulators and GSEs to explore new and innovative means of sharing risk and advance the conversation around how to best reform Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. These pilots provide important real-world feedback to help Congress act on comprehensive housing finance reform. The members look forward to continuing to work together to examine new structures that ensure both affordability of mortgages and fiscal responsibility. To view bill text of the Taxpayer Protections and Market Access for Mortgage Finance Act click here. To view bill text of Moving Housing Forward Act click here. For a one-pager on the Moving Housing Forward Act click here. ##
12.02.2016	WASHINGTON – All ten members of the Maryland congressional delegation have signed onto a bipartisan letter organized by Congressman John K. Delaney (D-MD-6) on behalf of Maryland’s request for FASTLANE grant funding for the I-81 Corridor Widening project. U.S. Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD), U.S. Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD), Senator-Elect Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) Rep. Steny Hoyer (D-MD-5), Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-MD-7), Rep. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD-2), Rep. John Sarbanes (D-MD-3), Rep. Donna F. Edwards (D-MD-4), Rep. Andy Harris (R-MD-1) and Rep. Delaney signed the letter, which was sent to the U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx on December 2 . The FASTLANE program was established in the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act to fund critical freight and highway projects nationwide. The text of the letter is below: The Honorable Anthony Foxx Secretary of Transportation U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE Washington, D.C. 20590 Subject: I-81 Corridor Widening: Improving Safety, Capacity, and Reliability in Western Maryland Fostering Advancements in Shipping and Transportation for the Long-term Achievement of National Efficiencies (FASTLANE) 2017 Grant Request Dear Secretary Foxx: We are writing to express our strong support for the request from the Maryland Department of Transportation (MDOT) for FASTLANE grant funding to support the I-81 Corridor Widening project. To improve safety for local drivers, regional and national freight movement, and traffic operations, I-81 will be widened from four lanes to six lanes through a comprehensive four-phase project. With Phase 1 of the project having commenced in October 2016, MDOT is requesting FASTLANE funding, which will be utilized for Phase 2 construction and will leverage MDOT’s ability to move forward with Phase 3 and 4. These upgrades are important both nationally and locally. I-81 is a strategic transportation asset that promotes and supports global and national commerce in the United States’ Appalachian and Northeast markets. It carries more than 19,400 trucks per day in Maryland, which falls within the top 1% of truck volume by lane mile in the entire nation. The expansion project has overwhelming support from public and private stakeholders who recognize the essential nature of expanding freight capacity and addressing safety deficiencies. Crash rates along the 12-mile segment doubled between 2010 and 2015, and are compounded by an increasingly high percentage of truck-involved incidents. Addressing this is important for interstate commerce, but even more importantly for the safety of the Maryland residents and residents of nearby states commuting on I-81 every day. When completed, the I-81 Corridor Widening project will include the construction of two additional lanes of travel (northbound and southbound), reconstruction of existing bridges and overpasses, and interchange improvements along the 12 mile segment of I-81 contained within Maryland, which extends from the West Virginia state line to the Pennsylvania state line through Washington County. The expansion is a pivotal $396.5 million investment that will position the corridor to serve as a national asset for freight movement for the next several decades while also mitigating significant safety hazards. As you know, smart investments in infrastructure can improve people’s quality of life, make their daily commutes safer and grow our economy locally, regionally and nationally. It is clear that widening I-81 falls into this category. Thank you for your consideration of this project and MDOT’s request for FASTLANE grant funding. If you have any questions regarding our support for this project, please do not hesitate to contact us. Sincerely, ##
11.29.2016	WASHINGTON – An editorial published today in the Baltimore Sun urges President-Elect Trump to adopt Congressman John K. Delaney’s (MD-6) proposal to use revenues from international tax reform as part of a bipartisan plan to rebuild America’s infrastructure and create good jobs. Congressman Delaney has authored two bills that create a new national infrastructure fund for state and local projects; The Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 413) and The Infrastructure 2.0 Act (H.R. 625) and over the past four years Congressman Delaney’s framework has generated significant bipartisan support. The possibility of the President-Elect adopting Delaney’s framework was also mentioned today in coverage by the Washington Post. The op-ed is available online here and is copied below: Don, the builder Editorial Board, Baltimore Sun, 11/29/16 Can Trump boost jobs and demonstrate leadership? A bipartisan infrastructure bill offers his best shot If President-Elect Donald J. Trump is the dealmaker that he claims to be, sometime between now and Jan. 20, he ought to stop by the Longworth House Office Building's Room 1632 and ask for John. The two men might find they have a few things to talk about. That's because Maryland's 6th District Rep. John K. Delaney, a Democrat, has been a leading voice in his party for leveraging greater private investment in the nation's failing infrastructure — its roads, bridges, airports, water and sewer systems, rail lines, schools and the like. During the campaign, Mr. Trump touted his own plan to increase such spending by $1 trillion over the next 10 years, chiefly through tax incentives. Both plans have their flaws. But at their core, they also have something, if readers can pardon the expression, to build upon. Encouraging greater private sector investment in infrastructure — building privately-owned toll roads, for example — can be a net positive, and encouraging such projects through appropriate changes in tax law can work as well. Maryland's best examples of this are the public-private partnerships that built new rest stops on the John F. Kennedy Highway and financed a much-needed expansion of the Port of Baltimore. As frequently as we have bemoaned Washington's failure to update the federal government's circa-1993 gas tax to reflect 21st century realities (the higher cost of construction, the reduced rate of fuel consumption and the need to encourage conservation in the wake of climate change), it's clear that a Republican-controlled Congress and a Republican president are unlikely to raise the federal gas tax from its current 18.4 cents per gallon. But it's also clear that Republicans can't increase needed infrastructure spending without Democratic votes — too many in the GOP's ultra-orthodox wing are allergic to a yes vote on the subject. And make no mistake, this is needed spending. The most recent report card from the American Society of Civil Engineers rates U.S. infrastructure at a D-plus and in need of a $3.6 trillion boost. The problem didn't happen overnight; we've maintained a systemic underinvestment in infrastructure over decades. But it represents a "yuuuge," as the president-elect might say, impediment to the nation's economy if the disrepair is allowed to continue. Mr. Delaney's Partnership to Build America Act would use repatriated corporate profits now held overseas (made available by a reduced tax rate on overseas earnings brought home and a larger tax on profits that remain off-shore) to put billions in the Highway Trust Fund and to create a bank — a $750 billion infrastructure fund — that would be available to state and local governments. The beauty of this concept is that it spares Republicans from raising taxes but still contributes to traditional government-managed infrastructure. Mr. Trump's plan, while lacking in specifics, has already been criticized as more of a profit opportunity for large corporations than any real fix for neglected infrastructure. It's one thing to find private equity to create a toll road, it's another to find investors anxious to sink millions into lead-free water pipes in Flint, Mich. Yet there are public-private partnership opportunities out there, as Maryland's recent examples demonstrate, that ought to be encouraged. The solution? Probably a deal with Democrats that takes the best of both proposals and perhaps adds an inflation-escalator to the federal gas tax in future years. That's not raising taxes so much as embracing the realities of basic economics. And given the nation's historically low gasoline prices of late, we seriously doubt Trump supporters will be bothered by a penny or two in future years — particularly if it means tens of thousands of new jobs created almost overnight by infrastructure construction projects. Here's the best part. Democrats have already signaled a desire to work with Mr. Trump on this issue. Given the undiminished (and perhaps even rising) levels of anxiety among traditional Democratic supporters following the election, that's not something to be taken lightly. As House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi observed, a robust jobs and infrastructure bill could allow the two sides to "work together." That's a deal practically begging to be done. ##
11.16.2016	WASHINGTON – Steve Mnuchin, a member of the next Administration’s executive committee and transition team told reporters Thursday that they are “looking at the creation of an infrastructure bank to fund infrastructure investments.” Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) is the leading champion in Congress on using revenues from international tax reform to rebuild America’s infrastructure and Congressman Delaney’s framework has generated significant bipartisan support. Congressman Delaney has authored two bills that create a new national infrastructure fund for state and local projects; The Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 413) and The Infrastructure 2.0 Act (H.R. 625). Over the last two Congresses, over 50 Democrats and 50 Republicans have cosponsored one of Congressman Delaney’s proposals in the House or Senate. Delaney’s framework was also included in President Obama’s budget. “We have a big bipartisan coalition in Congress that is ready to work on rebuilding America using revenues from international tax reform, and we are encouraged that Mr. Mnuchin has indicated that the next Administration is moving in this direction,” said Congressman Delaney. “We’ve built a bipartisan framework and developed the legislation that shows you can bring Republicans and Democrats together around a really good idea; if they are serious about a real solution, this is where they should look. We worked with the last Administration on this issue and look forward to continuing the effort. Conservatives, moderates and progressives understand that by combining international tax reform and infrastructure we can create good jobs, encourage more domestic investment and improve our business climate for decades to come.” The Partnership to Build America Act sells $50 billion of bonds to private companies to capitalize an infrastructure fund that can provide $750 billion of financing for projects. In exchange for purchasing these bonds, the companies will be able to bring back a portion of their overseas earnings, one-time, tax free. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act creates the same national infrastructure fund and additionally provides a long-term funding solution for the Highway Trust Fund by establishing a mandatory, one-time 8.75% tax on existing overseas profits (less taxes already paid), ending the deferral option, and lowering the go-forward tax rate which permanently fixes our broken international tax system. ##
11.11.2016	WASHINGTON – Friday November 11 is Veterans Day. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “First, as an American, I would like to personally thank our veterans and their families for their service. Veterans Day is a reminder of the gratitude and appreciation that we should carry with us on all days, in all seasons, in all communities across the country, for the men and women who have served our country and defended our values in a dangerous world. We must also remember those who did not return home and that this most total sacrifice for others is something all veterans have been willing to make. I am proud to represent tens of thousands of Maryland veterans in Congress and believe that supporting veterans should be one of Washington’s top priorities. We have real work to do to improve VA services, expand and update benefits to reflect changing needs and make sure that veterans and military families can thrive. I encourage any veteran who needs help to contact my office immediately and we will do everything we can to assist them.” Rep. Delaney is the author of bipartisan legislation to protect veterans from having their credit score negatively impacted by delayed VA payments and bipartisan legislation to expedite access to protected medical leave for working disabled veterans. Local veterans who need help receiving their benefits can call Rep. Delaney’s office at 301-926-0300. ##
10.17.2016	WASHINGTON – The Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) has announced that Washington County will be included in the Washington/Baltimore regional High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA). In August, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) wrote to the Director of the Washington/Baltimore HIDTA requesting that Washington County be added. Created in 1988, the HIDTA program facilitates greater coordination among federal, state and local law enforcement agencies operating in areas determined to be critical drug trafficking regions of the United States. The Washington/Baltimore HIDTA is one of eight nationwide. “We asked that federal officials include Washington County in this important anti-drug trafficking program and are very pleased that they listened. The pain and suffering caused by drugs in Washington County has been tragic and increased federal resources are needed to help the community. Adding Washington County to the HIDTA program is really important, because the only way we’re going to successfully tackle a problem this big and this complex is through coordination and listening to local communities,” said Congressman Delaney. The Office of National Drug Control Policy recently announced a partnership among regional HIDTA programs to address the heroin epidemic facing those communities. Law enforcement organizations working within HIDTAs assess drug-trafficking issues and design specific initiatives to decrease the production, transportation, distribution, and chronic use of drugs and money laundering. ##
09.30.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Congressman Chris Gibson (NY-19) have introduced legislation to find bipartisan consensus on climate change and drive economically viable solutions that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and avoid the public health and environmental consequences of unchecked climate change. The Delaney-Gibson bill was introduced with three Republican and three Democratic cosponsors. The Delaney-Gibson Climate Solutions Commission Act (H.R. 6240) would establish the bipartisan National Climate Solutions Commission which will make recommendations on how to best reduce non-sequestered greenhouse gas emissions based on the findings of the scientific community. “Climate change is the environmental challenge of our time and it is absolutely necessary that we act,” said Congressman Delaney. “Ultimately, the best path to a solution is to build bipartisan consensus - that process starts today with the introduction of this bill. I want to thank my colleagues in both parties for their courage in stepping forward on this issue. Climate change is a threat to our economy, our health, our environment and our security and it’s time for us to work together.” “Thank you to Congressmen Delaney, Curbelo, Dold, Lowenthal, Deutch, and Peters for joining me in introducing this critical piece of legislation. Our changing climate is a threat to national security, the environment, public health, and the economy, including agricultural production,” said Congressman Gibson. “It is imperative that we begin to make the correct choices today to mitigate and reverse human causes of our changing climate before our children and grandchildren must make considerably more difficult decisions to achieve the same goals.” Climate Solutions Commission Act (H.R. 6240) Establishes the National Climate Solutions Commission The commission will have 10 members, five appointed by Democrats and five appointed by Republicans. The commission will 1) undertake a comprehensive review of economically viable public and private actions or policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 2) make recommendations to the President, Congress and the States and 3) use as its goals for emissions reductions the estimated rates of reduction that reflect the latest scientific findings of what is needed to avoid serious health and environmental consequences. ##
09.19.2016	GERMANTOWN – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) joined federal, state and county officials in Germantown to announce the launch of the Fix I-270 Coalition, a bipartisan initiative featuring federal, state and local officials and local business leaders to widen and improve traffic conditions on I-270. Congressman Delaney, a national leader on infrastructure issues and the author of bipartisan legislation to dramatically expand federal transportation investment using revenues from international tax reform, is the Honorary Chairman of the effort. “The terrible traffic conditions on I-270 are a daily dilemma and a nightly nightmare for Marylanders,” said Congressman Delaney. “The gridlock and endless congestion on I-270 is one of the biggest problems facing Maryland, severely impacting the quality of life and economic competitiveness of one of our most critical job-creating regions. I’m proud to Chair the Fix I-270 Now Coalition because we can’t wait any longer and we can’t accept minor fixes, we need big transformative improvements to I-270. Fixing I-270 will require all of us working together – federal, state, local governments, as well as the business community – and that’s why this coalition is so important.” The Fix 270 Now Coalition is a broad-based coalition of civic, business and elected officials supporting a comprehensive, multimodal set of solutions to the severe traffic congestion along the I-270 corridor. As a first step, the coalition is calling for the completion of necessary feasibility studies from the state that are required to begin the process and to secure federal funding. ##
09.16.2016	WASHINGTON – Writing on the need for international tax reform in the Wall Street Journal Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Congressman Richard Hanna (NY-22) have called for congressional leadership to focus on a bipartisan solution that pairs tax reform with increased infrastructure investment. The letter was written in response to Treasury Secretary Jack Lew’s op-ed on the flawed international tax system. Congressman Delaney is the author of the bipartisan Infrastructure 2.0 Act, which uses revenues from international corporate tax reform to expand the Highway Trust Fund and create a new national infrastructure fund to finance state and local projects, creating millions of new jobs. The Delaney/Hanna letter is available online here and copied below: We agree with Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew’s diagnosis of our flawed international tax system (“Europe’s Bite Out of the Apple Shows the Need for U.S. Tax Reform,” op-ed, Sept. 13) and we agree, directionally, with his description of the proper solution. We encourage the secretary and congressional leadership to focus on our bipartisan Infrastructure 2.0 Act. The way to get this done is to combine international tax reform with infrastructure investment. The $2 trillion of existing overseas earnings would be “deemed” repatriated and subject to a minimum tax of 8.75% (less any tax already paid) and on a “go forward” basis, deferral would end and the rate would be 12.25% for profits in low-tax jurisdictions with deductions for taxes already paid. This bipartisan approach generates $170 billion of revenue that would be applied to our nation’s infrastructure and creates a new national infrastructure fund that would provide an additional $750 billion in financing to state and local governments. The urgency of this problem demands embracing a smart, practical plan that has bipartisan support, like the Infrastructure 2.0 Act. This is the only way to actually make progress. Rep. John K. Delaney (D., Md.) Rep. Richard Hanna (R., N.Y.) ##
09.14.2016	WASHINGTON – Dennis P. Lockhart, President and CEO of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta announced this week that he will be retiring in February of 2017. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6), a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Joint Economic Committee, releases the following statement: “I want to publicly thank Dennis Lockhart for his exceptional service as President of the Atlanta Federal Reserve. Dennis has been a clear thinker and steady hand on issues important to the U.S. economy and his contributions will be missed. I had the privilege of seeing Dennis's talents first hand when he was a member of the Board of Directors of my company prior to his service at the Fed, and I have enjoyed following his efforts in the public sector. I wish him well with his future endeavors.” ##
09.13.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, the House voted in favor of prompt finalization of a new long-term security agreement between the United States and Israel. House Resolution 729 was cosponsored by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) who also voted for the measure. The resolution calls for the “expeditious consideration and finalization of a new, robust and long-term Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on military assistance” between the two nations. The resolution reaffirms that “it is the policy and law of the United States to ensure that Israel maintains its qualitative military edge and has the capacity and capability to defend itself.” “Israel is one of our closest allies, a beacon of democracy in the Middle East and the spiritual home to millions of Americans,” said Congressman Delaney. “Israel is a vital security and defense partner and it is essential that we implement a new Memorandum of Understanding and the passage of this resolution sends a strong message that Congress wants a strong agreement. Because of our shared values and shared interest, I believe we should increase support for Israel and that starts with a robust new MOU.” The current MOU between the United States and Israel expires next year and establishes the level of security aid provided to Israel and how those funds can be spent. ##
09.08.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has authored an op-ed in the Huffington Post on his Consumer Protection and Community Investment Agenda. Rep. Delaney’s agenda includes legislation to protect the credit score of veterans, legislation to provide low income communities with affordable financial services, legislation to expand protections for rent-to-own customers and legislation to reform the Small Business Administration’s HUBZone program to protect jobs in Garrett County. The op-ed is online here and copied below. A New Consumer Protection Agenda for Working Families By Rep. John K. Delaney (MD-6) Huffington Post, 9/8/16 For too many Americans it can be expensive just to spend their own money. Daily drains on purchasing power caused by high fees, exorbitant rates and limited access to affordable credit and basic banking services are making it more difficult for millions of Americans to enter the middle class and making the foothold that many have feel tenuous. The very people who can least afford to do so often pay some of the highest rates and fees in the marketplace. Far from the headlines or cable news, this is an everyday financial crisis that is limiting economic opportunity and dragging down the creation of more good jobs by limiting demand and stifling new business creation. This hidden crisis is keeping the economic recovery from being enjoyed more widely. As a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and a former entrepreneur who helped small and medium sized businesses grow by providing them access to capital, this is unacceptable to me. While the reforms and protections passed after the financial crisis of 2008 addressed structural problems related to large financial institutions, more work needs to be done to help protect individual consumers and underserved communities. Even here in Maryland, which is one of the wealthiest states in the country, there are areas with high concentrations of consumers who are subjected to costly services and a lack of mainstream banking options. That’s why this year I launched my Consumer Protection and Community Investment Agenda, a package of legislation designed to give consumers access to affordable services, expand protections for vulnerable populations and veterans, and increase economic development in struggling communities. One of the most important first steps we should take is to broaden access to the basic financial tools that are essential to full and secure participation in our economy. Imagine trying to save for the future or manage your finances without a bank account? For over 60 million Americans that’s an everyday reality. These consumers are considered “unbanked” or “underbanked” – meaning they are without a bank account entirely or regularly rely on alternative financial products. A study by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation found that 53% of African American households and 46% of Hispanic households do not have full access to banking services. Moreover, unbanked consumers are frequently highly concentrated in low-income areas. This concentration can be particularly devastating in our urban centers. For example, a 2009 study found that in the City of Baltimore over 38% of the population were either unbanked or underbanked. Without access to affordable financial services many are totally reliant on high-fee alternatives like check cashing services, pre-paid cards and payday lenders. Over time, this can ruin people financially. According to an analysis by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, unbanked Americans spend roughly 6% of their annual income on fees associated with basic financial services. That means it costs a group that is disproportionally low-income a lot of money just to access their own income. An unbanked worker earning $20,000 will pay $1,200 a year in fees just to spend their own money. While using alternative financial products like check cashing services may work for some consumers, these providers also often benefit from a lack of healthy competition in the underserved areas where they are prevalent. One solution is to allow philanthropic, non-profit banks to operate in targeted areas with high concentrations of Americans without a bank account, the same areas where it is difficult to find a traditional for-profit bank branch. Without having to worry about making a profit (which will allow lower costs for consumers) and supported by donations, these institutions could offer basic checking, savings and credit services to consumers who right now don’t have many options in their neighborhood. Currently, outdated Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) make setting up a philanthropic bank very difficult. Our Equal Access to Banking Act updates FDIC regulations to allow these innovative new endeavors to receive deposit insurance. Instead of spending thousands of dollars on fees, underprivileged Americans with new accounts at a non-profit local bank will have more money to spend on food, clothing and housing. They will also be able to save for the future and have legitimate access to the kinds of affordable credit that are needed to buy an automobile or home. Many of the same people in these distressed areas are also consumers at rent-to-own companies, which specialize in selling electronic and household goods via contracts that include weekly or monthly payments. While the rent-to-own model may work for some, there is very little regulation of this industry and some rent-to-own contracts can feature high fees and interest rates, leading to customers paying much more – sometimes even as much as five times more – for the same products than if they’d purchased them from a traditional retailer. Our Expanding Rent-to-Own Protections Act would ensure that rent-to-own customers receive the same level of protections that other consumers enjoy. After the financial crisis, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) was established with bipartisan support and the CFPB has acted to protect credit card users, payday lending users and other financial products customers. Our bill would require the CFPB to do the same for rent-to-own customers and has been endorsed by the National Consumer Law Center. Finally, my Consumer Protection and Community Investment Agenda includes bipartisan legislation to protect the credit scores of veterans who are dealing with delayed government payments. The Protecting Veterans Credit Act currently has seven Democratic and five Republican cosponsors and is supported by the Vietnam Veterans of America (VVA), the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA), the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA) and the National Patient Advocate Foundation. The slow disbursement of Veterans Choice Program payments has meant that potentially thousands of veterans have been adversely affected, often having large and inaccurate medical debts wrongly listed in their name. This error can make it more expensive for veterans to buy a home or car or be hired at a new job. No veteran should have their personal finances ruined because of delayed payments from the Department of Veterans Affairs and our bill would protect their credit score. Our Consumer Protection and Community Investment Agenda is guided by a belief that the financial marketplace should work for all Americans, no matter where they live. ##
09.07.2016	WASHINGTON – The House has passed bipartisan legislation to establish national protections and expanded access to justice for survivors of sexual assault. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted for The Sexual Assault Survivors’ Bill of Rights, which establishes a right to a free forensic examination and the preservation of evidence collection kits (commonly referred to as a “rape kit”) for twenty years or the duration of the statute of limitations in federal sexual assault cases. “Sexual assault survivors deserve justice,” said Congressman Delaney. “It’s unthinkable to me that sexual assault survivors wouldn’t have guaranteed access to a forensic evidence kit or that evidence could be destroyed prematurely. This bipartisan legislation gives survivors nationwide access to greater justice, provides survivors with additional information and tasks the federal government with developing best practices to improve our response to sexual assault. These terrible crimes happen every day, in every neighborhood across this country and the bottom line is we owe it to the survivors to do more, that’s why I’m proud to vote for The Sexual Assault Survivors’ Bill of Rights.” The Sexual Assault Survivors’ Bill of Rights also specifies that survivors have a right to be notified in writing prior to the destruction of the evidence kit and the ability to request further preservation and the right to be informed of a DNA profile match. The Survivors’ Bill of Rights Act will also require the Attorney General and the United States Department of Health and Human Services to convene a joint working group on best practices regarding the treatment of sexual assault survivors and the preservation of forensic evidence. The Sexual Assault Survivors’ Bill of Rights has been endorsed by numerous national organizations including: Rise; Rape Abuse, and Incest National Network (RAINN); National Alliance to End Sexual Violence; and National Center for Victims of Crime. ##
08.31.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has been awarded the ‘Champion of the 50+’ award by AARP Maryland. AARP Maryland recognized Delaney for his achievements during the 114th Congress on behalf of the 50-plus community as well as for his leadership role in implementing a U.S. Department of Labor rule to ensure retirement plan advisors provide advice in the best interest of their clients. Congressman Delaney is also recognized for his bipartisan leadership in Congress to protect social security. “Congressman Delaney’s efforts will help improve the financial security of millions of Americans who are working hard to save for the future, by ensuring that they receive the most appropriate advice for their individual situation and that their trusted advisors are working in their interest,” said AARP Maryland State Director Hank Greenberg. “For this work, and his continued commitment to Marylanders 50+ and their families, we are truly grateful.” Over the last two years, Congressman Delaney has met with the Department of Labor and the Administration and supported the effort as the fiduciary rule was being developed. The new standard requires retirement financial advisors to serve as a “fiduciary” for their clients – meaning they put their clients’ interests first, potentially saving American families billions of dollars per year. “High among my top priorities in Congress are protecting retirement security, defending and strengthening Social Security and ensuring that hardworking Marylanders receive financial advice that is transparent, accurate and in their best interest,” said Congressman John K. Delaney. “I am proud to receive the ‘Champion of the 50+’ legislative leadership award from the AARP for my work on behalf of retirees. I will continue to work with the White House and Department of Labor on this new standard requiring retirement financial advisors to put their clients’ interests first, but we also need to focus more on a long term bipartisan solution to secure Social Security. While we do that, I will continue to bring federal resources for seniors directly into the district so that they can live the lives of respect and dignity that they have earned.” ##
08.30.2016	WASHINGTON – The Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA) have announced their support for Congressman John K. Delaney’s Protecting Veterans Credit Act. Delaney’s legislation blocks the credit rating of veterans from being wrongfully lowered due to delayed payments associated with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Veterans Choice Program, shielding them from unnecessary financial harm. In addition to IAVA, the Protecting Veterans Credit Act has received the support of the Vietnam Veterans of America (VVA), the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA) and the National Patient Advocate Foundation. “We have to make sure that America’s veterans receive the benefits they’ve earned, that the VA delivers world-class services promptly and that no veteran has their credit score ruined due to delayed payments from the VA,” said Congressman Delaney. “No veteran should have their personal financial standing harmed due to the VA’s problems and that’s why this legislation is so important. IAVA are the champions of the latest generation of Americans and I’m thrilled and humbled to have their support on this important legislation.” “IAVA thanks Congressman Delaney for introducing the Protecting Veterans Credit Act,” IAVA Legislative Director Tom Porter said. “Protecting veterans' financial well-being is important to our organization and veterans shouldn't suffer bad credit ratings because the of delayed VA payments. We're happy to support this bill and look forward to seeing it progress toward passage.” Delaney’s bipartisan bill is currently cosponsored by seven Democrats and four Republicans in the House of Representatives and a Senate companion to the Delaney bill has also been filed. Delaney is also the author of bipartisan legislation to provide disabled veterans with expedited access to protected medical leave. The Protecting Veterans Credit Act (H.R. 5593) The Problem Enacted in 2014, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Choice Program provides veterans with the ability to receive medical care in a non-VA facility if the VA cannot schedule an appointment within a specified time period or if the veteran lives more than 40 miles from the closest VA medical facility. Unfortunately, there have been issues with the implementation of the program, including delayed Choice Program payments and inappropriately assigned bills to veterans. Because of delays and incorrectly assigned bills, veterans have received adverse actions on their credit reports and inappropriate debt collection efforts. Adverse credit action makes it more difficult and more expensive for a person to get a home mortgage or an auto loan or even to rent an apartment. To address these issues, the VA set up a call center for veterans to contact the VA to resolve debt collection and adverse credit reporting. As of the end of May, the VA handled over 7100 inbound telephone calls. While the VA is actively trying to reform the Choice Program, veterans need immediate and retroactive relief from erroneous credit reporting actions and debt collection efforts. No veteran should have their credit score hurt or be harassed by debt collectors because of a delay in the VA or their private contractor paying the bills. The Solution The Protecting Veterans’ Credit Act delays medical debt from medical services received through the Choice Program from being reported to credit reporting agencies for one year. This delay provides adequate time for the VA and its contractors to resolve the issues, while retaining a route for resolution of any co-payments or other obligations. The bill provides a mechanism for veterans to easily dispute adverse actions already on their reports. Additionally, the bill requires debt collectors to provide the veteran with written information of their rights and who they can contact to resolve an issue. Benefits By instituting a one year grace period, it will allow for the multiple parties involved in the Choice Program time to process the payments, so the veterans receive the care they need, the doctors are fairly compensated, and veterans don’t suffer a credit loss for something that isn’t their fault. Ensures veterans are not unnecessarily pressured into paying bills that they do not owe. ##
08.24.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin along with Congressman Chris Van Hollen and Congressman John Delaney today announced the National Fallen Firefighters Foundation (NFFF), headquartered in Emmitsburg, Md., has been awarded a $1,428,572 Fire Prevention and Safety Grant (FP&S) to continue its online learning and distance education program, Everyone Goes Home. Congress created the NFFF to lead a nationwide effort to remember America’s fallen firefighters. Since 1992, the nonprofit has developed and expanded programs to increase training for active duty firefighters while honoring fallen fire heroes and assisting their families and coworkers. The FPS grant is funded through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). As the Chairwoman of the Appropriations Committee, Senator Mikulski fights each year to increase federal funding for the fire grants program. Senator Cardin is a member of the Finance Committee. “Firefighters and their families already understand the hazards of being on the job, whether it is rushing into a burning building or suffering from physical exhaustion and injury. These funds in the federal checkbook are crucial to providing training to protect our protectors,” Senator Mikulski said. “First responders protect our homes and communities, and the federal government has a responsibility to protect them by providing them with the tools and training they need to do their jobs safer and smarter. I will continue to fight for the training, equipment and staffing our protectors and communities deserve.” “First responders across Maryland put their lives on the line daily to protect their communities. Nationwide, our fire fighters deserve the peace-of-mind that comes with knowing that they have federal partners committed to helping them secure the right resources and training to do their job well and return safely home to their families,” said Senator Cardin. “Protecting our first responders is a matter of national security and the right thing to do for our communities.” “The National Fallen Firefighters Foundation honors the heroes who face danger every time safety in our communities is threatened,” said Congressman Van Hollen. “This important funding will help prevent firefighter injuries and deaths as they bravely work to protect us and our families.” “The American people rely on firefighters every day, in small towns and big cities they save lives,” said Congressman John K. Delaney. “We have an obligation to support these public servants and their families and we should do everything we can to improve their safety and training programs – they can’t save us otherwise. That’s why I’m proud to announce this federal grant will go to the NFFF in Frederick County to expand their educational and safety programs.” The NFFF will use the award funds to continue and expand its Everyone Goes Home program, which works to prevent firefighter line of duty deaths and injuries through increased training and awareness. Since the program’s inception in 2005, line of duty deaths have decreased by 27 percent. Including this award, the NFFF has received more than $12 million to support the Everyone Goes Home program and their critical efforts. For more information, contact Chief Ron Siarnicki, Executive Director of the NFFF, at 301-447-1365. FP&S grants are part of the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) and support projects that enhance the safety of the public and firefighters from fire and hazard emergencies. AFG grants fund firefighting equipment, personal protection equipment, training, firefighting vehicles, firefighter/first responder safety projects, and staffing recruitment and retention, as well as public fire safety education. Since 2001, Maryland fire departments and Emergency Medical Services (EMS) units have received almost $195 million in fire grant funding. ###
08.24.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, together with U.S. Representatives Chris Van Hollen and John Delaney today announced that the Frederick County Division of Fire & Rescue Services will receive $6,339,748 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response (SAFER) program to hire 41 full time firefighter positions for two years, including training and full benefits. These new hires will replace 40 positions lost through attrition in the past two years. As Vice Chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Senator Mikulski fights each year to increase federal funding for the fire grants program. Senator Cardin is a member of the Finance Committee. “I know how important this funding is to Maryland communities – often it’s the difference between life and death. First responders protect our homes and communities, and the federal government has a responsibility to protect them by providing them with the tools and staffing they need to do their jobs safer and smarter,” Senator Mikulski said. “Every day when our first responders report for duty, they don’t know what they will face. That’s why I fight every year for the equipment, training, and staffing our protectors and communities deserve.” “Fire fighters across Maryland put their lives on the line daily to safeguard our communities. This federal investment will help ensure that Frederick County is able to recruit the very best first responders,” said Senator Cardin. “I want each of them, and their families, to know that they have federal partners who are as dedicated to the mission as they are. Protecting our first responders is a matter of national security and the right thing to do for our communities.” “Our first responders have a dangerous but necessary job, and our communities are grateful for the services and protection they provide,” said Congressman Van Hollen. “We have a duty to make sure our local fire departments have the resources and manpower they need to keep Marylanders safe, and I’m pleased that this funding will help boost the ranks of Frederick’s brave firefighters.” “Forty one firefighters – just think of all the good that those men and women are going to do for the people of Frederick County,” said Congressman John K. Delaney. “This federal grant is really good news for Frederick County and is another example of why I’ve been proud to support the Department of Homeland Security’s SAFER program. Frederick County is one of the largest and most populous counties in Maryland with a broad range of public safety needs and I have no doubt that the service of these new first responders will make a difference county-wide.” The Frederick County Division of Fire & Rescue Services will use the grant funds to hire 41 full time firefighters to fully compliment 24/7 staffing for two full years including recruitment and training of the positions. For more information, please contact Frederick County Fire Chief Thomas Owens at 301-600-1536. The goal of any SAFER grant is to enhance the ability of grantees to attain and maintain 24-hour staffing. The objective of the program is to award grants directly to volunteer, combination and career fire departments to help the departments increase the number of frontline firefighters, and to rehire firefighters who were laid off due to the economy. The SAFER program provides approximately $345 million in competitive grants to fire departments and statewide or local volunteer firefighter support groups. Since 2001, Maryland Fire Departments and Emergency Medical Services (EMS) units have received more than $195 million in grant funding, including $15.1 million awarded to Frederick County Fire and Emergency Medical Service Departments. # # #
08.11.2016	HAGERSTOWN – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) hosted a Seniors Workshop Thursday in Hagerstown at the Washington County Technical High School. The workshop was attended by over 125 Marylanders and featured representatives from Social Security, Medicare and other state and local offices. The Seniors Workshop was the 24th constituent services workshop Delaney has held this Congress and offered constituents the chance to speak one-on-one with experts and agency personnel. “The goal of our workshops is to bring these large institutions like Social Security and Medicare directly to Marylanders so seniors in Hagerstown can receive the help they need,” said Congressman Delaney. “Seniors have done so much for our communities and I want to make sure they receive the benefits they’ve earned and that their voice is heard.” Participating organizations included: U.S. Social Security Administration Medicare Washington County Commission on Aging Maryland Insurance Administration Maryland Office of the Attorney General AARP Maryland Health Connection IRS Maryland Legal Aid Family Healthcare of Hagerstown YMCA of Hagerstown Alzheimer’s Association Easterseals Adult Day Services ##
08.09.2016	FREDERICK – Over 125 Marylanders attended an Identity Theft & Fraud Prevention Workshop hosted by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) Tuesday evening at Frederick Community College. The workshop featured representatives from federal, state and local organizations offering their advice on how Marylanders can protect their sensitive financial and personal information and avoid being taken advantage of by scam artists. “Millions of Americans are victims of identity theft and fraud each year, including thousands of Marylanders and that’s why we hosted this workshop,” said Congressman Delaney. “It’s important to spread the word about how families can protect their financial information and how to look out for common tactics used by scam artists. The last thing hard-working families in Frederick County need is to get ripped off.” The workshop was the 23rd constituent services workshop Congressman Delaney has hosted this Congress. The summer Congressman Delaney launched his Consumer Protection and Community Investment Agenda, a package of bills to expand access to affordable financial tools for low-income Americans, reduce dependence on high-fee services, protect veterans from inaccurate credit ratings and encourage economic development in underserved communities. Agencies and organizations taking part in the workshop included: United States Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration United States Postal Inspection Service Office of the Maryland Attorney General Office of the Comptroller of Maryland Maryland Insurance Administration Frederick County State’s Attorney’s Office TransUnion ##
08.09.2016	WASHINGTON – U. S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin (both D-Md. ), together with U. S. Representatives Steny H. Hoyer, Elijah E. Cummings, Chris Van Hollen, C. A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John P. Sarbanes, Donna F. Edwards, Andy Harris and John Delaney today sent a letter to Maria Contreras-Sweet, Administrator of the Small Business Administration (SBA), urging her to approve Governor Larry Hogan’s request for a physical disaster declaration for Howard County after recent devastating flooding in Ellicott City. “Ellicott City, a historic Maryland treasure known for its vibrant business community and its culture of kindness and resilience, suffered significant flooding throughout an intense rainfall on the evening of July 30, 2016. The National Weather Service predicts that a rainfall of this magnitude should statistically occur only once every one thousand years. Six inches of rain poured down on Ellicott City, an amount of rain that normally falls over the course of one month, in a period of only ninety minutes,” the Members wrote. “. . . This physical disaster determination is necessary to help ensure that small business owners can get the physical disaster loan assistance and economic injury disaster loan assistance they need. We urge you to expeditiously review Governor Hogan’s request and declare a physical disaster for Howard County, Maryland. ” The SBA’s survey of Ellicott City found more than the 25 structures (with 40 percent or more uninsured damage) required to recommend an SBA physical declaration. At least 60 homeowners, renters and businesses in Ellicott City and the surrounding area sustained major damages or were destroyed. The disaster declaration is necessary to ensure Howard County business owners can get the physical disaster loan assistance and economic injury disaster loan assistance they need to repair or replace real estate, personal property, equipment or inventory damaged or destroyed in the disturbance. The letter to Administrator Maria Contreras-Sweet follows: August 9, 2016 Maria Contreras-Sweet, Administrator U. S. Small Business Administration 409 3rd Street SW Washington, D. C. 20416 Dear Administrator Contreras-Sweet: We are writing to express our shared support for Governor Larry Hogan’s request for the U. S. Small Business Administration to declare a physical disaster for Howard County, Maryland as a result of severe flooding which impacted Ellicott City on July 30, 2016. Given the massive impact that this flooding had on Ellicott City’s small businesses and residents, we respectfully request that you expeditiously approve this request. Ellicott City, a historic Maryland treasure known for its vibrant business community and its culture of kindness and resilience, suffered significant flooding throughout an intense rainfall on the evening of July 30, 2016. The National Weather Service predicts that a rainfall of this magnitude should statistically occur only once every one thousand years. Six inches of rain poured down on Ellicott City, an amount of rain that normally falls over the course of one month, in a period of only ninety minutes. We understand that SBA’s survey of Ellicott City has found more than the 25 structures (with 40% or more uninsured damage) required to recommend an SBA physical declaration. At least 60 homeowners, renters, and businesses in Ellicott City and the surrounding area sustained major damages or were destroyed. Over 82 structures had at least minor damages. This physical disaster determination is necessary to help ensure that small business owners can get the physical disaster loan assistance and economic injury disaster loan assistance they need. We urge you to expeditiously review Governor Hogan’s request and declare a physical disaster for Howard County, Maryland. Thank you for your consideration of our request. Sincerely, # # #
08.05.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has called for a Congressional hearing on changes to the Federal Long Term Care Insurance Program. Delaney has formally written to the leadership of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform requesting a hearing due to his “grave concerns over increased premiums.” The text of Congressman Delaney’s letter is below: Dear Chairman Chaffetz, Ranking Member Cummings, Chairman Meadows, and Ranking Member Connolly: I write to bring your attention to the Federal Long Term Care Insurance Program (FLTCIP) and grave concerns over increased premiums and the impact this could have on my constituents. John Hancock Life and Health Insurance Co. held the contract for FLTCIP and was the only bidder for the 7-year policy beginning May 2016. When John Hancock first received the FLTCIP contract in 2009, it also raised premiums, but at that time the average premium increase was 25% and applied to only one type of product. Under the new contract, however, premium rate increases will apply to almost all 274,000 current enrollees and average 83%. Many federal workers and retirees in my district have contacted me about their concerns with the skyrocketing premiums. For those on a fixed income, the sharp premium increase may be untenable in their financial situation. In addition, the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) began mailing information to enrollees in mid-July, but enrollees must choose whether to pay a higher premium, reduce their benefits, or leave the program altogether, by September 30 or face losing the options originally presented to them. I am concerned that this may not be enough time for enrollees to make such an important decision for themselves and their families. I respectfully request that the Committee or the Subcommittee hold a hearing on the FLTCIP and this newest premium rate increase as soon as possible. Sincerely, John K. Delaney Member of Congress ##
07.26.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has filed legislation to expand protections for rent-to-own customers. Often targeted towards low-income and military populations, rent-to-own contracts can feature excessively high fees, predatory interest rates and aggressive collection practices, with customers paying two to three times more, often even as much as five times more, for the same products than if they purchased them from a traditional retailer. Congressman Delaney’s Expanding Rent-to-Own Protections Act requires that the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) act on behalf of rent-to-own customers, including: improving disclosure, limiting excessive fees, providing customers with reinstatement rights and adequately enforcing existing consumer protection laws. Congressman Delaney’s legislation is supported by the National Consumer Law Center. “Too many Americans are getting taken advantage of by rent-to-own retailers and we need clear federal legislation that empowers the CFPB to act,” said Congressman Delaney. “Rent-to-own users are disproportionally lower-income and military families and they should be afforded the same basic consumer protections that other Americans enjoy. When hard-working people are paying exorbitant prices for basic products, I believe we have a responsibility to act.” “On behalf of the low income people we represent and advocate for, the National Consumer Law Center strongly supports Congressman Delaney’s Expanding Rent-to-Own Protections Act,” said Margot Saunders of the National Consumer Law Center. “Passage of this bill would significantly benefit the vulnerable populations that all too often are targeted and abused by rent-to-own retailers.” The Expanding Rent-to-Own Protections Act is part of Congressman Delaney’s Consumer Protection and Community Investment Agenda, which also includes legislation to provide access to banking for low-income Americans, credit rating protections for veterans and legislation to encourage small business growth in underserved communities. The Expanding Rent-to-Own Protections Act (H.R. 5928) The Problem The rent-to-own industry sells electronic and household products to consumers via contracts that include weekly or monthly payments. The agreements typically include the right to purchase. Unbeknownst to the average consumer, a rent-to-own agreement often comes with exorbitant costs, high fees, aggressive collection practices and selling used goods as new. Consumer Reports found that “consumers who shop at rent-to-own retailers can end up paying two to three times the amount it would cost to buy an item outright from a traditional retailer.” Research conducted at Columbia University found that average annual percentage rates (APRs) for electronics and computers are well over 100%. Rent-to-own operations are often located in low and moderate income areas, targeting vulnerable consumers. For example, a study by The Abell Foundation demonstrated how the location of rent-to-own retailers in Maryland strongly correlated with census tract poverty levels. In recent years, traditional retailers have also shown increased interest in coupling their businesses with rent-to-own platforms or partners. Rent-to-own retailers also target members of the military, clustering stores near military bases. A 2006 report to Congress by the Department of Defense classified rent-to-own as one of the “predatory” industries targeting service-members and their families. Congressional testimony by the National Consumer Law Center noted, for example, that one rent-to-own retailer had seven stores within eight miles of Fort Bragg in North Carolina. While access to such products can be desirable for some consumers, the rent-to-own industry is exempt from many federal and state interest rate ceilings, disclosure laws, and other consumer protections because they are technically classified as rental agreements, not a financial product. However, a study conducted by the Federal Trade Commission found that consumers ultimately purchase 70% of the merchandise obtained through rent-to-own transactions, indicating that this classification is inaccurate. The Solution The Expanding Rent-to-Own Protections Act clarifies statutory authority and requires the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) to act on behalf of rent-to-own consumers. Within one year of enactment, the CFPB would be required to develop regulations on these consumer financial products and consider applying protections such as: Proper interest rate and fee disclosure like annual percentage rate (APR) in order to allow consumers to compare various purchasing methods. Limitations on egregious fees such as late fees, insurance fees, contract re-instatement fees, delivery or pickup fees, etc. Restrictions on the total number of payments that a consumer could be required to pay for the purchase of an item in order to truly protect consumers on the cost of the transactions. Reasonable contract reinstatement rights for customers that are briefly late on payments Adequate enforcement of penalties on operators that fail to follow consumer protection laws The Benefits Provides rent-to-own customers with essential consumer protections. Requires federal action to protect consumers exposed to potentially predatory products. Discourages aggressive and predatory practices targeted towards vulnerable consumers and military families. ##
07.25.2016	GAITHERSBURG – Over 140 Marylanders attended Congressman John K. Delaney’s Seniors Workshop Monday at the Gaithersburg Public Library. The workshop featured representatives from federal, state and local agencies and offered seniors a chance to speak directly with officials and experts about benefit programs and services available to them. The event was the 22nd constituent services workshop Congressman Delaney has hosted since 2015. “Maryland seniors are valued members of our community and they should not be forgotten, they should be able to retire with dignity while enjoying continued opportunities to thrive,” said Congressman Delaney. “Seniors deserve the Social Security benefits they’ve earned, deserve access to high-quality and affordable health care and economic security. Our workshops are focused on bringing resources directly to Marylanders and I thank everyone who joined us in Gaithersburg, hearing from you in person is truly valuable.” Participating agencies included: Social Security Administration Maryland Health Connection Maryland Insurance Administration AARP Maryland Montgomery County Aging and Disability Resource Unit Montgomery County Department of Health and Human Services Montgomery County State’s Attorney’s Office – Crimes Against Seniors and Vulnerable Adults Jewish Council for the Aging of Greater Washington ##
07.19.2016	CUMBERLAND – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) hosted a Veterans One-Stop-Shop in Cumberland featuring federal, state and local agencies and organizations together under one roof. Over 100 Marylanders attended the workshop, which is the 21st constituent services workshop Rep. Delaney has organized and hosted since 2015. “America’s veterans are America’s heroes and they deserve the benefits they’ve earned,” said Congressman Delaney. “This veterans workshop is about bringing agencies and organizations directly to Western Maryland veterans so they can receive the health care, education and employment assistance they need. We need to expand benefits for veterans, make sure that existing programs are working and provide Maryland veterans with easy access to state and local programs as well. I encourage any veteran who needs assistance to contact my office his immediately.” In June, Delaney introduced legislation to protect the credit scores of veterans dealing with delayed VA Choice Program payments. Delaney’s legislation has been endorsed by a number of national veterans organizations and a companion bill has been filed in the Senate. Participating organizations in Delaney’s Veterans One-Stop-Shop included: Department of Veterans Affairs - Baltimore Regional Office Department of Veterans Affairs - Martinsburg Veteran Center Department of Veterans Affairs – Cumberland Community Based Outpatient Clinic Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene – Maryland’s Commitment to Veterans program Maryland Department of Labor, Licensing and Regulation - Division of Workforce Development and Adult Learning Frostburg State University – Veterans Center Hagerstown Community College Veterans Transition Forum Vietnam Veterans of America - Chapter 172 Platoon 22 ##
07.19.2016	GRANTSVILLE – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) met with constituents one-on-one today in Grantsville during public office hours at Grantsville Town Hall. Over fifteen Marylanders attended office hours, discussing the Garrett County economy, how to expand tourism opportunities and improve services for veterans. Delaney also discussed with local residents his legislation to extend Garrett County’s federal HUBZone status and his recent efforts to bring Maryland cable TV news to the county. “Thank you to everyone who took time out of their day to meet with me in Grantsville this afternoon,” said Congressman Delaney. “We’ve authored legislation out of office hours, brought new cases to federal agencies on behalf of constituents and heard directly about local issues straight from the source.” The Grantsville office hours are the 23rd Delaney has hosted since 2015. Office hours are open to the public and meetings are held on a first-come, first-serve basis. ##
07.15.2016	WASHINGTON – A Senate companion bill to Congressman John K. Delaney’s (MD-6) bipartisan Protecting Veterans Credit Act has been introduced by Sen. Joe Donnelly (D-IN) and Sen. Mike Rounds (R-SD). The legislation, which protects the credit rating of veterans and prevent them from unnecessary financial hardship due to delayed payments associated with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Veterans Choice Program, was first introduced by Congressman Delaney on June 28 and is currently cosponsored by seven Democrats and four Republicans in the House of Representatives. The Vietnam Veterans of America (VVA), the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA) and the National Patient Advocate Foundation have issued statements of support for The Protecting Veterans Credit Act. “No veteran should have their credit score ruined and their personal finances jeopardized because of problems at the VA,” said Congressman Delaney. “The Protecting Veterans Credit Act has generated such strong bipartisan support in both chambers because it addresses a major problem head-on and the American people really want America’s veterans to be protected. I thank Senator Donnelly and Senator Rounds for authoring this legislation in the Senate and look forward to continuing to build support for our bill.” The Protecting Veterans Credit Act (H.R. 5593) The Problem Enacted in 2014, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Choice Program provides veterans with the ability to receive medical care in a non-VA facility if the VA cannot schedule an appointment within a specified time period or if the veteran lives more than 40 miles from the closest VA medical facility. Unfortunately, there have been issues with the implementation of the program, including delayed Choice Program payments and inappropriately assigned bills to veterans. Because of delays and incorrectly assigned bills, veterans have received adverse actions on their credit reports and inappropriate debt collection efforts. Adverse credit action makes it more difficult and more expensive for a person to get a home mortgage or an auto loan or even to rent an apartment. To address these issues, the VA set up a call center for veterans to contact the VA to resolve debt collection and adverse credit reporting. As of the end of May, the VA handled over 7100 inbound telephone calls. While the VA is actively trying to reform the Choice Program, veterans need immediate and retroactive relief from erroneous credit reporting actions and debt collection efforts. No veteran should have their credit score hurt or be harassed by debt collectors because of a delay in the VA or their private contractor paying the bills. The Solution The Protecting Veterans’ Credit Act delays medical debt from medical services received through the Choice Program from being reported to credit reporting agencies for one year. This delay provides adequate time for the VA and its contractors to resolve the issues, while retaining a route for resolution of any co-payments or other obligations. The bill provides a mechanism for veterans to easily dispute adverse actions already on their reports. Additionally, the bill requires debt collectors to provide the veteran with written information of their rights and who they can contact to resolve an issue. Benefits By instituting a one year grace period, it will allow for the multiple parties involved in the Choice Program time to process the payments, so the veterans receive the care they need, the doctors are fairly compensated, and veterans don’t suffer a credit loss for something that isn’t their fault. Ensures veterans are not unnecessarily pressured into paying bills that they do not owe. ##
07.11.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) announced today that Comcast Cable subscribers in Garrett County will now have access to Maryland-based news programming. Starting later this month, local news broadcasts from Baltimore will be available on Xfinity On Demand to Garrett County Comcast Cable subscribers. To date, WJZ (CBS) and WMAR (ABC) have agreed to distribute their local news programming, via Xfinity On Demand. Additionally, Comcast has offered to promote the online availability of these newscasts through the broadcasters’ websites and apps to customers in Garrett County. The new service comes after Congressman Delaney, Maryland State Senator George Edwards and other local elected officials, along with community members, met and consulted with Comcast to offer this news programming to Garrett County residents. Garrett County is designated as part of the Pittsburgh, PA television market by the Nielsen Company and the FCC, therefore did not receive Baltimore programming. “Maryland residents deserve access to Maryland news, whether they live in Garrett County or on the Eastern Shore,” said Congressman Delaney. “Garrett County residents have excellent newspaper and radio news but for too long television has been a missing piece. On Demand access to Maryland television news is an important first step. I’d like to thank Comcast for working with local stations in Baltimore to deliver Maryland-based news programming to Garrett County residents. When Senator Edwards and I brought this issue to their attention on behalf of our constituents, they came to the table and partnered with us on a solution.” “Comcast is proud to have the technology and capacity in place to enable a creative solution for those Garrett County customers who want to view local Baltimore news programming on their televisions via Xfinity On Demand,” said Christine Whitaker, senior vice president of the Comcast Keystone Region. “I would like to thank Congressman Delaney for his efforts to get this important first step in place and to the numerous residents of Garrett County who helped with this effort. This is a first step in the process and we need to keep working on this issue to get more access to Maryland Television for all of Garrett County,” said Maryland Senator George Edwards (District 1). ##
07.06.2016	WASHINGTON – A number of leading veterans and consumer protection organizations have voiced their support for Congressman John K. Delaney’s (MD-6) Protecting Veterans Credit Act (H.R. 5593). Rep. Delaney’s bipartisan legislation was introduced last week and protects the credit rating of veterans from being wrongfully lowered due to delayed payments associated with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Veterans Choice Program. The Vietnam Veterans of America (VVA), the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA) and the National Patient Advocate Foundation have issued statements of support for The Protecting Veterans Credit Act. Delayed payments have meant that potentially thousands of veterans have had large and inaccurate medical debts wrongly listed in their name while the VA and private providers work through billing. The Protecting Veterans Credit Act is cosponsored by Congressman Randy Hultgren (IL-14), Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-9) and Congresswoman Jackie Walorski (IN-2). The legislation is part of Delaney’s Consumer Protection and Community Investment Agenda. “It’s unacceptable to me that we would subject any veteran to a lower credit score and all the financial costs and barriers that come with it because of delayed VA payments and processing,” said Congressman Delaney. “Our bipartisan bill solves this problem and I’m honored to have the support of so many organizations behind us. When these groups speak the American people listen and I look forward to continuing to work with them to help veterans.” “Veterans should not have to worry about their financial credit when VA sends them to a private sector doctor,” said VFW National Legislative Director, Raymond Kelley. “That is why the VFW supports Congressman Delaney’s legislation which would protect veterans who are erroneously sent to collections.” “We salute the leadership of Congressman Delaney in this effort to see to it that VA pays its bills on time. This is crucial if we are to make this public /private integrated health care system work to deliver the best care to our nation’s veterans,” said Vietnam Veterans of America National President John Rowan. “The Protecting Veterans Credit Act is needed to ensure veterans’ credit ratings are not damaged through no fault of their own,” said Lt Gen Dana T. Atkins, USAF (Ret.), President of the Military Officers Association of America. “While it is understandable VA needs time to resolve medical billing issues originating from the Choice Program, veterans should not suffer unintended negative consequences in the meantime. MOAA applauds Congressman Delaney for developing creative solutions to assist VA and veterans.” “With one in four of our patients reporting problems stemming from medical debt, the National Patient Advocate Foundation is all too familiar with the financial toxicity of medical debt and its impact on patients, regardless of their insurance status, age, income, or ethnicity. The provisions in the Protecting Veterans Credit Act will help relieve the significant burdens that medical debt places on veterans, and the crippling manner in which medical debt can affect them for years, often long after the debt has been settled. Our veterans must be enabled to focus on their treatment and recovery, rather than financial hardship,” said Alan Balch, CEO, National Patient Advocate Foundation & Patient Advocate Foundation. The Protecting Veterans Credit Act (H.R. 5593) The Problem Enacted in 2014, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Choice Program provides veterans with the ability to receive medical care in a non-VA facility if the VA cannot schedule an appointment within a specified time period or if the veteran lives more than 40 miles from the closest VA medical facility. Unfortunately, there have been issues with the implementation of the program, including delayed Choice Program payments and inappropriately assigned bills to veterans. Because of delays and incorrectly assigned bills, veterans have received adverse actions on their credit reports and inappropriate debt collection efforts. Adverse credit action makes it more difficult and more expensive for a person to get a home mortgage or an auto loan or even to rent an apartment. To address these issues, the VA set up a call center for veterans to contact the VA to resolve debt collection and adverse credit reporting. As of the end of May, the VA handled over 7100 inbound telephone calls. While the VA is actively trying to reform the Choice Program, veterans need immediate and retroactive relief from erroneous credit reporting actions and debt collection efforts. No veteran should have their credit score hurt or be harassed by debt collectors because of a delay in the VA or their private contractor paying the bills. The Solution The Protecting Veterans’ Credit Act delays medical debt from medical services received through the Choice Program from being reported to credit reporting agencies for one year. This delay provides adequate time for the VA and its contractors to resolve the issues, while retaining a route for resolution of any co-payments or other obligations. The bill provides a mechanism for veterans to easily dispute adverse actions already on their reports. Additionally, the bill requires debt collectors to provide the veteran with written information of their rights and who they can contact to resolve an issue. Benefits By instituting a one year grace period, it will allow for the multiple parties involved in the Choice Program time to process the payments, so the veterans receive the care they need, the doctors are fairly compensated, and veterans don’t suffer a credit loss for something that isn’t their fault. Ensures veterans are not unnecessarily pressured into paying bills that they do not owe. ##
06.29.2016	WASHINGTON – One week after a 26-hour sit-in calling for a vote on bipartisan, commonsense gun safety legislation, House Democrats are again speaking out on the need for legislative action to create universal background checks and to prevent suspected terrorists on the FBI’s No-Fly list from being able to purchase guns. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) took part in the sit-in and today joins his colleagues in calling for a vote on the House floor on legislation to keep communities safe. To watch video of Delaney’s remarks during the sit-in, click here. “Americans have a constitutional right to bear arms, but we can both protect that right and use our common sense to protect people. I reject the notion that it has to be one or the other,” said Delaney. “There are commonsense things we need to do immediately such as universal background checks and barring suspected terrorists on the FBI’s No-Fly List from being able to buy guns and these measures have the support of the majority of gun owners and all Americans. On this day of action, I’m calling on the Speaker to allow Congress have a vote, the American people deserve to know where their representatives stand. To block debate, to block a vote, just to appease a special interest group is an affront to representative democracy and something that the majority of my constituents are opposed to.” ##
06.29.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has filed bipartisan legislation with Congressman Randy Hultgren (IL-14), Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-9) and Congresswoman Jackie Walorski (IN-2) to protect the credit rating of veterans and prevent them from unnecessary financial hardship due to delayed payments associated with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Veterans Choice Program. The slow disbursement of Veterans Choice Program payments has meant that potentially thousands of veterans have been adversely affected, having large and inaccurate medical debts wrongly listed in their name while the VA and private providers work through billing. This error can make it more difficult and more expensive for veterans to buy a home or car, rent a place to live or be hired at a new job. The Delaney-Hultgren-Sinema-Walorski Protecting Veterans Credit Act (H.R. 5593) creates a one year credit reporting grace period for the resolution of debt from medical services received through the VA’s Veterans Choice Program. Delaney and Hultgren’s legislation is supported by the Vietnam Veterans of America (VVA), the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA) and the National Patient Advocate Foundation. “No veteran should have their credit rating hurt because of delayed Veterans Choice Program payments, that’s completely unacceptable to me. In many cases, veterans are already using the Choice Program because they’ve endured a long wait time to be treated. We shouldn’t destroy their finances on top of that,” said Congressman Delaney. “Credit ratings fundamentally impact the cost of major purchases and can alter a family’s financial trajectory. The Protecting Veterans’ Credit Act creates the time needed to protect a veterans’ financial health while the actual parties responsible for the payments process and pay their medical bills.” “Enough veterans have faced collateral damage from delays at the VA—their credit score shouldn’t be another casualty of this bureaucracy,” said Congressman Hultgren. “Veterans and their families deserve accurate and timely billing and reimbursements from the VA. They should not be held liable for the VA’s problems. We need quick action on this legislation to ensure our veterans aren’t held responsible for bureaucratic ineptitude.” “I have heard from too many veterans asking my office for help because the VA or a VA contractor hasn’t paid their medical bills after receiving authorization for care through the Veterans Choice Program,” Congresswoman Walorski said. “This is simply unacceptable, which is why I’ve joined Congressman Delaney, Congressman Hultgren, and Congresswoman Sinema in introducing the Protecting Veterans’ Credit Act to protect our veterans from further financial harm. Delaying for one year the reporting of medical debt from services under the Veterans Choice Program will provide much-needed relief for these veterans while the VA, contractors, and providers work to resolve these billing issues.” The Protecting Veterans Credit Act (H.R. 5593) The Problem Enacted in 2014, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Choice Program provides veterans with the ability to receive medical care in a non-VA facility if the VA cannot schedule an appointment within a specified time period or if the veteran lives more than 40 miles from the closest VA medical facility. Unfortunately, there have been issues with the implementation of the program, including delayed Choice Program payments and inappropriately assigned bills to veterans. Because of delays and incorrectly assigned bills, veterans have received adverse actions on their credit reports and inappropriate debt collection efforts. Adverse credit action makes it more difficult and more expensive for a person to get a home mortgage or an auto loan or even to rent an apartment. To address these issues, the VA set up a call center for veterans to contact the VA to resolve debt collection and adverse credit reporting. As of the end of May, the VA handled over 7100 inbound telephone calls. While the VA is actively trying to reform the Choice Program, veterans need immediate and retroactive relief from erroneous credit reporting actions and debt collection efforts. No veteran should have their credit score hurt or be harassed by debt collectors because of a delay in the VA or their private contractor paying the bills. The Solution The Protecting Veterans’ Credit Act delays medical debt from medical services received through the Choice Program from being reported to credit reporting agencies for one year. This delay provides adequate time for the VA and its contractors to resolve the issues, while retaining a route for resolution of any co-payments or other obligations. The bill provides a mechanism for veterans to easily dispute adverse actions already on their reports. Additionally, the bill requires debt collectors to provide the veteran with written information of their rights and who they can contact to resolve an issue. Benefits By instituting a one year grace period, it will allow for the multiple parties involved in the Choice Program time to process the payments, so the veterans receive the care they need, the doctors are fairly compensated, and veterans don’t suffer a credit loss for something that isn’t their fault. Ensures veterans are not unnecessarily pressured into paying bills that they do not owe. ##
06.21.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — The full House of Representatives unanimously approved bipartisan legislation led by Congressmen Todd Young (R-IN) and John Delaney (D-MD) that expands the use of evidenced-based interventions within the federal government, while driving taxpayer savings. It is the first reform bill of its kind that brings the pay-for-performance model into social and public health sphere. Senators Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) are the lead sponsors of similar companion legislation in Senate. “For all our best intentions, evidence shows current federal programs aren’t doing enough to address income inequality and meaningfully improve lives,” said Congressman Young. “Rather than measure our compassion by how much or how little we spend, social impact partnerships reward what works based on actual evidence. By adopting this bipartisan outcomes-based approach, we help more Americans overcome the root causes of poverty while guaranteeing taxpayers only pay for real results.” “In an era of tight budgets and big problems, we need new solutions that can help those in need in a cost-effective and efficient way,” said Congressman Delaney. “Social Impact Partnerships are a bipartisan solution that leverages philanthropic and private investments to make smart interventions early, reducing long term costs, empowering local governments to innovate and most importantly helping people. This evidence-driven approach has brought together the White House and Republicans and Democrats in Congress and I’m proud to have worked with Congressman Young to see this legislation through to passage. I look forward to continuing to build support for our legislation.” Background on H.R. 5170: This pay-for-performance model (also known as pay-for-success) is a line-item priority in the White House budget for FY2017. The Social Impact Partnerships to Pay for Results Act empowers states, local governments, nonprofits, and the private sector to scale up evidence-based interventions that address the nation’s most pressing challenges. It fosters the creation of public-private partnerships that harness philanthropic and other private-sector investments to expand and replicate scientifically-proven social and public health programs (for example, decreasing recidivism rates, or increasing adoption rates). Because social impact partnerships are focused on achieving results, government dollars are paid out only when a rigorous independent evaluation confirms that desired outcomes are met. If outcomes are not met, no taxpayer money is spent. Additional statements of support from legislative co-sponsors and outside groups can be found at https://toddyoung.house.gov/sip-supporters. xxx
06.21.2016	ASPEN HILL – Congressman John K. Delaney met with over 25 constituents in person today during office hours at the Bauer Drive Community Center in the Aspen Hill neighborhood in Montgomery County. The office hours session was the 21st Delaney has held since 2015, meeting with over 500 constituents one-on-one. “Office hours give me a chance to speak with constituents directly, hearing from them face-to-face about the issues facing their family and their community and that’s why office hours are one of the most important components of my calendar,” said Congressman Delaney. “Thank you to everyone who joined me today in Aspen Hill; your feedback is irreplaceable.” During office hours, individual meetings are held on a first come first serve basis and advertised on Delaney’s website and social media ahead of time. Constituents who were unable to attend but need help should contact Congressman Delaney’s office at 301-926-0300. ##
06.21.2016	HAGERSTOWN – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) held an Entrepreneurship Workshop Monday in Hagerstown. The event at the Washington County Free Library was attended by over 130 people and offered Marylanders interested in starting their own business or growing their business to the next level. It provided a chance for local entrepreneurs to learn more about the resources available to them and hear from fellow entrepreneurs and experts. Prior to taking office in 2013, Delaney founded and led two successful publicly-traded companies and is a past winner of the Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year Award. The Entrepreneurship Workshop is the 20th constituent services event Delaney has hosted since 2015. “As a former entrepreneur, I truly relish the opportunity to meet with the next generation of innovators and job creators in Western Maryland,” said Congressman Delaney. “It’s exciting to see so many people who want to start their own business and we have to make sure that pursuing that dream is possible, which requires a healthy business climate, an educated workforce and economic development policies that work.” Workshop panelists included: Edward Knox, Deputy District Director of the Baltimore District Office of the U.S. Small Business Administration Herbert Jordan III, Deputy Secretary of the Governor's Office of Minority Affairs Joy Hatchette, Associate Commissioner of Consumer Education and Advocacy of the Maryland Insurance Administration George H. Harrop, Managing Director of Small Business Lending of CapitalSource Melissa Kaiser, a local entrepreneur and Partner at SOCSoter and The Fine Arts Company in Hagerstown ##
06.17.2016	WASHINGTON – On Thursday the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5293, the 2017 Department of Defense Appropriations Bill, legislation that included provisions authored by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) to double federal funding for Fisher House, a highly-rated non-profit that partners with the federal government to provide free lodging near hospitals for the families of veterans and active duty service-members who are receiving care. The Delaney Amendment was cosponsored by Rep. Dingell (MI-12), Rep. Jones (NC-3) and Rep. Yoho (FL-3) and increases annual federal funding from $5 million to $10 million, helping Fisher House build new facilities to meet growing demand. The Delaney Amendment passed the House on June 15. The increase in federal support for Fisher House is fully offset by a reduction in the DOD Operations & Maintenance Account, an administrative overhead account which is not fully spent. “Our amendment has a simple aim: helping America’s heroes be with their families when they’re in the hospital,” said Congressman Delaney. “A family’s support is good medicine and for decades Fisher House has been the prescription that works. No military family should face financial hardship or endure time apart simply because they don’t have the resources to stay near the hospital. As the budget and appropriations process moves forward, I will continue to work with my colleagues to see that additional funding for Fisher House becomes a reality - with more and more veterans needing long-term care, let’s work together and do what it takes to get more facilities built.” In March, Delaney led a bipartisan letter signed by thirty House Members calling for increased federal support for Fisher House in the federal budget. Since taking office in 2013, Delaney has offered an amendment to increase funding for Fisher House each year. In 2013, 2014, and 2015 the House has passed amendments offered by Delaney during consideration of Department of Defense Appropriations to increase federal support for Fisher House. As a public-private partnership, Fisher House builds facilities and then donates them to the United States government. Fisher House lodging is 100% free and offers families apartment-style accommodations, often within walking distance from hospitals. Since 1990, over 277,000 families have been served by Fisher House, which has an A+ grade from Charity Watch and a four out of four star rating from Charity Navigator. ##
06.16.2016	ROCKVILLE – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) hosted a Sixth District Job Fair today in Rockville at the Bauer Drive Community Recreation Center. The job fair was attended by over 400 people and featured over 50 local businesses and agencies, including many of Maryland’s largest employers. “There are few things more fundamental to an individual and a family’s well-being than a good job and that’s why we made organizing this job fair a priority,” said Congressman Delaney. “Locally we have thousands of Marylanders looking for a new opportunity and many employers who need new talent and our aim today was to bring those two needs together. We’ve already heard from Marylanders who were hired after attending our job fair in Hagerstown and hopefully the same thing will happen here - because of this job fair someone’s life is going to be changed for the better.” The job fair is the second Delaney has hosted this year and the 19th constituent services workshop overall since 2015. Employers and agencies participating in the job fair include: Ana G. Mendez University System Asbury Methodist Village Bank of America Baywood Hotels Bethesda Marriott Hotel BF Saul Hospitality Group (Holiday Inn) Blue Ridge Restaurant Group CarePlus Home Health Inc Community Health Opportunities in Construction Employment (C.H.O.I.C.E.) Community Support Services Datawatch Systems Eagle Bank First National Bank Gaithersburg Marriott Giant Food Habitat for Humanity HUGHES Corporation IBSS Corporation James Davis Construction Company JK Moving Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Lab Kaplan University Liberty Mutual Insurance Group Lockheed Martin Maryland Soccerplex MD Department Budget Management MD Department Labor, Licensing & Regulation MD Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services Montgomery College Montgomery County Public Schools MSDE Division of Rehabilitative Services National Institute of Science & Technology (NIST) New Dawn Gardens, Inc. New York Life Northrop Grumman Pentagon Federal Credit Union PEPCO Pleasants Companies, LLC Primerica QIAGEN Ranstad Technologies Sandy Spring Bank Sheraton Rockville Hotel Soldier Fit The Bolger Center Under Armour U.S. Express Washington Adventist University Washington Suburban Sanitary Commission (WSSC) Wegman’s Food Markets, Inc. WGL Energy ##
06.16.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has filed legislation to give more Americans access to the basic financial services they need to save and spend their earnings and start a new business. The Equal Access to Banking Act is designed to help the over 68 million Americans who are unbanked or underbanked, a low-income population that must rely on higher-cost alternatives, costing them thousands of dollars a year just to spend the money they’ve earned. Studies indicate that roughly half of Latino and African-American households are disconnected from the financial system, limiting economic opportunity and job growth in many communities. The Equal Access to Banking Act is part of Delaney’s Consumer Protection and Community Investment Agenda. “Too many Americans don’t have access to a financial system that works for them and this legislation offers a new solution,” said Congressman Delaney. “Access to banking matters - for many Americans it’s difficult and expensive just to access their own money, creating a daily drain on people’s wealth and limiting their ability to save for the future, provide for their family or start their own business. Targeted philanthropic non-profit banks can bridge the financial gap and save consumers thousands of dollars a year, which is why it’s so important that we update FDIC standards and allow more non-profit focused innovation that expands economic opportunity in the places that need it the most.” Delaney’s legislation updates Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) standards to allow philanthropic non-profit banks to receive deposit insurance, a necessary step to allow them to serve consumers and bring access to checking accounts, credit and small business loans to underserved communities. Because they are not allowed to make a profit, these targeted philanthropic non-profit banks will be able to offer customers lower-fee financial products. The Equal Access to Banking Act The Problem In 2013, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) found that 17 million Americans are unbanked and 51 million are underbanked, meaning that they either have no account at an insured institution or rely upon alternative providers for basic financial services. The FDIC also found that approximately half of all Latino and African-American households are disconnected from the financial system and basic financial services. Unbanked consumers are frequently highly concentrated in underserved low-income areas. This concentration can be particularly devastating in our urban centers, for example, in Baltimore, over 38% of the population are either in the unbanked or underbanked category. Without access to financial services it can be difficult to pay bills, save for the future and manage personal finances, perpetuating the cycle of poverty. The Center for Financial Services Innovation estimates that the underbanked pay over $80 billion in fees and interest a year. According to an analysis by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, unbanked Americans spend roughly 6% of their net annual income for basic financial services. This means that a worker earning a net income of $20,000 a year will pay $1,200 annually in fees just to access and spend their own money. If that money was instead invested in a standard savings account earning the national average interest rate of .06%, over the course of a 40 year career, those savings would be worth a total of $54,068. Instead of having more to spend more on necessities like food, clothing and housing, or saving for emergencies or retirement; unbanked workers must spend thousands each year just to access their own money. Highly-concentrated areas of Americans lacking financial services also stifles economic development, limiting access to capital, driving down consumer demand and making it more difficult for entrepreneurs to start job-creating new businesses. Market forces and outdated FDIC rules have limited the reach of banking services into many underserved communities and made it difficult for new providers to serve low-income Americans. Equal Access to Banking Act Innovative new approaches, such as philanthropic non-profit financial institutions can expand access to banking services to underserved communities by removing the profit motive and combining traditional revenue sources, government grants and philanthropic donations. These highly-targeted philanthropic banks would be required to be limited to serving in low-income communities. Because these institutions can’t make a profit, they can offer lower fees to low-income consumers, allowing consumers to more easily manage their finances, saving the unbanked and underbanked significantly. Philanthropic non-profit banks will also encourage community-driven economic development by providing new entrepreneurs in low income areas with access to capital in the form of small and mid-sized business loans. These institutions would also be able to provide low income communities with access to home and auto loans, allowing more formerly underbanked consumers the ability to better support their families. However, current FDIC requirements do not allow 501 (c)(3) nonprofits to form as a bank and obtain deposit insurance, a necessary protection for consumers. The Equal Access to Banking Act removes this barrier, allowing a philanthropic non-profit to form with FDIC depository insurance. These new philanthropic non-profits would be able to obtain capital through tax deductible donations, the Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund’s grants, investments from other banks and typical fees. Combining these sources of capital will create incentives for these entities to provide services at lower costs to low-income consumers within the unbanked areas they are required to target. Benefits Creates a framework for basic banking services for the unbanked and underbanked that reduce the normal barriers to entry like high fees and minimum deposits Allows the unbanked and underbanked to avoid predatory high interest, high fee services like pay-day loans and expensive check-cashing transactions and expand their disposable income, while creating pathways to encourage increases in saving. This is essentially a pay raise for millions of low-income Americans and encourages economic development in distressed communities. Builds a more inclusive financial system that gives more Americans the tools to manage their assets, plan for the future, buy a home, start a small business or send their children to college. ##
06.15.2016	WASHINGTON – The House of Representatives has passed a bipartisan amendment by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) to increase federal support for the Fisher House Foundation, a non-profit that partners with the military to provide free lodging near Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and military hospitals to the families of veterans and service-members receiving care. The Delaney Amendment was considered during floor debate on Wednesday and was adopted by voice vote. In March, Delaney led a bipartisan letter signed by thirty House Members calling for increased federal support for Fisher House in the federal budget. The Delaney Amendment is cosponsored by Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Rep. Walter Jones (NC-3) and Rep. Ted Yoho (FL-3) and increases annual federal funding from $5 million to $10 million, helping Fisher House build new facilities to meet growing demand. “No veteran or military member should spend their time in the hospital alone,” said Congressman Delaney. “Fisher House helps families stay together. Our bipartisan amendment is designed to help Fisher House build new facilities and serve more families, because the need is growing each day. I’d like to thank my colleagues in the House for their support and look forward to continuing to work across the aisle to make sure that we keep our sacred promise to support America’s heroes.” As a public-private partnership, Fisher House builds facilities and then donates them to the United States government. Fisher House lodging is 100% free and offers families apartment-style accommodations, often within walking distance from hospitals. The increase in federal support for Fisher House is fully offset by a reduction in the DOD Operations & Maintenance Account, an administrative overhead account which is not fully spent. Since taking office in 2013, Delaney has offered an amendment to increase funding for Fisher House each year. In 2013, 2014, and 2015 the House has passed amendments offered by Delaney during consideration of Department of Defense Appropriations to increase federal support for Fisher House. Since 1990, over 277,000 families have been served by Fisher House, which has an A+ grade from Charity Watch and a four out of four star rating from Charity Navigator. ##
06.13.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has authored an amendment to the 2017 Department of Defense (DOD) Appropriations Bill that would increase federal support for the Fisher House Foundation, a non-profit that partners with the military to provide free lodging near Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and military hospitals to the families of veterans and service-members receiving care. Delaney’s bipartisan amendment increases funding for Fisher House from $5 million dollars to $10 million and is cosponsored by Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Rep. Walter Jones (NC-3) and Rep. Ted Yoho (FL-3). The amendment is currently being considered by the House Committee on Rules, the first step in bringing it to the House floor. “When our nation’s heroes require long hospital stays, they should be able to have their family by their side, period,” said Congressman Delaney. “Our bipartisan amendment is about helping more military and veteran families be together and getting the additional facilities built that we need. Fisher House is a beloved charity in the military community and has been a strong partner with the federal government for two decades. I am hopeful that our amendment will be allowed by the Rules Committee so that we can bring it to the floor for full consideration.” Delaney has fought for Fisher House in the budget each year since taking office in 2013. In March, Delaney led a bipartisan letter signed by thirty House members calling for increased federal support for Fisher House in the federal budget. The increase in federal support for Fisher House is fully offset by a reduction in the DOD Operations & Maintenance Account, an administrative overhead account which is not fully spent. In 2013, 2014, and 2015 the House has passed amendments offered by Delaney during consideration of Department of Defense Appropriations to increase federal support for Fisher House. Currently, there are 70 Fisher Houses in operation. New homes cannot be built without full funding, so increased federal support for the Fisher House Foundation will help more facilities be built. As a public-private partnership Fisher House builds new facilities and then donates them to the United States government. Since 1990, over 277,000 families have been served by Fisher House, which has an A+ grade from Charity Watch and a four out of four star rating from Charity Navigator. ##
06.11.2016	FREDERICK – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) hosted a College Financial Aid Workshop Saturday at Tuscarora High School in Frederick. The event was attended by over 150 local residents and was the 18th constituent services workshop Delaney has held since 2015. The workshop offered Marylanders a chance to speak one-on-one with federal, state and local representatives on how to pay for higher education and also featured a presentation from the United States Department of Education. “College affordability is one of the top priorities for young Marylanders and their parents, because quality education is required for most of the good-paying jobs of the future,” said Congressman Delaney. “Our college financial aid workshop is all about bringing resources together to provide Maryland families with the information they need. Growing up in a blue collar household, my entire life changed the day I started college and I want every student to have that same opportunity. In addition to helping families access existing programs, I support initiatives to make college more affordable, strengthen financial aid programs and simplify the paperwork involved. Marylanders who could not attend today’s workshop should contact my office for more information on college financial aid options.” The workshop featured representatives from: The U.S. Department of Education The Maryland Higher Education Commission Frederick Community College Hood College University of Maryland - Baltimore County United Way of Frederick County On June 16 Delaney will host a Job Fair in Rockville featuring many of Maryland’s largest employers. ##
06.10.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) will introduce a portfolio of legislation in the coming weeks designed to help working families, veterans and underserved communities access the American Dream. Delaney’s Consumer Protection and Community Investment Agenda expands access to affordable financial tools for low-income Americans, reduces dependence on high-fee alternatives and predatory services, protects veterans from inaccurate credit ratings and encourages economic development in distressed areas, including both urban and rural communities. “For too many Americans there are still too many barriers to climbing the economic ladder, starting a business or saving for the future,” said Congressman Delaney. “Our Consumer Protection and Community Investment Agenda is about removing some of those barriers and giving more people a fair chance at living the American Dream. As a former entrepreneur, expanding economic opportunity has been one of my top legislative priorities and this will take a new package of bills that will focus on encouraging private sector job growth, protecting consumers and investors and making sure that the residents of every zip code are empowered to support their families.” Congressman Delaney’s Consumer Protection and Community Investment Agenda This summer, Congressman Delaney plans to continue his work on economic opportunity and growth by introducing a comprehensive legislative portfolio designed to 1) protect consumers and investors, including veterans, 2) encourage community reinvestment and economic development in rural and distressed communities, and 3) expand economic opportunity to include all communities. The Consumer Protection and Community Investment Agenda includes: Legislation to reform the SBA’s HUBZone program nationwide to better support economic development in economically distressed areas, currently 300 jobs in Garrett County are at risk due to a reclassification of their eligibility. Legislation to create equal access to banking and give low income Americans an alternative to the higher cost products millions must use simply to access their own money while also encouraging economic development and entrepreneurship in low-income areas. Delaney’s legislation will allow innovative new philanthropic non-profit banks to provide consumers in need with low cost checking and savings accounts and access to credit. Legislation to protect veterans from costly and inaccurate credit score ratings caused by the delayed payments of their benefits Legislation to protect consumers from predatory financial practices targeting working families. ##
06.02.2016	LaVale- Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) met with over 25 constituents one-on-one Wednesday at Parkside Elementary in LaVale. Advertised on Delaney’s website and social media channels beforehand, the office hours provided Allegany County residents with an opportunity to speak with Delaney face-to-face on the issues that matter to them. “Representing LaVale starts with knowing the concerns of the local community and being their advocate when they need help working with the federal government,” said Delaney. “Office hours are an irreplaceable opportunity for me to hear from Marylanders directly about what matters to them – good jobs, access to world-class education for the next generation, defending the nation and making sure we take care of our veterans and seniors and talk about how we can find solutions that work. Meeting with over 500 people one-on-one during our 20 office hours has been a tremendous privilege and I thank everyone who has sacrificed their time to speak with me.” During office hours individual meetings are held on a first come first serve basis. In addition to federal policy discussions, constituents shared with Delaney casework problems with Medicare, Social Security and the Department of Veterans Affairs. Constituents who were unable to attend but need help should contact Congressman Delaney’s office at 301-926-0300. ##
05.27.2016	WASHINGTON – Monday May 30 is Memorial Day, an annual holiday honoring those who died while serving in our nation’s armed forces. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “Memorial Day is marked in bold on the calendar and in the consciousness of the American people, a sacred day that stands apart. Memorial Day is a call to the nation to stop for a moment our daily lives and remember the sacrifices of those who have made our great nation possible. Across this holiday weekend we should reflect upon the lives that were stopped short and the husbands and wives, fathers and sons, daughters and mothers, that were never reunited because so many paid the ultimate price. We owe it to them to continue to be guided by the principles they fought for, to ensure that America’s men and women in uniform are fully supported and to keep our promise to America’s veterans that they will be able to thrive when their service is done.” ##
05.26.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has been named a Fiscal Hero by the Campaign to Fix the Debt for the 114th Congress. To be named a Fiscal Hero, lawmakers must distinguish themselves by casting fiscally responsible votes, prioritizing the national debt as a top issue and working within their party and on a bipartisan basis to improve the nation’s fiscal future. In 2016, only 26 Members of the House of Representatives received the award, less than 6% of the entire body. The Campaign to Fix the Debt is a nonpartisan movement to put America on a better fiscal and economic path. In authoring legislation to rebuild America’s infrastructure and expand access to pre-k, Delaney has made sure that these programs are fully paid for, a key policy step to stabilize the nation’s finances. Additionally, Delaney’s infrastructure bill, the Infrastructure 2.0 Act (H.R. 625) will reduce the deficit by over $300 billion by growing GDP over a ten year period. In 2015, Delaney introduced a resolution to ensure that the Congressional Budget Office uses macroeconomic analysis to properly measure the budget impacts of legislation. Delaney is a cosponsor of legislation to reduce duplicative government programs (H.R. 484) and reduce government waste (H.R. 586). “Reducing the national debt and grounding our decisions in a philosophy of fiscal responsibility is essential to our nation’s future,” said Congressman Delaney. “I am proud to be named a Fiscal Hero because we have to govern responsibly and ensure that we have the resources we need to invest in the future. We can’t have a strong national defense, build new infrastructure, support new science and research or provide benefits to veterans and those in need if our finances becomes unsustainable.” “Rep. Delaney has worked through a variety of channels to draw attention and find solutions to the nation’s fiscal challenges,” said Maya MacGuineas, Head of the Campaign to Fix the Debt. “While many lawmakers have chosen to bury their heads when it comes to these issues, Rep. Delaney has shown courage and leadership and has been willing to stand up for what is right for the country - even when it’s not easy to do so.” ##
05.24.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure subcommittee on Highways and Transit held a hearing on improving safety and reliability of the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority’s (WMATA) Metro system. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) testified at the hearing calling for full funding for Metro and governance reforms requiring experts serve on Metro’s Board of Director. Delaney is the author of the WMATA Governance Reform Act (H.R. 5105). Delaney’s legislation would require that the majority of federal appointees to WMATA’s Board are either: (1) a certified transit expert, (2) a certified management expert, (3) a certified financial expert or (4) a certified safety expert. “For many years Metro hasn’t been reliable, hasn’t been managed well and hasn’t been safe enough – and Marylanders deserve better,” said Congressman Delaney. “Today’s hearing was an important opportunity for Metro leadership to inform local residents across the region on what steps Metro is taking to improve. Metro needs to be fully funded – and I will continue to fight for this priority – but we also have to make sure that Metro is properly governed and we have certified experts in place setting the right goals. I hear from Marylanders nearly every day about Metro’s problems and I will continue to work to build support for our legislation to reform the system.” The WMATA Governance Reform Act There are 16 Members of the WMATA Board, 4 each appointed by Maryland, Virginia, the District of Columbia, and the Federal Government. The legislation requires the Federal Government to certify to the Board of WMATA that the next three federal appointees to the Board, either new appointees or those renewing their terms, are either (1) a certified transit expert, (2) a certified management expert, (3) a certified financial expert or 4) a certified safety expert. The legislation further requires that at least three of the four federal appointees have this certified expertise at all points going forward. For purposes of this provision: A certified transit expert is someone who has served in a senior executive capacity, or the equivalent, of a US transit authority, A certified management expert is someone who is currently or has previously served for 5 or more years as a president, chief operating officer, chief executive officer, chairman, or managing partner or equivalent position of a business or non-profit or be the president or the most senior manager of a division of a business and have, in his or her capacity managed, directly or indirectly, more than 1,000 full time employees. A certified financial expert is anyone who meets the standards of an audit committee financial expert under NYSE rules. A certified safety expert is anyone with a minimum of 5 years of experience as a chairman, director, senior investigator or equivalent position of a transportation or transit safety board in the United States. The legislation requires that the Federal government strive to ensure that their appointees to the board reflect the diversity of the communities of the region served by WMATA. The legislation requires the Federal government insist on Maryland, Virginia, the District of Columbia agreeing to use these same standards for their own appointees if the WMATA Compact is amended. ##
05.23.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, together with U.S. Representative John Delaney today announced that the Grantsville Volunteer Fire Department will receive $37,836 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program to purchase life-saving firefighting equipment. As Vice Chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Senator Mikulski fights each year to increase federal funding for the fire grants program. Senator Cardin is a member of the Finance Committee. “I know how important this funding is to Maryland communities – often it’s the difference between life and death. First responders protect our homes and communities, and the federal government has a responsibility to protect them by providing them with the tools and staffing they need to do their jobs safer and smarter,” Senator Mikulski said. “Every day when our first responders report for duty, they don’t know what they will face. That’s why I fight every year for the equipment, training, and staffing our protectors and communities deserve.” “Our first responders and their families deserve the peace of mind that comes with knowing they have the equipment they need to get the job done and come home safely,” said Senator Cardin. “The Grantsville Volunteer Fire Department can be assured they have a strong federal partner that is as committed to their mission as they are. Protecting our first responders is a matter of national security and the right thing to do for our communities.” “The Grantsville Volunteer Fire Department serves the local community every single day and they shouldn’t have to depend upon equipment from the 1970s. Outdated equipment hurts efficiency and capacity and these federal funds will allow the Grantsville Volunteer Fire Department to purchase a new air compressor instead of relying on time-consuming trips to adjoining communities. This federal grant is precisely why I’ve been proud to fight for the Assistance to Firefighters program, because it makes a real difference for local communities in Western Maryland and across the state,” Congressman Delaney said. The Grantsville Volunteer Fire Department will use the funding to purchase a new Cascade Air Compressor System which will replace the current system which is over 40 years old. Grantsville must go to adjoining Departments to refill their air bottles, thus taking them out of service for that period. For more information, please contact President Stephen Smith at 301-895-5200. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is an important component of the larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the Nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. Since 2001, the AFG has provided approximately $6.1 billion in grants to first-responder organizations to obtain much-needed emergency response equipment, personal protective equipment, firefighting and emergency vehicles, and training. Over the course of 2016, the AFG will award $304.5 million to first-responder organizations that need support to improve their capability to respond to fires and emergencies of all types. Since 2001, Maryland Fire Departments and Emergency Medical Services (EMS) units have received nearly $178 million in fire grant funding, of which more than $900,000 has been awarded to fire departments in Garrett County. # # #
05.23.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, together with U.S. Representative John Delaney today announced that the Hagerstown Fire Department in Washington County has been awarded $68,433 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. As the Vice Chairwoman of the Appropriations Committee, Senator Mikulski fights each year to increase federal funding for the fire grants program. Senator Cardin is a member of the Finance Committee. “I know how important this funding is to Maryland communities – often it’s the difference between life and death. First responders protect our homes and communities, and the federal government has a responsibility to protect them by providing them with the tools they need to do their jobs safer and smarter,” Senator Mikulski said. “Every day when our first responders report for duty, they don’t know what they will face. That’s why I fight every year for the equipment, training, and staffing our protectors and communities deserve.” “The men and women of the Hagerstown Fire Department face a unique set of challenges as they put their lives on the line to protect their community,” said Senator Cardin. “I am proud to fight for the federal investments that help make sure the first responders safeguarding our families have the equipment they need to make it home safely to their own. It is a matter of national security that the federal government is a strong partner with our local first responders and the people they protect.” “Hagerstown firefighters can’t save lives if they can’t breathe and this federal grant will pay for over 100 new fitted facemasks for our local heroes. Homeland security starts at home and this grant will have a direct tangible impact for our community. The Assistance to Firefighters Program delivers needed resources to Western Maryland, which is why I’ve fought to strengthen and expand this program so that local first responders have the tools they need,” Congressman Delaney said. Hagerstown Fire Department will use this federal funding to purchase 102 new individualized face masks. Having masks that are individually fitted to each firefighter is critical to providing a fresh supply of air to first responders, and prevents exposure to harmful carcinogens. Last year, the Department was awarded an AFG grant to purchase 65 sets of SCBA equipment. Chief Steve Lohr is the contact for the Department and may be reached at 301-791-2544. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is an important component of the larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the Nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. Since 2001, the AFG has provided approximately $6.1 billion in grants to first-responder organizations to obtain much-needed emergency response equipment, personal protective equipment, firefighting and emergency vehicles, and training. Over the course of 2016, the AFG will award $304.5 million to first-responder organizations that need support to improve their capability to respond to fires and emergencies of all types. Since 2001, the Hagerstown Fire Department has received more than $2.2 million in AFG funds, and Washington County fire departments and Emergency Medical Services (EMS) units have received almost $12.5 million from the AFG. # # #
05.20.2016	GAITHERSBURG – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) held a Service Academy Night Thursday evening in Gaithersburg. The event featured representatives from the nation’s five military academies and offered local students, parents and educators an opportunity to learn more about the service academies. The event was attended by over 150 local residents and took place in the Cafeteria at Gaithersburg High School. This is the 17th constituent services workshop Delaney has held since 2015 and the second service academy night this month. Gaithersburg High School NJROTC presented colors to open the event and representatives from the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy were on hand to answer questions. “The level of dedication these young people show to serving our country is inspiring. Service academies are a key component of our national defense and I’m proud to assist the next generation of leaders in achieving their goals,” said Congressman Delaney. “Thank you to the representatives from each academy that took the time to meet with local parents and students here in Gaithersburg.” To receive an appointment to a service academy, candidates must first receive a nomination from an unauthorized entity. The majority of nominations are made by congressional offices and the Vice President’s office, which may select candidates from the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. The U.S. Coast Guard Academy does not require congressional nominations. Local students interested in receiving a nomination from Delaney’s office are encouraged to call 301-733-2900 or visit the nominations page at Delaney.house.gov. Nominations by Delaney’s office are coordinated by his Service Academy Panel, which is comprised of local veterans and educators. ##
05.18.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Congressman Adam Kinzinger (IL-16) have introduced a bipartisan resolution reaffirming the importance of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) to the national security interests of the United States. Founded in 1949 with the ideals of democracy and individual liberty, NATO has been a successful political and military alliance for over six decades. The resolution outlines the centrality of the NATO alliance to U.S. security and counter-terrorism efforts and states that: 1) the U.S. reaffirms its commitment to NATO as the foundation of transatlantic security, 2) NATO serves as a critical coalition in preserving peace and stability and 3) NATO’s continued effort to develop new capabilities and technologies to combat terrorism is crucial to enhancing U.S. national security. Text of the resolution is available here. “NATO is one of the most important alliances in global history and remains essential to the national security interests of the United States,” said Congressman Delaney. “This resolution sends a clear statement to the world: the American people remain committed to NATO and we will continue to stand with our NATO allies, moreover, NATO cooperation and coordination is essential to counter-terrorism measures and defeating ISIS. Thank you to Congressman Kinzinger for his partnership on this important resolution.” “In a time of radical jihadist terrorism around the world, as well as Vladimir Putin’s belligerent Russia, we must remember the importance of America’s role and participation in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO),” said Congressman Kinzinger. “The world’s most powerful military and political alliance has served as a collective defender and deterrent, while providing solidarity and support against all threats, including terrorism. I am proud to join Congressman Delaney in this effort. The world is safer with an engaged America, and I firmly believe our participation in NATO greatly matters to America’s national security. Bottom line: it is critically important that the United States reaffirms its commitment to NATO and our NATO allies.” The Delaney-Kinzinger resolution is cosponsored by: Adam Kinzinger (IL-16), Adam Schiff (CA-28), David Scott (GA-13), Seth Moulton (MA-6), Rick Larsen (WA-2), André Carson (IN-7), David Cicilline (RI-1), Ruben Gallego (AZ-7), Ed Perlmutter (CO-7), Yvette D. Clarke (NY-9), Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), Derek Kilmer (WA-6), Norma Torres (CA-35), Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Gus Bilirakis (FL-12), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-2), Jim Costa (CA-16), Don Beyer (VA-8). ##
05.16.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Delaney filed legislation today to extend federal HUBZone eligibility for Garrett County businesses through 2022. The GARRETT HubZone Redesignation Act would reform the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) management of the HUBZone program, giving Garrett County and similar communities nationwide significantly more time to benefit from the program and adjust to potential changes. Absent congressional action, Garrett County will lose HUBZone status in 2018. According to the Garrett County Chamber of Commerce, there are 11 HUBZone certified businesses countywide, employing more than 320 people. “This bill is about protecting local jobs and attracting new economic development in Garrett County,” said Congressman Delaney. “HUBZone status supports hundreds of local jobs and it is crucial that we extend eligibility for Garrett County businesses. Three hundred jobs in Garrett County – that’s tremendously important to the community. Local business officials and community leaders have made it clear that there are numerous problems with the SBA redesignation process and it needs to be reformed.” “The HUBZone designation is the main reason that two of our largest employers (Garrett Container Systems and GCC Technologies) located to Garrett County (and why they have remained) and we currently have 11 companies participating in the program,” said Paul Edwards, Chairman Garrett County Board of Commissioners. “Being a struggling rural county with the 4th lowest per capita income in the state, these businesses are invaluable to our economy and to our community. This legislation would help provide more time to work with these companies to hopefully retain them, as well as to help the community transition and diversify. I am very impressed that the Congressman has taken this on our behalf and appreciate his efforts.” “The HUB Zone program is vitally important to Garrett County as we have 11 companies employing more than 300 people utilizing the program,” said Nicole Christian, President & CEO of the Garrett County Chamber of Commerce. “The County will lose its HUB Zone status in the near future and the legislation that Congressman Delaney is sponsoring will soften the blow for these companies and provide additional time for Garrett County to work to retain our HUB Zone designation. We are appreciative of Congressman Delaney’s efforts to help our community and the companies that are thriving because of the HUB Zone program.” “For 14 years, TDEC has effectively used the HUBZone certification to substantially grow our business while creating new jobs in Garrett County, MD, an area of persistent unemployment,” said R. Dennis DuFour, President TDEC. “Extending the redesignation period to 7 years will allow companies in Garrett and other affected areas to continue to leverage the certification creating even more new jobs which is good for business and the economy.” “A major objective of the HUBZone program is to spur economic development and generate jobs in economically distressed areas by setting aside federal contracting dollars towards small businesses servicing those areas,” said Shirley Bailey, GCC Technologies. “One of the major deterrents to companies investing in these areas is the business uncertainty associated with area redesignations and the short time frame associated with the current 3 year re-designation period. By increasing the re-designation period from 3 to 7 years, communities and businesses will be provided a level of business certainty that will enable them an opportunity to diversify and maintain the business investments in the re-designated communities while mitigating financial impacts. The HUBZone Council considers this legislation to be a major step in creating jobs in our nation's most distressed communities and helping those communities continue to move towards economic stability.” The Historically Underutilized Business Zone Empowerment Contracting (HUBZone) program is a small business federal contracting assistance program designed to encourage economic development in economically underperforming areas. The Growing and Reviving Rural Economies Through Transitioning (GARRETT) HUBZone Redesignation Act Background: The Small Business Administration (SBA) administers the Historically Underutilized Business Zone Empowerment Contracting (HUBZone) program. Created in 1997, HUBZone is a small business federal contracting assistance program designed to encourage economic development in economically underperforming rural and urban areas. HUBZone-certified companies receive competitive and sole source contracting and a 10% price evaluation preference in full and open contract competitions, as well as subcontracting opportunities. The Census Bureau periodically analyzes data to determine which counties are designated as HUBZones. If a HUBZone no longer qualifies, they are assigned as “redesignated” for 3 years with full elimination of HUBzone benefits at the conclusion of the term. The Problem: Entities residing in areas that lose their HUBZone designation only have three years to prepare for the loss of HUBZone Status. In 2015, Garrett County, MD, was redesignated, meaning the community will lose the HUBZone status in 2018. For some companies, federal contracts represent approximately 50% of their revenue and a loss of HUBZone status will have a significant impact not just on their individual business, but on the local economy and the local tax base, impacting the private and public sectors significantly. The short redesignation period also inhibits more substantial, long-term investments from businesses due to lack of certainty. Time is needed for local governments to prepare to keep and attract businesses and jobs. The Solution: Extend the “redesignation” period to 7 years. Such an extension will provide communities and businesses an opportunity to diversify their business to transition seamlessly. An extension will also provide the confidence needed for businesses to further increase the investment in currently designated HUBZones. ##
05.11.2016	WASHINGTON – Today the House Ways and Means Committee passed bipartisan legislation led by Congressmen Todd Young (R-IN) and John Delaney (D-MD) that expands the use of evidenced-based social and public health interventions, while driving taxpayer savings. It is the first reform bill of its kind that brings pay-for-performance into social and public health sphere. Senators Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) are the lead sponsors of similar companion legislation in Senate. “Washington spends too much time debating how much or how little to spend on social safety net programs, and not enough time asking whether or not we’re improving lives,” said Congressman Young. “For all our best intentions, evidence shows current federal programs aren’t doing much to improve income inequality. The American people feel the effects, and continuing to ignore the problem only fuels their resentment toward a system that’s failing them. By changing the federal government’s definition of success in federal social programs from inputs to actual outcomes, we can help our fellow Americans overcome the root causes of poverty and seize economic opportunities to work and provide for their families.” “Congressman Todd Young and I have been working together on this bipartisan bill for more than two years, and I was pleased to see it passed by the Ways and Means Committee today,” said Congressman Delaney. “The Social Impact Partnerships to Pay for Results Act creates a framework where the government can partner with a service provider to produce better public service and better outcomes for taxpayers. Using Pay for Success, the government only has to pay if the program meets measurable goals. Our bill is designed to provide better services to those in need through new partnerships between socially-conscious investors and the public sector. This model can be used to decrease asthma hospitalizations, reduce recidivism, improve early childhood education, and many other worthwhile goals. I look forward to continued work with Congressman Young to pass this bill in the House and send it to the Senate.” Background on H.R. 5170: The Social Impact Partnerships to Pay for Results Act empowers states, local governments, nonprofits, and the private sector to scale up evidence-based interventions that address the nation’s most pressing challenges. It fosters the creation of public-private partnerships that harness philanthropic and other private-sector investments to expand and replicate scientifically-proven social and public health programs. Because social impact partnerships are focused on achieving results, government dollars are paid out only when desired outcomes are met. Additional statements from legislative co-sponsors and outside groups can be found at https://toddyoung.house.gov/sip-supporters. ##
05.11.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has published an op-ed in the Huffington Post on the need to expedite medical leave eligibility for disabled veterans. Last week, Delaney introduced the bipartisan Medical Leave for Disabled Veterans Act, which has been endorsed by many of the nation’s leading veterans’ organizations. Currently, disabled veterans become eligible for job-protected unpaid medical leave only after they have been employed for a year. Delaney’s legislation provides for protected leave for veterans with a disability rating of 30-50% after eight months on the job and protected leave for veterans with a disability rating of over 50% after six months. On Saturday, Delaney hosted a Veterans One-Stop-Shop constituent services workshop with over 40 veterans’ organizations in Frederick. The op-ed can be read online here and the text is copied below: Helping Working Disabled Veterans Get the Care They Need By Rep. John K. Delaney (MD-6)Huffington Post, 5/11/16 America’s disabled veterans answered our country’s call and when their time in uniform is done, our country must stand with them. One of the key issues all veterans face is making the transition to a civilian career; and for veterans who need extra medical attention this can be even more difficult. Last week, I filed bipartisan legislation with my colleague Congressman Chris Gibson to expedite protected medical leave eligibility for disabled veterans. Congressman Gibson served in the Army for 24 years and completed four combat tours in Iraq, and I’m proud to work with him on this critical issue. Our bill, The Medical Leave for Disabled Veterans Act, has a straightforward goal that the American people overwhelmingly support: helping working disabled veterans receive health care and provide for their families. Under current law, disabled veterans – as well as all other workers at businesses with over 50 employees – become eligible for job-protected unpaid medical leave only after they have been employed for a year under the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA). Given that disabled veterans often have additional health care needs, this can make working difficult. This problem was brought to my attention by a constituent, who shared his story with my office. As we did more research and spoke with veterans advocates, it became clear this was a major problem across the state and nationwide. While many employers do the right thing and provide flexible schedules for disabled veterans, I felt that it was important to provide all disabled veterans with a solution that would help them have access to medical leave. Here’s how our bill works: we accelerate the eligibility process for disabled veterans. Under the Medical Leave for Disabled Veterans Act, disabled veterans will no longer have to wait a year to be guaranteed the time off they need. Instead, veterans with a disability rating of 30-50% will be able to take medical leave after eight months on the job and veterans with a disability rating of over 50% can do so after six months. I think this is the right thing to do, striking a proper balance. The Medical Leave for Disabled Veterans Act has been endorsed by the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), Disabled American Veterans, the American Legion, the Military Order of the Purple Heart, the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Association and the Military Veterans Advocacy. In crafting this legislation we worked closely with veterans groups and received their input on how to improve the bill. I am humbled and honored to have their support. When these organizations speak, Congress should listen. More broadly, when you speak with Maryland veterans you understand that they deserve better service from the Department of Veterans Affairs. The wait times are too long, it’s still too difficult to navigate the bureaucracy and it can be needlessly difficult to have claims resolved. This is a national scandal and every lever of the federal government should be used to improve service at the VA, from legislative reforms, additional funding and holding poor managers accountable. The American people are both united and angry on this point and have demanded better. There are many truly dedicated VA staff that are trying to do the right thing and serve veterans, but systemic failures are hurting their ability to do their job. We have to solve this problem. In addition to supporting VA reform and The Medical Leave for Disabled Veterans Act, I am also working to make sure that the federal budget reflects our national values and supports worthy veterans initiatives. This year I have led the effort to increase funding for the Fisher House Foundation, a non-profit that provides free lodging near military and VA hospitals for military families. Since 1991 over 250,000 families have benefited from Fisher House, which offers apartment-style family-friendly lodging. Each of the last four years I have fought for Fisher House, because I believe no veteran’s family should have to choose between being together at the hospital and paying their bills. After two long wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, the need is growing and Fisher House would like to build new facilities around the country, so that they can help more families. To date, over 30 Members of Congress have signed on to cosponsor The Medical Leave for Disabled Veterans Act, and I will continue to work to build support for this effort in the House. Despite all the dysfunction in Washington, I believe that when it comes to helping veterans and keeping our fundamental promises as a country, we can come together and do the right thing. Lastly, if you or a family member need help with VA benefits please do not hesitate to contact our office. We can help. ##
05.10.2016	FREDERICK – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) held a Service Academy Night Monday evening in Frederick. The event featured representatives from the nation’s five military academies and offered local students, parents and educators an opportunity to learn more about the service academies. The event was attended by over 130 local residents and took place at the C. Burr Artz Public Library. Delaney will also host a Service Academy Night May 19 at Gaithersburg High School. The event was the 16th constituent services workshop Delaney has held since 2015. Representatives from the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy were on hand at the event. “It was truly inspiring to speak with so many young people who are interested in serving our country. Service academies are a key component of our national defense, training the next generation of leaders on the battlefield and for the nation as a whole,” said Congressman Delaney. “Thank you to the representatives from each academy that took the time to meet with local parents and students here in Frederick.” To receive an appointment to a service academy, candidates must first receive a nomination from an authorized entity. The majority of nominations are made by congressional offices and the Vice President’s office, which may select candidates for the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. The U.S. Coast Guard Academy does not require congressional nominations. Local students interested in receiving a nomination from Delaney’s office are encouraged to call 301-733-2900 or visit the nominations page at Delaney.house.gov. Nominations by Rep. Delaney’s office are coordinated by his Service Academy Panel, which is comprised of local veterans and educators. ##
04.27.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) will file legislation this week to reform the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority’s (WMATA, also known as Metro) Board of Directors. Delaney’s legislation – The WMATA Management Reform Act – will require that the next three federal appointees to WMATA’s Board are either (1) a certified transit expert, (2) a certified management expert, or (3) a certified financial expert and going forward, a majority of federal representatives on the Board must meet these requirements at all times. Should a new Metro Compact be enacted, these requirements would apply to all participating jurisdictions. “Metro’s failures are stark, the stakes could not be higher and the need for reform is crystal clear,” said Congressman Delaney. “My constituents deserve a world-class transportation system that is safe and reliable and right now Metro is falling far short of that standard. The WMATA Management Reform Act will make sure that Metro’s Board of Directors actually has certifiable transportation, management and financial experts. How can we expect Metro to be run well otherwise? This legislation doesn’t remove the ability of local jurisdictions to choose their Board representatives, but it does ensure a baseline level of qualifications.” VIDEO: Delaney Speaks on Need for Metro Board Reform During Joint House Committee Hearing on Metro Safety The WMATA Management Reform Act There are 16 Members of the WMATA Board, 4 each appointed by Maryland, Virginia, the District of Columbia, and the Federal Government. The legislation requires the Federal Government to certify to the Board of WMATA that the next three federal appointees to the Board, either new appointees or those renewing their terms, are either (1) a certified transit expert, (2) a certified management expert, or (3) a certified financial expert. Further requires that at least three of the four federal appointees have this certified expertise at all points going forward. For purposes of this provision: A certified transit expert is someone who has served in a senior executive capacity, or the equivalent, of a US transit authority, A certified management expert is someone who is currently or has previously served for 5 or more years as a president, chief operating officer, chief executive officer, chairman, or managing partner or equivalent position of a business or non-profit or be the president or the most senior manager of a division of a business and have, in his or her capacity managed, directly or indirectly, more than 1,000 full time employees. A certified financial expert is anyone who meets the standards of an audit committee financial expert under NYSE rules. The legislation requires that the Federal government strive to ensure that their appointees to the board reflect the diversity of the communities of the region served by WMATA. The legislation requires the Federal government insist on Maryland, Virginia, the District of Columbia agreeing to use these same standards for their own appointees if the WMATA Compact is amended. ##
04.22.2016	WASHINGTON – April 22 is Earth Day, a global observance of the importance of conservation and environmental protections. Today, representatives from over 150 nations gathered at the United Nations to sign the Paris Climate Agreement. This week, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) led a congressional show of support for the agreement, leading a letter with Senator Ben Cardin (MD) that was signed by over 145 Members of Congress. “The beauty and bounty of our planet is a blessing and comes with a responsibility to leave wonders like the Chesapeake Bay and the mountains of Western Maryland to the next generation, a responsibility to make sure that our grandchildren have a healthy planet. On this Earth Day we must face the stark reality of what is happening to our planet,” said Congressman Delaney. “We are experiencing one of the warmest years on record and the risk posed by extreme weather and changing ecosystems is a threat to the economy and public health. The historic Paris Agreement being signed today is a step in the right direction, but there is more work to be done. The American people want action on this issue and Congress should respond before it is too late.” Delaney is the author of the Tax Pollution, Not Profits Act, a bill to reduce carbon pollution and combat climate change in a pro-growth, economically responsible manner that helps working families. Delaney’s bill establishes a tax on greenhouse gas emissions; with receipts from the tax directed towards 1) reducing the corporate tax rate to increase employment and reduce consumer costs 2) providing monthly payments to low-income and middle-class households and 3) funding job training, early retirement and health care benefits to coal workers. Delaney has also led the effort in the House of Representatives to establish a new national clean energy goal: having 50% of America’s electricity production coming from clean and carbon-free sources by 2030. 105 House Members have cosponsored Delaney’s 50X30 resolution. ##
04.21.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Ben Cardin (D-Md.), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations and a senior Member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, U.S. Representative John Delaney (MD-06), and 145 of their Democratic colleagues from the Senate and House sent a letter to President Obama today in strong support of the United States signing the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) Paris Agreement. Other House letter leaders include, Rep. Jared Huffman (CA-2), Rep. Alan Lowenthal (CA-47) and Rep. Scott Peters (CA-52). Secretary of State John Kerry will represent the United States at the UN in New York today, where he will officially sign the Agreement along with more than one hundred other nations. Under President Obama’s leadership and with the strong support of Congressional Democrats, the United States rallied world leaders in support of the Paris Agreement last December. The letter states in part, “For years, the world has looked to the United States for international leadership and addressing climate change is no different. Through your leadership, the United States is fulfilling a responsibility to lead international action addressing climate change resulting in unprecedented cooperation on the development of the historic Paris Agreement. Your decision to make the United States one of the first parties to sign the agreement is a further demonstration of U.S. leadership and is an important step towards ensuring the Paris Agreement is implemented quickly and that the global community begins in earnest towards achieving the significant goals of the agreement.” “I thank President Obama for his strong leadership which has led us to today’s historic signing. Now it is time to implement the Agreement and act on behalf of future generations so that they are not devastated by the impacts of global climate change,” Senator Cardin said. “As a lawmaker from a state deeply susceptible to rising sea levels, I am committed to doing all I can to ensure the United States fulfills its obligations and serves as an example to every nation on earth of what is possible when we put our science, leadership, and ingenuity to work on behalf of humanity.” “Climate Change poses a huge risk to our environment, our economy, and our national security. At the same time, the United States has an opportunity to greatly benefit from the transition to a clean energy economy,” said Congressman Delaney. “This climate agreement between 195 countries is a historic occasion. We all have to act together to solve the problem. I thank President Obama for his leadership, and will continue to work with Senator Cardin in Congress to accelerate our transition to clean energy.” In total, 33 Senators and 114 Representatives signed onto the letter. The full text of the letter with the list of signers is below. ### The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States of America 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 205000 April 21, 2016 Dear Mr. President: We write in strong support of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change’s Paris Agreement calling for global cooperation on addressing the causes and effects of climate change. We fully support the United States’ decision to sign the agreement on the first day it will be open for signature, April 22, 2016, and we hope that other nations will follow our lead. For years, the world has looked to the United States for international leadership and addressing climate change is no different. Through your leadership, the United States is fulfilling a responsibility to lead international action addressing climate change resulting in unprecedented cooperation on the development of the historic Paris Agreement. Your decision to make the United States one of the first parties to sign the agreement is a further demonstration of U.S. leadership and is an important step towards ensuring the Paris Agreement is implemented quickly and that the global community begins in earnest towards achieving the significant goals of the agreement. No country is insulated from the increasingly present and escalating effects of climate change. The United States faces numerous challenges: prolonged droughts that affect our food security and water supplies, sea-level rise that threatens millions of Americans residing near our coasts, and expanded range of wildfires and prolonged wildfire seasons are just a few examples. These threats affect the U.S. economy, public health, and national security. Investments to improve the resiliency of our communities at all levels are critically important to our ability to adapt to the impacts of climate change and thrive. Mitigation of climate change is a national priority that requires national policies to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, like producing significantly more energy from clean and carbon-free sources as a means of achieving the pollution reduction pledge the U.S. made ahead of COP21. Increased investment and deployment of clean energy is sound strategy for reducing carbon pollution that will spur tremendous domestic job growth and expand the U.S. economy The United States must also be responsive to climate change’s impact on our allies in the world’s least developed and most vulnerable countries. Defense and national security experts refer to climate change as a “threat multiplier” because of its effects on the safety, stability, and security of many at-risk nations ultimately impacts U.S. security interests. Continued U.S. climate diplomacy and international engagement with our allies, and the most vulnerable nations, will go a long way towards not only saving lives but also preserving global security in the face of uncertain changes in the global environment. The world must work together to ensure that the goals of the Paris Agreement are realized. U.S. commitment to leadership in this arena has helped start a process that must last beyond your presidency. We are both hopeful that this historic agreement will achieve its monumental goals and stand ready to assist with delivering the United States’ lasting commitments to make the agreement a success - for our children, our grandchildren and future generations to come. Sincerely, Senators: Benjamin J. Cardin Richard Blumenthal Cory Booker Barbara Boxer Dianne Feinstein Al Franken Kirsten E. Gillibrand Martin Heinrich Tim Kaine Amy Klobuchar Edward J. Markey Jeffrey A. Merkley Christopher S. Murphy Brian Schatz Tom Udall Richard J. Durbin Barbara A. Mikulski Debbie Stabenow Gary C. Peters Mazie K. Hirono Charles E. Schumer Christopher A. Coons Ron Wyden Thomas R. Carper Sherrod Brown Tammy Baldwin Elizabeth Warren Sheldon Whitehouse Patrick J. Leahy Robert Menendez Michael F. Bennet Jack Reed Jeanne Shaheen Members of Congress: John K. Delaney Scott Peters Alan Lowenthal Jared Huffman Eliot L. Engel Gerry Connolly Eleanor Holmes Norton Adam Smith Paul Tonko Mike Honda Derek Kilmer Donna F. Edwards Mike Quigley Grace Meng Rick Larsen Bobby Rush Peter DeFazio Alcee L. Hastings Theodore E. Deutch Adam Schiff Alan Grayson Corrine Brown Jim McDermott Andre Carson Luis V. Gutierrez Niki Tsongas Peter Welch Doris Matsui Kieth Ellison Sam Farr John Carney Jared Polis Kathy Castor Mark Pocan José E. Serrano Eric Swalwell Matt Cartwright Ted Lieu Lois Capps Yvette D. Clarke Barbara Lee Debbie Wasserman Schultz Earl Blumenauer Seth Moulton Denny Heck Suzanne Bonamici James P. McGovern Kathleen M. Rice Jackie Speier Zoe Lofgren Mark Takai Don Beyer Chris Van Hollen Steve Israel Grace F. Napolitano John P. Sarbanes Anna G. Eshoo Jerrold Nadler Charles B. Rangel Katherine Clark Steve Cohen Bill Foster Betty McCollum Patrick E. Murphy Susan Davis David Price Eddie Bernice Johnson Janice Hahn Frederica S. Wilson Chaka Fattah Mark DeSaulnier Lucille Roybal-Allard Brenda L. Lawrence Michael E. Capuano Henry C. “Hank” Johnson Joe Courtney Mike Thompson James R. Langevin Bill Keating Juan Vargas Linda T. Sanchez Elizabeth H. Esty Julia Brownley John Conyers Jim Himes Beto O'Rourke Emanuel Cleaver Joe Crowley John Lewis Louise M. Slaughter Judy Chu Rosa DeLauro Ed Perlmutter John Yarmuth Suzan DelBene Dutch Ruppersberger Frank Pallone, Jr. Brian Higgins Jan Schakowsky Joseph P. Kennedy, III Ami Bera David N. Cicilline Tony Cardenas Robert C. “Bobby” Scott Carolyn B. Maloney Jerry McNerney Sheila Jackson Lee Dan Kildee Ben Ray Lujan Maxine Waters John Garamendi Richard E. Neal Ron Kind Lois Frankel
04.13.2016	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday, the House passed The Preventing Crimes Against Veterans Act (H.R. 4676), bipartisan legislation that establishes federal penalties for anyone convicted of knowingly engaged in a scheme to defraud an individual of veterans’ benefits. The bill is designed to crack down on fraudulent enterprises that aim to rip off veterans by imposing a fine, imprisonment or both on these activities. Under current law these activities are illegal, but there are no penalties associated with the violation. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted for the bill on the House floor and applauds its passage. “Anyone who defrauds a veteran deserves to be punished and this law makes that deplorable act a punishable offense, which is absolutely something that needed to be done” said Congressman Delaney. “Stealing benefits from veterans and their families is an affront to our nation’s values, a truly despicable act that we should do everything to prevent. The Preventing Crimes Against Veterans Act is a good first step, but we also must remain vigilant that rip-off schemes are identified and stopped before they do any damage; that requires listening to veterans and expediting the benefits process at the VA to that desperate people don’t become susceptible to frauds.” A strong advocate for veterans, Delaney has led the effort in the House of Representatives to increase federal support for Fisher House, a non-profit that provides free lodging for families near VA hospitals. ##
04.12.2016	WASHINGTON – April 12 marks Equal Pay Day, a date symbolizing the more than three additional months into the year required for women’s wages to catch up to what men were paid the previous year. According to a new analysis by the National Partnership for Women and Families, on average, women are paid just 79 cents for every dollar paid to men. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) is a cosponsor of the Paycheck Fairness Act (H.R. 1619) which closes loopholes in existing law and strengthens the existing Equal Pay Act. Senator Barbara Mikulski is the author of the Senate version of the bill. “We must ensure equal pay for equal work,” said Congressman Delaney. “The wage gap hurts women, hurts working families and hurts our economy. Discrimination against women is just plain wrong and just plain bad business, as it leaves the talent, drive and expertise of half the population on the sidelines. I’m proud to stand with Senator Mikulski in support of the Paycheck Fairness Act, which both House and Senate leaders have refused to even bring to the floor for a vote. It’s time to pass the Paycheck Fairness Act, protect women from discrimination and bring more fairness to the workplace.” The Paycheck Fairness Act requires employers to show that pay disparity is truly based on performance, prohibits employer retaliation for sharing salaries and strengthens legal remedies for women experiencing pay discrimination. ##
04.12.2016	WASHINGTON – Today the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) announced that Patrick Lavin will become WMATA’s new Chief Safety Officer. Lavin has previously worked for New York City Transit and his first day at WMATA will be May 9. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “It is absolutely imperative that Metro safety improve. Marylanders shouldn’t feel like they’re gambling with their health and safety every time they swipe their SmarTrip card. There is a tremendous amount of work to do at Metro – top to bottom – and I hope that Mr. Lavin can help lead the turnaround we need. I will continue to fight for increased Metro funding in Congress, because a safe and reliable system is essential to my constituents’ quality of life and the economic health of the capital region, but that also means that Metro must deliver on their end for riders and for our community.” ##
04.12.2016	MAUGANSVILLE – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) held office hours today at the UAW hall in Maugansville, Delaney’s 19th office hours session since last year. At the meeting constituents had the opportunity to speak with Delaney one-on-one about the issues that mattered to them. All office hours are open to the public and posted on Delaney’s website, e-newsletter and social media channels ahead of time. “Office hours are a central part of my schedule and are essential to my work in Congress,” said Congressman Delaney. “I hear from Marylanders in a variety of ways, but there’s nothing quite like sitting down at a table with someone face to face. Washington County residents want Congress to focus on jobs, economic growth for the middle class and national security and they want government agencies to work efficiently and effectively and I share their commitment to these goals. Thank you to everyone who attended today, I appreciate you giving up your time to meet with me. If you weren’t able to make it today please do not hesitate to contact my office with your concerns.” ##
04.08.2016	FREDERICK - Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Frederick County Executive Jan Gardner cohosted a panel discussion on the business climate in Frederick County on Friday April 8 at Hood College. A former entrepreneur, Congressman Delaney is the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in the House of Representatives. The panel discussion featured local business leaders and touched on the importance of infrastructure, access to capital and how to encourage local economic development. “I believe the best legislation starts with local feedback and local expertise and that’s why this panel discussion was so important,” said Congressman Delaney. “I want to thank everyone who took time out of their day to meet with me and share their point of view. Frederick County and the I-270 corridor is a tremendously important part of Maryland’s economy and with smart policies can be a national growth engine. To improve the business climate locally we need to rebuild and expand our infrastructure, support science and research so that we can build on local strengths, invest in world-class education and job-training and lower taxes on businesses.” Since last April, Delaney has hosted 14 constituent services workshops in the Sixth District and 18 office hours sessions. Business leaders participating in the event included: Elizabeth Cromwell, President Frederick County Chamber of Commerce Andrea Chapdelaine, President Hood College Michelle Day, Director Frederick County Workforce Services Doug Scott, Vice President AstraZeneca Clark Briggs, Vice President Frederick County Bank Danny Farrar, CEO SoldierFit Ron Peppe, Vice President Canam Steel Corporation Rose Davis, Human Resources Manager Canam Steel Corporation ##
04.06.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) joined Secretary of Labor Thomas E. Perez, Senator Elizabeth Warren (MA), consumer advocates and industry representatives today for the announcement of new investor protections designed to ensure that middle-class Americans receive investment advice that is more in line with in their best interest. The new standard requires retirement financial advisors to serve as a “fiduciary” for their clients – meaning that they put their clients’ interests first. The new standard follows concerns raised by economic experts that many Americans have received investment advice that has unnecessarily reduced their retirement savings due to conflicts of interest or misaligned incentives. “The Department of Labor’s new fiduciary rule is an important victory for working families and middle class Americans looking to retire with dignity,” said Congressman Delaney. “This is pretty simple: all Americans should receive investment advice that is transparent, accurate and in their best interest. The regulatory standards and protections haven’t been significantly updated since the 1970s and since that time the shape of retirement has dramatically changed. Individuals and families are under tremendous pressure to create their own retirement portfolios and we have to make sure that any bad actors do not take advantage of Americans looking to invest their hard-earned savings. As someone who spent two decades founding and running successful financial services businesses, I know that companies that put their clients’ interests first can succeed and thrive, creating a win-win for investors and advisers.” Over the last two years Congressman Delaney, the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in the House of Representatives, met with Administration officials and supported the effort as the fiduciary standard was being developed. Congressman Delaney joined Secretary Perez for a panel discussion at the announcement, which took place at the Center for American Progress. Last year, Delaney joined President Obama at the headquarters of the American Association of Retired Persons (AARP) when the president directed the Department of Labor to move forward with the proposed rule. In his 2015 remarks, Delaney highlighted the importance of middle-class Americans receiving sound investment and retirement advice and argued that putting the client’s interest first is also putting the company’s interest first. ##
03.30.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, together with U.S. Representative John Delaney (all D-Md.), today announced that the Town of Westernport has been awarded $2.2 million in federal grants and $600,000 in federal loans to install a new water system and water tank. The new tank will improve service for more than 1,144 households and 45 businesses in Allegany County. “Maryland cities and towns need to upgrade their water and sewer infrastructure, but they can't do it on their own,” Senator Mikulski said. “Rural communities need a government on their side. That’s what these federal grants and loans are about. They will help with construction jobs today by building the new water system and tank. And they will help the people and businesses of Westernport, Luke and Bloomington well into the future by providing clean, reliable water service. I’ve always fought for the people of Western Maryland. I’m on their side and always will be.” “Our water infrastructure supports our daily lives in a way that few other things do,” said Senator Cardin, a Senior Member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee and author of a comprehensive package of legislation to update America’s water infrastructure. “We ignore needed upgrades in water infrastructure at our own peril, and substantial investments like these that improve people's lives in Westernport should be applauded -- and duplicated throughout Allegany County “Here’s the bottom line: thanks to these federal grants 1,144 households and 45 businesses in Allegany County will have improved water service. This new project in Westernport is a partnership between federal, state and local agencies that should improve public health and greatly benefit the local community and is a prime example of why I’m focused on bringing more infrastructure funding to Western Maryland,” said Congressman Delaney, who is the author of the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, which provides state and local governments with financing for new transportation, energy, education and water infrastructure projects. “The pipes, pumps and tanks that bring us our water are often out of sight, but improving and expanding our water infrastructure is a major issue that demands attention.” The U.S. Department of Agriculture Office of Rural Development (USDA-RD) awarded the Town of Westernport a $1,000,000 grant and a $600,000 loan. The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) awarded $800,000 in Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding through the Maryland Department of Housing and Community Development (DHCD). The Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) awarded the town $400,000. These federal funds will be used to install a 750,000 gallon water storage tank and pump station, as well as 8,500 linear feet of waterline. The new tank will improve water service to 1,144 households and 45 businesses. It will bring new water service to 12 households. As a result of the additional capacity, the Town of Westernport will be able to provide new water service to the Towns of Bloomington and Luke. The USDA Rural Development grant program was created to improve the economy and quality of life in rural America. The program helps support essential services and infrastructure improvements, and promotes economic development by supporting loans to businesses through banks and community-managed lending pools. ARC is a federal-state partnership that promotes economic development in 13 states throughout the Appalachian region. In 2014, Maryland received $4.7 million in ARC funding, including $1.8 million for 18 local projects and $2.9 million for access road construction. # # #
03.17.2016	WASHINGTON – Thirty House members have joined Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) in calling for increased federal support for the Fisher House Foundation so that more military families can stay together while America’s heroes receive medical care. Fisher Houses provide free lodging near hospitals for the families of veterans and service-members while a loved one is receiving treatment. Over 250,000 families have been served by the Fisher House Foundation. “Supporting veterans and their families is one of the most fundamental responsibilities we have and that’s why increasing support for Fisher House is so essential,” said Congressman Delaney. “Veterans often need extensive care and they shouldn’t have to choose between paying the bills and having their family members by their side; Congress should make building more Fisher Houses a priority.” The request was made in a letter to the Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) and Ranking Member Rep. Pete Visclosky (IN-1). Joining Delaney in leading the letter and the effort to increase funding for Fisher House were House Committee on Veterans Affairs Chairman Jeff Miller (FL-1), Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Congressman Walter Jones (NC-3). Delaney has fought for increased funding for Fisher House each year since taking office in 2013. In 2013, 2014, and 2015 the House has passed amendments offered by Delaney during consideration of Department of Defense Appropriations to increase federal support for Fisher House. The text of the letter is as follows: Dear Chairman Frelinghuysen and Ranking Member Visclosky: As you consider the Fiscal Year 2017 Department of Defense Appropriations bill, we write to express our support for increased funding for the Fisher House Foundation. Since 1991, Fisher Houses have been an important resource for our military families, offering free lodging for families of patients receiving care at VA and DoD medical centers. They give military families peace of mind in knowing that expenses will not prevent them from being with their loved ones during medical treatment. The Fisher House Foundation is a not-for-profit that builds quality facilities and donates them to the U.S. government. There are currently 69 Fisher Houses, with many more under construction or in the planning stages. Having served over 277,000 families, the Fisher House Foundation has saved servicemembers and their loved ones an estimated $320 million in out-of-pocket costs for lodging and transportation. An increase in funds would allow more Fisher Houses to be constructed, providing thousands of more military families with this critical service. We understand that the Committee has many competing priorities during this appropriations cycle. However, we believe that caring for the families of our servicemembers and veterans should remain a top priority this fiscal year. Additionally, the Fisher House Foundation has proven to be a fiscally responsible investment, receiving a four out of four stars rating from Charity Navigator and an A+ from the American Institute of Philanthropy. We must ensure that military families have our continued support, and therefore, we ask that the committee consider increasing the annual appropriation for Fisher Houses. Thank you in advance for considering this request and for your support of our veterans. Sincerely, ##
03.16.2016	WASHINGTON – President Obama announced today that D.C. Circuit Court Chief Judge Merrick Garland will be nominated to the Supreme Court. Judge Garland was confirmed by the Senate for his circuit court position in 1997 and led the investigation and prosecution of Timothy McVeigh. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “The President has made a strong nomination to the Supreme Court. Judge Garland is eminently qualified and now the Senate should do its constitutionally-mandated job. Any partisan politically-motivated games that obstruct the process would be deeply irresponsible and bad for the country.” ##
03.15.2016	WASHINGTON – Tuesday, the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) announced that the entire Metro subway system will shut down for at 29 hours beginning at 12:00 AM Wednesday. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “For a long time Marylanders have been denied the safe, reliable and efficient Metro system that they deserve. It is deeply disturbing that the system is in such a precarious state that it must be entirely and abruptly shut down during the middle of a workweek. This is a stark demonstration of a total agency failure; now is the time for every stakeholder in WMATA to demand better performance and improved safety.” ##
03.10.2016	WASHINGTON- This week, Iran conducted multiple long-range ballistic missiles tests. The State Department has said that while these tests do not violate the JCPOA, they do violate United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231. In the fall of 2015, Iran tested at least two ballistic missiles and built a ballistic missile silo, a violation of UNSC Resolution 1929. The United States responded by placing new sanctions on individuals and companies who worked to advance Iran’s ballistic missile program. In response to Iran’s ballistic missile tests in the fall and its repeated support of terrorism, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) introduced bipartisan legislation that would widely expand U.S. sanctions to curb Iran’s weapons trade. The bill imposes sanctions on entities that transfer to or from Iran advanced conventional weapons or ballistic missiles, including technology, parts, components, or technical information. Congressman Delaney released the following statement: “Iran’s ballistic missile tests this week show the need for stricter sanctions and for hyper vigilance. While these tests are not a direct violation of the JCPOA, we must not let Iran break UN Security Council resolutions without a strong international response. I urge UN Ambassador Samantha Power to bring Iran’s newest violations to the UNSC for immediate action. The international community must show Iran that we will not tolerate this behavior. Additionally, I call on Speaker Ryan to take up my bipartisan bill H.R. 4342, the Iran Ballistic Missile Prevention and Sanctions Act, to stop Iran from acquiring ballistic missile technology and advanced conventional weaponry and exporting them to terrorists in the region.” ##
03.09.2016	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday, March 8 Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) hosted a dialogue with Women Leaders of Western Maryland and Office Hours at Williamsport Town Hall. While Delaney was in Washington County, he also attended a flag raising ceremony at the Volvo Powertrain Facility, after which he toured the facility and met with over 50 employees along the way. The Women’s Leadership Roundtable took place at the Gourmet Goat in Hagerstown and was attended by over a dozen women leaders. The conversation, which was held on International Women’s Day, touched on a variety of topics including access to loans and financing for women-owned businesses; support for women who have recently immigrated to the United States; challenges women face balancing career and family; and the need for mentorship and career programs for the next generation of women leaders. Also on Tuesday, Delaney attended a flag raising ceremony at the Volvo Powertrain Facility. The flag that was used in the ceremony was also flown over the U.S. Capitol when Volvo employees visited Delaney at his Washington, D.C. office. While at Volvo, Delaney was given a guided tour of the facility and met with over 50 employees along the way. To finish the day in Washington County, Delaney held office hours in Williamsport at Williamsport Town Hall. Over 20 constituents attended to meet one-on-one with the Congressman. Topics discussed included protections for the environment, infrastructure improvement, veterans’ issues and communicating with federal agencies. The Williamsport Office Hours were the 17th Delaney has held in the Sixth District since last April. # #
03.08.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Ben Cardin (D-Md.) and Congressman John K. Delaney (Md.-6) have authored an op-ed on their “50x30” resolutions in The Hill. The resolutions establish a national goal of producing more than 50 percent of America’s electricity from clean and carbon-free sources by 2030. In a show of significant support for this initiative, the “50x30” resolutions are cosponsored by 30 Senators and 104 House Members. The “50x30” resolutions are also endorsed by the Union of Concerned Scientists, GreenLatinos, Green for All, Climate Hawks, the House Sustainable Energy and Environment Coalition, and the American Sustainable Business Council. The full text of the op-ed can be read here: Clean energy rising By Sen. Ben Cardin (D-Md.) and Rep. John K. Delaney (D-Md.) Significant increases in clean energy investment are occurring and this is an incredibly positive trend for addressing climate change and growing the U.S. economy. Last year was a record year for clean energy development worldwide, with $329 billion of global investment in clean energy technology projects and projections are pointing to even greater investments in 2016. Maryland’s solar energy industry is a perfect example of the job growth potential in clean energy. According to industry sources, in September 2015, Maryland had 177 solar energy companies that employed about 3,000 people. Six months later, Maryland is home to 182 solar energy companies, employing more than 4,300 people. It is now high time for Congress to act to better align U.S. energy policy with the actual direction of the private sector. A good place to start is for Congress to acknowledge the urgent demand for clean energy in the U.S. and encourage the goal of generating more than 50 percent of our electricity from clean and carbon-free sources by 2030. We have introduced “50x30” resolutions in the House and Senate to set this goal. Based on current technologies and our current energy trajectory, this goal is completely reasonable and should be central to our domestic policy agenda. Importantly, setting a clearly defined goal will encourage greater private sector investment, lead to more innovation and secure U.S. leadership in advanced energy technology, flattening the climate change curve. The benefits will be enormous for public health, national security and our economy. Pollution from fossil fuel combustion causes respiratory problems, neurological damage and cancer. These costs are estimated to be somewhere between $361 billion and $887 billion each year. Currently, air pollution from fossil fuel power plants is estimated to cause more than 5 million missed workdays a year and has made asthma the leading cause of absenteeism from school. Rising temperatures are increasing the range of disease-spreading insects to new parts of the globe. A warming global climate raises serious concerns about the likelihood that an outbreak of a major mosquito borne illness, like the Zika virus, could likely occur in the United States. A 2015 study found that climate change was already contributing to increased salmonellosis in Maryland. Our military and national security advisors consider climate change a “threat multiplier” that could severely strain our military capabilities. Economic instability breeds political instability, which puts Americans at risk. Rising sea levels will displace tens of millions of people around the globe, potentially creating a refugee crisis much larger in magnitude than the tragedy we are currently witnessing in Syria. In Bangladesh alone, tens of millions live in coastal regions that are extremely vulnerable to the impacts of climate change. By 2040, it is estimated that there will be twice as many refugees displaced in Bangladesh as in Syria. Closer to home, the Chesapeake Bay communities of Smith Island and Tangier Island could be two of the first U.S. communities displaced by the effects of climate change. Economically, the number of manufacturing, construction, maintenance and other related clean energy jobs will greatly outpace those of fossil fuels, providing demand in the labor market for years to come. With amazing advances in technology, American scientists and engineers are making clean energy cost-competitive with fossil fuels. According to a 2015 report from the Global Green Growth Institute and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization, the cost of wind power dropped 61 percent over the past six years, while the cost for solar dropped by 82 percent. Costs will keep falling and soon clean energy will be cheaper across-the-board. With the right goal in place and strong demand from the private sector for investment and solutions, Congress can craft public policy solutions to create the proper incentives. A good first step was the renewal and extension of the Production Tax Credit (PTC) for wind energy and the Investment Tax Credit (ITC) for solar energy, which provides near-term certainty and incentives for renewable energy development. But there is more to be done. Democrats have put forward proposals to increase clean energy investment and production, price carbon, improve energy efficiency, fund federal research in clean energy innovation, and improve the regulatory landscape. There is bipartisan support for many of the concepts and policies. The bottom line is that if we don’t address climate change now, the cost to our country will be enormous. If we do address climate change by investing in clean energy, we will reap huge benefits. Passing our resolution would put Congress on record supporting the production of more than 50 percent clean and carbon-free electricity by 2030 and prioritizing the achievement of this incredible opportunity to protect our country improve our health, grow our economy, and lower energy costs for American households. Cardin is Maryland’s junior senator, serving since 2007. He sits on the Environment and Public Works; the Finance; the Foreign Relations; and the Small Business and Entrepreneurship committees. Delaney has represented Maryland’s 6th Congressional District since 2013. He sits on the Financial Services Committee. # #
03.03.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Ben Cardin (D-Md.), Congressman John K. Delaney (Md.-6) and Congressman Ben Luján (N.M.-3) have filed resolutions in the House and Senate affirming the establishment of a national goal of more than 50 percent of America’s electricity production coming from clean and carbon-free electricity sources by 2030 and calling for the enactment of new legislation to achieve this goal. In a show of significant support for this initiative, the “50x30 Resolutions” are cosponsored by 30 Senators and 103 House Members. The 50x30 Resolutions also are endorsed by The Union of Concerned Scientists, GreenLatinos, Green for All, Climate Hawks and the House Sustainable Energy and Environment Caucus. “Investment in clean energy is booming and Congress has to act swiftly or risk hurting the United States financially and damaging our global reputation as a clean energy innovator. If we don’t lead on clean energy, some other country will,” said Senator Cardin, who is a senior member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. “This resolution is a blueprint of where our nation needs to be. I don’t see this as a partisan issue, it’s about national security, economic security and public health. The next President of the United States will want to exert continued leadership in this area.” “Pivoting to a clean carbon-free economy is about good-paying jobs, strengthening our national security and protecting our environment and public health. Over 100 Senators and Representatives have joined our effort to put clean energy and climate action on the Congressional agenda,” said Congressman Delaney. “There’s a consensus that it’s time to end climate denialism and time for Congress to get work on solutions.” “Across the country and in my home state of New Mexico, the American people are already experiencing the devastating impacts of climate change, from more extreme fires and record drought to more severe storms, said Congressman Luján. “Transitioning to a clean energy economy can mitigate these worsening effects while spurring innovative new sectors that will create jobs and economic opportunities in our communities. A national goal of 50 percent clean and carbon free electricity by 2030 establishes a realistic marker that will challenge our country and accelerate action that is good for our economy, our national security, and our health.” The full text of the resolution is available here. In addition to Rep. Delaney and Rep. Luján, the lead cosponsors in the House are Rep. Joe Kennedy III (MA-4), Rep. Suzan DelBene (WA-1), Rep. Ted Lieu (CA-33), Rep. Mark Pocan (WI-2), Rep. Kathy Castor (FL-14), Rep. Ann McLane Kuster (NH-2) and Rep. Eric Swalwell (CA-15). Current List of Original Senate Cosponsors [30]: Ben Cardin (Md.), Harry Reid (Nev.), Dick Durbin (Ill.), Chuck Schumer (N.Y.), Amy Klobuchar (Minn.), Patty Murray (Wash.), Pat Leahy (Vt.), Barbara Mikulski (Md.), Diane Feinstein (Calif.), Barbara Boxer (Calif.), Ron Wyden (Ore.), Bill Nelson (Fla.), Tom Carper (Del.), Bob Menendez (N.J.), Sheldon Whitehouse (R.I.), Tom Udall (N.M.), Jeanne Shaheen (N.H.), Jeff Merkley (Ore.), Kirsten Gillibrand (N.Y.), Al Franken (Minn.), Chris Coons (Del.), Richard Blumenthal (Conn.), Brian Schatz (Hawaii), Chris Murphy (Conn.), Mazie Hirono (Hawaii), Martin Heinrich (N.M.), Elizabeth Warren (Mass.), Angus King (Maine), Ed Markey (Mass.), and Cory Booker (N.J.). Current List of Original House Cosponsors [103]: Rep. Xavier Becerra (CA-34), Rep. Don Beyer (VA-8), Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-3), Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (OR-1), Rep. Madeleine Z. Bordallo (GU), Rep. Brendan Boyle (PA-13), Rep. Julia Brownley (CA-26), Rep. Cheri Bustos (IL-17), Rep. Lois Capps (CA-24), Rep. Michael E. Capuano (MA-7), Rep. Tony Cardenas( CA-29), Rep. John Carney (DE), Rep. Matthew Cartwright (PA-17), Rep. Kathy Castor (FL-14), Rep. Joaquin Castro (TX-20), Rep. Judy Chu (CA-27), Rep. David Cicilline (RI-1), Rep. Katherine Clark (MA-5), Rep. Yvette D. Clarke (NY-9), Rep. James E. Clyburn (SC-6), Rep. Steve Cohen (TN-9), Rep. Gerald E. Connolly (VA-11), Rep. John Conyers Jr. (MI-13), Rep. Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rep. Joseph Crowley (NY-14), Rep. Elijah Cummings (MD-7), Rep. John K. Delaney (MD-6), Rep.Suzan DelBene (WA-1), Rep. Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Rep. Mark Desaulnier (CA-11), Rep. Donna F. Edwards (MD-4), Rep. Keith Ellison (MN-5), Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Rep. Elizabeth Esty (CT-5), Rep. Bill Foster (IL-11), Rep. Alan Grayson (FL-9), Rep. Luis Gutierrez (IL-4), Rep. Janice Hahn (CA-44), Rep. Denny Heck (WA-10), Rep. Brian Higgins (NY-26), Rep. Jim Himes (CT-4), Rep. Mike Honda (CA-17), Rep. Jared Huffman (CA-2), Rep. Steve Israel (NY-3), Rep. Hank Johnson (GA-4), Rep. William Keating (MA-9), Rep. Joe Kennedy (MA-4), Rep. Daniel Kildee (MI-5), Rep. Derek Kilmer (WA-6), Rep. Ann Kuster (NH-2), Rep. Jim Langevin (RI-2), Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-2), Rep. John B. Larson (CT-1), Rep. Barbara Lee (CA-13), Rep. Sander Levin (MI-9), Rep. John Lewis (GA-5), Rep. Ted Lieu (CA-33), Rep. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Rep. Ben R. Lujan (NM-3), Rep. Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-1), Rep. Stephen F. Lynch (MA-8), Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Rep. Doris O. Matsui (CA-6), Rep. Grace Meng (NY-6), Rep. Jim McDermott (WA-7), Rep. James McGovern (MA-2), Rep. Gregory W. Meeks (NY-5), Rep. Seth Moulton (MA-6), Rep. Patrick Murphy (FL-18), Rep. Jerrold Nadler (NY-10), Rep. Grace Napolitano (CA-32), Rep. Richard E. Neal (MA-1), Rep. Rick Nolan (MN-8), Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Rep. Donald Payne Jr. (NJ-10), Rep. Scott Peters (CA-52), Rep. Chellie Pingree (ME-1), Rep. Mark Pocan (WI-2), Rep. Jared Polis (CO-2), Rep. Mike Quigley (IL-5), Rep. Charles B. Rangel (NY-13), Rep. Kathleen Rice (NY-4), Rep. C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-2), Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL-1), Rep. John P. Sarbanes (MD-3), Rep. Jan Schakowsky (IL-9), Rep. Adam Schiff (CA-28), Rep. Bobby Scott (VA-3), Rep. David Scott (GA-13), Rep. Brad Sherman (CA-30), Rep. Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Rep. Adam Smith (WA-9), Rep. Eric Swalwell (CA-15), Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13), Rep. Mark Takano (CA-41), Rep. Paul D. Tonko (NY-20), Rep. Niki Tsongas (MA-3), Rep. Chris Van Hollen (MD-8), Rep. Juan Vargas (CA-51), Rep. Nydia M. Velazquez (NY-7), Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-43), Rep. Peter Welch (VT) and Rep. John A. Yarmuth (KY-3) “The American people and businesses are doing their part to build a clean energy economy. Now it's time for policymakers to stand with them by laying out a plan to power our country with more than 50 percent clean energy by 2030,” said Congresswoman Castor. “We already have the technology to achieve this goal, but political leaders must build on local efforts and the Paris agreement and set even more ambitious goals to cut carbon pollution.” “Without a doubt, climate change is a serious threat to our way of life, our economy, and our children – not to mention the future of our planet – and we need to address it now,” Congresswoman Suzan DelBene said. “Our nation must take meaningful steps to build a new economy based on clean and renewable energy sources. Washington has an educated workforce, advanced manufacturing, and a growing technology industry, which make us poised to lead the way in meeting the goal of more than 50 percent clean and carbon-free electricity by 2030.” “Whether protecting our environment, creating jobs or ensuring we remain a leader in global energy development, investing in clean energy technology today will strengthen us tomorrow,” said Congressman Kennedy. “However, this goal is only within reach if Congress acts now to implement the policies that will allow us to achieve it.” “Combatting climate change is one of the seminal issues of our time and failure to act will have dire consequences for our economy, our children, and the future of our planet,” said Congresswoman Kuster. “I am very proud to support this resolution that will help put US carbon emissions on a sustainable path while promoting our leadership role in responsible energy policy.” “I am proud to co-lead the 50x30 resolution, which sets a national goal of more than 50% clean and carbon-free electricity by 2030 and is cosponsored by 103 House members and 30 Senators. Congress must stop delaying action on climate. The urgency of addressing climate change is before our eyes. My home state of California is in the midst of a severe drought; the year 2015 is the hottest in recorded history; and extreme weather events are happening across the globe,” said Congressman Ted W. Lieu. “We must also hold accountable groups and corporations which seek to deceive the American public as to the truth of climate change. The science and facts are on our side, and eventually the facts win. History books will one day say America led the way on addressing climate change and saving our planet – or there will be no history books. I hope the rest of my colleagues will join this crucial resolution.” “I believe climate change represents one of the greatest threats to our national security, economic livelihood and the health of our planet,” said Rep. Mark Pocan. “This clean energy resolution highlights our commitment to finding clean and carbon-free solutions to our energy needs and shows the United States is willing to be an international leader in combating global climate change.” “A national goal of more than 50 percent clean and carbon-free electricity by 2030 puts us on track to a safe, reliable and secure energy future,” said Congressman Swalwell. “It protects our environment and public health, and provides for economic stability.” ##
03.01.2016	WASHINGTON – Since 1987, Congress has designated March as Women’s History Month. This month, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) cosponsored H. Res 629, a resolution supporting the goals and ideals of National Women’s History Month by honoring women in public service and government. Women’s History Month recognizes women who have helped to make the United States what it is today, from the pioneers who fought for equal voting rights to those who shattered glass ceilings in our workforce. Each day this Month extraordinary women from Maryland will be highlighted on Rep. Delaney’s Facebook page. Delaney releases the following statement: “Women’s History Month is a time to reflect on the role women have played in shaping our country, a time to remember the trailblazers who fought for women’s rights and a time to renew our commitment to equality. Maryland has been home to incredible women leaders, from Margaret Brent to Harriet Tubman, Clara Barton, and Senator Barbara Mikulski. This month, I am proud to recognize and honor these women, whose lives influenced the course of our country’s and state’s history. As the father of four daughters, women’s rights are deeply important to me. In Congress, I’ve supported legislation like the Paycheck Fairness Act and the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act, voted to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act and I will continue to stand up to attacks on women’s health and support equal rights for women.” ##
03.01.2016	WASHINGTON – Members of Maryland’s House Delegation met today with U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Colonel Edward P. Chamberlayne, Commander and District Engineer of the Baltimore District office, for an update on the Corps’ current activities and projects in Maryland. Colonel Chamberlayne also discussed the Corps’ budget priorities for Fiscal Year 2017 which includes the Baltimore Harbor and channel dredging, Poplar Island, and Chesapeake Bay comprehensive plan. Delegation Members participating in today’s meeting were Representatives Steny H. Hoyer, Chris Van Hollen, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John Sarbanes, Donna F. Edwards, Andy Harris, and John Delaney. “I was pleased to meet with the Army Corps of Engineers today on key projects in our state, including St. Patrick's Creek in St. Mary's County, and to discuss the Corps’ funding concerns,” stated Congressman Hoyer. “The Corps of Engineers does critical work that is important to protecting our nation and state’s water resources, and I am especially proud of the work they are doing to protect and restore portions of the Chesapeake Bay watershed. I thank the Army Corps of Engineers for joining us today and look forward to continuing to work together with them and our delegation.” “The Army Corps of Engineers’ work is essential to our effort to restore the Chesapeake Bay, while regular dredging of the shipping channels is critical to keeping the Port of Baltimore open for business,” said Congressman Elijah E Cummings. “I will continue working with the entire delegation to ensure that we provide the highest possible funding levels for the Corps and for the many projects that are vital to the success of Maryland.” “We must continue to support critical Army Corps projects to keep the Port of Baltimore competitive and protect the Chesapeake Bay and its oyster population,” said Congressman Van Hollen. “I thank Colonel Chamberlayne for his leadership and look forward to working together to accomplish our shared priorities for Maryland.” “The Army Corps of Engineers’ work – including dredging the Port of Baltimore and Chesapeake Bay shipping channels—supports hundreds of thousands of jobs throughout the region,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. “In my district, the Army Corps is also responsible for building new facilities at our military installations and restoring parts of the Bay watershed. Helping to keep these investments fully funded has been and will continue to be a top priority of mine.” “The Army Corps plays a huge part in maintaining the viability of the Port of Baltimore and ensuring that the Chesapeake Bay remains a vibrant environmental resource,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “Both the Port and the Bay are significant economic drivers for our state and I look forward to working with the Corps to keep these efforts on track.” “It was helpful to meet with Col. Edward P. Chamberlayne, the Commander and District Engineer of the Baltimore District Army Corps of Engineers, and his staff to hear more about the priorities for military construction and public works projects across the state of Maryland,” said Congresswoman Edwards. “From restoration of Poplar Island to the Chesapeake Bay’s oyster population, and Anacostia River Restoration, the Army Corps of Engineers does vital work to solve 21st Century problems while ensuring the success of our environment, economy, and public health in Maryland.” “It’s great to see the Army Corps work with us to improve the livelihood of the First District and all of Maryland, including moving forward with crucial dredging and beach replenishment projects in Ocean City. I look forward to continuing to work with them to ensure that important projects throughout the First District are funded,” said Congressman Harris. “Our water infrastructure is crucial both to the health of our environment and the Chesapeake Bay, but also to the health of our citizens,” said Congressman Delaney. “Improving the health of our waters and investing in infrastructure is a win-win creating jobs, and providing good quality of life and economic opportunity for Maryland residents. I thank the Army Corps of Engineers for briefing our federal delegation on their plans for water restoration and infrastructure improvements in Maryland. I will continue to push to make rebuilding America’s infrastructure and protecting the Bay a priority in Congress.” ###
02.26.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin together with U.S. Representative John Delaney (all D-Md.) today announced that the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) has awarded a $87,000 federal grant to Allegany College to purchase 15 new dental hygiene units which will improve efficiency for students, reduce expensive repair costs, and help maintain hygiene services offered to the public. The new equipment for Allegany College’s dental hygiene program will improve training for approximately 100 students with 4,000 dental hygiene patients within two years. “This federal funding is a win-win for Allegany County that will help prepare students today for in-demand dental care jobs tomorrow while keeping families healthy,” said Senator Mikulski, a senior member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee. “Marylanders in our rural communities need a government on their side so they can access affordable, quality care regardless of their zip code. These funds in the federal checkbook will help Allegany College train a new pipeline of workers to fill jobs in dental health care that are needed now.” “ARC is, once again, supporting the public health and economic health of Western Maryland,” said Senator Cardin, a member of the Senate Finance Health Care Subcommittee. “As we celebrate National Pediatric Dental Month, these federal dollars to support better training for Allegany College dental students, will help ensure more Maryland children, and adults, can receive the quality dental care that is so important to overall health. Preventative dental care saves lives and costs less than treating advanced diseases or injuries." “I grew up the son of a union electrician and education gave me the chance to live the American Dream, start successful companies and create jobs. I want everyone in Maryland to have the same opportunity I had,” Congressman Delaney said. “This federal grant is about two critical things: 1) helping more local residents land a good-paying middle class job and 2) expanding educational opportunities in Allegany County. I am proud to support this grant and will continue to work to make sure that we smartly marshal federal resources to benefit local communities.” Allegany College will use these federal funds to expand dental career training programs as well as support the growing need of dental hygienists in western Maryland communities. This project will provide students instructional and clinical resources. The local, state, and national demand for dental services is expected to expand within the decade and employers in Western Maryland have expressed an immediate need for new dental hygienists. The median pay for qualified dental hygienists in Maryland in 2011 was $76,680, indicating that the field can be lucrative for well-trained professionals. Allegany College offers an Associate's Degree for dental hygienists and approximately 18 students graduate each year and are readily placed in jobs. ARC is a federal-state partnership that promotes economic development in 13 states throughout the Appalachian region. In 2015, Maryland received $1.3 million in ARC funding. Senators Mikulski and Cardin have been leading supporters of the ARC Commission in the U.S. Senate. Congressman Delaney has been a strong supporter of ARC in the House of Representatives. ###
02.23.2016	WASHINGTON – This week, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) urged colleagues in the House of Representatives to join him in increasing federal support for the Fisher House Foundation in the federal budget for fiscal year 2017. The request to House members was made in a Dear Colleague letter co-authored by House Committee on Veterans Affairs Chairman Jeff Miller (FL-1), Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Congressman Walter Jones (NC-3). Fisher Houses provide free apartment-style lodging within walking distance of hospitals for the families of veterans and service-members while a loved one is receiving treatment. Currently, there are 69 Fisher Houses in operation with an additional six houses under construction. New homes are not built without full funding, so increased federal support for the Fisher House Foundation will help more homes be built. “This is step one in getting more federal support for Fisher House so that we can help more veterans and military families stay together,” said Congressman Delaney. “No veteran or service-member should spend their time in the hospital alone and no military family should choose between paying the bills and being with their loved one. We’re going to be working the phones and pounding the pavement to generate bipartisan support for Fisher House, because what they do really gets to the core of our shared commitment to support veterans and their families.” A final letter in support of Fisher House will be sent to the House Committee on Appropriations in March. Delaney has fought for increased funding for Fisher House each year since taking office in 2013. In 2013, 2014, and 2015 the House has passed amendments offered by Delaney during consideration of Department of Defense Appropriations to increase federal support for Fisher House. Delaney is requesting that House members from both parties join him on the following letter: The Honorable Rodney Frelinghuysen Chairman House Committee on Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense H-305 U.S. Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Pete Visclosky Ranking Member House Committee on Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense 1016 Longworth House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Frelinghuysen and Ranking Member Visclosky: As you consider the Fiscal Year 2017 Department of Defense Appropriations bill, we write to express our support for increased funding for the Fisher House Foundation. Since 1991, Fisher Houses have been an important resource for our military families, offering free lodging for families of patients receiving care at VA and DoD medical centers. They give military families peace of mind in knowing that expenses will not prevent them from being with their loved ones during medical treatment. The Fisher House Foundation is a not-for-profit that builds quality facilities and donates them to the U.S. government. There are currently 69 Fisher Houses, with many more under construction or in the planning stages. Having served over 277,000 families, the Fisher House Foundation has saved servicemembers and their loved ones an estimated $320 million in out-of-pocket costs for lodging and transportation. An increase in funds would allow more Fisher Houses to be constructed, providing thousands of more military families with this critical service. We understand that the Committee has many competing priorities during this appropriations cycle. However, we believe that caring for the families of our servicemembers and veterans should remain a top priority this fiscal year. Additionally, the Fisher House Foundation has proven to be a fiscally responsible investment, receiving a four out of four stars rating from Charity Navigator and an A+ from the American Institute of Philanthropy. We must ensure that military families have our continued support, and therefore, we ask that the committee consider increasing the annual appropriation for Fisher Houses. Thank you in advance for considering this request and for your support of our veterans. Sincerely, ##
02.23.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin (both D-Md.), together with U.S. Representatives Steny H. Hoyer, Elijah E. Cummings, Chris Van Hollen, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John P. Sarbanes, Donna F. Edwards, Andy Harris and John Delaney today in a letter to President Obama expressed their strong support for Governor Larry Hogan’s request for a federal Disaster Declaration for Maryland being impacted by severe winter weather. “We are writing to express our shared support for Governor Larry Hogan’s request for the declaration of a major disaster for the State of Maryland as a result of a severe winter snowstorm which impacted our State beginning January 22, 2016. Given the massive impact that this storm had on the State’s resources, we respectfully request that you expeditiously approve the provision of supplementary Federal assistance,” wrote members of the Delegation. The Disaster Declaration would make federal funding available to the State and eligible local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis for emergency work and the repair or replacement of facilities damaged by the severe winter storms and snowstorms in all Maryland counties and the City of Baltimore. As a result of the snowstorms, Maryland was in a state of emergency from January 22, 2016 to January 29, 2016 and the Maryland National Guard was called into service. The storm caused an estimated $34 million in damage across Maryland. The text of the delegation's letter of support is as follows: February 23, 2016 The President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to express our shared support for Governor Larry Hogan’s request for the declaration of a major disaster for the State of Maryland as a result of a severe winter snowstorm which impacted our State beginning January 22, 2016. Given the massive impact that this storm had on the State’s resources, we respectfully request that you expeditiously approve the provision of supplementary Federal assistance. Maryland suffered significant blizzard conditions throughout the storm, overwhelming the State’s capabilities to deal with its aftermath. Governor Hogan took appropriate action under Maryland law, declaring a State of Emergency for all Maryland counties and the City of Baltimore, calling the National Guard into State Service, and opening the State Emergency Operations Center for the duration of the event. Our State experienced record snowfalls, wind gusts as high as 55 MPH creating blizzard conditions, and coastal and tidal flooding. The Maryland Emergency Management Agency (MEMA), along with local jurisdictions and FEMA, conducted an extensive impact assessment February 2 – February 17. They collectively found that the event was of such severity and magnitude that effective response and recovery is beyond the capabilities of the State and affected local governments, and requires supplementary Federal assistance. Maryland has made extensive efforts to respond to this emergency. Governor Hogan, working with FEMA, has estimated the total cost to exceed $34 million. An expedited declaration of a disaster is necessary to help provide the resources needed by our State. We appreciate your consideration of Maryland’s request. Sincerely, ###
02.18.2016	WASHINGTON – According to a report released today by the American Road and Transportation Builders Association (ARTBA) 58,495 of the nation’s bridges are structurally deficient, including 5,313 in Maryland. Nationwide, nearly 10% of the nation’s bridges are in need of repair. One of the busiest structurally deficient bridges in the country is the I-695/U.S. 1 bridge in Baltimore, which handles 193,000 crossings a day. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6), author of bipartisan legislation to rebuild America’s infrastructure using revenues from overseas corporate profits, called the report troubling. “The dire state of America’s bridges is another troubling chapter in the story of our aging and cracked infrastructure,” said Congressman Delaney. “As highlighted in ARTBA’s report, this is a nationwide problem and Maryland is no exception. We should view this as a public safety crisis that demands a response. Last fall we passed a weak Highway Bill that merely maintained current levels of investment in infrastructure; this will not solve our long-term problems and ensure that America’s bridges are safe. Combining infrastructure investment with international tax reform is a triple bottom line for the country, creating millions of good-paying jobs, improving our economic climate and making our roads and bridges safer – the support that’s bubbled up around my legislation shows that we can get this done. This should be a priority in 2016.” Congressman Delaney’s bipartisan Infrastructure 2.0 Act (H.R. 625) uses revenues from international tax reform to fund a six-year highway bill at increased levels and creates a new American Infrastructure Fund to finance additional state and local projects. Under Delaney’s legislation, the American Infrastructure Fund could finance up to $750 billion in new infrastructure projects. Delaney’s leadership in building support for using revenues from international tax reform to rebuild America’s infrastructure has been cited by the Washington Post and the New York Times. ##
02.17.2016	CUMBERLAND – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) hosted office hours today in McHenry and Cumberland, with each event attended by over 30 Marylanders. The meetings were open to the public, held on a first-come, first-serve basis and advertised on Delaney’s website and social media channels. “Today’s meetings in Garrett and Allegany County were an invaluable opportunity for me to hear directly from the people I am privileged to represent in the House, a chance to discuss legislation, federal policy, local issues in Western Maryland and casework,” said Congressman Delaney. “Thank you to everyone who joined me in McHenry and Cumberland today. There’s no replacement for speaking to someone in person, across a table, and that’s why office hours are such an important part of my schedule.” The McHenry office hours took place at Garrett College, while the Cumberland meetings were held at Allegany College. Delaney has now held 15 office hours meetings with constituents since last April. The next event is slated for Saturday in Germantown. Contituents who would like to attend are encouraged to register by emailing Delaney.Officehours@mail.house.gov. ##
02.12.2016	WASHINGTON – This week the White House announced a new Cybersecurity National Action Plan (CNAP) with a goal of putting in place a long-term strategy to enhance cybersecurity protections for government, businesses, consumers and taxpayers. The CNAP includes a new Commission on Enhancing National Cybersecurity, additional funding for federal cybersecurity programs and personnel within law enforcement, consumer education and an upgrade to existing protections within federal IT systems. The Commission on Enhancing National Cybersecurity will be supported by the National Institute of Standards and Technology and comprised of experts from the private sector, academia and government. The Commission will perform a diagnostic review and recommend a roadmap for how cybersecurity can be improved in the public and private sector. “Cybersecurity should be a top national priority; secure networks are an essential ingredient for a strong national defense, confident consumers and taxpayers and thriving businesses,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “In recent years we’ve seen cyber-attacks and breaches in the public and private sector and nearly everyone knows someone who has had their identity stolen. From the highest levels of national security to protecting each individual’s identity, cybersecurity needs to be on the national agenda and the CNAP is a welcome start. Improving our national cybersecurity will require tackling the problem from all angles and the Administration needs a working partner in Congress to get the best results. I believe that with our tremendous assets in place here in Maryland, our state can and should be a national leader in cybersecurity technology.” Last year, Delaney held Identity Theft Prevention Workshops in Germantown and Hagerstown. The CNAP also includes the creation of a new Federal Chief Information Security Officer, enhanced student loan forgiveness programs for cybersecurity experts joining the federal workforce, cybersecurity training for small businesses and the creation of a permanent Federal Privacy Council. For more information, click here. On Monday, Delaney spoke at the dedication of the new National Cybersecurity Center of Excellence in Rockville, MD. The new NCCoE facility includes 22 cybersecurity labs to study access control, mobile device security, online identity authentication, data integrity, IT asset management and other issues. ##
02.08.2016	ROCKVILLE – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) joined federal, state and local officials Monday at the dedication of the new National Cybersecurity Center of Excellence (NCCoE) facility in Rockville. The dedication ceremony marked the opening of expanded new facilities for NCCoE. The new facility includes 22 labs dedicated to issues such as access control, mobile device security, online identity authentication, data integrity, situational awareness and IT asset management. “Cybersecurity is national security, economic security and personal security rolled into one and that’s why the work done at NCCoE and NIST is so incredibly important,” said Congressman Delaney. “This facility is an example of why I’m proud to represent many NIST employees in the House of Representatives. Cybersecurity problems are too complex and too important for us not to collaborate and these new labs are designed to help the public and private sectors develop more secure systems and will further greater collaboration between industry, government and academia. When you look at where the world is headed, it is clear cybersecurity will only become more important, both as public policy and as a jobs engine. With our experts, resources and track record, Maryland should lead on cybersecurity.” In addition to Delaney, the event featured United States Secretary of Commerce Penny Pritzker, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Director Willie May, Senator Barbara Mikulski, Senator Ben Cardin, Rep. John Sarbanes, Maryland Lieutenant Governor Boyd Rutherford, and Montgomery County Executive Ike Leggett. NCCoE was founded in 2012 to accelerate the adoption of standards-based, advanced security technologies. NCCoE consults with IT security professionals to identify the most pressing cybersecurity issues and then generates detailed technical descriptions of the problems. Once problems are identified, NCCoE maps the desired solution, industry standards, and best practices for NIST. ##
02.01.2016	WASHINGTON – Since 1986, Congress has designated February as Black History Month. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “Black History Month is a time of commemoration, celebration and commitment; a month to commemorate the achievements of African-Americans and their contributions to our nation, celebrate America’s diversity and commit ourselves to forging a better future for all. Black history is American history, starting with prominent Marylanders like Frederick Douglass, Harriett Tubman and Thurgood Marshall. Importantly, Black History Month is a time to hear voices that are not always heard and as we celebrate Black History Month I hope that my colleagues in Congress will listen to my friends in the Congressional Black Caucus and join in their efforts to expand economic opportunity and prosperity, protect civil rights and the sacred right to vote and ensure liberty and justice for all.” ##
01.29.2016	URBANA – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) held public office hours today in Urbana, his 13th office hours meeting since last year. The event, which allowed constituents to meet one-on-one with Rep. Delaney was attended by 15 people and took place at the Urbana Regional Library. “Being able to speak to Marylanders one-on-one is always a highlight for me– there’s really nothing quite like sitting across the table from someone and speaking face-to-face. I’d like to thank everyone who took time out of their day to meet with me in Urbana and share their concerns and ideas on how we can make sure Washington works for Frederick County.” Information on the office hours was posted on Delaney’s website and social media pages ahead of the event and meetings are held on a first-come, first-serve basis. ##
01.19.2016	HAGERSTOWN – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) hosted a Western Maryland Job Fair Tuesday afternoon in Hagerstown attended by over 500 people. Over 60 local employers participated in the event, which took place at Kaplan University in Hagerstown. “A new job can truly transform someone’s life, but all too often people don’t know where to look. There are many talented and hard-working people in Western Maryland looking for a new opportunity and there are local employers who are looking to hire – this workshop was about bringing job-seekers and employers together under one roof,” said Congressman Delaney. “I believe that one of my fundamental responsibilities as a Representative is to organize events like this and I would like to thank all the local businesses who participated and everyone who joined us at the job fair.” Participating local employers and agencies: Abraxas Youth Center Aerotek Astra Zeneca’s Biologics Manufacturing Axiom Staffing Group Baltimore Potomac Truck Center BB&T - Hunt Valley Offices Caldwell Manufacturing Co. Capital One Citi Professional Recruiting City of Hagerstown CNSI Combined Insurance Company of America Community Pool Service Cornucopia Café Country Meadows Retirement Communities D.M. Bowman Inc. Dot Foods, Inc. FedEx Ground Federal Correctional Institution - Cumberland First Data Corporation First United Bank & Trust FirstEnergy’s Power Systems Institute Fronterra Resources Garrett County Community Action Council General Dynamics Global Data Consultants Grants Mercantile Hagerstown Community College Hagerstown Police Department Harry Kahn Associates, Inc. Headstart Washington County Higher Ground Financial Group Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races Home Depot Horizon Goodwill Industries Manpower Martinsburg VAMC Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services Maryland DLLR - Veterans Employment Specialist Meritus Health Northwestern Mutual OMNIPLEX World Services Corporation Paragon Systems, Inc. Phoenix Health Care LLC Pittsburgh Institute of Aeronautics Potomac Case Management Services Inc. Private Public Partnership Office (P3O) - Contractor for the Department Of Defense/HRCI Prolist Inc. ResourceMFG Right at Home Saint-Gobain Corporation Sears Holdings Corporation (KMART Distribution Center) Sierra Nevada Corporation Staples The Arc of Washington County, Inc. The Tractor Supply Distribution Center Trivergent Health Alliance U.S. Cellular United Way of Washington County Via Satellite Inc. VT Industries of Maryland Washington County Free Library Adult Services Washington County Public Schools Washington County Sheriff’s Office Way Station, Inc. Western Maryland Consortium Western Maryland Job Center WHAG-TV/Your4State.com ##
01.15.2016	WASHINGTON- Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) led a bipartisan letter to President Obama imploring the administration to impose sanctions in response to Iran’s multiple violations of United Nations Security Council resolutions. The letter also disputes Iran’s claim that changes to the Visa Waiver Program are a violation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), better known as the Iran Nuclear Deal. Last week, Delaney and Rep. Joe Kennedy (MA-4) introduced H.R. 4342, the Iran Ballistic Missile Prevention and Sanctions Act, which would impose sanctions on the transfer to and from Iran of ballistic missiles and advanced conventional weapons. The Delaney letter was signed by six House members: Rep. John Carney (Delaware – At Large), Rep. Curt Clawson (FL-19), Rep. Tom McClintock (CA-4), Rep. Scott H. Peters (CA-52), Rep. Raul Ruiz (CA-36) and Rep. Randy K. Weber (TX-14). Within the past few months, Iran has conducted at least two ballistic missile tests, unveiled a ballistic missile silo and moved to speed up the ballistic missile program. While the Iran Nuclear Deal targets Iran’s nuclear program, the U.S. maintains the ability to enforce non-nuclear sanctions due to Iran’s bad behavior including ballistic missiles, human rights violations and supporting terrorism. The text of the letter is as follows: Dear President Obama, We were concerned to hear that Iran has made the claim that the new Visa Waiver provision included in the recent omnibus appropriations bill is a violation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, better known as the Iran Nuclear Deal. As you know, the recent terrorist attacks in Paris shined a spotlight on a security flaw in the previous version of the Visa Waiver Program which allowed any citizen of a country with which the United States had a reciprocal Visa Waiver agreement to travel to the United States without first needing to obtain a visa. This program has helped facilitate travel which has been a benefit to the United States, but finding out that some of the terrorists that attacked Paris could have easily come to the United States via the Visa Waiver Program (as they were citizens of countries that participate in the Visa Waiver Program), was a clear wake-up call that required action. While it is in the best interest of the United States to maintain the Visa Waiver Program, some reforms were clearly in order. Foreign visitors to the United States are typically required to first obtain a visa, which means they go through a background check before they are allowed to travel here. But if the visitor is from a country in the Visa Waiver Program, they would have been able to travel to a country such as Syria, potentially meeting with terrorists, and then travel to the United States without ever going through a background check. That possibility is clearly unacceptable which is why we, with large bipartisan support, passed a law to close that loophole. The reform to the law is simple; it simply requires visitors coming from Visa Waiver countries to obtain a visa when traveling to the United States if they have recently visited Syria, Iran, Iraq, or Sudan. But Iran’s claim that this somehow violates the nuclear deal rings hollow. First of all, Iran is not part of our Visa Waiver Program and has no say over the implementation of our Visa Waiver Program. Secondly, requiring certain at-risk categories of individuals to get a visa and a background check before visiting the United States is neither discriminatory nor overly burdensome. Nothing in the Iran nuclear deal, nor any other agreement the Unites States has with any foreign country, guarantees foreign citizens the right to a visa to travel to our nation. That point should be made crystal clear to Iranian leadership and we should make no special accommodations to Iran on this point. But while our new Visa Waiver reform doesn’t violate any international agreements, the same cannot be said of Iran’s recent ballistic missile tests which are in clear violation of U.N. Security Council resolutions. We were initially encouraged by the administration’s announcement on December 30 to impose new sanctions due to Iran’s ballistic missile violations. But we were deeply disappointed in the more recent decision to delay the penalties, especially in light of President Rouhani ordering Iran’s defense minister to expedite development of its ballistic missile program. Ensuring that Iran complies with the terms of the nuclear deal and takes concrete steps to dismantle its nuclear enrichment program, in addition to holding Iran responsible for complying with all of the separate, non-nuclear U.N. resolutions, should be a top priority and now is not the time to show leniency in the enforcement of Iran’s violations of international resolutions. Now should be a time of hyper vigilance, holding Iran to the highest possible level of accountability. We look forward to working with you on these new ballistic missile sanctions to make sure that Iran knows there are consequences to its actions. Sincerely, John K. Delaney John C. Carney Curt Clawson Tom McClintock Scott H. Peters Raul Ruiz Randy K. Weber, Sr. ##
01.15.2016	GAITHERSBURG – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) hosted a Financial Aid Workshop for College and Trade School Thursday evening in Gaithersburg. The event at Gaithersburg High School was attended by over 125 people and featured a panel discussion and an opportunity for Marylanders to speak one-on-one with federal, state and local higher education and financial aid representatives. The Workshop featured special guest the Honorable Ted Mitchell, Under Secretary of the United States Department of Education. “A world-class education makes the American Dream possible and for most students and families that requires financial aid,” said Congressman Delaney. “I saw this firsthand: scholarships, including those from my dad’s union, helped me attend college, which positioned me to have a successful career as an entrepreneur. I want every kid growing up in Maryland to have that same chance and this workshop was all about bring resources, experts and agencies directly to parents and students interested in college and trade school and I’d like to thank Under Secretary Mitchell for joining us in Gaithersburg.” Under Secretary Mitchell oversees policies, programs, and activities related to postsecondary education, adult, career and technical education and federal student aid at the Department of Education. The Financial Aid Workshop for College and Trade School was the 13th constituent services workshop held by Delaney since April of 2015. Participating organizations included: U.S. Department of Education U.S. Department of Education – Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) Maryland Higher Education Commission Montgomery County Public Schools University of Maryland Office of Financial Aid Montgomery College Office of Financial Aid Educational Systems Federal Credit Union ##
01.07.2016	WASHINGTON - Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Congressman Joe Kennedy III (MA-4) introduced the Iran Ballistic Missile Prevention and Sanctions Act today. Iran recently tested at least two ballistic missiles and built a new ballistic missile silo, in direct violation of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1929. This bill would ensure that the U.S. holds Iran to the highest level of accountability for its actions by permanently codifying sanctions on entities that transfer ballistic missiles or advanced conventional weapons to or from Iran. The JCPOA, also known as the Iran Nuclear Deal, will lift the U.N. embargos on conventional weapons and ballistic missiles after 5 and 8 years respectively, but the Iran Nuclear Deal does not limit the United States’ ability to implement non-nuclear sanctions. This legislation builds on current sanctions by limiting the transfer to and from Iran of any ballistic missiles and advanced conventional weapons. Congressman Delaney released the following statement: “Iran’s recent tests of ballistic missiles reinforce the need for the United States to stay vigilant. Our safety and security is more important than ever, and Congress needs to take an active role in enforcing international agreements that support global security. My legislation codifies and expands ballistic and advanced conventional weapons sanctions, strengthening the President’s hand to apply sanctions both to prevent Iran from acquiring ballistic missile technology and, importantly, to prevent Iran from exporting weapons to outside militants. In crafting this legislation, we were careful to ensure that there would be no conflict with the United States’ commitments under the JCPOA, an agreement I supported. The United States cannot allow its focus on Iran’s nuclear program to distract us from working to stop Iran’s other bad behavior.” Congressman Kennedy released the following statement: “Through their recent ballistic missile launches, the Iranian government has shown a blatant disregard for international laws. Those violations cannot be tolerated and this legislation sends a clear message that the United States will not allow Iran to obtain or develop missiles capable of carrying nuclear weapons. With the JCPOA nearing implementation, our enforcement of existing agreements outside of the deal’s parameters must remain vigorous and steadfast.” Iran Ballistic Missile Prevention and Sanctions Act of 2016 Background: Within the past few months, Iran has conducted at least two ballistic missile tests and built a new ballistic missile silo in violation of U.N. Security Council resolutions. As part of the JCPOA, better known as the Iran Nuclear Deal, the U.S. has agreed to remove nuclear related sanctions and not add any new nuclear sanctions as long as Iran upholds its responsibilities in the deal. However, the deal does not restrict the U.S. from imposing new non-nuclear related sanctions regarding terrorism, human rights violations, and ballistic missile violations among others. The Need: We cannot allow our focus on Iran’s nuclear program to distract us from working to stop its other bad behavior. Now is the time for hypervigilance, holding Iran to the highest possible level of accountability for any UNSC violations and disregard for international agreements. Current sanctions can be applied to the acquisition or development of “destabilizing numbers and types of advanced convention weapons.” The Iran Ballistic Missile Prevention and Sanctions Act expands the definition to the transfer of advanced conventional weapons to or from Iran, simplifying and lowering the threshold that would trigger sanctions, and adding on outside militant groups that Iran may attempt to supply with weapons. The bill: Imposes sanctions on entities that transfer to or from Iran advanced conventional weapons or ballistic missiles, including technology, parts, components, or technical information. If an entity violates the arms embargo, the President shall impose 5 or more of the following sanctions: Denial of financing from the Ex-Im bank Denial of licenses, permissions, or authorities to export goods or technology Prohibition against receiving loans or credits from U.S. financial institutions If the sanctioned entity is a financial institution: Prohibition against designation as a primary dealer in U.S. debt instruments Prohibition from serving as agent of U.S. or serve as repository for U.S. government funds Prohibition from entering into any contract with the U.S. government Prohibition of transactions in foreign exchange that are subject to U.S. jurisdiction Prohibition of transactions in banks that are subject to U.S. jurisdiction Prohibition of property transactions that are subject to U.S. jurisdiction Prohibition on U.S. persons from investing in equity or debt of a sanctioned entity Denial of visas for any person that is in leadership of, or a shareholder with a controlling interest in, a sanctioned entity Application of these same sanctions to principal executive officers of sanctioned entity Sanctioned entities will be on the list of specially designated nationals and blocked persons maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control at the Treasury Department. ##
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON -Congressman John K. Delaney led a letter to the President of the French Senate, Gerard Larcher, on his upcoming visit to Iran. The letter asks Monsieur Larcher to reiterate to the Iranian leadership that the international community is united in requiring Tehran to uphold its responsibilities under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), including removing over two-thirds of Iran’s centrifuges and reducing its enriched uranium stock by 98%, before it will receive sanction relief. The text of the letter is below: Dear Monsieur Le President & Members of the French Delegation: We write to you today with regard to your upcoming trip to Tehran to meet with Iranian officials, including Majlis Speaker Ali Larijani and President Hassan Rouhani. We very much appreciate the role of the Government of France in helping to bring Iran to the negotiating table and to reach a historic agreement to stop Iran’s nuclear weapons program. The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) was the result of years of negotiations, and we are acutely aware of the critical work performed by Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius toward its completion. Even though the agreement has several flaws, the international community must now be vigilant and steadfast in holding Iran accountable to fulfilling its commitments. In that spirit, we urge you during your visit to make clear to Iran’s leaders that before sanctions can be lifted and businesses can re-enter the Iranian market, they must first uphold their responsibilities under the JCPOA. This includes, among other steps, removing over two-thirds of Iran’s centrifuges and reducing its enriched uranium stock by 98%. As you know, until the IAEA certifies Iranian compliance, Tehran cannot receive sanctions relief. We – the international community, led by the United States, France, and other major powers committed to global security – must first ensure that Iran fully complies with its obligations. We appreciate your attention to this matter and wish you success in delivering this important message to Iran’s leaders of our nations’ shared resolve in preventing them from acquiring a nuclear arms capability. Sincerely, Rep. John K. Delaney Rep. Joseph P. Kennedy Rep. Beto O’Rourke ##
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON - On Friday the House of Representatives passed an omnibus appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2016. Congressman John Delaney (MD-06) voted for this bill, which provides funding for the federal government as set by the Bipartisan Budget Agreement of 2015 which was passed earlier this year. This funding level is above the sequester-level caps, allowing many important programs to be funded at increased levels, like a $570 million increase for the Head Start program, increased funding for Contract Towers, and the reauthorization of the September 11th Victims Compensation Fund. It also extends the Renewable Energy Tax Credits. Congressman Delaney released the following statement: “I voted for the Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus appropriations bill, which included increased funding for programs critical to Marylanders,” said Congressman Delaney. “I was especially pleased to see funding for the Preschool Development Grants will be continued. Maryland received one of these grants, and it would have been terrible for young Marylanders if preschool expansion had not continued. Early education is one of my top priorities, which is why I introduced legislation this year to offer free pre-k to 4-year-olds across the country. In addition, our military personnel received a well-deserved 1.3% pay raise and funding for veterans services was increased by more than $6.4 billion over last year. The Fisher House, a program to help disabled veterans and their families that I have championed over the years, will receive a 25% increase in its funding. We must continue to do more and do better for our servicemembers and veterans. This spending bill also includes $150 million for WMATA. Thousands of Marylanders rely on WMATA for transportation and WMATA needs to continue to improve its safety and service. I was also pleased to see funding for the National Institutes of Health increased by $2 billion and funding for the National Institute of Standards and Technology increased by over $100 million. These agencies are doing critical work in research and development and we must continue to invest in them if we want to continue seeing new developments in health and technology.” ##
12.17.2015	WASHINGTON -Today the House of Representatives passed the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act of 2015. Congressman John Delaney (MD-06) voted for this bill, which permanently extends enhancements to the Earned Income Tax Credit, the Child Tax Credit, and the American Opportunity Tax Credit for education expenses. It also permanently extends certain business tax provisions like the Research and Development Tax Credit and the Work Opportunity Tax Credit. The bill also temporarily extends several tax provisions. Congressman Delaney released the following statement: “Today I voted in favor of a permanent extension of the Child Tax Credit and the expanded Earned Income Tax Credit, which are critical to low- and moderate-income families. And permanently extending the tax credits for Research and Development and Section 179 expensing will help our businesses invest in growing our economy. The Research and Development tax credit will help Maryland businesses invest in technology and continue innovating, which will create new, high-paying jobs for Marylanders. While I don’t agree with everything included in the PATH Act, I believed that it was important to make some of these provisions permanent which allow businesses and families to do the long-term planning they need to succeed. But our job on tax reform is far from done. We need comprehensive tax reform. While we don’t expect to accomplish that next year, there is an opportunity to do international tax reform which will produce much-needed revenue for infrastructure investments and eliminate the incentive for U.S. companies to invert and move overseas. If we don’t act soon on this, it will be too late.” ##
12.17.2015	WASHINGTON - On Wednesday the Maryland Commission on Climate Change called for the state to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 40% from 2006 by 2030. The Maryland Commission on Climate Change (MCCC) was first established in 2007. It is a bipartisan group of business, environmental, labor, and government officials. A 2015 law requires the MCCC to report annually to the Governor and the General Assembly on the status of Maryland’s efforts to reduce climate change and on any recommendations. Congressman Delaney issued the following statement: “The new report from the bipartisan Maryland Commission on Climate Change reaffirms the need for action and the dire consequences if we fail to properly address climate change,” said Congressman Delaney. “I’ve worked on the federal level to tackle this problem by authoring a comprehensive plan to accurately price greenhouse gas emissions. I urge Governor Hogan to take this new report seriously and position Maryland to be a leader in green energy innovation and the job-creation that comes with this kind of investment.” The Tax Pollution, Not Profits Act Establishes a federal tax on carbon pollution Places a tax on Green House Gas (GHG) emissions at $30 per metric ton of carbon dioxide or carbon dioxide equivalent in 2015, increasing each subsequent year at 4% above inflation. New carbon tax uses market forces and private sector innovation to reduce greenhouse gas pollution. Businesses benefit from predictable, market-driven approach. Lowers the corporate tax rate and returns revenues to the economy The legislation reduces the corporate tax rate from 35% to 28%, helping companies mitigate higher energy costs and, importantly, makes U.S. companies more competitive. Increasing U.S. economic competitiveness in a global economy will lead to gains in job creation, economic growth and increased domestic investment. Helps Impacted Coal Industry Workers Creates a new multi-billion dollar aid program administered by the Department of Labor (DOL) to assist workers in the coal industry that may be displaced as a result of the legislation. The assistance can include: worker retraining programs, financial assistance with relocation expenses, health care, early retirement and other benefits. There is precedent for the DOL to administer this kind of program. Since 1973 the Department of Labor has administered benefits to coal miners and their survivors impacted by black lung disease. Protects middle class and working families with an Energy Refund To ensure that low and middle-income households are not negatively impacted by the costs of transitioning to new energy sources, a portion of the revenues collected from the pollution tax will be redirected to low-income and middle-class working families via an Energy Refund. Households at or below 150% of the federal poverty line will receive direct monthly payments to fully offset increased energy costs. Households between 150-200% of the federal poverty line will receive a reduced monthly payment on a sliding scale. Households over 200% poverty level will be eligible for a refundable tax credit, with benefits also on a sliding scale. ##
12.15.2015	ROCKVILLE - Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) hosted an Entrepreneurship Workshop Monday at the Universities of Shady Grove. Over 250 attended the workshop, which provided constituents with a one-stop-shop to meet with entrepreneurs and federal, state and local business organizations and advocates. The event featured Cabinet member Maria Contreras-Sweet, the top official and Administrator of the U.S. Small Business Administration. Rep. Delaney founded and led two successful businesses and is the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in the House of Representatives. Delaney received the Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year Award and his business, CapitalSource, provided over 5,000 small and mid-sized businesses with access to capital, helping them grow. “Small businesses are jobs engines, innovation injectors and are essential to a strong economy and that’s why it’s so important that we encourage entrepreneurship,” said Congressman Delaney. “Before coming to Congress, I was proud to work with entrepreneurs around the country and to provide capital to help thousands of businesses grow and create jobs. In Maryland and across the country, the talent is there, the expertise is there and the dedication is there, but we have to do more to help entrepreneurs succeed. To encourage small business growth, we need the right federal policies, we need the right state and local policies and we need to listen to business leaders and this workshop is designed to bring those voices together. My message to aspiring business owners is that you are not alone. I’d like to thank Administrator Contreras-Sweet for coming to Rockville to meet with my constituents and thank all the individuals and organizations that participated. The overwhelming turnout for today’s event shows that there is tremendous interest in entrepreneurship in Maryland and we should remain focused on creating the next generation of business leaders.” “Entrepreneurship is an essential ingredient for economic growth, a pathway out of poverty and a powerful tool for people to harness their talents,” said SBA Administrator Maria Contreras-Sweet. “Part of the SBA’s mission is to create the right ecosystem for small businesses to succeed and thrive. I appreciate Rep. Delaney’s invitation to meet with Maryland small business owners in Rockville to hear their stories firsthand and examine how we can make SBA even more responsive to America’s entrepreneurs.” The workshop was the eleventh hosted by Delaney this year. Attendees and panel participants included: SBA Administrator Maria Contreras-Sweet Ann Marie Mehlum, Associate Administrator of Capital Access, SBA Antonio Doss, District Director, SBA Washington Metropolitan Area District Office Jimmy Rhee, Special Secretary, Governor’s Office of Minority Affairs George H. Harrop, Managing Director of Small Business Lending, PacWest Christy Wyskiel, Johns Hopkins Technology Ventures Pinky Rodgers, Founder Pinky & Pepe’s Grape Escape The United States Patent Office The Governor’s Office of Minority Affairs Maryland Women’s Business Center Maryland Small Business Development Center The Maryland Minority Business Enterprise The Maryland Procurement Technical Assistance Program The Gaithersburg-Germantown Chamber of Commerce The Montgomery County Local Small Business Reserve Program City of Gaithersburg Office of Economic Development Maria Contreras-Sweet became the 24th Administrator of the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) and a member of President Obama’s cabinet on April 7, 2014. SBA is charged with supporting America’s small businesses, which create nearly two out of three net, new private-sector jobs in our economy and employ half of our nation’s private-sector workforce. Contreras-Sweet entered the private sector as the only female executive for Westinghouse’s 7-Up/RC Bottling Company and founded a successful community bank in California, focused on financing small- and mid-size businesses, especially the region’s underserved entrepreneurs. ##
12.09.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has submitted a statement honoring the Damascus High School Swarmin’ Hornets into the official Congressional Record. Damascus won the Maryland Class 3A State Football Championship last week in Baltimore. The Congressional Record is an official record of House and Senate proceedings and has been published since 1873. The Congressional Record is archived online and is distributed in print to each Congressional office. The statement honoring Damascus reads: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the Damascus High School Swarmin’ Hornets for capturing the 2015 Maryland Class 3A State Football Championship last week in Baltimore. The victory by Damascus capped a perfect 14-0 season and is the school’s eighth state championship. I’d like to congratulate the Swarmin’ Hornets, Coach Eric Wallich and his staff, and everyone associated with the team who made this championship season possible. “The Swarmin’ Hornets defeated Dundalk 55-14, a dominating victory that included a record-setting performance by running back Jake Funk, who broke the state mark for touchdowns in a championship game. The team also set the state record for the most points scored in a season. As the Washington Post headline made clear, the Swarmin’ Hornets left “no doubt” that they were the best team in the state. “Importantly, the team reached these heights after facing adversity and heartbreak. Last season, the team was defeated in the championship game, but rebounded with an even stronger performance in 2015. That experience – working together for months to persevere and accomplish a goal even after a painful setback – will inform and inspire the young people who compose this team for years to come. “The Damascus community is extremely proud of their team and their achievement, excellence and perseverance should be permanently reflected in the official record of the House of Representatives.” ##
12.09.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has submitted a statement honoring the Fort Hill High School Sentinels into the official Congressional Record. Fort Hill won the Class 1A Maryland State Championship last week. The Congressional Record is an official record of House and Senate proceedings and has been published since 1873. The Congressional Record is archived online and is distributed in print to each Congressional office. The statement honoring Fort Hill reads: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the achievement of the Fort Hill Sentinels, an extraordinary group of young men from Western Maryland who have inspired their community and gained recognition across the state. This month, Fort Hill High School of Cumberland won their third consecutive state football title, winning the Class 1A Maryland State Championship. “On December 5, the Sentinels defeated Havre de Grace 44-14 behind a powerful rushing attack and a strong defense. The Sentinels averaged over 10 yards per play, led by fullback Raen Smith who ran for 234 yards. Fort Hill is 40-1 over the last three seasons. “The results produced by the Sentinels – win after win after win for three seasons – are a testament to their dedication, teamwork and intelligence, all qualities that we should celebrate. After winning the state title Coach Todd Appel told the Cumberland Times-News the team would be back in the weight room the next week, a testament to the hard work and commitment of the team. “The achievement of the Fort Hill Sentinels should be recognized and recorded within the Congressional Record for posterity. Congratulations to the Fort Hill Sentinels, Coach Appel and his staff and everyone who played a part in this championship season.” ##
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON – The House considered today a new conference Highway Bill, the FAST Act, legislation that broadly maintains current federal investment in infrastructure for the next five years. The legislation, which passed the House, patches the funding gap in the Highway Trust Fund with a variety of one-time offsets, including contracting out IRS services, selling off a portion of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, using revenues from the Federal Reserve and increasing customs fees. Over the last three years Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has led the effort to rebuild America’s infrastructure and create millions of new jobs by using revenues from international tax reform. Dozens of members from both parties have endorsed this approach. Delaney’s Infrastructure 2.0 Act (H.R. 625) adds $120 billion to the Highway Trust Fund – as opposed to the $70 billion added by the FAST Act – and creates a new $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund to finance state and local projects nationwide. “A five-year highway bill is better than more short-term patches and budgetary chaos, but we should not fool ourselves into thinking that Congress has achieved a great victory with this legislation. While it is good that we will have infrastructure funding certainty for the next five years, the funding levels are woefully deficient. Instead of using revenue from international tax reform, which would be massively pro-growth, eliminate the incentive for U.S. companies to invert or continue to keep their profits overseas, and provide funding for higher levels of infrastructure investment, we’re using a hodgepodge of budget gimmicks,” said Congressman Delaney. “This bill abandons the huge opportunity we have before us to create jobs and build a world-class level of infrastructure that our domestic businesses need and that will attract new investment into our economy. We can’t wait another five years to solve this problem and I will continue to work with my colleagues to build support for a pro-growth solution that creates jobs. The time to invest in our infrastructure and fix our broken international tax code is now. If we wait, our global competitors are the ones that will benefit from our inaction.” The Infrastructure 2.0 Act Investing in 21st Century Infrastructure with Deemed Repatriation at 8.75% Tax Rate Under the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, existing overseas profits accumulated by U.S. multi-national corporations would be subject to a mandatory, one-time 8.75% tax, replacing deferral option and current rate of 35%. $120 billion to the Highway Trust Fund, enough to meet funding gap at increased levels for six years. $50 billion to capitalize the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) a new financing mechanism for transportation, water, energy, communications and education projects. Leveraged to $750 billion, AIF financing (loans, bond guarantees and equity) is available to state and local governments. American Infrastructure Fund was first proposed in Rep. Delaney’s bipartisan Partnership to Build America Act. $25 million pilot program to create regional infrastructure accelerators, similar to the West Coast Infrastructure Exchange This frees the estimated $2 trillion in overseas earnings to return to the United States, spurring private sector re-investment and growth. Creating Long-term Highway Trust Fund Solvency and Policy Certainty The Infrastructure 2.0 Act provides six years of HTF solvency, providing immediate certainty to the private sector and policymakers. The legislation also establishes a bipartisan and bicameral commission that is tasked with developing a solution for permanent solvency of the Highway Trust Fund. Building a Path for Broader Tax Reform The Infrastructure 2.0 Act creates an eighteen month deadline for international tax reform. To encourage action, the legislation includes a forcing function: if reform is not enacted, a fallback international tax package to make U.S. business climate more competitive would be implemented. This pro-growth fallback reform package would end deferral, reduce anti-competitive over taxation, decrease taxes for companies paying fair rates abroad but increase taxes for companies in tax havens. This would eliminate the lock-out effect and allow for the free flow of profits back to the United States. Under this option, for Active Market Foreign Income, a company would pay a 12.25% tax to the U.S. on overseas profits if they are currently paying no tax and a 2% tax to the U.S. if they are already paying the OECD average of 25% abroad, with a sliding scale in-between. ##
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) led a letter to the Chairs and Ranking Members of the House and Senate Appropriations Committees calling for more resources to be dedicated to refugee processing in the Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill. “I believe we have the capabilities to speed up the process to accept refugees from places like Syria so that it doesn’t take 18-24 months. These are people in need and as a country we have the ability to accept more innocent people fleeing ISIS. However to accomplish this, we need to provide the agencies vetting refugees with enough resources to expedite the process while maintaining effective screening procedures. That is why I am requesting supplemental funding to ensure the appropriate agencies have the necessary resources to both improve and expedite the refugee screening process to address this humanitarian crisis,” said Congressman Delaney. The letter was authored by Delaney and signed by 30 additional members of Congress and was sent to Sen. Thad Cochran, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Appropriations; Sen. Barbara Mikulski, Vice Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Appropriations; Rep. Hal Rodgers, Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations and Rep. Nita M. Lowey, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Appropriations. The text of the letter is below: Dear Chairman Cochran, Vice Chairwoman Mikulski, Chairman Rogers and Ranking Member Lowey, We have all seen and heard about the horrors Syrians have faced due to civil war and terrorism. Millions have fled their homeland in the hopes of seeking safety. While the United States has a thorough system in place for screening at-risk refugees, it is lengthy and not as efficient as it could be for low-risk refugees. Most Syrians first register with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, which can take anywhere from a few weeks to more than a year before a very select few are referred to the United States for our own stringent checks, which on average, take between 18-24 months. We should improve security standards to ensure that terrorists don’t enter the United States; however, we also can expedite the process for low risk populations at the same time. There are three main agencies that are tasked with refugee processing and resettlement which include the Department of State’s Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration (PRM), the Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR), and the Department of Homeland Security’s U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). PRM runs the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program, which includes the Resettlement Support Centers, and the Reception and Placement Program. ORR provides social services that help refugees become self-sufficient after arrival while also offering guidance and medical assistance. USCIS makes the final determination about whether or not each refugee is admissible to the U.S. As you finalize the Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill, we encourage you to significantly increase funding for these critical programs to allow for more resources to be dedicated to more efficiently process refugee applications. By allocating additional resources effectively, we can both improve and speed up the refugee screening process which is so important to our national security. As you know, we can be both humanitarian and cautious and do not need to sacrifice one for the sake of the other. We appreciate your attention to this lifesaving matter. Sincerely, Rep. John K. Delaney Rep. Pete Aguilar Rep. Ami Bera Rep. Julia Brownley Rep. Cheri Bustos Rep. John Carney Rep. Yvette D. Clarke Rep. Gerald E. Connolly Rep. Jim Cooper Rep. Jim Costa Rep. Joe Courtney Rep. Debbie Dingell Rep. Gene Green Rep. Janice Hahn Rep. Ron Kind Rep. Ann McLane Kuster Rep. Ted W. Lieu Rep. James P. McGovern Rep. Patrick Murphy Rep. Richard Nolan Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton Rep. Scott Peters Rep. Chellie Pingree Rep. Jared Polis Rep. Mike Quigley Rep. Charles B. Rangel Rep. Kathleen Rice Rep. Raul Ruiz Rep. Kyrsten Sinema Rep. Albio Sires Rep. Adam Smith ##
12.02.2015	WASHINGTON – Wednesday the House passed the Every Student Succeeds Act (S. 1177), a bipartisan and bicameral conference agreement. The legislation replaces No Child Left Behind and is designed to ensure all students have access to high quality education, improve accountability, help states target low-performing schools and at-risk students and provide resources for states to increase teacher quality and professional development. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted for the legislation, which was supported by leading education, teacher and business groups. The legislation also authorizes the Preschool Development Grants program, a competitive grant program to support state-based early childhood education. In September, Delaney introduced The Early Learning Act (summary below), legislation that provides states with funding to establish or expand pre-k programs. Delaney’s legislation will give parents nationwide the ability to enroll their children in free pre-k. “I am pleased to see Congress work together on major legislation that updates our education policy around a clear goal: making sure that every kid in America, wherever they live, has access to a world-class education,” said Congressman Delaney. “After fourteen years, it was time to replace the outdated No Child Left Behind law with new legislation that reflects current needs and draws on the insights gained over the last decade and a half. I believe the Every Student Succeeds Act strikes the right balance between maintaining high levels of accountability, while moving away from a one-size-fits-all approach. Importantly, this legislation focuses on reducing the achievement gap by helping states improve low-performing schools and targeting funds to at-risk populations. I am encouraged that the legislation also expands our investment in early education, an area in which we must do more, which is why I will continue to build support for my Early Learning Act, which creates nationwide free pre-k for all.” The Early Learning Act (H.R. 3542) Universal, High Quality Pre-K The Early Learning Act provides funding for states to establish universal pre-k for four-year-old students or expand existing programs. Funding can only be directed towards state-certified programs that are accredited and not-for-profit. To participate, states must establish universal access to free pre-k programs. Funding is tied to the number of students enrolled, incentivizing high enrollment levels. National Funding for State-Based Programs The Early Learning Act establishes the Early Education Trust Fund, a federal fund administered by the Department of Education. The fund will provide block grants to participating states at a level of up to $8,000 per student per year. States will have flexibility to implement program details at their discretion. On Budget The Early Education Trust Fund is paid for by a surtax of 1.5% on income, dividends and capital gains above $500,000, impacting less than 1% of households in the United States. The Early Education Trust Fund acts as a lockbox, ensuring that this revenue can only be used for pre-k. The Early Learning Act does not increase the deficit and is budget neutral. The Early Learning Act funds new state-based programs and is not an unfunded mandate. ##
11.20.2015	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, together with U.S. Representative John Delaney (all D-Md.) today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development (USDARD) has awarded the Town of Deer Park in Garrett County $50,000 in federal grant funding for the purchase of a new utility service vehicle. “Rural communities need a government on their side when it comes to upgrading and maintaining critical infrastructure,” said Senator Mikulski, Vice Chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee which funds USDARD. “These federal funds will help keep families and businesses on the go by helping the Town of Deer Park clear roads and bridges of snow and debris when severe weather strikes.” “Rural Marylanders deserve to have roads that are clear in the winter and clear all year round, and this federal grant will help ensure that those who live in Garrett County have both,” Senator Cardin said. “USDA investments like these in our local communities promote productivity and public safety.” “Ensuring well-maintained streets and emergency routes is critical to keeping Marylanders safe during severe weather and I’m pleased to see the federal government investing in Garrett County,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (Md.-06). “This grant, through the USDA Rural Development Grants, will help provide funds to maintain the infrastructure in Western Maryland and prepare for the winter weather ahead.” The Town of Deer Park will use this federal funding to purchase a new utility vehicle with a plow and a dump bed, so they can better maintain streets and keep emergency routes open during the inclement weather. The Rural Development grant program was created to improve the economy and quality of life in rural America. The program helps support essential services and infrastructure improvements, and promotes economic development by supporting loans to businesses through banks and community-managed lending pools. # # #
11.19.2015	WASHINGTON- Congressman John K. Delaney voted for the American SAFE Act (H.R. 4038), which would require the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and relevant national security agencies to ensure that each refugee receives a thorough background investigation before U.S. refugee admission. This legislation does not prevent the U.S. from safely accepting refugees that have been carefully screened. Delaney releases the following statement: “Regarding Syrian refugees, we should not have an arbitrary cap of 10,000, we should expedite the screening of women and children, and the screening process should be of the highest standard. My vote today reflects that belief.” ##
11.17.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement congratulating Senator Barbara Mikulski as a recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom. “I congratulate Senator Mikulski on being named as a recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, our nation’s highest civilian honor. Senator Mikulski has been a leader in the Senate and the Maryland delegation, and she will be missed after her retirement next year. As the longest-serving female Member of Congress she has broken the glass ceiling for women time and time again. She was the first woman to chair the Senate Appropriations Committee, she championed the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act and pushed for better research on women’s health. Her work on college affordability has been instrumental in helping young Americans pursue higher education. It has been an honor to work with Senator Mikulski on behalf of our constituents in Maryland.” The Presidential Medal of Freedom is presented to individuals who have made particularly worthy contributions to the security or national interests of the United States, to world peace, or to cultural or other significant public or private endeavors. The awards will be presented at the White House on November 24th. ##
11.17.2015	WASHINGTON – The Frederick News-Post has published an op-ed by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) on legislation he will introduce to expand benefits for disabled veterans. Delaney’s op-ed is available online here and copied below: Helping veterans access medical leave By Rep. John K. Delaney Thanks to the courage, sacrifice and service of America’s men and women in uniform, we are blessed to live in the greatest country in the world. From Bunker Hill to Afghanistan, America’s service members have answered the call, defended our country and fought for our values. As a nation, we have a duty to support our veterans when their service ends and we must do everything we can to ensure that they and their families can enjoy a healthy and productive life. That commitment to veterans should be fundamental to who we are and we should be aggressive in correcting any deficiencies in this obligation. One of the major setbacks impacting the health and prosperity of America’s veterans is managing a disability. Unfortunately, not everyone is aware of the scope of this issue. According to the Census Bureau, over 3.7 million veterans have a service-connected disability and the percentage of disabled veterans has grown rapidly in the last decade. Here in Maryland, over 66,000 veterans have a service-connected disability, a number larger than the population of many cities and counties in our state. There is much we should do to support disabled veterans, including continuing to reform and improve the Department of Veterans Affairs to reduce wait times and upgrade care, as well as strengthening veterans job-training and educational options. At the same time, one of the most fundamental steps we can take is allowing disabled veterans to take time off from work so that they can receive medical care. That is why I will introduce the Medical Leave for Disabled Veterans Act, which significantly shortens the required period of employment for a disabled veteran to have access to medical leave through the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA). This legislation will help veterans with service-connected medical conditions receive the treatment they need, allow working veterans to continue to support their families and prevent veterans from being forced to delay needed health care procedures simply because they aren’t able to take time off. In drafting this legislation, I consulted with leading veterans’ organizations and gathered feedback on how we can best tackle this problem. To date, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the American Legion, the Disabled American Veterans, the Military Order of the Purple Heart, the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Association and Military Veterans Advocacy have endorsed the Medical Leave for Disabled Veterans Act. With these renowned organizations supporting the bill, I am hopeful it will receive strong bipartisan support in Congress. Right now, FMLA, bipartisan legislation that was signed into law in 1993, is the primary law for job-protected unpaid leave. Under the law, employees that work for an FMLA-covered employer (small businesses are exempted) become eligible for job-protected unpaid medical leave after 12 months on the job. For most Americans, this might make sense, but it isn’t appropriate for disabled veterans who often require regular medical care. Under my legislation, veterans who have a service-connected disability rating of 30 to 50 percent would qualify for leave after eight months and those with a disability rating higher than 50 percent would qualify for job-protected medical leave after six months of employment. I don’t believe that a disabled veteran should have to delay medical treatment for a full year. That’s bad for veterans, bad for their families and bad for our country. While most employers are honored to hire and employ veterans and would work to do the right thing, the Medical Leave for Disabled Veterans Act would ensure that our veterans have access to their necessary medical care. Veterans bring dedication, professional experience and a wealth of transferable skills to the workplace. To complement their individual value, the federal government also offers economic incentives to businesses to facilitate hiring veterans, including the Work Opportunity Tax Credit and the Special Employer Incentives program. As a signer and supporter of the Veterans Bill of Rights, I believe that elected representatives in Congress have a responsibility to make sure that veterans’ issues remain at the top of the agenda in Washington. My office hears from veterans every day who are having difficulty receiving their benefits — the benefits they’ve earned. Sadly, the frustration of my constituents matches the numerous national reports of massive problems at the VA. The reports are truly appalling, and while most VA employees are dedicated, we simply have to have better results. The Baltimore VA, which processes the majority of claims for Marylanders, has been one of the worst-performing in the country. For this reason, I’ve supported significant VA reforms and supported the new Veterans’ Choice Program, which allows veterans to receive private care. I believe this program should be expanded. I’ve also fought for increased federal funding for Fisher House, a nonprofit that provides free lodging near hospitals for military families. If any veteran or their family needs help with a claim or needs an advocate, I encourage them to contact my office immediately. With all the difficulties that many disabled veterans face, the last thing we should do is give them another hurdle. Let’s make sure that disabled veterans are able to take time off to see their doctor and receive the medical care they need. U.S. Rep. John K. Delaney represents Maryland’s 6th Congressional District in the House of Representatives. ##
11.10.2015	WASHINGTON – Since 1954, November 11th has been commemorated as Veterans Day, a day to honor American veterans of all wars. On Veterans Day, Congressman John K. Delaney will attend the Veterans Day Observance ceremony in Gaithersburg, Maryland. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “This Veterans Day, I join my fellow Americans in recognizing all veterans of the Armed Forces for their dedication and sacrifice to our country. It is their service that makes the world safer for all of us and makes our freedoms and way of life possible. As a country, we come together on Veterans Day to thank those who answered the call of duty and express our gratitude to those who selflessly served and protected our nation. As we observe Veterans Day, we must also recommit ourselves to making sure that veterans and their families receive the benefits they deserve.” Congressman Delaney is introducing legislation to expand medical leave benefits for veterans. https://delaney.house.gov/news/press-releases/delaney-to-introduce-legislation-to-expand-benefits-for-disabled-veterans ##
11.09.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) will introduce legislation that would provide disabled veterans with expedited access to medical leave. The Medical Leave for Disabled Veterans Act significantly shortens the required period of employment for a disabled veteran to access medical care through the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA). Under current law, veterans with service-connected disabilities can wait up to a year before having access to job protected leave to treat their service-connected disabilities; the Delaney legislation significantly reduces this time for many disabled veterans. The Medical Leave for Disabled Veterans Act has been endorsed by: The Veterans of Foreign Wars The American Legion Disabled American Veterans Military Order of the Purple Heart Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Association Military Veterans Advocacy “We should be doing everything we can to support disabled veterans, starting with making sure they can provide for their families and receive the medical care they need,” said Congressman Delaney. “America’s disabled veterans deserve flexibility to receive medical treatment while working; they were there for their country and now their country must be there for them. I am proud to have received the support of the nation’s leading veterans’ organizations on this bill that will help our country’s heroes.” Under existing employment law, employees must work for a FMLA-eligible employer for 12 months before they have access to protected medical leave. Under The Medical Leave for Disabled Veterans Act, veterans who have a service-connected disability rating of 30%-50% would qualify for leave after eight months and those with a disability rating of 60% or higher would qualify for job-protected, unpaid medical leave after six months of employment. “Veterans who are ill or injured as result of their military service should not be forced to choose between their jobs or receiving health care for their service-connected disabilities. The VFW thanks Congressman Delaney for his leadership in ensuring veterans have access to their earned health care benefits,” Raymond Kelley, Veterans of Foreign Wars National Legislative Director “It is imperative that this bill pass quickly. Disabled veterans need to have appropriate access to VA health care and this bill will ensure they can access that care with a minimum of problems. We owe our veterans smooth access to medical care,” Military Veterans Advocacy “This is good legislation for veterans and their families and will help them when they are confronted by medical situations that require them to be away from their jobs,” Military Order of the Purple Heart ##
11.06.2015	WASHINGTON- Congressman John K. Delaney joined a bipartisan coalition of 369 Members of Congress in sending a letter to Palestinian National Authority President Mahmoud Abbas in response to the recent increase in violence in Israel and the West Bank. The incendiary rhetoric coming from President Abbas, his officials, and the Palestinian media has, without a doubt, contributed to the spike in violence. The signatories ask President Abbas to publically repudiate the Palestinian attacks in an effort to avoid further violence. The text of the letter is copied below: Dear President Abbas, We are writing to express our deep concern over the recent wave of Palestinian violence in Israel and the West Bank. Unless immediate action is taken to end incitement and bring the situation under control, this escalating violence- including stabbings, shootings and other terrorist acts—will undermine the prospects of a two-state solution. There have been some efforts to curb the violence and protect the peace. But statements made by you, other political figures, clerics and official PA media have undoubtedly served to inflame the current situation. False claims about changing the status quo on the Temple Mount or accusations of Israel executing an attacker—when, in fact, he is being treated in an Israeli hospital—only encourage more acts of terror. The abhorrent and deadly rhetoric—including calls for knife attacks on Israelis- must stop. Now is the time for the Palestinian Authority to take concrete steps to avoid further violence. This starts with a sustained effort to publicly and officially repudiate these attacks, ending the unacceptable incitement to violence emanating from Palestinian Authority officials and institutions, continuing important security cooperation with Israel and agreeing to unconditionally renew direct talks with the Israelis. The stakes are high. Now is the time for responsible and sustained leadership on these critical issues. ##
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON – This week, the House of Representatives voted 371-54 to pass the Surface Transportation bill. Congressman Delaney voted against this legislation. The Surface Transportation bill would continue baseline funding for 6 years, but only provides funding to pay for half of that. In contrast, Delaney’s bipartisan Infrastructure 2.0 Act would fully fund a highway bill for 6 years at increased levels. Recently, the American Society of Engineers released their 2013 Infrastructure Report Card, grading America’s infrastructure a D+. Delaney releases the following statement: “I am disappointed that the House passed this woefully deficient Surface Transportation bill. Instead of funding the Highway Trust Fund for a full six years, the House decided to pass a short-sighted, underfunded bill that will leave our infrastructure even worse after 6 years than it is today. Including my Infrastructure 2.0 Act would have created a fiscally responsible way to fund the Highway Trust Fund. Investing in infrastructure creates jobs, grows our economy and makes our businesses more competitive. This highway bill is a huge missed opportunity. ” ##
11.04.2015	WASHINGTON – This week, the House Rules Committee chose not to allow an up-or-down floor vote on Congressman John K. Delaney’s (MD-6) bipartisan Infrastructure 2.0 Act as an amendment to the Surface Transportation bill. The Surface Transportation bill would continue baseline funding for 6 years, but only provides funding to pay for half of that. In contrast, the Infrastructure 2.0 Act would fully fund a highway bill for 6 years at increased levels. Recently, the American Society of Engineers released their 2013 Infrastructure Report Card, grading America’s infrastructure a D+. Delaney releases the following statement: “I am disappointed that the House decided not to allow a vote on my bipartisan amendment to the Surface Transportation bill. Including my Infrastructure 2.0 Act would have created a fiscally responsible way to fund the Highway Trust Fund and encourage smart investment in our infrastructure. Instead, my colleagues doubled down on an anemic funding structure that will leave our D+ infrastructure even worse after 6 years than it is today.” ##
11.03.2015	WASHINGTON – This week, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) submitted his bipartisan Infrastructure 2.0 Act as an amendment to the Surface Transportation bill. The Surface Transportation bill would continue baseline funding for 6 years, but only provides funding to pay for half of that. In contrast, the Infrastructure 2.0 Act would fully fund a highway bill for 6 years at increased levels. Recently, the American Society of Engineers released their 2013 Infrastructure Report Card, grading America’s infrastructure a D+. Delaney releases the following statement: “Although I am pleased to see Congress coming together to work on a so-called six-year reauthorization of the highway bill instead of another short term patch, the reality is that this bill only provides funding for the first three years. If we continue to fund our infrastructure at these anemic levels, our D+ infrastructure will be even worse after 6 years than it is today. That is why I submitted my bipartisan Infrastructure 2.0 Act as an amendment to the bill, which will use revenues from international tax reform to fully fund a 6 year bill at increased levels and create a permanent financing tool for states and local governments to use for their own infrastructure projects. I hope my colleagues will agree with me that fully funding the Highway Trust Fund and fixing our broken international tax system is the fiscally responsible thing to do.” Delaney Amendment #80 to Highway bill (based on the Infrastructure 2.0 Act) Investing in 21st Century Infrastructure with Deemed Repatriation at 8.75% Tax Rate Existing overseas profits accumulated by U.S. multi-national corporations would be subject to a mandatory, one-time 8.75% tax, replacing deferral option and current rate of 35%. $120 billion to the Highway Trust Fund, enough to meet funding gap at increased levels for six years. $50 billion to capitalize the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) a new financing mechanism for transportation, water, energy, communications and education projects. Leveraged to $750 billion, AIF financing (loans, bond guarantees and equity) is available to state and local governments. American Infrastructure Fund was first proposed in Rep. Delaney’s bipartisan Partnership to Build America Act. $25 million pilot program to create regional infrastructure accelerators, similar to the West Coast Infrastructure Exchange This frees the estimated $2 trillion in overseas earnings to return to the United States, spurring private sector re-investment and growth. Creating Long-term Highway Trust Fund Solvency and Policy Certainty This amendment provides six years of HTF solvency, providing immediate certainty to the private sector and policymakers. The legislation also establishes a bipartisan and bicameral commission that is tasked with developing a solution for permanent solvency of the Highway Trust Fund. Building a Path for Broader Tax Reform To fix our broken international tax system going forwards, this pro-growth reform package would end deferral, reduce anti-competitive over taxation, and decrease taxes for companies paying fair rates abroad but increase taxes for companies in tax havens. This would eliminate the lock-out effect and allow for the free flow of profits back to the United States. Under this option, for Active Market Foreign Income, a company would pay a 12.25% tax to the U.S. on overseas profits if they are currently paying no tax and a 2% tax to the U.S. if they are already paying the OECD average of 25% abroad, with a sliding scale in-between. ##
11.02.2015	BOONSBORO – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) hosted a Western Maryland Agriculture Workshop Monday in Boonsboro. The event was attended by over 230 and featured United States Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack, the nation’s top-ranking agriculture official. The workshop, held at the Washington County Agricultural Education Center, included remarks by Rep. Delaney and Secretary Vilsack, a panel discussion from experts and an opportunity for local residents to speak one-on-one with agency representatives. “Agriculture is a jobs engine in Maryland and is vitally important to the economic future of our state,” said Congressman Delaney. “I am proud to represent thousands of Maryland farmers, livestock producers and small business owners who work in agriculture. I want to make sure they have a voice in Congress and this workshop was designed to bring federal, state and local agencies directly to them. I want to thank Secretary Vilsack for attending our workshop and taking time out of his schedule to see firsthand the world-class agriculture taking place in Western Maryland.” “I want to thank Congressman Delaney for the opportunity to meet with local producers to address important topics such as the Farm Bill, local food systems, and what they mean for Maryland’s rural economy.” Vilsack said. “Maryland has a vibrant agricultural landscape and today’s discussion allowed me to commend the state for its diligence in creating rural jobs, economic opportunities, and forging pathways for farmers, ranchers, and their families to thrive.” Organizations participating in the workshop included: USDA – Rural Development USDA – Farm Service Agency USDA – Natural Resources Conservation Service Maryland Department of Agriculture Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene The Maryland Farm Bureau Maryland Agricultural Education Foundation Maryland Department of the Environment The Washington County Office of Agricultural Business Development The Washington County Farm Bureau The Washington County Rural Heritage Museum Secretary Tom Vilsack is the nation’s 30th Secretary of Agriculture and has served since as Secretary since 2009. Delaney was named a 2014 Friend of Farm Bureau for his work in support of Maryland agriculture. ##
10.30.2015	WASHINGTON – On Wednesday, the House passed a two-year bipartisan budget agreement that reduces the impact of sequestration, increases investments in national security and domestic programs and maintains the full faith and credit of the United States. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted for the agreement. Delaney releases the following statement: “Government shutdowns, full sequestration and a potential default would be especially bad for Maryland and bad for the country. This agreement isn’t perfect, but on balance it is better than the alternative, which is another two years of standoffs, gridlock and dysfunction. While the specific appropriations remain to be worked out, this agreement will strengthen our investments in defense and national security and free up more money for important programs like NIH, NIST and Head Start.”
10.27.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed a short-term extension of the Highway Trust Fund, extending the fund until November 20, 2015. The 22-day patch is the third short-term extension passed by the House this year and the 35th short-term patch in the last decade. The measure passed by voice vote. “It’s time for a real highway bill, no more patches, no more extensions. Instead of patching the same flat tire for a decade, it’s time for a new approach,” said Congressman Delaney. “Let’s work together to pass a long-term highway bill that increases infrastructure investment, creates jobs and helps our economy grow. It is clear, that as we lurch from short-term patch to short-term patch that the old approach isn’t working and that we need a new solution. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act fully funds the Highway Trust Fund at increased levels for six years, creates a new infrastructure fund to finance new local projects around the country and has broad bipartisan support. Let’s work together to get pass a long-term highway bill.” Delaney is the author of the Infrastructure 2.0 Act (H.R. 625) which revenues from international tax reform to fund a six-year highway bill at increased levels and creates a new permanent national infrastructure fund to provide financing to state and local governments. Over the last three years, Delaney has built a broad coalition of support for using revenues from international tax reform, also known as repatriation, to rebuild America. Delaney’s framework has been endorsed by over 40 Republicans and 40 Democrats.
10.22.2015	WASHINGTON – Today the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure began markup on a six-year Highway Bill that essentially maintains current funding levels. The American Society of Civil Engineers has given America’s infrastructure a D+ grade and have stated that we need an additional $3.6 trillion in infrastructure investment by 2020. The Highway Trust Fund will lose spending authority on October 29. Earlier this year, Delaney introduced the Infrastructure 2.0 Act (H.R. 625), which uses revenues from international tax reform to fund a six-year highway bill at increased levels and creates a new permanent national infrastructure fund to provide financing to state and local governments. “America’s infrastructure is falling apart and our country is falling behind our economic competitors – we won’t be able to catch up if we simply keep our inadequate infrastructure investment on cruise control,” said Congressman Delaney. “For years we have had a major funding deficit on infrastructure and the old politics and the old answers have failed us. If we continue with baseline funding, in another six years we’ll be in even worse shape. I know that my colleagues want to find a solution on this critical issue and over the last three years I have built a large bipartisan coalition in support of a new approach using international tax reform. Smart infrastructure investment will create millions of good-paying jobs, strengthen our economy, make the country safer and upgrade our quality of life. Let’s work together on a bipartisan solution that truly rebuilds America.” Since 2013, Delaney has built broad bipartisan support for using revenues from corporate profits abroad to rebuild America. Over 40 Democrats and 40 Republicans in Congress have endorsed Delaney’s plan to use international tax reform to rebuild America. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act provides $120 billion in additional funding to the Highway Trust Fund and establishes a $50 billion dollar American Infrastructure Fund to provide loans, bond guarantees and equity for additional projects. Under the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, existing overseas profits will be taxed at an 8.75% rate and deferral will be ended. H.R. 3763 provides up to $325 billion for transportation projects over the next six years. ##
10.19.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the White House announced that 81 major American companies will sign the American Business Act on Climate Pledge. The pledge establishes an ongoing commitment to climate action and includes reducing emissions, increasing investment in low-carbon energy sources and increased use of sustainable practices. According to the White House, the 81 companies that are committing to act on climate have operations in all 50 states and employ over 9 million people. “To be successful in the private sector you have to be data-driven and forward-looking and that’s why it is no surprise that so many leading businesses are now stepping up and responding to climate change. Extreme weather and increased natural disasters are literally a bad business climate,” said Congressman Delaney. “Climate change is the defining environmental threat of our time and the only way we can tackle a problem this large is by working together. In my view, the most effective response to climate change will be market-driven, unleashing the ingenuity and innovation of the private sector. I applaud the White House and America’s business leaders for working together and creating a dialogue on this issue.” Delaney is the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in the House of Representatives. Earlier this year, Delaney introduced the Tax Pollution, Not Profits Act, which establishes a tax on greenhouse gas emissions; with receipts from the tax directed towards 1) reducing the corporate tax rate to increase employment and reduce consumer costs 2) providing monthly payments to low-income and middle-class households and 3) funding job training, early retirement and health care benefits to coal workers. The American Business Act on Climate Pledge was first announced in July. For a full list of the companies participating, click here. ##
10.16.2015	URBANA – The office of Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) held a Seniors Constituent Services Workshop Thursday in Urbana. Over 80 attended the event, which took place at the Urbana Regional Library and was open to the public. Participating in the workshop were representatives from federal, state and local agencies, including Social Security and Medicare. The workshop was the third Seniors Workshop held by Delaney’s office this year and the ninth constituent services workshop overall. At the workshop, Marylanders were able to get one-on-one help from agency representatives and experts. “We hold these workshops to bring government directly to the people,” said Congressman Delaney. “We hear from seniors every day who need help with Social Security, Medicare and other programs. There’s no replacement for being able to speak with someone directly, it’s the ultimate way to cut through the bureaucracy and help seniors receive the benefits they’ve earned. Anyone who needs help, but was not able to attend the workshop should contact my office immediately, we are here to help.” Participating agencies included: The Social Security Administration Maryland Senior Health Insurance Program/ Medicare Frederick County Department of Social Services Frederick County Health Department Frederick County Transit Frederick County Sheriff’s Office Frederick County Department of Parks & Recreation The Alzheimer’s Association ##
10.15.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) wrote to House Transportation & Infrastructure Chairman Bill Shuster Thursday, urging him to increase baseline funding levels in the next highway bill. The Transportation & Infrastructure Committee is expected to markup a new highway bill next week. In his letter, Delaney wrote, “Instead of continuing our glide path to a third-world infrastructure, our next highway bill should reverse course and start our infrastructure comeback. A meaningful increase in our infrastructure investment will create millions of jobs and help our businesses stay competitive in the global economy.” Absent Congressional action, the Highway Trust Fund will lose spending authority on October 29. In January, Delaney introduced the Infrastructure 2.0 Act (H.R. 625), which uses revenues from international tax reform to fund a six-year highway bill at increased levels and creates a new permanent national infrastructure fund to provide financing to state and local governments. Since 2013, Delaney has built broad bipartisan support for using revenues from corporate profits abroad to rebuild America. The text of the letter is as follows: Dear Chairman Shuster, As you work to bring a draft of a Surface Transportation Reauthorization bill to the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee for a mark-up, I encourage you to start from the premise that continuing baseline funding levels will only lead to a further deterioration of our already failing infrastructure. Public investment in infrastructure, as a percentage of Gross Domestic Product, has fallen 54% since 1960. Instead of continuing our glide path to a third-world infrastructure, our next highway bill should reverse course and start our infrastructure comeback. A meaningful increase in our infrastructure investment will create millions of jobs and help our businesses stay competitive in the global economy. According to data from the Congressional Budget Office, a new six-year bill starting in 2016 would authorize $328 billion at baseline levels. To start making a dent in our infrastructure deficit, we should be investing ten to twenty percent more, meaning a six-year bill would cost between $360 billion and $400 billion. Ideally, our next long-term highway bill will include both increased funding and increased financing for infrastructure projects. While many have focused squarely on the importance of increasing funding, we should also take this opportunity to create a new, large-scale infrastructure financing entity that will make cheaper financing available to states and local municipalities for decades to come, not just for the next few years. Availability of cheap, long-term financing is absolutely necessary to begin the many long-term infrastructure projects we need get our economy on-track for increased global competitiveness. As you know, my bipartisan Infrastructure 2.0 Act uses $170 billion in revenue from international tax reform to both plus up the Highway Trust fund by $120 billion and to create a new $50 billion American Infrastructure Fund to provide states and local municipalities with up to $750 billion of simultaneous financing for their infrastructure projects. If we want to address our infrastructure crisis, we have to go big and baseline funding just won’t get us there. We can grow jobs, grow our economy, and make our businesses more competitive. There’s a bipartisan coalition ready to support increased infrastructure investment. I look forward to reviewing your draft. Sincerely, John K. Delaney ##
10.09.2015	WASHINGTON – The House of Representatives passed an amendment authored by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) highlighting the importance of investing in clean energy technology. The Delaney amendment was adopted by a voice vote and was added to legislation (H.R. 702) that lifts the ban on oil exports. Delaney voted against the overall legislation, which was opposed by leading environmental groups, but offered the amendment to improve the bill to better reflect the country’s energy and environmental needs. To view Delaney speaking on his amendment during floor debate, click here. “We can’t have a serious debate about energy policy without talking about climate change and the importance of investing in clean energy and that’s why I offered this amendment,” said Congressman Delaney. “This amendment is a simple factual statement about the benefits of investing in clean energy, but it importantly reorients our debate away from the old energy world and towards the new. Climate change poses a grave threat to our economy, our health and environment, and our national security and now, in a bill designed to boost oil exports, we have that reality reflected in the text. By passing this amendment, the House has acknowledged that growing our alternative energy sector will be overwhelmingly beneficial and I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues to act on climate.” The Delaney amendment states that “[…] increasing investment in clean energy technology and energy efficiency will lower energy prices, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and increase national security” and was cosponsored by Rep. Carlos Curbelo (FL-26) and Rep. Chris Gibson (NY-19). Delaney also offered an amendment calling for a federal study on the projected costs and benefits a carbon tax, with revenues used to provide tax credits for middle class families and to reduce businesses taxes, but that amendment was not made in order by the House Rules Committee. Earlier this year, Delaney introduced the Tax Pollution, Not Profits Act, which establishes a tax on greenhouse gas emissions; with receipts from the tax directed towards 1) reducing the corporate tax rate to increase employment and reduce consumer costs 2) providing monthly payments to low-income and middle-class households and 3) funding job training, early retirement and health care benefits to coal workers. In August, over 160 attended a Climate Action Workshop hosted by Rep. Delaney in Germantown. ##
10.07.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (D-MD-6) and Congressman Richard Hanna (R-NY-22) have written to House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy urging him to support a bipartisan deal that combines international tax reform and infrastructure investment. In January, Delaney and Hanna introduced the Infrastructure 2.0 Act (H.R. 625), which uses revenues from international tax reform to fund a six-year highway bill at increased levels. A framework originally proposed in Rep. Delaney’s Partnership to Build America Act in 2013, using revenues trapped overseas to rebuild America’s infrastructure has become the biggest bipartisan economic policy agreement in Congress, gaining strong support from both sides of the aisle. Absent Congressional action, the Highway Trust Fund will lose spending authority on October 29, 2015. Last month, McCarthy voiced his support for using international tax reform to pay for a long-term highway bill. The text of the Delaney-Hanna letter is as follows: Dear Majority Leader McCarthy, We were highly encouraged to hear your recent comments that you are committed to passing a 6-year highway bill using revenues from reforming our international tax system. As you know a deal combining these two policy measures will create jobs, improve the lives of our constituents, make our businesses more competitive, and boost GDP. It is clear that this legislation that should be a top priority for this fall. Support for an agreement along these lines continues to increase as Democrats and Republicans in both the House and Senate, in addition to President Obama, have backed this framework. Our bipartisan bill, the Infrastructure 2.0 Act would use international tax reform to add $120 billion to the Highway Trust Fund and establish a new $50 billion infrastructure finance vehicle for use by states and local municipalities. We know that there is still a negotiation to do be done to agree on the rates for international tax reform and on how big of an increase we can make in our infrastructure investments. But the good news is that there is broad bipartisan consensus on the need for each of these reforms. No one is happy with the status quo for our structurally deficient infrastructure and an international tax system that encourages U.S. companies to either relocate abroad or to keep their profits offshore rather than reinvest them in the U.S. There also seem to be no alternatives that can fund a long-term highway bill. Resorting to short-term patches means that we can’t engage in the long-term contracting necessary to properly build infrastructure. That means fewer jobs and continually deteriorating roads, bridges, and transit. We hear time and again that “politics is the art of the possible.” A Highway Trust Fund/International Tax reform deal is the only possible path forward for the long-term highway bill that our country needs. Now is the time to buckle down and cut this deal for the good of the American people. We look forward to working with you on this. Sincerely, _____________­ _____________ John K. Delaney Richard Hanna Member of Congress Member of Congress ##
10.06.2015	WASHINGTON - Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) met with constituents today during office hours in Clarksburg. Over 30 Marylanders attended the event, which was Delaney’s 11th public office hours session this year. Delaney has held office hours in all five counties in the Sixth District. “It is so valuable for me to be able to hear from constituents directly, sitting across from one another at a table,” said Congressman Delaney. “Dating back to my years in the private sector, I’ve seen that there’s no replacement for a one-on-one meeting. I’d like to thank everyone who joined me today in Clarksburg and took the time to share their views with me.” The Clarksburg Office Hours follow earlier sessions in Hagerstown (4/8), Frederick (5/27), McHenry (6/5), Rockville/ Shady Grove (7/16), Gaithersburg (8/26), Urbana (8/27), Hagerstown (9/13) Brunswick (9/15) Poolesville (9/16) and Frostburg (10/4). ##
10.05.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) held public office hours Sunday October 4 in Frostburg. The meetings, which were attended by over 40 Marylanders, took place at Frostburg State University. Topics discussed included veterans benefits, Social Security, education policy, and infrastructure. “Even in today’s high-tech world where we can communicate in so many different ways, there’s no replacement for an in-person meeting,” said Congressman Delaney. “Office hours allow me to hear from Marylanders directly and make sure that my office is responding to the needs of my constituents. I’m proud to represent Allegany County and all of Western Maryland in the people’s house and I’d like to thank everyone who took time out of their weekend to meet with me.” The Frostburg office hours were the tenth Delaney has held this year. These meetings follow earlier office hours in Hagerstown (4/8), Frederick (5/27), McHenry (6/5), Rockville/ Shady Grove (7/16), Gaithersburg (8/26), Urbana (8/27), Hagerstown (9/13) Brunswick (9/15) and Poolesville (9/16). ##
09.29.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) wrote to House colleagues in both parties today, urging them to support his Early Learning Act (H.R. 3542). Delaney’s legislation provides state governments with federal funding to establish or expand their pre-K programs, with funding coming from a 1.5% increase on individual income, dividends and capital gains above $500,000. Delaney’s legislation makes access to free pre-K for all a reality in all 50 states. The text of Delaney’s “Dear Colleague” letter is as follows: Dear Colleague, Please join me in support of the Early Learning Act (H.R. 3542), a bill to create nationwide access to free pre-k for four-year-old children. Establishing national pre-k will reduce the achievement gap, will improve the education all our kids receive and make our country more competitive. The Early Learning Act gives states the resources to create pre-k for all programs without increasing the deficit. The legislation provides states with up to $8,000 in funding per student, per year to provide free, high-quality, universal pre-k funded by a 1.5% increase on individual income, dividends and capital gains above $500,000. States can also use these revenues to expand existing pre-k programs. To ensure quality, states must certify that they have an accreditation process in place and that any funding is only provided to accredited, not-for-profit pre-k programs. States will have discretion on the details of their programs, but they must provide access to free pre-k for all four-year-olds. These pre-k programs will remain optional for parents. Every child in America deserves an education that will prepare them for the high-tech global economy of the future. That investment in our future should start early, so that all children have an equal opportunity to succeed. Decades of research have conclusively found that students enrolled in pre-k perform better in school, are more likely to attend college, have higher lifetime earnings and are more likely to own a home. Because pre-k makes it less likely that students will repeat a grade, less likely that they will need to receive additional special education assistance and less likely to be unemployed, conservative estimates show that every $1 dollar invested in pre-k generates a $7 dollar return. I look forward to your support on this important piece of legislation. ##
09.29.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) is an original cosponsor of the Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act (H.R. 3635), legislation filed today that would secure retroactive pay for all federal employees during a federal government shutdown, regardless of furlough status. The legislation was introduced by Congressman Don Beyer (VA-8). An agreement to fund the government must be reached by October 1 to avoid a shutdown. Federal employee pay is suspended in the event of a funding lapse or government shutdown. Retroactive pay for all “essential” and “non-essential” federal workers must be approved by Congress. “Hard-working federal employees shouldn’t pay the price for partisan dysfunction in Washington,” said Delaney. “I’m proud to stand with federal workers and their families in cosponsoring legislation to ensure that they do not suffer needless financial hardship because extremists in Congress cause a shutdown. Maryland is home to over 100,000 federal employees, men and women who make our country safer, more innovative and stronger. It is outrageous that my constituents are facing furloughs because a loud few are pursuing a partisan agenda.” The legislation is supported by the National Treasury Employees Union and the American Federation of Government Employees. ##
09.29.2015	WASHINGTON – The Department of Education has named Smithsburg High School a 2015 National Blue Ribbon School. Nationwide, only 335 schools total received this honor and Smithsburg High School was one of just eight schools in Maryland to be named a Blue Ribbon School. Delaney visited Smithsburg High School in May, meeting with Principal Michael Chilcutt and students in the Smithsburg Academic Leadership Team. “Being named a National Blue Ribbon School is a tremendous honor for Smithsburg High School and a tremendous credit to the community that made it possible,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “High-quality schools aren’t possible without the hard work and innovation of teachers and administrators and the involvement of parents and community leaders. As a Blue Ribbon School, Smithsburg High School sets the national standard right here in Washington County. Education is the key to the American Dream and by training tomorrow’s leaders, the work being done today at Smithsburg High School will pay dividends for years to come.” The National Blue Ribbon Schools program honors public and private schools where students either achieve very high learning standards or are making notable improvements in closing the achievement gap. ##
09.24.2015	WASHINGTON – On September 24 Pope Francis addressed a joint meeting of Congress, becoming the first Pope to speak in the House Chamber. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “Pope Francis delivered a message of compassion, unity and hope and eloquently called upon Congress to advance the cause of justice. He spoke powerfully about our shared obligation to respond to those in need and to leave a better world for the future. The Pope’s message is bigger than politics; it is a challenge to uphold what he called our ‘personal and social responsibility’ to care for others and to follow the Golden Rule. Very importantly, he spoke out against political division and reminded us of our duty to work together towards the common good. In a time of discord, Pope Francis delivered a unifying message. “I’d like to thank Pope Francis for coming to the Capitol and addressing Congress. His entire visit means so much to our country and has done so much to bring people of all faiths together. I know that the Pope’s words will remain in my heart for a long time. I sincerely hope that history will mark this day not only as the first papal address to Congress, but as the beginning of a new time in Washington, when in a spirit of humility we saw the likeness of God in the faces of those who are suffering and resolved to treat them as our brothers and sisters.” ##
09.22.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, together with U.S. Representative John Delaney (all D-Md.) today announced that the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) has awarded a $110,000 federal grant to Garrett College to expand health career training programs at the Career Technology Training Center in Accident. “This federal funding is good news for Garrett County that will help prepare students today for in-demand health care jobs tomorrow while keeping families healthy,” said Senator Mikulski, a senior member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee. “Marylanders in our rural communities need a government on their side so they can access affordable, quality care regardless of their zip code. Federal funding, like this grant, is an investment in the health and well-being of our aging population as well as the economic security of Garrett County.” “By training Garrett College Students to address the needs of the county’s aging population, ARC is investing in the medical and economic future of the county,” said Senator Cardin, a member of the Senate Finance Health Care Subcommittee. “I applaud ARC’s two-pronged approach to improving health outcomes for Garrett County residents while also giving students the tools they need to find well-paying jobs. The lifesaving and hands-on experience this training will provide is invaluable and I look forward to supporting similar opportunities across Maryland.” “I’m proud to announce this major federal investment in Garrett College and Garrett County. This has the potential to be a double bottom line for Garrett County, leading to both better local job training and education and improved health care services,” said Congressman Delaney. “The grant is real-world federal support for a local program that works right here in Western Maryland. Government works best when federal, state and local voices work together and along with Senator Cardin and Senator Mikulski, I will continue to support efforts to expand education and improve health care services in Garrett County.” Garrett College will use these federal funds to expand health career training programs at the Technology Training Center in Accident. The project will improve instructional resources for students, and help establish at least three new allied health programs. Short-term allied health training programs can provide excellent preparation for entry level positions, but students enrolled in local educational programs lack access to hands-on learning opportunities with modern technology. Garrett College seeks to improve hands-on learning opportunities for students in health career fields, and to establish new allied health training programs that respond to the needs of both students and employers. In particular, ARC and matching funds will create an allied health laboratory with a new simulation manikin. Students expected to use this facility include those in the two-year paramedic associates degree program, and certificate programs for certified nursing assistants and phlebotomists. In addition, the college will assemble a three year plan for developing new allied health programming, in discussion with hospitals, medical providers, and other partners in the region. At least three new programs will be offered in 2016. Fields under consideration include pharmacy technicians and EKG technicians. Garrett County has an aging population which will increasingly require expanded healthcare services and a larger healthcare workforce. Within three years, Garrett College expects to serve nearly 85 students in allied health programs. Of those, 90 percent are expected to obtain a career credential or a job, or will continue education in their chosen field. In addition to the ARC funds, the grantee will provide $110,000 in cash and in-kind resources, bringing the total project funding to $220,000. ARC is a federal-state partnership that promotes economic development in 13 states throughout the Appalachian region. In 2014, Maryland received $4.7 million in ARC funding, including $1.8 million for 18 local projects and $2.9 million for access road construction. Senators Mikulski and Cardin have been leading supporters of the ARC Commission in the U.S. Senate. # # #
09.21.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin together with Congressman John Delaney (all D-Md.) today announced that the Board of County Commissioners of Garrett County has been awarded nearly $1.3 million in federal grant funding to upgrade critical wastewater infrastructure serving businesses in Western Maryland and support continued job growth in the region. This federal funding is made available through the Department of Commerce’s Economic Development Administration (EDA) grant program. EDA is funded through the Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee, of which Senator Mikulski is the Vice Chairwoman. “This federal funding is great news for Western Maryland communities because it will support the creation of jobs today and jobs tomorrow,” said Senator Mikulski, Vice Chairwoman of the CJS Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Commerce Department. “Maryland cities and towns need to upgrade their water and sewer infrastructure but they can't do it on their own. I went to bat for Garrett County to secure this federal grant funding to make needed upgrades and updates to critical water and sewer infrastructure. I will continue to fight for infrastructure upgrades for Western Maryland to support a long-term roadmap for jobs and economic development.” “Investing in infrastructure is the right thing to do for our environment, public health and economy. For each public dollar we put into water infrastructure, for example, we see an increase in private long-term GDP output of more than six dollars,” said Senator Cardin, author of S. 741, The Water Infrastructure Resiliency and Sustainability Act. “The residents of Garrett County deserve proactive federal investments in their wastewater systems, making these EDA grants a wise investment in Western Maryland’s quality of life and economic growth.” “This federal grant to Garrett County will create jobs, encourage more economic development and help upgrade local water management infrastructure; this is a triple-win for Garrett County,” said Congressman Delaney. “This Economic Development Administration Public Works Grant will bring good-paying jobs to Oakland and position the region for future growth. When the federal government partners with local government we get better outcomes and I’m proud to join Senator Mikulski and Senator Cardin in announcing this grant.” The federal EDA grant funding will support the installation of a regional wastewater treatment plant system in Garrett County that provides critical water and sewer infrastructure improvements to multiple sites leased to Strata Worldwide within the Keyser’s Ridge Business Park, supporting jobs throughout Western Maryland and neighboring states. These assets are often lacking in parts of the country that need it most, yet they are a prerequisite for private industry to invest in job creation and economic growth activities in these areas. According to Strata Worldwide, an international firm which specializes in the design and manufacture of safety equipment, water and sewer infrastructure upgrades will enable future expansion of businesses, creating jobs in manufacturing and distribution. In the long-term, the project is expected to lead to business expansion at the Business Park and the creation of as many as 500 jobs within the next nine years. The Economic Development Administration is the only Federal agency dedicated exclusively to promoting economic development. EDA supports American innovation and competitiveness by awarding grants for infrastructure and development in distressed communities, and leverages local and private investments to create jobs throughout the United States. For more information, visit https://www.eda.gov/investmentPriorities.htm. # # #
09.21.2015	WASHINGTON – The Department of Justice has announced a $500,000 grant to the Hagerstown Police Department (HPD) for the purpose of hiring additional officers. The multi-year grant, part of the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS Office) COPS Hiring Program will fund four new officers. “I’m proud to announce this federal COPS Hiring Grant to the Hagerstown Police Department. Thanks to this federal support, HPD will be able to hire additional officers, which will have a big impact on public safety,” said Congressman Delaney. “This should have a tangible impact in Hagerstown, because there’s nothing more fundamental to law enforcement than having enough officers to do the job. Hagerstown’s population has grown 10% since 2000 and the city faces increased law enforcement challenges, including combating heroin and other narcotics. The men and women of the Hagerstown Police Department protect our community every day and this grant will help the Department continue to serve us.” The COPS Hiring Program (CHP) is designed to advance public safety through community policing by addressing the full-time sworn officer needs of state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies nationwide. CHP provides funds directly to law enforcement agencies to hire new or rehire career law enforcement officers and to increase their community policing capacity and crime prevention efforts. ##
09.18.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) joined 80 colleagues in urging Speaker Boehner to keep the House in session every day until a deal is reached to prevent another government shutdown. The letter was led by Rep. Cheri Bustos (IL-17) and signed by 79 House members, including Delaney. Just six legislative days are scheduled between now and 12:01 AM on October 1st, the deadline for a new budget agreement to be in place to avoid a government shutdown. After Friday, the House will not be in session again until Thursday of next week. According to the Baltimore Sun, 300,000 Marylanders could be furloughed in the event of a government shutdown. “This should be obvious, we don’t have a deal in place and we don’t have any time to waste; the House should be in session every single day, no long weekends, no half days, no exceptions,” said Congressman Delaney. “Shutting down the government accomplishes absolutely nothing positive; but it does hurt our economy, deny and disrupt public services, halt vital research and cost money. Another government shutdown because of partisan dysfunction would be bad for the country and especially bad for Maryland. Our position is clear: let’s work together, put the country first and keep the government open.” The letter and full list of cosigners is available here. The text of the letter is as follows: Dear Speaker Boehner, We write you today to express our deep concern regarding the looming government shutdown which will occur on October 1st should Congress fail to reach a bipartisan consensus to fund the government. As of right now, there are just six legislative days scheduled before the end of the month. The American people deserve to know that their elected representatives are working around the clock to avoid another self-inflicted Washington wound on our national and local economies. As the Speaker of the House, you have the power to change the legislative calendar. We strongly urge you to keep the House of Representatives in session every day from now until we reach a deal. We already know the impact that a shutdown will have on our economy because it happened just two years ago. According to Standard & Poors, the 16 day government shutdown of 2013 cost the U.S. economy $24 billion and reduced 4th quarter GDP growth by 0.6%. We simply cannot allow this failure to happen again. As Representatives, each of us has an obligation to the American people—the working families, seniors, veterans and others we have the privilege of serving. Now is the time to reject partisan gridlock and work together toward a common sense solution for the American people. With the clock ticking, we can't afford to waste a moment. As Speaker, you have the power to keep Congress in session. We urge you to exercise that authority before it's too late. Respectfully, ##
09.17.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has filed legislation to create nationwide access to free pre-K for four-year-old children. The Early Learning Act provides state governments with federal funding to establish or expand their pre-K programs. Delaney’s legislation makes access to free pre-K for all a reality in all 50 states. The legislation establishes The Early Education Trust Fund which will distribute block grants to participating states. The Early Education Trust Fund will be funded by a 1.5% increase on individual income, dividends and capital gains above $500,000. This provides states with up to $8,000 in funding per student, per year for pre-k. “Experts agree that students enrolled in pre-k perform better in school, are more likely to graduate and have better long term economic prospects. Pre-k also makes it less likely that students will need help later in their education, will be less likely to be enrolled in special education programs and less likely to repeat a grade. Expanding pre-k is one of the smartest, most fiscally-sound investments we can make, because the long-term benefits lead to lower long-term public costs,” said Congressman Delaney. “Research shows that pre-k for all is one of the most transformative things we can do to reduce the achievement gap and help low-income students thrive. I don’t want any child born in America to start kindergarten a step behind simply because of their background. The Early Learning Act provides states with the funding they need to establish pre-k for all programs that the American people overwhelmingly want. Let’s work together to make pre-k for all a reality.” The Early Learning Act Universal, High Quality Pre-K The Early Learning Act provides funding for states to establish universal pre-k for four-year-old students or expand existing programs. Funding can only be directed towards state-certified programs that are accredited and not-for-profit. To participate, states must establish universal access to free pre-k programs. Funding is tied to the number of students enrolled, incentivizing high enrollment levels. A substantial amount of academic research, drawing on decades of data, shows that pre-k produces better educational, career and economic outcomes for students.[1] Studies have found that pre-k reduces the achievement gap and helps low-income students succeed.[2] By reducing long-term costs and improving outcomes, pre-k has also been found to produce a significant multiplier effect as a public investment.[3] National Funding for State-Based Programs The Early Learning Act establishes the Early Education Trust Fund, a federal fund administered by the Department of Education. The fund will provide block grants to participating states at a level of up to $8,000 per student per year. States will have flexibility to implement program details at their discretion. On Budget The Early Education Trust Fund is paid for by a surtax of 1.5% on income, dividends and capital gains above $500,000, impacting less than 1% of households in the United States. The Early Education Trust Fund acts as a lockbox, ensuring that this revenue can only be used for pre-k. The Early Learning Act does not increase the deficit and is budget neutral. The Early Learning Act funds new state-based programs and is not an unfunded mandate. ## [1] “The High/Scope Perry Preschool Study Through Age 40: Summary, Conclusions and Frequently Asked Questions.” Lawrence J. Schweinhart, Jeanne Montie, Zongping Xiang, W. Steven Barnett, Clive R. Belfield and Milagros Nores. https://www.highscope.org/file/Research/PerryProject/specialsummary_rev2011_02_2.pdf [2] “New Research: Early Education’s Influence on the Achievement Gap.” Conor Williams, Senior Researcher, Early Education Initiative, New America Foundation. https://www.edcentral.org/research-early-education-influence-achievement-gap/ [3] “Trust the Data: Pre-K is Good for Texas Kids.” Cynthia Osborne, Director of the Child and Family Research Partnership, The University of Texas at Austin. https://news.utexas.edu/2015/04/30/trust-the-data-pre-k-is-good-for-texas-kids. “Getting the Facts Right on Pre-K and the President’s Pre-K Proposal”. W. Steven Barnett, PhD. National Institute for Early Education Research. https://www.nieer.org/sites/nieer/files/Getting%20the%20Facts%20Right%20on%20Pre-K.pdf
09.16.2015	POOLESVILLE – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) held office hours today at the Poolesville Town Hall. Over 30 constituents attended the event, which offered Marylanders an opportunity to speak one-on-one with Delaney. Topics discussed during the constituent meetings included health care, the Iran nuclear deal, public service with federal agencies, government reform and voting rights. Office hours are open to the public. “Office hours are a chance to hear directly from Marylanders about their concerns and I value this time to listen and talk one-on-one with constituents,” said Congressman Delaney. “I hear from constituents by phone, by e-mail, by social media, but there’s no replacement for face-to-face meetings and I thank everyone who took time out of their busy schedule to join me in Poolesville today.” The Poolesville meetings were Delaney’s 9th office hours session this year, following earlier events in Hagerstown (5/6), Frederick (5/27), McHenry (6/5), Shady Grove (7/16), Gaithersburg (8/26), Urbana (8/27), Hagerstown (9/13) and Brunswick (9/15). Meetings during office hours are scheduled on a first-come, first-served basis at the time of the event. Office hours are posted on Delaney’s website, social media accounts and his e-newsletter. For help with casework, constituents can also call district offices in Gaithersburg, at (301) 926-0300, or Hagerstown, at (301) 733-2900. ##
09.16.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Barbara A. Mikulski, together with U.S. Representative John Delaney (all D-Md.), today announced that the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) awarded the Allegany County Board of Education $110,000 to extend the One Maryland Broadband Network to additional sites in Cumberland, Md. In addition to ARC funds, the Allegany County Board of Education will provide $55,000 and the City of Cumberland will provide $55,000, bringing the total project funding to $220,000. “Internet access is no longer a luxury item, and this grant will help deliver to Western Maryland the level of service necessary in today’s high-tech educational and economic sectors,” said Senator Cardin, who introduced bipartisan legislation to reauthorize funding for ARC. “Team Maryland has made great strides in ensuring that the benefits of high-speed internet access are available to everyone, regardless of zip-code. This federal investment will help the Allegany County Board of Education better serve students and bring 21st century jobs to downtown Cumberland. I look forward to seeking and supporting more opportunities to break down the digital divides that persist in Maryland. ” “Education is the opportunity ladder of this nation. Every child deserves their chance to climb that ladder,” said Senator Mikulski, a senior member of Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee. “Connecting Western Maryland schools with our state’s broadband infrastructure is about preparing kids today for jobs tomorrow. These funds in the federal checkbook will ensure our students in the City of Cumberland have the tools they need to succeed. With the One Maryland Broadband Network, we are one digital Maryland, bringing ideas, opportunity, and jobs to every single county in Maryland. “Expanding high-speed internet access will help local students and improve the business climate in Allegany County,” said Congressman Delaney. “High-speed internet is absolutely fundamental to economic growth and if we get the details right, we can build on Western Maryland’s strengths to create jobs. Closing the digital gap will help put Allegany County students and entrepreneurs on a level playing field. Creating new broadband access is a key component of my Western Maryland Agenda and I am pleased to see that we have federal and local cooperation on this critical issue.” The Allegany County Board of Education Facilities and Maintenance building will have fiber-optic infrastructure run to the facility. The same infrastructure will also be developed in downtown Cumberland to be used by internet service providers to deliver high speed bandwidth to businesses in the downtown area. Approximately 40 existing businesses will benefit from access to broadband. The availability of high speed broadband will increase the attractiveness of the area to businesses. The ARC is a key partner in maximizing federal, state, and local resources to promote economic development in Western Maryland and throughout the region. Senators Cardin and Mikulski have been leading supporters of the ARC Commission in the U.S. Senate. In recognition of his support of regional economic development and the ARC, Senator Cardin received the 2012 Congressional Award from the Development District Association of Appalachia. Congressman Delaney has been an outspoken advocate in the effort to bring reliable high-speed broadband internet access to underserved communities in Western Maryland. # # #
09.15.2015	BRUNSWICK – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) held office hours today at Brunswick City Hall. Over 25 constituents attended the event, which offered Marylanders an opportunity to speak one-on-one with Delaney. Topics discussed during the constituent meetings included immigration, the Iran nuclear agreement, election reform and small business development. “I hear from constituents by phone, by email, by social media, but there’s no replacement for face-to-face meetings and that’s why I hold office hours around the district,” said Congressman Delaney. “Office hours are a chance to listen and a chance to hear directly from Marylanders and I thank everyone who took time out of their busy schedule to join me today in Brunswick.” The Brunswick meetings were Delaney’s 8th office hours session this year, following earlier events in Hagerstown (5/6), Frederick (5/27), McHenry (6/5), Shady Grove (7/16), Gaithersburg (8/26), Urbana (8/27) and Hagerstown (9/13). Delaney will also hold office hours tomorrow in Poolesville. Meetings during office hours are scheduled on a first-come, first-served basis at the time of the event. Office hours are posted on Delaney’s website, social media accounts and his e-newsletter. For help with casework, constituents can also call district offices in Gaithersburg, at (301) 926-0300, or Hagerstown, at (301) 733-2900. ##
09.14.2015	HAGERSTOWN – Over 40 Marylanders attended Congressman John K. Delaney’s (MD-6) office hours Sunday, meeting with Delaney one-on-one at his Hagerstown office. Topics discussed included improving services for veterans, climate change, national security and economic development. “I’d like to thank everyone who joined me on Sunday in Hagerstown, I appreciate the opportunity to meet with constituents in person and hear their concerns. There are a lot of ways to stay in touch, but you can’t beat a one-on-one conversation,” said Congressman Delaney. “Washington County residents want our economy to produce more good-paying jobs, a safe and healthy future for their children and to make sure that America’s veterans receive the benefits they’ve earned and I believe Congress should focus on these priorities.” The Hagerstown meetings were Delaney’s 7th office hours session this year, following earlier events in Hagerstown (5/6), Frederick (5/27), McHenry (6/5), Shady Grove (7/16), Gaithersburg (8/26) and Urbana (8/27). Delaney will also hold office hours later this week in Brunswick and Poolesville. Meetings during office hours are scheduled on a first-come, first-served basis at the time of the event. Office hours are posted on Delaney’s website, social media accounts and his e-newsletter. For help with casework, constituents can also call district offices in Gaithersburg, at (301) 926-0300, or Hagerstown, at (301) 733-2900. ##
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives voted on legislation to approve the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action with Iran (JCPOA), a potential nuclear arms agreement between Iran and China, France, Germany, Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “I hate to second guess negotiators, but this job requires me to do that. I view the JCPOA as a poorly negotiated deal on balance. While it has some clear strengths - materially restricting Iran’s enrichment capabilities for 15 years and importantly cutting off Iran’s various paths to a nuclear weapon across the same time period - it is too short in duration and is weak on access to conventional weapons and ICBMs. Considering our leverage, we should have negotiated a much better deal. ‎I have explored if rejection of the current JCPOA could lead to a much better deal and have concluded that while it may lead to another deal, that deal is likely to be only slightly better, at best, when you consider the fact that we have already ‘showed our hand’ in terms of our willingness to do this deal and that all of our partners are now committed to this deal. And while I would like to ‘put the toothpaste back in the tube’ and have another cut at getting a better deal for the American people and our ally Israel, I have concluded that this is impossible to do, particularly since the Senate failed to pass their resolution of disapproval, so I voted to approve the deal. “I will be pushing the Administration to fulfill their representations that they will pursue military action if Iran takes steps to get a nuclear bomb and that they will work with our partners in the region on regional security and anti-terrorism activities. These actions are absolutely essential for this deal to be successful and I will be working very hard on legislation to advance these aims. Iran will be getting access to significant levels of frozen Iranian cash from this deal and they will in all likelihood attempt to increase their funding of terror in the region. We must work to combat their sponsorship of terrorism on all fronts. Additionally this week, the Ayatollah expressed his desire to have Israel eliminated in 25 years. Congress and the Administration must be clear-eyed in evaluating the true intentions of the Iranian regime and utterly dedicated to ensure that they fail in the pursuit of those objectives, even if it involves military action.” ##
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON – Friday marks fourteen years since the terror attacks of September 11, 2001. “9/11 was one of the darkest days in our history, a tragic day of loss that struck our country in the heart. My prayers are with the victims and the families today. It is essential on this day that we always pause and remember what happened on 9/11, essential that we remember the thousands of lives lost, the men and women taken from their families, which included over 60 Marylanders. We must also remember the heroism of our first responders, the heroism of so many that gave their lives saving others. “Fourteen years later our country remains united in our response to terrorism, united in standing with the victims and their families, united in doing everything we can to combat terrorism at home and abroad and united in supporting our men and women in uniform. The threat of terrorism remains, but so does the resolve of our country to defeat our enemies. On this solemn anniversary we stand together as neighbors and as a nation.” ##
09.10.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Barbara A. Mikulski, together with U.S. Representative John Delaney (all D-Md.), today announced that the National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded the Hagerstown Community College (HCC) $617,648 to support the development of a new advanced manufacturing technology degree program, an industrial technology certificate program and a basic electronics certificate program. “So many great products are built in Maryland and the state is well-positioned to catalyze a new manufacturing revival. To make certain this occurs, we desperately need a highly trained workforce,” said Senator Cardin, whose “Made in Maryland” jobs tour celebrates the diversity of Maryland products and the Marylanders who make them. “I’ve traveled across the state talking to employers about what the federal government can do to create more family-wage jobs. Without fail, I hear about the urgency of cultivating a highly trained workforce. This federal investment will ensure that Hagerstown Community College is at the epicenter of educating the next generation of Maryland manufacturers.” “The old saying goes, a country that doesn’t make something, can’t make something of itself,” said Senator Mikulski, Vice Chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee and the Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the National Science Foundation. “These funds in the federal checkbook are investments in students at Hagerstown Community College to help them acquire the skills, training and education they need to succeed. By supporting hands-on training in high-tech manufacturing, we are preparing students today for in-demand jobs tomorrow.” “Founded in 1946, Hagerstown Community College was Maryland’s first community college and has served Washington County students for decades,” said Congressman Delaney. “The world has changed since the forties, but the mission at HCC remains the same and I am hopeful that this federal grant will help position local students to compete in the high-tech job market of the future. By supporting new advanced manufacturing, electronics and industrial technology programs, this grant should help students, job seekers and employers in Western Maryland.” The programs funded by this federal investment will include new courses regarding circuits, schematics, and test equipment; lean manufacturing; and principles of quality assurance and teamwork, as well as revised curriculum to address high-technology manufacturing topics. In addition, HCC will seek to provide increased opportunities for women and underrepresented minorities through an emphasis on girls in College for Kids classes and a goal to enroll 33% women/minority students. Finally, Summer Institute activities will target early college students, and HCC has set a goal that 50% of these students are to be first-generation college students and 25% will be low-income. In July, Senator Cardin and Mikulski announced nearly $15 million in federal funding to fourteen Maryland community colleges, including HCC, as part of the Trade Adjustment Assistance Community College and Career Training (TAACCCT) initiative. The TAACCCT program allows community colleges and other institutions to expand their ability to provide quality education and job training programs in two years or less. # # #
08.28.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, together with U.S. Representative John Delaney (all D-Md.) today announced that the Grantsville Fire Department has been awarded $24,930 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. As the Vice-Chairwoman of the Appropriations Committee, Senator Mikulski fights each year to increase federal funding for the fire grants program. Senator Cardin is a member of the Finance Committee. “I know how important this funding is to Maryland communities – often it’s the difference between life and death. First responders protect our homes and communities, and the federal government has a responsibility to protect them by providing them with the tools they need to do their jobs safer and smarter,” Senator Mikulski said. “Every day when our first responders report for duty, they don’t know what they will face. That’s why I fight every year for the equipment, training, and staffing our protectors and communities deserve.” “Ensuring our first responders have the tools they need to get the job done is one of the most basic functions of government,” said Senator Cardin. “Local government can’t always cover the costs associated with doing that. That’s why it is of the utmost importance that the federal government remain a strong partner in funding and training the brave men and women at the Grantsville Fire Department and fire departments across America.” “To fight fires you need two things: a brave first responder and proper equipment. The Grantsville Fire Department is an incredible resource to their community and this federal grant will help them upgrade the equipment they need to get the job done,” said Congressman Delaney. “I am proud to announce this grant, which will make a positive difference in Grantsville and in Garrett County and will continue to stand up for Western Maryland in Congress.” The Grantsville Fire Department will use this federal funding to replace all of their hoses and nozzles which are outdated and no longer compliant with National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards. For more information, please contact Stephen Smith at 301-895-5200 The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is an important component of the larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the Nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. Since 2001, the AFG has provided approximately $6.1 billion in grants to first-responder organizations to obtain much-needed emergency response equipment, personal protective equipment, firefighting and emergency vehicles, and training. During fiscal year (FY) 2014, the AFG will award $304.5 million to first-responder organizations that need support to improve their capability to respond to fires and emergencies of all types. Since 2001, Maryland fire departments and Emergency Medical Services (EMS) units have received nearly $170 million in fire grant funding, of which $870,000 has been awarded to fire departments in Garrett County. # # #
08.27.2015	HAGERSTOWN – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) held an Identity Theft and Fraud Prevention Workshop for constituents Wednesday evening at Hagerstown Community College. The event featured a panel discussion on cybersecurity and offered constituents the opportunity to speak one-on-one with representatives from state and federal agencies and receive advice on how to protect their identity. Over 115 Marylanders attended the event. “Cybersecurity is a big problem that impacts national security, our private sector economy and the individual finances of Marylanders. Cybersecurity needs to be a national security priority and this summer’s data breach at the Office of Personnel Management makes it clear that we must improve federal protections,” said Congressman Delaney. “I represent tens of thousands of Marylanders who have been impacted by recent hacks and many attendees were also concerned about scams and frauds targeting people online and through the mail. We see this problem in every community and the goal of this workshop was to bring the experts directly to my constituents in Western Maryland, offering them an opportunity to ask questions and get advice on how to protect themselves.” The workshop followed reports last month that personal information from over 21 million Americans was stolen through a cyber-attack at the federal government’s Office of Personnel Management. This year, major security breaches have also taken place at Target, Carefirst BlueCross BlueShield and other private companies. Delaney is a cosponsor of the RECOVER Act, legislation that will require OPM to provide lifetime identity protection and identity theft insurance to those impacted. The workshop included representatives from the following organizations: The Office of Personnel Management The Maryland Attorney General’s Office The Federal Trade Commission The Treasury Inspector General The United States Postal Inspection Service Washington County Sheriff’s Office Department of Aging, Senior Medicare Patrol Maryland Legal Aid Center TransUnion The ID Theft Workshop was the eighth constituent workshop Delaney has held in the Sixth District since April. ##
08.26.2015	GAITHERSBURG – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) met with constituents individually this morning during his latest office hours session at the Gaithersburg Business Training Center. Over 25 attended office hours, which offered constituents a chance to speak with the Congressman one-on-one. Delaney will hold office hours tomorrow in Urbana. “Meeting with constituents is one of the most important parts of my job and I take that responsibility seriously,” said Congressman Delaney. “Office hours give me a chance to meet with people directly, hear their concerns and learn more about how my office can help. We talk policy, we talk about individual casework and we talk about what’s happening in Washington. During office hours, my constituents set the agenda.” The Gaithersburg Office Hours were the fifth session held this summer, following earlier meetings in Hagerstown (4/8), Frederick (5/27), McHenry (6/5) and Shady Grove (7/16). Office hours are posted on Delaney’s website, social media accounts and his e-newsletter. For help with casework, constituents can also call district offices in Gaithersburg, at (301) 926-0300, or Hagerstown, at (301) 733-2900. ##
08.26.2015	GERMANTOWN – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) held a Climate Action Workshop Tuesday at the BlackRock Center for the Arts in Germantown. Over 160 Marylanders attended the workshop, which featured an audience panel discussion with representatives from the United States Navy, federal government and leading environmental organizations, including Rear Admiral Jonathan White, the Director of the U.S. Navy’s Climate Change Task Force. “Climate change threatens our national security, our health and food supply and our economy,” said Congressman Delaney. “History will judge us and our grandchildren will judge us on whether or not we had the courage to act. The huge turnout at our workshop makes it clear that Marylanders are concerned about climate change and want their elected officials to respond and I will continue to work to build support for my climate change bill. The time for denial is over.” In May, Delaney filed climate change legislation designed to reduce carbon pollution. The Tax Pollution, Not Profits Act (H.R. 2202) establishes a federal tax on greenhouse gas emissions, using market forces to reduce pollution and encourage new innovation in alternative energy production. Revenues would be used to 1) reduce the corporate tax rate, 2) provide monthly payments to low and middle-income households and 3) provide aid to coal industry workers. Panel participants included: Rear Admiral Jonathan White, Director U.S. Navy Climate Change Task Force David Herring, Director of Communication and Education; National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) William C. Baker, President; Chesapeake Bay Foundation Mark Kresowik, Sierra Club Karla Raettig, Executive Director; Maryland League of Conservation Voters Michelle Vigen, Montgomery County Department of the Environment The Climate Action Workshop was the seventh workshop Delaney has held in the Sixth District since April. ##
08.19.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, together with U.S. Representative John Delaney (all D-Md.) today announced that the Funkstown Volunteer Fire Company has been awarded $12,219 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. As the Vice-Chairwoman of the Appropriations Committee, Senator Mikulski fights each year to increase federal funding for the fire grants program. Senator Cardin is a member of the Finance Committee. “I know how important this funding is to Maryland communities – often it’s the difference between life and death. First responders protect our homes and communities, and the federal government has a responsibility to protect them by providing them with the tools they need to do their jobs safer and smarter,” Senator Mikulski said. “Every day when our first responders report for duty, they don’t know what they will face. That’s why I fight every year for the equipment, training, and staffing our protectors and communities deserve.” “Maryland first responders put their lives on the line daily to safeguard communities from harm, “said Senator Cardin. “This federal investment in safety will help ensure that the Funkstown Volunteer Fire Company can carry out their mission and return to their families without being harmed.” “These federal firefighting grants are good news for Funkstown and good news for Washington County,” said Congressman Delaney. “Since the 1930s the Funkstown Volunteer Fire Company has been saving lives in Western Maryland, responding to thousands of calls each year and these grants will help the Company purchase essential life-saving equipment. With my Maryland colleagues, I’m committed to making sure that local heroes have the resources they need to get the job done.” The Funkstown Volunteer Fire Company will use this federal funding to purchase 14 new spare self-contained breathing apparatuses (SCBA). SCBAs enable firefighters to breath in smoke-filled rooms to keep them safe in the line of duty. For more information, please contact Glenn Fuscsick at 301-790-0090. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is an important component of the larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the Nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. Since 2001, the AFG has provided approximately $6.1 billion in grants to first-responder organizations to obtain much-needed emergency response equipment, personal protective equipment, firefighting and emergency vehicles, and training. During fiscal year (FY) 2014, the AFG will award $304.5 million to first-responder organizations that need support to improve their capability to respond to fires and emergencies of all types. Since 2001, Maryland fire departments and Emergency Medical Services (EMS) units have received nearly $168 million in fire grant funding, of which more than $22 million has been awarded to fire departments in Washington County. # # #
08.18.2015	HAGERSTOWN – The Office of Rep. John K. Delaney (MD-6) hosted a Federal and State Grants Workshop Tuesday in Hagerstown at the Washington County Free Library. Attended by over 175 people, the event featured representatives from federal, state and local agencies who offered advice on how to apply for grants. The Grants Workshop is the sixth constituent services workshop Delaney’s office has held since April. “Local organizations make our communities stronger every day. They know where the problems are and what the solutions are. Bringing grant money into Maryland can help economic development, improve education and health care and serve people in need,” said Congressman Delaney. “Navigating the grant process isn’t always easy and the goal of this workshop was to bring people together, answer questions and make sure that local agencies, small businesses and non-profits know what grants are available.” The Grants Workshop featured representatives from the following organizations: Grants.gov The United States Department of Agriculture Office of Rural Development The United States Department of Labor The Appalachian Regional Commission The Maryland Governor’s Grants Office The Governor’s Office of Crime Control and Prevention The Community Foundation of Washington County The Foundation Center ##
08.14.2015	WASHINGTON – On August 14, 1935, President Roosevelt signed the Social Security Act into law. To mark the anniversary, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) published an op-ed on the success of Social Security and how we can secure its future, in the Huffington Post. The op-ed is available online here and the text is copied below: Celebrating 80 Years of Social Security, a Promise to Keep By Rep. John K. Delaney Imagine a country where the vast majority of seniors live in poverty, a country where for many there are no golden years, but a time of struggle and dependence. That was the United States before the creation of Social Security, which has proven to be one of the most effective and important government programs in our history. In 1935, the year Social Security was created, the poverty rate for seniors was over 70%. Today, as we celebrate Social Security’s 80th birthday, the poverty rate for seniors has been reduced to roughly 10%. We still have a lot of work to do to fight poverty among seniors and all Americans, but thanks in part to Social Security, real progress has been made. For 80 years, Social Security has made our country stronger, helped working Americans retire with dignity and grown the middle class. As we celebrate Social Security’s success, we must also commit to protecting and preserving the program for decades to come. I am dedicated to making sure Social Security will be there for future generations and have written legislation to strengthen the program. Despite the incredible success of Social Security, a tremendous amount of misinformation exists about the program. Social Security is not broke and Social Security does not need to be privatized. Social Security has worked extremely well for 80 years and with small recalibrations to respond to an aging population, Social Security can remain healthy for generations to come and provide stronger benefits for those most in need. On August 14, 1935, President Roosevelt signed the Social Security Act into law. Roosevelt called Social Security “a hope of many years’ standing” and stated that the program was designed to give “some measure of protection to the average citizen and to his family against the loss of a job and against poverty-ridden old age.” The first lump sum payments were made in 1937 and in 1940 the first monthly Social Security payments began. Social Security is funded by a payroll tax on wages. Those funds go to a trust fund that pays benefits to current retirees and their families, as well as disabled Americans and their families. Maryland Congressman David Lewis played a leading role in the legislation that created Social Security. Lewis, a Roosevelt ally from Cumberland, represented Maryland’s Sixth District in the House. Lewis filed the original piece of Social Security legislation, but shortly thereafter it was re-introduced by the Chairman of the Ways & Means Committee. Nevertheless, Lewis remained a strong advocate for the bill and stood next to President Roosevelt when he signed the legislation on August 14, 1935. Congressman Lewis, who worked as a coal miner before becoming an attorney and elected official, helped transform the country for the better and I’m proud to follow in his footsteps in representing the Sixth District today. In 2014, 59 million Americans received Social Security benefits, including nine out of ten seniors. According to a 2013 study by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, Social Security payments keep over 20 million Americans out of poverty, including over 200,000 Marylanders. For many seniors, Social Security is their primary source of income. Make no mistake, Social Security is not broken and is not failing. Last month, Social Security’s Board of Trustees released their latest report on the status of the program. Their report found that Social Security is in good shape in the short term and that Americans near retirement age have little to be concerned about. However, demographic trends will put long-term pressure on Social Security. It is important that the long-term challenges facing Social Security are acknowledged in a factually-accurate way. We won’t enact good public policy by exaggerating problems or ignoring them to fit an ideological agenda. In 1940, only 6.8% of the population was over 65, while the federal government’s Administration on Aging projects that by 2030 19% of the population will be over 65. Because of the aging of the U.S. population, the Trustees estimate that Social Security will hit insolvency by 2034. If Congress fails to act, this could mean drastic cuts at that time. To avoid this problem, I’ve filed legislation to make Social Security solvent for the next 75 years. My bill would create a bicameral and bipartisan commission tasked with coming up with a long-term solution. The commission’s recommendation would then be voted on by Congress. I believe that any adjustments to Social Security must be grounded in a sense of justice, with special consideration given to protecting those who are most in need. This means enhancing benefits for the very old, increasing benefits for the most vulnerable, and ensuring that caregivers receive the benefits they deserve. To pay for these changes and to maintain solvency, we should first raise the cap on payroll tax contributions. Right now someone earning $119,000 and someone earning $10 million dollars a year make the exact same real dollar contribution to Social Security. Raising the cap and adding a second threshold for very high incomes will give Social Security additional revenues it needs. We should also adjust the inflation calculation to reflect more accurately the changes in costs faced by seniors. It would be a terrible tragedy if rampant partisanship derailed one of the greatest legislative accomplishments in our history. Let’s put aside the rhetoric, focus on the facts, and protect Social Security. Social Security transformed America for the better in 1935 and on its 80th birthday, let’s make sure the program is still healthy on its 100th and 150th birthdays as well. ##
08.13.2015	WASHINGTON – On Wednesday, the Interim General Manager and Chief Executive Officer of the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority’s Board of Directors announced that the track defect that caused last week’s Metro derailment had been detected more than a month ago, but was not addressed. “It is flatly unacceptable that Metro knew about this problem for over a month and did nothing. The individuals responsible for this utterly irresponsible failure should be fired, period,” said Congressman Delaney. “Riders shouldn’t risk their lives every time they take Metro. I’m frustrated and appalled by consistent management failures at Metro. I have fought for Metro in Congress, defended the need for strong mass transit and authored legislation to expand and rebuild our infrastructure, but that is only half the equation; Metro also has to get the job done. Maryland needs a safe, reliable and efficient Metro and the organization is falling short of that standard.” ##
08.12.2015	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, together with U.S. Representative John Delaney (all D-Md.) today announced that the City of Frederick has been awarded a $4,137,300 Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) for the removal of obstructions at the Frederick Municipal Airport. “Our regional airports play a key role in maintaining Maryland’s robust economy,” said Senator Mikulski, Chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which funds DOT. “These funds in the federal checkbook mean improvements to the Frederick Municipal Airport runway infrastructure that are critical to keeping Western Maryland’s economy moving and Marylanders on the go.” “The smooth functioning of operations at Frederick Municipal Airport is critically important to travel and commerce in Western Maryland and the entire region,” said Senator Cardin, a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee. “This federal investment ensures that people and cargo flying in and out of Frederick can get from point A to point B quickly, safely and efficiently.” "The Frederick Airport is a key economic asset and an important investment. This federal grant will help improve safety at the airport and help encourage further growth. Infrastructure investments mean local jobs and a stronger economy and federal support for regional airports is good news for our state," Congressman Delaney said. The Frederick Municipal Airport will use this federal funding to remove obstructions from runway approach and transitional services including the relocation of a gas line from a runway approach area. The grant will also provide funds to demolish multiple buildings located on Bailes Lane. # # #
08.03.2015	WASHINGTON – The White House and the Environmental Protection Agency have released the final version of the Administration’s Clean Power Plan, the first-ever national standards to limit carbon pollution from power plants. The new environmental protections call for 2005 levels of carbon dioxide emissions to be reduced by 32% by 2030. In May, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) introduced the Tax Pollution, Not Profits Act, legislation to reduce carbon pollution and combat climate change in a pro-growth, economically responsible manner. “Climate change is one of the defining challenges of our time, threatening our health, our economy and our national security and it is time to act,” said Congressman Delaney. “I applaud the White House for taking the first steps towards limiting carbon emissions. But climate change is a big problem that goes beyond just power plants and will require a bigger solution, which is why I’ve always supported a carbon tax, an approach that can harness market forces to encourage innovation and help working families and those directly impacted by new technologies. I am also pleased that states will have the option to implement a state-based carbon tax, a change I called for last year. As the Pope made clear, we have a moral obligation to leave a healthy planet to future generations and I will continue to work to build support for my Tax Pollution, Not Profits Act in Congress.” Last year, Delaney filed the State’s Choice Act, which gave states the additional option of establishing a state-based carbon tax to meet the new carbon standards and formally requested the change in writing. The Tax Pollution, Not Profits Act Establishes a federal tax on carbon pollution Places a tax on Green House Gas (GHG) emissions at $30 per metric ton of carbon dioxide or carbon dioxide equivalent in 2015, increasing each subsequent year at 4% above inflation. New carbon tax uses market forces and private sector innovation to reduce greenhouse gas pollution. Businesses benefit from predictable, market-driven approach. Lowers the corporate tax rate and returns revenues to the economy The legislation reduces the corporate tax rate from 35% to 28%, helping companies mitigate higher energy costs and, importantly, makes U.S. companies more competitive. Increasing U.S. economic competitiveness in a global economy will lead to gains in job creation, economic growth and increased domestic investment. Helps Impacted Coal Industry Workers Creates a new multi-billion dollar aid program administered by the Department of Labor (DOL) to assist workers in the coal industry that may be displaced as a result of the legislation. The assistance can include: worker retraining programs, financial assistance with relocation expenses, health care, early retirement and other benefits. There is precedent for the DOL to administer this kind of program. Since 1973 the Department of Labor has administered benefits to coal miners and their survivors impacted by black lung disease. Protects middle class and working families with an Energy Refund To ensure that low and middle-income households are not negatively impacted by the costs of transitioning to new energy sources, a portion of the revenues collected from the pollution tax will be redirected to low-income and middle-class working families via an Energy Refund. Households at or below 150% of the federal poverty line will receive direct monthly payments to fully offset increased energy costs. Households between 150-200% of the federal poverty line will receive a reduced monthly payment on a sliding scale. Households over 200% poverty level will be eligible for a refundable tax credit, with benefits also on a sliding scale. ##
07.30.2015	WASHINGTON – On July 30, 1975 President Lyndon Johnson signed legislation creating Medicare and Medicaid. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “The 50th anniversary of Medicare and Medicaid is an anniversary worth celebrating. Fifty years ago, we made a commitment to expanding health care coverage for seniors and for children and families in need. It was the right thing to do in 1965 and it is the right thing to do today. Nearly everyone in America knows someone personally who has benefited from these programs, which serve millions of beneficiaries every day, but also strengthen our health care system as a whole by supporting doctors and hospitals and financing improvements in medical care. Given the success and importance of Medicare and Medicaid, I am strongly opposed to any effort to voucherize these programs, a move that would shift costs to seniors and vulnerable populations.” Delaney is a cosponsor of a House Resolution introduced Wednesday that commemorates the remarkable impact of Medicare and Medicaid and calls for these programs to be strengthened and protected. Congressman Delaney has voted against the House Republican budget, which includes measures to voucherize Medicare each year he’s been in office. ##
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON – Today the House passed a three-month extension to the Highway Trust Fund. Absent Congressional action, the nation’s primary source of transportation funding will expire in two days. “If everyone in Congress left the Capitol tonight and rode with my constituents on the Red Line or I-270 or I-81, this would be the last short-term highway bill we’d be forced to pass” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). Earlier this year over 400 Marylanders shared with Delaney stories of how America’s crumbling infrastructure is impacting their lives. Delaney has led Congressional efforts to pass a long-term infrastructure bill using revenues from international tax reform. Delaney is the author of the Infrastructure 2.0 Act (H.R. 625) legislation to fund a six-year Highway Bill at increased levels, create a new American Infrastructure Fund and bring overseas profits back home. ##
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has filed the Honest Dynamic Scoring Resolution, legislation that would make sure that the economic benefits of smart public investments in areas such as infrastructure, research and development and education are accurately reflected in budget projections. The bipartisan legislation was introduced with lead Republican Congressman Richard Hanna (NY-22) and Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52). Under current House rules, macroeconomic or “dynamic” scoring – scoring that takes into account the secondary benefits of legislation – is effectively limited to tax bills. The bill would ensure that all major bills are scored using the same methodology and that the economic benefits of investing in roads, bridges and transit, of educating the next generation and of supporting new technological and scientific innovation are accounted for. “Building new ports and runways, training new high-skill workers, investing in new technologies – these choices grow our economy, create jobs and reduce the deficit and this fact should be reflected in our congressional projections. The House budgeting process is broken: we have one set of facts for tax bills and another set of facts for public investments. We’ve tilted the scales to favor one specific agenda,” said Congressman Delaney. “As a pro-growth progressive, I favor dynamic scoring because I believe we must increase our nation’s investment in infrastructure, research and education. In the interest of accurate budgeting, we need to score and analyze all bills the same way; this is more intellectually honest and necessary for better policy decisions.” “Traditional budget score keeping fails to capture the benefits of pro-growth policies like infrastructure investments and tax cuts, but we know that maintaining and upgrading our infrastructure creates jobs, grows our GDP, and lowers transportation costs for businesses and individuals alike,” Congressman Hanna said. “In the same way that we consider the macroeconomic effects to determine the economic impacts of tax cuts, we should use the same methods to fully capture the benefits to the economy of investing in our infrastructure.” “We need to provide lawmakers with an accurate picture of how scientific research, infrastructure, clean energy technology, and education will benefit our economic growth beyond a simple income statement calculation,” said Congressman Peters. “Our current budgeting system gives no incentive to make investments today that will create millions of jobs, save billions of dollars, and keep the United States ahead of our competitors.” The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) and the Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) provide Congress with a nonpartisan financial projection – or “score” – of the expected effect proposed pieces of legislation would have on the federal budget. A bill’s score is typically instrumental in the success or failure of legislation. The Honest Dynamic Scoring Resolution amends House rules, lowering the threshold for bills to be dynamically scored to 1% of the previous year’s discretionary spending and any spending in an appropriations bill for which the authorization was dynamically scored. As outlined in CBO’s 2015 Long-Term Budget Outlook, published in June, “increases in federal investment promote long-term economic growth by raising productivity. Spending on education helps develop a skilled workforce, spending on R&D encourages innovation, and spending on infrastructure such as roads and airports facilitates commerce. […] The result of that greater productivity is higher private-sector output.” (page 79) According to a white paper released by McGraw Hill Financial earlier this month infrastructure investment should be dynamically scored because it leads to economic growth and that a “$100 billion dollar infrastructure investment would generate a 20-year revenue offset ranging from $12.5 to $33.1 billion.” To read Congressman Delaney’s Washington Post op-ed on honest dynamic scoring, click here. ##
07.28.2015	WASHINGTON – Tuesday, it was reported that the House will likely consider a three-month extension to the Highway Trust Fund on Wednesday, a short-term patch following two weeks of heated debate in the Senate. Absent Congressional action, the Highway Trust Fund, the nation’s primary source of federal transportation funding, will lose authority on July 31 endangering projects nationwide. Congress has implemented short-term patches to the Highway Trust Fund 34 times since 2005. “Congress is stuck in a legislative crisis on infrastructure funding, the worst rerun in Washington that needs a new script. The old politics and the old solutions aren’t working anymore and the American people are paying the price with disintegrating roads, aging bridges and inadequate transit systems,” said Congressman John K. Delaney. “We need a new solution and a bipartisan deal using international tax reform is the breakthrough we need. Instead of cobbling together short-term bills using miscellaneous budget moves, we can and should implement a comprehensive pro-growth solution. I’ve sat across the table with colleagues on both sides of the aisle pitching a big and bold repatriation and infrastructure deal and it is clear to me the support is there. If we get the details right we can rebuild our infrastructure, create jobs and improve our business climate. Let’s get this done.” Delaney is the author of the Infrastructure 2.0 Act (H.R. 625) legislation to fund a six-year Highway Bill using revenues from international tax reform. Delaney’s initial legislation with this framework, the Partnership to Build America Act, ended the 113th Congress with over 40 Republican and 40 Democratic cosponsors. As reported in the New York Times earlier this month, “in the last two years, an idea that began as an outlandish proposal by a freshman House Democrat, John Delaney of Maryland, has evolved into the closest thing to consensus on infrastructure funding.” The Infrastructure 2.0 Act (H.R. 625) Investing in 21st Century Infrastructure with Deemed Repatriation at 8.75% Tax Rate Under the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, existing overseas profits accumulated by U.S. multi-national corporations would be subject to a mandatory, one-time 8.75% tax, replacing deferral option and current rate of 35%. $120 billion to the Highway Trust Fund, enough to meet funding gap at increased levels for six years. $50 billion to capitalize the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) a new financing mechanism for transportation, water, energy, communications and education projects. Leveraged to $750 billion, AIF financing (loans, bond guarantees and equity) is available to state and local governments. American Infrastructure Fund was first proposed in Rep. Delaney’s bipartisan Partnership to Build America Act. $25 million pilot program to create regional infrastructure accelerators, similar to the West Coast Infrastructure Exchange This frees the estimated $2 trillion in overseas earnings to return to the United States, spurring private sector re-investment and growth. Creating Long-term Highway Trust Fund Solvency and Policy Certainty The Infrastructure 2.0 Act provides six years of HTF solvency, providing immediate certainty to the private sector and policymakers. The legislation also establishes a bipartisan and bicameral commission that is tasked with developing a solution for permanent solvency of the Highway Trust Fund. Building a Path for Broader Tax Reform The Infrastructure 2.0 Act creates an eighteen month deadline for international tax reform. To encourage action, the legislation includes a forcing function: if reform is not enacted, a fallback international tax package to make U.S. business climate more competitive would be implemented. This pro-growth fallback reform package would end deferral, reduce anti-competitive over taxation, decrease taxes for companies paying fair rates abroad but increase taxes for companies in tax havens. This would eliminate the lock-out effect and allow for the free flow of profits back to the United States. Under this option, for Active Market Foreign Income, a company would pay a 12.25% tax to the U.S. on overseas profits if they are currently paying no tax and a 2% tax to the U.S. if they are already paying the OECD average of 25% abroad, with a sliding scale in-between. ##
07.24.2015	WASHINGTON – On Friday, the Senate formally started debate on a six-year highway bill, which includes a provision to delay requirements for the installation of Positive Train Control (PTC), an automated train navigation system to improve rail safety. Enacted in 2008, the original deadline required railroad companies to install PTC systems by December 2015. The Senate highway bill would push the deadline back to December 2018. The bill also cuts the Highway Safety Improvement Program by $1.2 billion over six years. The Chairman of the National Transportation and Safety Review Board has stated PTC would have prevented the May Amtrak derailment in Philadelphia that killed eight people. This week, Delaney led a letter with 30 cosigners calling for a long-term transportation bill using international tax reform. “Congress should be expediting, not delaying safety upgrades on our nation’s railways. This provision is another reason to be concerned about rushing through with the Senate highway bill. We should implement the House’s short-term patch and spend the weeks we need this fall getting the details right,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “I am deeply concerned about the consequences of delaying Positive Train Control installation nationwide. It took two years for the United States to implement requirements for the installation of car seat belts and seven years to implement airbag regulations. Americans shouldn’t have to wait a decade to feel safe on the train. We know that installing Positive Train Control will save lives and prevent costly accidents, period. Long-term infrastructure investment should be one of our country’s top priorities and that includes making sure that the rail lines Americans ride every day are safe.” During floor debate of this year’s House Transportation and Housing appropriations bill, Congressman Delaney offered an amendment, the Democratic Motion to Recommit, to give Amtrak additional funding to implement additional Positive Train Control (PTC) coverage. Delaney is the author of the bipartisan Infrastructure 2.0 Act, which uses international tax reform to fund the Highway Trust Fund for six years at increased levels and create a new American Infrastructure Fund for state and local projects. Delaney has been urging Congress to combine tax reform and new infrastructure investment since taking office in 2013. ##
07.24.2015	WASHINGTON – On Friday, July 24, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) announced a Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Grant Award for the Gaithersburg-Washington Grove Volunteer Fire Department. The grant provides the fire department with $278,736 to assist the department with volunteer recruitment and retention. On March 26, 2015, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) joined over 150 colleagues in the House of Representatives in a letter to congressional leadership on the House Committee on Appropriations requesting funding for the SAFER Grant Program for Fiscal Year 2016. “For men and women serving in our local fire departments, adequate staffing and training can mean the difference between life and death,” said Delaney. “Today’s grant will help the Gaithersburg-Washington Grove Volunteer Fire Department build their team by connecting volunteers with opportunities to serve as a first responder. When we invest in our firefighters, we’re investing in safety. The SAFER Grant Program helps to make sure that when our firefighters respond to a disaster, they aren’t short on staff.” The Gaithersburg-Washington Grove Volunteer Fire Department (GWGVFD) was founded in 1927 and today serves the communities of Gaithersburg, Washington Grove, Derwood and Montgomery Village. The SAFER Grant Program helps fire departments across the country to increase their number of trained firefighters, attain 24-hour staffing, and provide adequate protection for their communities. ##
07.24.2015	WASHINGTON – On July 24, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) announced an Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Award for the Ellerslie Volunteer Fire Company. The $94,477 grant provides the Ellerslie Volunteer Fire Company with funding for a new self-contained breathing apparatuses (SCBA). According to the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), half of all fire departments do not have the resources to equip all firefighters on a shift with SCBA. “Our firefighters are heroes who put themselves on the front the lines to protect our neighbors and families, but they can’t do their job without resources,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “This federal grant will help the Ellerslie Volunteer Fire Company continue to serve their local community and save lives, as they have done for 69 years. Everyone deserves to be safe from fire, whether they live in an urban area or in rural Allegany County.” A SCBA is a device worn by firefighters and rescue workers to provide breathable air in dangerous environments. The Ellerslie Volunteer Fire Company was founded in 1946 by local citizens concerned about fire protection. Serving the Ellerslie community in northern Allegany County, the Ellerslie Volunteer Fire Department responded to 149 fire department calls in 2014. ##
07.24.2015	WASHINGTON – July 26 marks the anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), which was signed into law by President George H. W. Bush in 1990 after receiving bipartisan support in Congress. Modeled after the Civil Rights Act, the ADA prohibits discrimination based on disability in areas of public life, including employment, transportation, housing, and education. “When everyone has a chance at success, at getting the job of their dreams or going to college or starting a family, our country is a better place to live,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-06). “The Americans with Disabilities Act has extended those opportunities to the more than 56 million Americans who are living with a disability today. For twenty-five years, the Americans with Disabilities Act has opened doors, opened minds, and opened mainstream America to a group of people who previously faced isolation and segregation. Today is a chance to reflect on the progress we’ve made and the work we have left to do removing the barriers that disabled Americans face.” ##
07.23.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) is an original cosponsor of the Equality Act, legislation to end discrimination against LGBT Americans. The Equality Act, authored by Rep. David N. Cicilline (RI-1) was filed Thursday. The Equality Act provides explicit and consistent national protections for sexual orientation and gender identity in the following areas of law: credit, education, employment, federal funding, housing, jury service and public accommodations. “No American should be discriminated against because of who they are or who they love,” said Congressman Delaney. “I am proud to cosponsor the Equality Act, which creates a uniform federal standard to protect LGBT Americans from discrimination. In many states, LGBT Americans still lack basic protections. Although we’ve achieved historic civil rights victories on marriage rights, we have more work to do to protect the civil rights of LGBT Americans at work, at school and in public spaces, no matter where they live.” ##
07.22.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) led a letter from the New Democrat Coalition to Speaker Boehner and Leader Pelosi calling for a permanent solution to funding the Highway Trust Fund (HTF). The letter states, “there is bipartisan agreement that Congress should replenish the Highway Trust Fund with revenues raised through international tax reform that includes ‘deemed repatriation’ of U.S. dollars stranded overseas – this will also make U.S.-based companies more competitive.” Delaney is the author of the bipartisan Infrastructure 2.0 Act, which uses international tax reform to fund the HTF for six years at increased levels and create a new American Infrastructure Fund. Delaney has been building support for this framework since 2013, meeting with over 100 Republicans and 100 Democrats one-on-one to pitch the idea. The letter was signed by 30 members and led by Delaney, Rep. Elizabeth Esty (CT-5), Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Rep. Ed Perlmutter (CO-7) and Rep. John Carney (DE- at large). The text of the letter reads: Dear Speaker Boehner and Leader Pelosi: As Members of the New Democrat Coalition, we are committed to policy solutions that will grow our economy in every town and city. We have an opportunity in the coming months to agree on a plan that will bring our nation’s infrastructure into the 21st century and maintain our competitiveness globally. Currently, federal infrastructure spending does not meet the tremendous demand in communities across the country. The current state of our roads and bridges has the potential to be our country’s next destabilizing economic crisis and threatens to stall economic growth unless we address it now. There is bipartisan agreement that Congress should replenish the Highway Trust Fund with revenues raised through international tax reform that includes “deemed repatriation” of U.S. dollars stranded overseas – this will also make U.S.-based companies more competitive. Additionally, we need a sustainable and dedicated user fee model to continue funding infrastructure projects into the future. Coming together around this two-pronged funding approach would allow us to pay for a long-term infrastructure bill that would not only revitalize our nation’s infrastructure, but create and maintain jobs across the country for years to come. We all believe that the series of short-term patches over the past several years has been shortsighted and damaging for our economy as well as our roads and bridges. We strongly urge you to bring a long-term, sustainably funded highway bill to the House floor without delay. We are eager to support such a proposal. Sincerely, ###
07.21.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has published an op-ed in The Hill on his bipartisan legislation, The Infrastructure 2.0 Act. The op-ed outlines the approach needed to combine international corporate tax reform and infrastructure investment and lays out the differences between deemed repatriation and a tax holiday. Delaney writes, “Deemed repatriation as part of international tax reform can move the country forward, while a tax holiday will simply mean not enough revenue and not enough infrastructure.” The Infrastructure 2.0 Act uses international tax reform to fund a six-year highway bill and create a new American Infrastructure Fund. Since 2013, Delaney has met with over 100 Republicans and 100 Democrats in Congress, one-on-one to build support for using repatriation to rebuild America. The op-ed is available online here and is copied below: The Right Repatriation and Infrastructure Framework By Rep. John K. Delaney The Hill, 7/21/15 Washington is close to a major bipartisan breakthrough, a long-term infrastructure bill using revenues from international tax reform. On the cusp of this massive opportunity, I am concerned that confusion over the policy details – and scoring numbers - could derail a good deal. Not all tax reform proposals are the same and there are major differences between what’s known as “deemed repatriation” – a framework for which I’ve built a broad, bipartisan coalition of support – and a misguided “repatriation tax holiday.” Deemed repatriation as part of international tax reform can move the country forward, while a tax holiday will simply mean not enough revenue and not enough infrastructure. When I started building support for this framework two years ago, using corporate profits trapped overseas to rebuild infrastructure at home was seen as strange. In meeting after meeting there was an initial moment of confusion or skepticism, followed by a big realization: we have trillions in corporate profits trapped overseas and a massive need at home and this is the way we can solve two problems at once. After meeting with well over 100 Republicans and 100 Democrats in Congress one-on-one, I’ve seen firsthand that there is tremendous support for a new deal using international tax reform that includes the repatriation of foreign earnings to rebuild America. Recently, President Obama, former Ways & Means Chairman Dave Camp (R-Mich.) and current leaders in both parties have embraced deemed repatriation linked to international tax reform. Meanwhile, experts have pointed out the problems inherent in a tax holiday, which will discourage long term domestic reinvestment, encourage more profits to flow off shore and fail to produce the revenues we need. Driving this momentum are two unassailable facts at the heart of our economy: we need to improve America’s failing infrastructure and create a pro-growth tax code. Step one in rebuilding our infrastructure is to pass a long-term highway bill that gives states and the private sector the certainty they need to properly plan. Our primary federal transportation tool, the Highway Trust Fund (HTF), faces a shortfall Congress hasn’t been able to solve. The old answer – raising the gas tax – is no longer politically viable. But it isn’t just about patching the hole; if we don’t increase infrastructure investment, we’ll fall farther behind. My legislation – Infrastructure 2.0 - not only solves the shortfall, but it increases the annual investment. At the same time, our current international tax system is broken and dragging down domestic growth. Right now, corporations that earn money overseas don’t have to pay U.S. taxes on those earnings unless they bring it back home. The tax they pay upon repatriating their profit is 35 percent minus any foreign taxes they’ve already paid. For example, a company that earned profits in the U.K. and paid 20 percent tax there would owe the U.S. an additional 15 percent tax if they bring those profits back. These combined rates are higher those our competitors offer. The current system gives companies an incentive to keep their money overseas to avoid paying that additional tax. This practice – deferral – means we don’t get tax revenue and we don’t get new private reinvestment flowing back to our economy. Everyone loses under this system, except our foreign competitors, who all have a lower tax rate than our companies. To bring future profits back home, where they can be used to expand businesses and hire more workers, we need what we call a “hybrid territorial system.” Under this model, the United States establishes a minimum tax on profits earned in foreign tax havens, but we significantly reduce the tax burden for legitimate profits earned abroad in normal tax jurisdictions. If done right, this approach will score positively by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO). This solution gets us halfway home – we’ve ended the incentives that trap profits overseas for the future and we’ve provide important flexibility to U.S. companies, but we also need reforms to bring back the estimated $2 trillion that is already abroad. This is where the distinction between “deemed repatriation” and a “repatriation tax holiday” becomes crucial. In 2004, we tried a tax holiday, which created a window during which companies could voluntarily bring profits back at a reduced tax rate. Only about a quarter of the money came home and according to the CBO it encouraged companies to keep profits overseas until the next holiday. It is unfortunate that many confuse this option with international tax reform that includes deemed repatriation. A tax holiday would be a mistake, instead of raising money to rebuild roads and bridges, it increases our deficit. A better solution is the one offered in my bipartisan Infrastructure 2.0 Act. This involves pairing deemed repatriation with the fix to the go-forward international tax system described above. Deemed repatriation means the current pile of untaxed overseas money is subject to an automatic tax (as if it was repatriated), but at a lower rate. We have found that lowering the rate to 8.75 percent is a compromise that can generate bipartisan support, as well as being a rate that Congressional scorekeepers have confirmed raises at least $170 billion. This is in addition to the economic benefit from the money coming home. This is precisely the revenue we need to create a world-class infrastructure network again. My legislation dedicates $120 billion towards a six-year highway bill at increased levels and uses another $50 billion to create the American Infrastructure Fund, a new resource that state and local governments can use to finance new projects. Deemed repatriation at this level, combined with the properly structured hybrid territorial system described above, produces new revenues. Moreover, there is no double counting in these numbers. With deemed repatriation we have an opportunity to come together in a bipartisan way to fix two major problems, our infrastructure deficit and our broken international tax system. This will deliver a triple bottom line to America: creating good-paying jobs, upgrading our global competitiveness and improving our quality of life. Let’s get the details right and get this done. Delaney has represented Maryland’s 6th Congressional District since 2013. He sits on the Financial Services Committee. ##
07.21.2015	WASHINGTON – Today state officials announced that Maryland will recoup $45 million from Noridian, the prime contractor for Maryland’s online health exchange. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) was a leading voice during the implementation of Maryland’s exchange, calling for the state to move to the federal exchange. Delaney releases the following statement: “I applaud Attorney General Frosh for negotiating this settlement as a partial offset to the pain Marylanders suffered as a result of the failed healthcare exchange roll out under then Governor O`Malley. Our state's failure to manage this roll-out - which cost our taxpayers tens of millions of dollars and prevented thousands of Marylanders from obtaining health insurance - was a painful lesson in government mismanagement and a national embarrassment. As I did in this situation, I will continue to push for a smarter government, one that uses data and best practices to implement transformative programs to help the lives of our citizens.” ##
07.20.2015	WASHINGTON – The Frederick News-Post has published an op-ed by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) on the 50th anniversary of the Vietnam War. Delaney’s op-ed is available online here and copied below: Remembering the sacrifice of Vietnam veterans 50 years later By Rep. John Delaney Fifty years ago, in July 1965, President Johnson dramatically expanded the size of the American engagement in Vietnam. Johnson announced on national television that the United States would fight in Vietnam, that the size of the monthly draft would double and that the conflict in Vietnam is “really war.” While we’d been in Vietnam for many years, Johnson’s address is considered by many historians to be the turning point when the United States made a full and irrevocable commitment to war in Vietnam, turning from an advice-and-support position to a direct-combat role. Recently, Congress commemorated the 50th anniversary of the Vietnam War with a ceremony in the United States Capitol. The commemoration honored those who served in the war and included military ceremony and remarks by legislative leaders, and the Defense Secretary Ash Carter. The 50th anniversary of the Vietnam War is an important moment in the country’s history, a time to remember the sacrifice of service members and their families and reaffirm our national obligation to provide Vietnam War veterans — and all veterans — with the benefits they’ve earned. According to the National Archives, 1,014 Marylanders died in service during the Vietnam War. The fallen came from every corner of Maryland, including Frederick County. Official records show that those who paid the ultimate price included men from Frederick, Brunswick, Mount Airy, Thurmont and Myersville. Overall, 58,253 members of the U.S. armed forces were killed in Vietnam and 153,363 Americans were wounded. Overall, 2.7 million Americans served in the Vietnam War. Of course, they didn’t make that sacrifice alone, their families served with them. Military families faced emotional and financial hardship while their loved ones served in Vietnam. As a parent, I cannot imagine the stress and anguish of having a family member serving in combat, but for military families that pain was all too real. The 50th anniversary of the Vietnam War is also a time to thank them. Unfortunately, our nation and our government have not always kept the fundamental promise we make our veterans: when you stand with us in uniform, we will stand with you. It may seem unimaginable to young people today, but Vietnam veterans were not always treated with the dignity and respect they deserved in the years after the war. Reflecting on the courage and valor of veterans during the anniversary year is a national opportunity to help heal the wound this left. The anniversary should also be a call to action. We must continue to upgrade veterans’ benefits and the federal agency that provides them. In recent years, the Department of Veterans Affairs has been plagued by substandard service, as veterans have dealt with long wait times and difficulty receiving the care and benefits they need. This has been an issue in waiting rooms, in processing claims and in access to specialized care. This is unacceptable. As Vietnam-era veterans age, the need has become even greater. I am proud to be a signer of the Veterans’ Bill of Rights, a bipartisan initiative designed to make sure that veterans are a top national priority. Last year, Congress passed major VA reform legislation. The bill included new funding to hire more staff and expand facilities, while also allowing more veterans to receive care from private, non-VA hospitals. This bipartisan bill also brings more accountability to the VA. The vast majority of VA staff are dedicated professionals. But those that aren’t performing deserve to be held accountable. I believe that the new Veterans’ Choice Program — which allows veterans to receive private care — should be expanded, and I’ve co-sponsored legislation to do so. We also have to expedite the processing of benefit claims. The Baltimore VA — which serves most Maryland veterans — has had some of the longest wait times in the country. At every veterans event I host, frustration is voiced about the length of time it takes to process claims. The VA simply has to do better, and if you or a relative needs help, please contact my office. In addition to reducing wait times, we have to improve and expand the kind of health care we are providing. In particular, mental health care coverage has been lacking. This February, the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act was signed into law. Tragically, 22 veterans kill themselves each day. This important bill strengthens mental health programs at the VA and establishes federal oversight. Each year a third party will evaluate the VA to make sure that suicide prevention programs are effective. I have also co-sponsored legislation that would provide veterans with fertility benefits, a major need for our younger veterans. They put their lives on the line to protect our families, and they should have the ability to start their own. Finally, each of my three years in Congress I’ve fought for increased federal funding for Fisher House, a nonprofit that provides free lodging near hospitals for military families. These apartment-style suites have allowed families to be together while our nation’s heroes receive care. But the need is growing, which is why I will continue to push for more federal funds so that more homes can be built. Earlier this month, I visited the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. If you’ve ever been there, you know how powerful it is to walk slowly along the wall and to see how the conflict deepened, illustrated by the growing height of the wall. I read a series of names, slowly, reflecting on what they had done for their country and how they had lost their lives so far from home. I also thought about the Vietnam veterans among us, our friends, neighbors and co-workers, I thought again about the sacrifice they made and the struggles many of them currently face. Five decades after the war, I offer my solemn gratitude to all those who served. Your bravery and selflessness will not be forgotten. U.S. Rep. John Delaney represents Maryland’s 6th District in the House of Representatives. ##
07.17.2015	WASHINGTON – Next week the Senate is expected to consider a short-term patch to the Highway Trust Fund, potentially using revenues from cuts to the federal Thrift Savings Program used by many federal employees. The Highway Trust Fund, the nation’s primary source of funding for federal infrastructure projects, will lose spending authority at the end of July. On Wednesday, the House passed a short-term extension through December, allowing Congress to finalize a long-term highway bill using international tax reform. Since 2013, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has built support for this approach, which has now been echoed by President Obama, former House Ways & Means Chairman Dave Camp and congressional leaders on both sides of the aisle. Delaney’s Infrastructure 2.0 Act uses deemed repatriation at 8.75% to fund a six-year highway bill at increased levels and create a new infrastructure fund. “We face a stark choice right now: we can either begin work immediately on a six-year highway bill that uses revenues from international tax reform or we can choose a two-year bill paid for by cutting benefits to federal workers,” said Congressman Delaney. “The House has passed an extension that gives us the time we need to get a robust bipartisan six-year highway bill done. There is strong momentum in both parties for using international tax reform, a fiscally-responsible pro-growth approach that will create jobs and allow us to invest in our future. I’ve sat across the table from over 100 Republicans to talk about this approach and know the support is there. Let’s get this done.” In 2013, Delaney first introduced this framework – combining international corporate tax reform and infrastructure – to Congress with the Partnership to Build America Act, which ended last session with over 40 Republican and 40 Democratic cosponsors. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act (H.R. 625) Investing in 21st Century Infrastructure with Deemed Repatriation at 8.75% Tax Rate Under the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, existing overseas profits accumulated by U.S. multi-national corporations would be subject to a mandatory, one-time 8.75% tax, replacing deferral option and current rate of 35%. $120 billion to the Highway Trust Fund, enough to meet funding gap at increased levels for six years. $50 billion to capitalize the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) a new financing mechanism for transportation, water, energy, communications and education projects. Leveraged to $750 billion, AIF financing (loans, bond guarantees and equity) is available to state and local governments. American Infrastructure Fund was first proposed in Rep. Delaney’s bipartisan Partnership to Build America Act. $25 million pilot program to create regional infrastructure accelerators, similar to the West Coast Infrastructure Exchange This frees the estimated $2 trillion in overseas earnings to return to the United States, spurring private sector re-investment and growth. Creating Long-term Highway Trust Fund Solvency and Policy Certainty The Infrastructure 2.0 Act provides six years of HTF solvency, providing immediate certainty to the private sector and policymakers. The legislation also establishes a bipartisan and bicameral commission that is tasked with developing a solution for permanent solvency of the Highway Trust Fund. Building a Path for Broader Tax Reform The Infrastructure 2.0 Act creates an eighteen month deadline for international tax reform. To encourage action, the legislation includes a forcing function: if reform is not enacted, a fallback international tax package to make U.S. business climate more competitive would be implemented. This pro-growth fallback reform package would end deferral, reduce anti-competitive over taxation, decrease taxes for companies paying fair rates abroad but increase taxes for companies in tax havens. This would eliminate the lock-out effect and allow for the free flow of profits back to the United States. Under this option, for Active Market Foreign Income, a company would pay a 12.25% tax to the U.S. on overseas profits if they are currently paying no tax and a 2% tax to the U.S. if they are already paying the OECD average of 25% abroad, with a sliding scale in-between. ##
07.16.2015	GERMANTOWN – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) hosted an Identity Theft Workshop & Forum Thursday evening in Germantown at the BlackRock Center for the Arts in Germantown. Over 275 people attended the event, which included one-on-one advice from federal and state officials and a panel discussion from experts. Delaney was joined at the event by Maryland Attorney General Brian Frosh and representatives from the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). Lisa Schifferle of the Federal Trade Commission moderated the panel discussion. The workshop followed reports last week that over 20 million Americans had their data compromised in a breach at OPM, while an earlier breach impacted over 4 million. Delaney is a cosponsor of legislation to provide impacted individuals with lifetime identity theft protection. “Identity theft is a growing problem that can often have serious consequences. The problem is especially acute in Maryland right now, where hundreds of thousands have likely been exposed in recent breaches at OPM. What happened at OPM is unacceptable and we need to take immediate action at all levels of government to make sure personal data is secure and that those impacted are protected,” said Congressman Delaney. “Tonight’s event was about bringing resources directly to my constituents and making sure they know how to protect themselves. I encourage anyone who couldn’t attend tonight to contact my office if they need assistance.” Overall, the panel discussion and workshop included representatives from 12 organizations: The Office of Personnel Management The Maryland Attorney General’s office The Maryland State Police The United States Postal Inspection Service The Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration The Federal Trade Commission The National Active and Retired Federal Employees Association The American Federation of Government Employees The Montgomery County Office of Consumer Protection Future Business Leaders of America Experian Legal Shield Anyone seeking information about the OPM breach can call 1-844-777-2743 or 1-844-222-2743. The event was Delaney’s fifth constituent services workshop this year, following earlier events in Hagerstown, Germantown, Cumberland and Gaithersburg. ##
07.16.2015	WASHINGTON – On Thursday, July 16, the New York Times published an article on the future of infrastructure investment in Congress, citing Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) as a source of consensus on infrastructure funding. The full text of the article is available here and an excerpt is included below: “In the last two years, an idea that began as an outlandish proposal by a freshman House Democrat, John Delaney of Maryland, has evolved into the closest thing to consensus on infrastructure funding. “The idea: Rewrite the tax code governing United States corporations operating internationally to end the unintended incentive for those companies to leave trillions of dollars in profits overseas, and add a component taxing those overseas profits. Much of the windfall on that one-time ‘transition’ tax would be dedicated to infrastructure spending.” Delaney is the author of the bipartisan Infrastructure 2.0 Act, which uses international tax reform to fund a six-year highway bill and create a new American Infrastructure Fund. Since 2013, Delaney has met with over 100 Republicans and 100 Democrats in Congress, one-on-one to build support for using repatriation to rebuild America. ##
07.16.2015	WASHINGTON – Today the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) informed Maryland of a policy change that will benefit Allegany County’s ability to apply for rural health care funding. Moving forward, HHS will exclude prison population from any county total, a change that will maintain Allegany County’s rural status. In the last five years Allegany County has received $2 million in federal grants under this program, which they will now be eligible for again. The change follows a February letter from Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Senator Ben Cardin that urged HHS to restore Allegany County’s rural designation. “I applaud HHS for ensuring that Allegany County will qualify for rural health care grants,” said Congressman Delaney. “Senator Cardin and I have been vocal on this and this policy change is good news for the county. By becoming eligible once again for rural health care funding, Allegany County can now apply for federal funding. By making the change recommended by Senator Cardin and I, HHS has implemented a new policy that will benefit all of rural Maryland. Everyone should have access to quality health care, no matter where they live. This is particularly a problem in rural America. In the past this funding has benefitted Western Marylanders and today’s news brings us closer to bringing federal dollars home to Allegany County once again.” ##
07.15.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House will consider a short-term extension to the Highway Trust Fund (HTF), providing funding through December 18, 2015. The HTF is the nation’s primary funding source for federal transportation projects and faces a long-term annual shortfall of $15 billion dollars. The HTF will expire at the end of July. Congressman John K. Delaney’s bipartisan Infrastructure 2.0 Act (H.R. 625) uses revenues from international tax reform to fund a six-year highway bill and creates a new American Infrastructure Fund to finance additional state and local projects. Delaney’s leadership in building support for using international tax reform to rebuild infrastructure was profiled earlier this year in the Washington Post. “The facts are right before our eyes: the clock is about to run out again and all the old answers aren’t viable anymore. Let’s pass what’s hopefully our last short-term patch and then immediately start hammering out a long-term bill that uses international corporate tax reform,” said Congressman Delaney. “Using deemed repatriation paired with broader reform to bring money back home for roads and bridges will require both parties to leave their ideological comfort zone, but it is absolutely the right thing to do for the country. I’ve met with over 100 Republicans and 100 Democrats, personally, to pitch this solution and I know that the support is there. We can get this done, let’s start today.” In 2013, Delaney introduced this framework – combining international corporate tax reform and infrastructure – to Congress with the Partnership to Build America Act, which ended last session with over 40 Republican and 40 Democratic cosponsors. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act (H.R. 625) Investing in 21st Century Infrastructure with Deemed Repatriation at 8.75% Tax Rate Under the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, existing overseas profits accumulated by U.S. multi-national corporations would be subject to a mandatory, one-time 8.75% tax, replacing deferral option and current rate of 35%. $120 billion to the Highway Trust Fund, enough to meet funding gap at increased levels for six years. $50 billion to capitalize the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) a new financing mechanism for transportation, water, energy, communications and education projects. Leveraged to $750 billion, AIF financing (loans, bond guarantees and equity) is available to state and local governments. American Infrastructure Fund was first proposed in Rep. Delaney’s bipartisan Partnership to Build America Act. $25 million pilot program to create regional infrastructure accelerators, similar to the West Coast Infrastructure Exchange This frees the estimated $2 trillion in overseas earnings to return to the United States, spurring private sector re-investment and growth. Creating Long-term Highway Trust Fund Solvency and Policy Certainty The Infrastructure 2.0 Act provides six years of HTF solvency, providing immediate certainty to the private sector and policymakers. The legislation also establishes a bipartisan and bicameral commission that is tasked with developing a solution for permanent solvency of the Highway Trust Fund. Building a Path for Broader Tax Reform The Infrastructure 2.0 Act creates an eighteen month deadline for international tax reform. To encourage action, the legislation includes a forcing function: if reform is not enacted, a fallback international tax package to make U.S. business climate more competitive would be implemented. This pro-growth fallback reform package would end deferral, reduce anti-competitive over taxation, decrease taxes for companies paying fair rates abroad but increase taxes for companies in tax havens. This would eliminate the lock-out effect and allow for the free flow of profits back to the United States. Under this option, for Active Market Foreign Income, a company would pay a 12.25% tax to the U.S. on overseas profits if they are currently paying no tax and a 2% tax to the U.S. if they are already paying the OECD average of 25% abroad, with a sliding scale in-between. ##
07.13.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) joined seven colleagues from the National Capital Region in cosponsoring legislation from Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton to provide free lifetime identity theft protection coverage to more than 22.1 million current, former and prospective federal employees whose personnel data has been compromised by widespread Office of Personnel Management (OPM) data breaches. The RECOVER Act (Reducing the Effects of the Cyberattack on OPM Victims Emergency Response Act of 2015) includes identity theft insurance for losses up to $5 million. A Senate companion bill has been introduced by Senator Ben Cardin. “The recent data breaches at OPM put millions of federal employees at risk and that’s unacceptable,” said Congressman Delaney. “Unfortunately, this isn’t going to be a short-term problem with short-term risk and we have to make sure we offer long-term support to those impacted. Our government should be in the position of strengthening the security of Americans online, not exposing their personal information to attack. The RECOVER Act makes sure that the victims of the data breaches will never have to face identity fraud alone.” On Thursday, July 16, Congressman Delaney will host an Identity Theft and Fraud Protection Forum at the BlackRock Center for the Arts in Germantown, featuring Maryland Attorney General Brian Frosh, representatives from OPM, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), the Maryland State Police, and others. At the forum, attendees can talk one-on-one with experts on how to protect their identity and steps they can take if they’re a victim. Constituents interested in attending should RSVP via email Delaney.Events@mail.house.gov or by calling 1-301-926-0300. ##
07.10.2015	WASHINGTON – On Thursday, the Office of Personnel Management announced that Social Security numbers for 21.5 million people were stolen through breaches of agency databases. The majority of those who had their identity compromised are likely to be current and former federal employees, contractors and their families. Individuals affected include 19.7 million individuals who applied for a background investigation as well as 1.8 million non-applicants. The 21.5 million stolen records come in addition to the 4.2 million stolen records of current and former federal employees, which OPM announced this June. “This is a massive security breach of staggering scope. It is unacceptable to have over 20 million Americans and millions of federal employees at risk because their government didn’t do a good enough job protecting their data. Millions of federal workers, including many in Maryland, were let down by their employer and the government they’ve worked to serve,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-06). “Our government should be in the position of strengthening the security of Americans online, not exposing their personal information to attack. This security failure has put millions of federal employees at risk and OPM and federal officials need to make it clear to Congress and the American people that they’re taking the necessary steps to make sure this doesn’t happen again. My constituents demand a clear and immediate response.” On Thursday, July 16, Congressman John Delaney will host an Identity Theft and Fraud Protection Forum at the BlackRock Center for the Arts in Germantown, featuring Maryland Attorney General Brian Frosh, representatives from the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), the Maryland State Police, and others. At the forum, attendees can talk one-on-one with experts on how to protect their identity and steps they can take if they’re a victim. Constituents interested in attending should RSVP via email Delaney.Events@mail.house.gov or by calling 1-301-926-0300. OPM has stated that those impacted by data breaches will be notified within the coming weeks, with the option to receive free identity restoration and victim recovery services. Federal employees with questions can call 1-844-777-2743 or 1-844-222-2743. OPM has issued the following guidance to affected individuals: Monitor financial account statements and immediately report any suspicious or unusual activity to financial institutions. Request a free credit report at www.AnnualCreditReport.com or by calling 1-877-322-8228. Consumers are entitled by law to one free credit report per year from each of the three major credit bureaus – Equifax®, Experian®, and TransUnion® – for a total of three reports every year. Contact information for the credit bureaus can be found on the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) website, www.ftc.gov. Review resources provided on the FTC identity theft website, www.identitytheft.gov. The FTC maintains a variety of consumer publications providing comprehensive information on computer intrusions and identity theft. You may place a fraud alert on your credit file to let creditors know to contact you before opening a new account in your name. Simply call TransUnion® at 1-800-680-7289 to place this alert. TransUnion® will then notify the other two credit bureaus on your behalf. Maryland residents who are concerned can also contact the Office of the Maryland Attorney General at 1-888-743-0023. ##
07.10.2015	WASHINGTON – Five years ago this month an important step towards consumer and investor protection was taken as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act was signed into law. Passed after the greatest financial crisis since the Great Depression, the law increased consumer and investor protections, created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and gave the Securities and Exchange Committee new enforcement authority. However, Congress has not passed housing finance reform. During the financial crisis over 11 million Americans were displaced by foreclosures. In September of 2008 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were placed into conservatorship. Seven years later, their legal status has not changed. This year, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6), with his colleagues Rep. Jim Himes (CT-4) and Rep. John Carney (DE- At large) introduced the Partnership to Strengthen Homeownership, legislation to protect the fixed-rate 30-year mortgage and shield American taxpayers from future bailouts by reforming the housing finance system. “As we reflect on the anniversary of Dodd-Frank, it is important to remember why these financial reforms were necessary. Dodd-Frank was born during a time of severe crisis and a time of severe hardship for millions of Americans,” said Congressman Delaney. “The financial crisis and the Great Recession that followed led to millions of Americans losing their home, their job, or both. Five years later our markets are stronger, investments are more secure and the economy is growing. However, housing policy was a contributing factor to the financial crisis and we still need comprehensive housing finance reform. The Delaney-Carney-Himes housing bill protects the thirty-year mortgage, reduces the risk of another taxpayer bailout and strengthens affordable housing programs. By using risk-sharing to combine the private sector’s ability to price risk with a government guarantee, our legislation provides an innovative framework that should appeal to members on both sides of the aisle. Five years after the passage of Dodd-Frank and seven years after the financial crisis, we still have work to do to protect homeowners and investors.” The Delaney-Carney-Himes legislation, first introduced last Congress, establishes an insurance program through Ginnie Mae which maintains the full faith and credit of the federal government, but protects taxpayer investment by requiring adequate private sector capital and accurate pricing of government reinsurance. All government guaranteed single-family and multi-family mortgage-backed securities will be supported by a minimum of 5% private sector capital, which will stand in a first loss position. The remaining 95% of the risk will be shared between Ginnie Mae and a private reinsurer on a pari passu basis. Fees paid to Ginnie Mae for providing these securities will be allocated to affordable housing programs. The bill winds down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and allows them to be sold and recapitalized. ##
07.09.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Congressman Steny H. Hoyer (D-MD) hosted a meeting on Capitol Hill with the National Capital Region House Delegation and presidents of the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE) and the National Treasury Employees Union (NTEU). The Members in attendance included Representatives Elijah Cummings, Chris Van Hollen, Dutch Ruppersberger, John Sarbanes, (all D-MD), Gerry Connolly (D-VA), John Delaney (D-MD) and Don Beyer (D-VA). The meeting focused on current priorities for federal employees including the Office of Personnel Management data breach, pay issues and employee benefits. “I represent more than 62,000 federal workers who live in my district and I was pleased to meet with AFGE and NTEU’s presidents today to hear their concerns,” said Congressman Steny H. Hoyer (D-MD). “Our federal employees have had to recently endure the OPM data breach, along with continued uncertainty due to the sequester. They deserve our gratitude and I will continue to fight on their behalf to make sure federal employees get the pay and benefits they have earned.” “I was pleased to have the opportunity to learn more about the priorities and issues of our nation’s dedicated federal employees,” Congressman Cummings (D-MD) said. “Federal workers play a vital role in the lives of millions of Americans. These are the men and women finding lifesaving cures at NIH, catching criminals, supporting our troops, and protecting the environment. That is why we must remain committed to investing in the Federal Government’s most valuable resource.” “Given the potential harmful impact of the massive data breach at OPM on the large number of federal employees in Maryland, this meeting was urgently needed,” said Congressman Van Hollen (D-MD). “I’m pleased we also had an opportunity to discuss other issues of vital importance to federal employees, including the ongoing attack on their pay and benefits by Congressional Republicans.” “Our federal workers have been subjected to a relentless assault over the past several years, from furloughs to salary cuts to the most recent OPM data breach,” said Congressman Ruppersberger (D-MD). “This meeting was a great opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to the 314,000 federal employees and service members who call Maryland home.” “I enjoyed meeting today with representatives from AFGE and NTEU – two important organizations that work tirelessly to protect the rights of federal workers in Maryland and across the country,” said Congressman Sarbanes (D-MD). “Federal employees make tremendous contributions to our country, and we must ensure that they have the benefits and support they deserve.” “Today’s meeting arranged by Democratic Whip Hoyer with the National Capital Region House Delegation and the presidents of AFGE and NTEU reinforced the need in Congress to continue our push for a federal employee pay increase and do everything possible to safeguard the records of current and former federal workers in the wake of the widespread OPM data breech,” said Congressman Connolly (D-VA). “I’m proud to represent thousands of federal employees who make Maryland and the country safer, healthier and more innovative. I am deeply troubled by the massive security breach that took place last month, putting thousands of federal employees at risk,” said Congressman Delaney (D-MD). “To protect federal workers and strengthen national security, we have to make sure that our data is secure. I thank Whip Hoyer for organizing this meeting between the National Capital Region Delegation and the leaders of AFGE and NTEU. This meeting is an important opportunity to hear about the concerns of federal employees and continue our efforts to represent them and all Americans in Congress.” “Now more than ever Congress needs to show its commitment to improve the pay and benefits and make the workplace improvements our federal employees have earned,” said Congressman Beyer (D-VA). “We cannot possibly do that without the critical support of our NTEU and AFGE advocates. I look forward to working with our unions and the national capital delegation to help federal workers dealing with the effects of wage stagnation, benefit cuts, furloughs, and a shutdown.” “AFGE appreciates the opportunity extended by Congressman Hoyer to meet with lawmakers today to discuss issues of pressing concern to federal and D.C. government employees,” said American Federation of Government Employees National President J. David Cox Sr. “Our members have grave concerns about the recently reported loss of their personal information stemming from the OPM data breaches, in addition to ongoing concerns about the state of their jobs, their wages, and their benefits. We appreciate all of the lawmakers who took time out of their busy schedules today to meet with us and hear those concerns firsthand.” “I want to thank House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer for giving us the opportunity to strategize with these key leaders on issues that are critically important to the federal employees and retirees we represent,” said NTEU National President Colleen M. Kelley. “Whether it is the OPM data breach, fair pay, a secure retirement or adequate funding for the agencies where our members work, we know we cannot succeed without their leadership and we appreciate the efforts they put forth on our members’ behalf.” ###
07.09.2015	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Barbara A. Mikulski, together with U.S. Representative John K. Delaney (all D-Md.), today announced that the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) has awarded $25,000 to the Town of Grantsville, in Garrett County, for the Grantsville Revitalization Plan and Agricultural Village Study project. The funds will be used to coordinate several disparate existing plans into a cohesive and actionable economic development strategy for the future. “I was in Grantsville last summer and saw first-hand the beautiful landscapes and talented craftspeople that make it great. So I join businesses and tourists alike in being excited about the opportunities that exist in Grantsville and many other small towns throughout Western Maryland,” said Senator Cardin, who introduced bipartisan legislation to reauthorize funding for ARC. “This federal investment by ARC is about helping a community poised for growth determine the tools it needs to bring more jobs to the region. I will continue to ensure that the federal government remains focused on helping towns across Maryland that want to succeed.” “This grant is about jobs in Western Maryland,” Senator Mikulski said. “This federal funding will help grow Garrett County’s economy, making smart investments in attracting new businesses and creating jobs. I will keep fighting to help our Maryland communities continue to grow.” “Grantsville is home to hard-working people, top-notch outdoor recreation areas and some of the most scenic landscapes in Maryland. Federal investment in Grantsville will help create an opportunity to leverage these assets to create more jobs,” said Congressman John K. Delaney. “This year, I joined with state and local officials to craft a Western Maryland Agenda, highlighting the need for investment in infrastructure and support for tourism in places like Grantsville. Today, I’m encouraged to see the Appalachian Regional Commission taking another step towards meeting our goals for a healthy economy and a stronger middle class in Western Maryland.” The project involves the development of a plan for the restoration and revitalization of the National Road Main Street section of the Town of Grantsville. The plan will cover the area along National Road for about 1.25 miles starting at River Road on the east side of town (including the current artisan village of Penn Alps) and continuing to the intersection of Route 669 on the west end of town (including the site of the proposed Agricultural Village). The Plan will include such components as: utility verification, stakeholders meetings, identification of linkages with the Heritage Area Management Plan and interpretative framework per the Heritage Area Management Plan, final design study and guidelines, and development of interpretation signage and map for linkage to historic and heritage sites. The project will also involve preparation of an Agricultural Village study that will include feasibility, facility location planning, streetscape and traffic/freight planning and enhanced recruiting strategies for complementary businesses. The Revitalization Plan and Agriculture Village Study will serve as a blueprint for future projects and both actionable short-term and long-term strategies to develop the area into a significant historic attraction and commercially viable area. In addition to ARC funds, the Maryland Historical Areas Authority will provide $25,000, bringing the total project funding to $50,000. Last September, Senator Cardin visited Grantsville as part of his Made in Maryland Tour. The Made in Maryland tour has given Senator Cardin a chance to highlight the wealth of manufactures in Maryland and speak directly with business owners and employees about what the federal government can do to help foster growth and create more jobs. While in Grantsville, Senator Cardin toured the Spruce Forest Artisan Village, where numerous artists produce and market their handcrafts in historic wide-planked log cabins clustered along the bank of the Casselman River. Spruce Forest provides visitors with the chance to interact directly with artists in their studios, and to learn lessons from the past via interpretative exhibits focused on history. Senators Cardin and Mikulski have been leading supporters of the ARC Commission in the U.S. Senate. In recognition of his support of regional economic development and the ARC, Senator Cardin received the 2012 Congressional Award from the Development District Association of Appalachia. Rep. Delaney has been a leader in pushing the federal state governments to prioritize the expansion of broadband access in Western Maryland. # # #
07.02.2015	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Barbara A. Mikulski, together with U.S. Representative John Delaney (all D-Md.) have announced that the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) has awarded the Board of County Commissioners of Allegany County $100,000 for a project to expand public and private access to broadband. “Internet access is no longer a luxury item. Reliable broadband access is critically important to maximizing public safety, economic growth and educational opportunities for residents of Allegany County,” said Senator Cardin, who introduced bipartisan legislation to reauthorize funding for ARC. “This federal investment will help our first responders, small business owners and educators stay ahead of the curve. I will continue to work with members of Team Maryland and ARC help ensure Marylanders in the western part of the state have all the tools they need to succeed.” “Connecting Western Maryland with our state’s broadband infrastructure is about creating jobs and making our state more competitive in the global marketplace for the next generation and beyond,” said Senator Mikulski, a senior member of Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee. “These funds in the federal checkbook will ensure families, educators and public servants in Allegany County have the tools they need to succeed. Together with Team Maryland, I have fought to tear down the digital divide so that no one will be sidelined or redlined.” “You can’t compete as a business or provide top-notch public services in 2015 with 1990s technology. Improving and expanding broadband access is one of the biggest economic development issues in Western Maryland, it’s a topic that comes up daily,” said Congressman Delaney. “This grant is good news for Allegany County, bringing together federal and local resources to improve connectivity.” This grant will fund the AllCoNet Backbone Microwave Link Upgrade Project. The AllCoNet Network currently provides broadband service to many critical public services in Allegany County including the 911 Center, Emergency Management, Sheriff's Office, Detention Center, Transit, States Attorney, Utilities, Transportation, Public Schools, County Library System, Fire Departments and many city/towns. Additionally, commercial subscribers provide ISP service to 35 businesses and many residential customers. This grant helps fund the purchase and installation of 56 radios that will be used at spur tower locations and interface directly with customer locations. The new radios will replace obsolete models that are in excess of fifteen years old. The new radios will allow increased bandwidth and provide additional reliability. AllCoNet serves 35 business customers and has over 5,200 users on its network. Allegany County and CONXX will both provide $50,000 in funding, bringing the total project funding to $200,000. Senators Cardin and Mikulski have been leading supporters of the ARC Commission in the U.S. Senate. In recognition of his support of regional economic development and the ARC, Senator Cardin received the 2012 Congressional Award from the Development District Association of Appalachia. Rep. Delaney has been a leader in pushing the federal state governments to prioritize the expansion of broadband access in Western Maryland. # # #
07.02.2015	WASHINGTON – According to a new poll conducted for Morning Consult 64% of registered voters think using overseas profits to build and maintain the nation’s highways is a good idea, including 70% of Democrats, 62% of Independents and 60% of Republicans. Since 2013 Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has advocated for using repatriated revenues for new infrastructure projects, an innovative bipartisan solution that has secured support from both parties. Delaney’s Infrastructure 2.0 Act establishes an 8.75% tax on overseas profits, allowing that money to return back to our economy and providing revenues to fund a six year highway bill and create a new American Infrastructure Fund. Following the introduction of Delaney’s bill, President Obama included this framework in his 2016 budget. “This poll confirms what I’ve seen first-hand in the halls of Congress and in meetings with constituents across Maryland: there is strong support for bringing trapped overseas revenues back home and using a portion of that revenue to rebuild our country,” said Congressman Delaney. “Combining international tax reform and infrastructure is a triple bottom line for the country: more jobs, a stronger economy and healthier business climate and a better quality of life for working families. Our national infrastructure deficit is a big problem and we need a big solution. I’ve met with over 100 members of each party, one on one, to pitch them on this framework and I am fully confident that legislation that combines new infrastructure investment and tax reform would pass the House of Representatives easily. Jobs, infrastructure, growth: this is good for both parties and it’s time for us to work together and get this done.” The national poll was conducted between June 26-29 and can be viewed online here. In 2013, Delaney introduced this framework to Congress with the Partnership to Build America Act, which ended last session with over 40 Republican and 40 Democratic cosponsors. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act (H.R. 625) Investing in 21st Century Infrastructure with Deemed Repatriation at 8.75% Tax Rate Under the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, existing overseas profits accumulated by U.S. multi-national corporations would be subject to a mandatory, one-time 8.75% tax, replacing deferral option and current rate of 35%. $120 billion to the Highway Trust Fund, enough to meet funding gap at increased levels for six years. $50 billion to capitalize the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) a new financing mechanism for transportation, water, energy, communications and education projects. Leveraged to $750 billion, AIF financing (loans, bond guarantees and equity) is available to state and local governments. American Infrastructure Fund was first proposed in Rep. Delaney’s bipartisan Partnership to Build America Act. $25 million pilot program to create regional infrastructure accelerators, similar to the West Coast Infrastructure Exchange This frees the estimated $2 trillion in overseas earnings to return to the United States, spurring private sector re-investment and growth. Creating Long-term Highway Trust Fund Solvency and Policy Certainty The Infrastructure 2.0 Act provides six years of HTF solvency, providing immediate certainty to the private sector and policymakers. The legislation also establishes a bipartisan and bicameral commission that is tasked with developing a solution for permanent solvency of the Highway Trust Fund. Building a Path for Broader Tax Reform The Infrastructure 2.0 Act creates an eighteen month deadline for international tax reform. To encourage action, the legislation includes a forcing function: if reform is not enacted, a fallback international tax package to make U.S. business climate more competitive would be implemented. This pro-growth fallback reform package would end deferral, reduce anti-competitive over taxation, decrease taxes for companies paying fair rates abroad but increase taxes for companies in tax havens. This would eliminate the lock-out effect and allow for the free flow of profits back to the United States. Under this option, for Active Market Foreign Income, a company would pay a 12.25% tax to the U.S. on overseas profits if they are currently paying no tax and a 2% tax to the U.S. if they are already paying the OECD average of 25% abroad, with a sliding scale in-between. ##
06.30.2015	GAITHERSBURG – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) hosted a Seniors Constituent Services Workshop Tuesday at the Gaithersburg Public Library. The event included caseworkers from Delaney’s office and representatives from federal, state and local agencies, providing seniors with a one-stop-shop for individual help with benefits, health and employment questions. Over 100 attended the workshop, Delaney’s fourth constituent services workshop this spring, following earlier events in Hagerstown, Cumberland and Germantown. “Maryland seniors spent their lives building strong families, strong communities and a strong country. It is incredibly important to me that seniors receive the benefits they’ve earned and that they are able to retire with dignity, health and economic security,” said Congressman Delaney. “The goal of our constituent workshops is to bring public officials, agency representatives and staff directly to Marylanders who need help. There’s no replacement for a one on one in-person conversation, especially when dealing with complex programs and forms. I’d like to thank everyone who attended our event in Gaithersburg. Getting your feedback is incredibly valuable to me and I encourage anyone who needs assistance to contact my office.” Attending the event were representatives from Social Security, Medicare, Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, the National Alzheimer’s Association, the Maryland Department of Labor, Licensing and Regulation; and Montgomery County Health and Human Services. Seniors in Maryland’s Sixth District who need help with a federal agency are encouraged to contact Congressman Delaney’s office at (301) 926-0300. ##
06.26.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the Supreme Court ruled in Obergefell v Hodges that same-sex couples must be allowed to marry no matter where they live, finding that the Constitution does not allow prohibitions on equal access to marriage. “Fundamental civil rights established in the Constitution don’t get stripped away when you cross state lines. Today’s ruling is another landmark in our nation’s inevitable march to full equality under the law,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “LGBT Americans are Americans, period, and the Supreme Court has rightly affirmed their right to marry. We shouldn’t be in the business of creating second-class citizens anymore and today’s ruling is another step forward. Getting married was the best thing that ever happened to me and I can’t imagine denying someone that right. Today is a day to celebrate and to recommit ourselves to ensuring that LGBT Americans enjoy full equality at work and at school and in all aspects of life.” ##
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON – Today Maryland Governor Larry Hogan announced that he would not move forward with the Red Line project in Baltimore and that the state would drastically reduce funding for the Purple Line, creating uncertainty about the future of the project. The Governor announced the state would only offer $168 million in state funding for the Purple Line. According to the Department of Transportation, the Purple Line will require $738 million in state funding. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement: “It is critically important that the Purple Line gets built and what I fear is that the Governor has implemented a process to derail the project, and derailed the billions in new investment in economic development and thousands of jobs it could create. “I am disappointed that the Governor did not move forward on the Red Line, which would have been a transformative project for Baltimore. We have seen how profoundly many areas of Baltimore are hurting and how new economic development is needed there.” “While I’m encouraged that the Governor indicated some support for the Purple Line, I’m uncertain as to how it can be successfully reformulated with materially less state funds and worry that such an effort may effectively terminate the project. The Governor indicated that he looks at data when he makes these decisions - which I applaud - and I ask him to share his analytics behind how the Purple Line can be built with significantly less state funding. The stakeholders in this project deserve to see a detailed plan as to how this will be structured from a financial perspective, including effects on federal grants, expected contributions from the counties, and additional on-going costs associated with shifting construction funding to private partners if that is envisioned.” ##
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the Supreme Court issued their verdict in King v Burwell, upholding subsidies provided under the Affordable Care Act (ACA) to consumers who receive ACA insurance coverage through the Federally Facilitated Marketplaces. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “I applaud the Supreme Court for their wise ruling in King v Burwell. Today’s ruling is extremely good news, as once again, the Supreme Court has upheld the fundamentals of the Affordable Care Act. This case has brought into sharp relief what is at stake when we debate this law, which is about real people getting real health care coverage, not the political news cycle. The Affordable Care Act has made quality health care more accessible for millions of people and I will continue to defend the ACA in Congress.” ##
06.24.2015	WASHINGTON – In an announcement at the White House, President Obama outlined changes to U.S. hostage policy designed to improve operations, rescue efforts and communication with families. The executive order signed by the President includes reforms that mirror legislation filed by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) in May to create a Hostage Czar following the death of Delaney’s constituent, Dr. Warren Weinstein. Delaney attended President Obama’s announcement. The President’s executive order includes the creation of a Hostage Response Group, a dedicated interagency policy body convened by the National Security Council with membership comprised of senior officials and chaired by a Special Assistant to the President effectively creating a Hostage Czar. The Hostage Response Group will oversee and guide a newly created operational group, the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell, an interagency body staffed by top officials from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Departments of Defense, State, Justice, and Treasury. The Hostage Response Group will be charged with the task of ensuring senior level oversight and accountability to the President. The White House has reaffirmed that the changes will not include concessions to terrorists. “I believe the President took important concrete steps in the right direction to improve our hostage rescue operations, effectively creating a Hostage Czar, a special assistant to the President, who chairs the Hostage Response Group on the National Security Council. The Hostage Response Group will set the strategies to be implemented by the Fusion Cell. The reforms should help create a new management structure to streamline our hostage rescue process. The loss of Dr. Warren Weinstein was a human tragedy and a terrible loss for his family, it was also a profound signal that our hostage rescue efforts must improve,” said Congressman Delaney. “Warren was held for over three years, suffering at the hands of terrorists. Tragically, we weren’t able to locate Warren, we weren’t able to save him and weren’t able to bring him home and I think about that every day. I am encouraged by the actions taken today by the White House to create a new management structure and empower National Security Council officials to tackle this problem. In working with the Weinstein family and federal officials on this problem for the last two years, I have been truly impressed by the dedication of our defense, security and intelligence personnel. While I have expressed my frustrations in the past, I believe the President has listened to the concerns of the families and is creating the new management structure that we need to bring more Americans home.” Earlier this year, Dr. Warren Weinstein of Maryland, was inadvertently killed in the bombing of an al-Qa’ida compound. Weinstein was held hostage for over three years. Rep. Delaney worked with the Weinstein family to attempt to bring him home and has been a leader in urging the Administration to reform the hostage rescue process and improve communication with families. On May 1, Delaney introduced the Warren Weinstein Hostage Rescue Act (H.R. 2201), legislation to create a high-level government official whose sole responsibility is to lead U.S. efforts to locate and recover American hostages. Delaney’s Hostage Czar legislation creates a new official to coordinate the efforts of all relevant agencies. Last month, Delaney also offered an amendment to the 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 1735) to create an Interagency Hostage Recovery Coordinator. Both measures included language stating that no portion of these reforms should be construed as authorizing the federal government to negotiate with terrorists. Further changes announced by President Obama include reforms to intelligence management, the creation of a new Family Engagement Coordinator and a Special Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs. A status report on the implementation of these reforms will be provided after six months and the National Counterterrorism Center will lead a comprehensive assessment. ##
06.22.2015	WASHINGTON – Maryland Governor Larry Hogan announced today that he has cancer. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “April and I send our prayers to Governor Hogan and his whole family. We pray that he has a speedy and full recovery as he begins treatment. All Marylanders are in his corner.” ##
06.19.2015	WASHINGTON - Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has published an op-ed in the Huffington Post on the need to increase federal support for Fisher House, an organization that provides free lodging near hospitals for military families. Last week, an amendment authored by Delaney to double funding for Fisher House was included in the Defense appropriations bill that passed the House. The text of the op-ed is copied below: Why I’m Fighting for Fisher House in Congress By John K. Delaney Huffington Post, 6/18/15 No military or veteran family should have to choose between paying their bills and being together while one of our nation's heroes is in the hospital. Our national values demand that we assist the families of our men and women in uniform, especially at the time of their greatest need. That's why I'm proud to support the Fisher House Foundation, which has helped service members and veterans receiving hospital care be with their families for over two decades. In facilities around the country, Fisher House provides free lodging for families who have a loved one in the hospital. During consideration of the Department of Defense budget in the House of Representatives, I introduced an amendment to double federal support for Fisher House. My amendment would allow Fisher House to build new facilities, and provides for a fiscally-responsible increase in funding, fully paid for as part of the defense budget. The Fisher House measure was adopted with bipartisan support and included in the final bill, which passed the House on June 11. I've pushed for increased funding for Fisher House each of the last three years and will continue to do so because Fisher House is serving a tremendous need. Many of the patients in military and veterans hospitals require long stays, which can place a large financial hardship on families who don't live near the hospital, which is very common. That's where Fisher House comes in, providing families with lodging near the hospital that is always 100 percent free. For the last 25 years, Fisher House has made a difference for families in need. Since 1990, over 250,000 families have been helped by Fisher House, receiving over five million days of lodging. Last year, over 25,000 families were served at the 65 Fisher Houses in operation. The Fisher House Foundation builds and operates these homes, creating a permanent asset that can be used for years. The organization's homes provide families with apartment-style lodging, with suites that include a kitchen, laundry facilities a living room and toys for children. Most homes are within walking distance of the hospital. Our veterans and service members are known for their strength, but when they're recovering from an operation or receiving emergency care, that strength can depend on seeing a spouse, talking with the kids or just knowing that loved ones are by their side. It isn't difficult to imagine what a difference keeping families together can make. For families of veterans and service members receiving care for combat injuries, the average length of stay at a Fisher House is two-months, while for others the average length of stay is 10 days. Fisher House is a beloved institution in the military community and is highly-rated by third party evaluators. Fisher House has an A+ rating from the American Institute of Philanthropy and has been given four out of four stars by Charity Navigator. The organization also operates the Hero Miles and the Hotels for Heroes programs, which allow individuals to donate their flight or hotel points to service members and their families. Fisher House would like to build nine new homes across the country to accommodate increased demand. We've completed the first step by increasing support in the House Defense bill, but more work remains to be done as the Senate continues the appropriations process. I will continue to urge my colleagues in both chambers to support this increase and am hopeful it will be included in whatever spending agreement ultimately heads to the President's desk. Of course, Fisher House is just one small piece of the puzzle. We must take more steps to improve health care for veterans, smooth their transition to civilian life and increase their job opportunities. Fundamentally, it is all about making sure that veterans receive the benefits they've earned by virtue of their incredible service to our country. Earlier this year, I signed onto the Veterans' Bill of Rights, a document meant to galvanize support for veterans and spur improvements in service at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The good news is that progress is being made. In response to unacceptable wait times and mismanagement at the VA, Congress passed major reform legislation that expands health care options, provides new funding for treatment and medical staff and makes sure that poor-performing employees are held accountable. In addition to these measures, I've cosponsored the Real Choice for Veterans Act, a bipartisan bill to revise and expand the Veterans Choice Program, giving more veterans access to private health care options. Speaking with Maryland veterans, it is clear that claims processing at the Baltimore VA, the office used by the majority of Maryland veterans, remains much too slow. In fact, that office has had some of the slowest processing times in the country. I've joined my colleagues in the Maryland delegation in speaking out about what's happening in Baltimore and we're going to keep the pressure on the office until service improves. Any Maryland veteran who needs help receiving their benefits should contact my office immediately; we have caseworkers at the ready. In the last two months I've hosted veterans' constituent services workshops in Hagerstown and Germantown, meeting with veterans one-on-one and connecting them with staff from the VA and state and local agencies. Spending time with veterans, you quickly are reminded that military service isn't just about individuals, it's about families. Families serve and families sacrifice, all for our country. Fisher House helps keep military and veteran families together and that's why I'm committed to keep working to strengthen support for the organization and for the men, women, and families who've served our country. ##
06.18.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Pope Francis released a papal-encyclical titled, “Laudato Si, On the Care of Our Common Home” on climate change. The encyclical states that “climate change is a global problem with grave implications.” The encyclical states that human action is contributing to climate change and urges the world’s governments to act. “I applaud the brave leadership of Pope Francis on climate change. Pope Francis has made a strong moral case for action on climate change and I believe that each of my colleagues in Congress should read his message,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “As Pope Francis makes clear, climate change is a global problem, a global crisis of the highest order that threatens the most vulnerable among us. The issue is total, impacting health, the economy and safety. I have made climate change a legislative priority, filing legislation earlier this year to tackle carbon pollution. Pope Francis’s historic call for action on climate change is more evidence of the growing consensus that we must respond to this problem before it is too late.” For information on Delaney’s climate change legislation, click here. ##
06.17.2015	WASHINGTON – Today the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) released their report on the FTA’s Safety Management Inspection of the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA). The report found that, “in key areas, WMATA’s organization is not effectively balancing safety-critical operations and maintenance activities with the demand for passenger service.” The FTA report also identified “clear deficiencies in the availability, quality and performance of technical training, refresher training, and rules compliance and operational testing activities” and that there are “serious safety lapses in the Rail Operations Control Center (ROCC) related to the training and certification of rail traffic controllers.” The FTA identified 44 safety findings for the Metrorail system that will require corrective action and 10 safety findings for Metrobus that will require corrective action from WMATA. To read the full report, click here. “The FTA’s report makes it absolutely crystal clear that WMATA has to improve its safety efforts. Marylanders deserve a prompt and comprehensive safety overhaul from WMATA. My constituents are worried about their safety on Metro and this report will do little to alleviate their fears,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “A Metro system that is safe, reliable and efficient is essential to a high quality of life of millions in Maryland, including those that indirectly benefit from Metro reducing traffic. I’ve fought for Metro, fought for more infrastructure funding, and fought against drastic cuts that I feel are misguided. But when it comes to effective operations, funding is only half the equation, there must also be effective management; it is time for WMATA to address the persistent safety issues that have plagued the system for years.” ##
06.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—At a briefing of the National Capital Region House Delegation, called by Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), ranking member of the Highways and Transit Subcommittee, the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) alerted the delegation to significant safety concerns at the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) following its safety management inspection (SMI) of WMATA’s rail and bus transit systems. FTA’s full SMI report will be released tomorrow, June 17, 2015. FTA Acting Administrator Therese McMillan indicated at the briefing that FTA would recommend further critical and necessary measures to protect the safety of Metro riders. FTA conducted a top-to-bottom inspection of WMATA’s safety operations following the January 12, 2015, fatal smoke incident in a tunnel near L’Enfant Plaza Metro Station. Congress gave FTA new safety oversight authority over WMATA and other transit agencies for the first time in the MAP-21 surface transportation bill following the tragic 2009 Red Line crash that killed nine D.C.-area residents. This was only the second comprehensive safety evaluation of WMATA conducted by FTA since the 2009 crash. MAP-21 placed continuous oversight responsibilities on new state agencies called State Safety Oversight Agencies (SSOAs), but most states are still ramping up their SSOAs in order to come into compliance with MAP-21 safety and oversight requirements. Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton said, “Although it takes time to create a new independent safety agency to continuously monitor Metro’s safety, today’s briefing pointed out the necessity for our Tri-State region to expedite the development of our State Safety Oversight Agency (SSOA). Because legislative changes and new resources will be necessary, the District of Columbia, Maryland, and Virginia will want to make haste so that the region is not left to investigate once an accident has occurred, but has continuous monitoring by its SSOA to discover and forestall risks like the tragic smoking incident at L’Enfant Plaza Station in January.” Congressman Steny H. Hoyer (D-MD) said, “I am deeply disappointed with the findings of the Federal Transit Administration’s safety management inspection of Metro. A safer, more reliable Metro system should be a priority to ensure it serves the thousands of commuters who ride it every day and the millions of visitors who come to visit our nation’s capital. I strongly urge Metro leadership to review these safety recommendations and swiftly implement them.” Congressman Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) said, “One week after the National Transportation Safety Board discovered systemic errors in installation of critical safety equipment, the FTA has highlighted key areas for improvement in WMATA’s organization and safety management program. I am deeply concerned by FTA’s identification of systemic issues, including the need to strengthen safety training and proactively identify risk. When FTA releases its report tomorrow, WMATA must respond immediately and offer a plan to address these issues with a clear timeline for completion.” Congresswoman Donna Edwards (D-MD) said, “The 2009 Red-Line Metro collision that claimed the lives of nine people was a tragic reminder of the urgent need to establish federal safety standards. Thousands of my constituents, and millions more across the country, rely on heavy rail transit systems to get to work safely. Today’s briefing by the FTA on their audit recommendations is a reminder of how much remains to be done and is an urgent call for a cultural change at WMATA in regards to safety. I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure we hear the plans of Maryland, District of Columbia, and Virginia in developing and standing up our SSOA to make sure that we don’t have another deadly metro incident before these plans are fully implemented.” Congressman Gerry Connolly (D-VA) said, “This FTA safety inspection confirms what many of us have feared, that Metro continues to lack a top-to-bottom culture of safety. It’s time for the Metro Board to bring on new leadership to get the system back on track. Restoring rider confidence in the system will require tougher oversight and new resources from all partners at the local, state, federal levels. Sadly the FTA is just the latest oversight agency to cite concerns with Metro’s emergency management, training protocols, and maintenance backlog. It’s long past time that Metro makes safety its top priority.” Congressman John K. Delaney (D-MD) said, “My constituents deserve a transit system that is safe and reliable. Metro is their way to work, their way home and something families depend upon. The FTA report makes it clear that WMATA has a lot of work to do. We saw in January what is at stake and WMATA needs to take constructive action as soon as possible. This month the regional delegation has fought for more funding for WMATA, but safe and effective infrastructure requires both adequate funding and top-level management and we need to see immediate steps from WMATA so that safety will be improved.” Congressman Don Beyer (D-VA) said, “The time to act is now. Our delegation has fought time and again for the funds Metro needs to make safety changes: Now Metro needs to live up to their end of the bargain for the safety of our constituents. Today the FTA highlighted necessary safety improvements including track maintenance, training certifications and emergency communications. Let's get it done.” Congresswoman Barbara Comstock (R-VA) said, “Metro’s mismanagement and unacceptable safety record for its riders are deeply troubling. I have thousands of constituents riding the rails every single day and they expect and rely on Metro to be safe. The FTA’s safety inspection points out serious flaws with Metro that need to be corrected immediately. Metro must make safety its top priority moving forward, and we would welcome some new leadership in doing so.” ###
06.12.2015	GAITHERSBURG – On Friday, The Gazette announced that it would cease publication on June 18, 2015. The paper was started in 1959 as the Gaithersburg Gazette. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement: “Today is a sad day for all the men and women who made the Gazette a great paper and for our entire community. Local papers like the Gazette report more than just the news. For more than 50 years, the Gazette has provided a service to our area and week-by-week, they tell the story of a whole community. The Gazette has kept readers up-to-date with community events and local government and highlighted neighborhood needs and neighborhood challenges. Today’s announcement is sad news for a lot of readers in our area who saw the Gazette not just as any newspaper, but as their newspaper. Our community won’t forget the hard work and commitment of those at the Gazette.” ##
06.11.2015	WASHINGTON – The House has passed the Department of Defense Appropriations Act (H.R. 2685) for fiscal year 2016. The appropriations bill included an amendment by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) increasing funding for the Fisher House Foundation. Fisher House provides free housing near hospitals for military and veterans’ families. The Delaney amendment, which increases Fisher House funding from $5 to $10 million, passed the House by voice vote Thursday with bipartisan support. The increase is fully offset by a reduction in the Defense-wide Operation and Maintenance Account. To view video of Delaney speaking on the bill on the House floor, click here. “None of our nation’s heroes should be alone at the hospital, separated from their families in their time of need,” said Congressman Delaney. “Fisher House provides an invaluable service, allowing military and veteran families to be together by offering free apartment-style lodging near hospitals. This is a fiscally-responsible increase that will address one of our nation’s top priorities: supporting servicemembers, veterans and their families. Fisher House is a beloved institution that is one of our country’s most highly-rated non-profits and my amendment will provide them with more resources so that they can build more homes. Unfortunately, there is a growing need nationwide for more new facilities. Now that my amendment has been included in the appropriations bill that has cleared the House, I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate to build further support for increasing funding for Fisher House.” This is the third year Delaney has introduced an amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations bill increasing funding for Fisher House. Since 1990, over 250,000 families have been served by the Fisher House program, including over 25,000 served in 2014. There are 65 Fisher Homes nationwide, which are typically within walking distance from treatment facilities or have transportation available. ##
06.10.2015	WASHINGTON – On Wednesday, June 10, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) introduced an amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations Act (H.R. 2685) increasing funding for the Fisher House Foundation, which provides free housing near hospitals for military and veterans’ families. The Delaney amendment, which increases Fisher House funding from $5 to $10 million, passed the House by voice vote and will be included in the House-version of the underlying appropriations bill. A vote on final passage of the full bill is expected this week. “Military families stand by members of our Armed Forces when they step into uniform, when they’re deployed, and when they return from active duty. We shouldn’t let the cost of lodging stop those families from staying with our veterans and service members when they’re in need of care,” said Congressman Delaney. “Fisher House is one of our nation’s top military non-profits, and my amendment doubles funding for the organization. By providing housing for military families, Fisher House helps to ensure that no American veteran has to receive hospital care alone simply because their loved ones can’t afford to stay nearby. My amendment would allow Fisher House to expand its network of homes and help even more military, veterans and family. I look forward to working with my colleagues to build support for Fisher House in the Senate.” The Delaney Amendment offsets increases to Fisher House funding with a $7.5 million reduction in the Defense-wide Operation and Maintenance Account, which is slated to receive $30.1 billion under H.R. 2685. This is the third year Delaney has introduced an amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations bill increasing funding for Fisher House. Since 1990, over 250,000 families have been served by the Fisher House program, with over 25,000 served in 2014. Fisher Homes are typically within walking distance from treatment facilities or have transportation available. ##
06.09.2015	WASHINGTON – Tuesday, the House of Representatives passed legislation that included cuts to numerous infrastructure programs, including Metro and Amtrak. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted against the bill. During floor debate, Delaney also offered an amendment, the Democratic Motion to Recommit, to give Amtrak additional funding to implement additional Positive Train Control (PTC) coverage. Last week, the Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board testified to the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee that PTC technology would have prevented the Amtrak derailment on May 12 that killed eight people. “We should be upgrading and expanding America’s infrastructure, but this appropriations bill directs federal policy to make a U-turn, cutting federal support for infrastructure,” said Congressman Delaney. “My constituents deserve safe rides on Metro, safe rides on Amtrak and safe commutes on area roads and bridges and I am tremendously concerned about the impact that these cuts will have. This is not only a potentially damaging decision to slash funding, it is also a real missed opportunity. Smart infrastructure investment creates jobs, grows our economy and improves quality of life. I believe that there is bipartisan support for a new infrastructure solution that uses international corporate tax reform to pay for the new projects we need and despite this vote I will continue to work with colleagues in both parties to rebuild America.” The fiscal year 2016 appropriations bill for Transportation, Housing and Urban Development reduces federal support for the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) by $50 million, a 33% cut; reduces federal funding for Amtrak by $251 million, and slashes TIGER Grant infrastructure funding by $400 million, an 80% cut. The legislation (H.R. 2577) also includes cuts to the Housing for the Elderly program and the Public Housing Capital Fund. Delaney is the author of the Infrastructure 2.0 Act which provides for new infrastructure investment with revenues currently trapped overseas. Delaney’s legislation creates a new $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund to finance up to $750 billion in new state and local infrastructure projects. The legislation also provides funding for six years of Highway Trust Fund solvency. ##
06.09.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) joined the entire National Capital Region Congressional Delegation in calling upon the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) to take immediate action “to ensure that all power cable connector assemblies are properly constructed and installed.” The letter, addressed to WMATA Interim General Manager and Chief Executive Officer Jack Requa, follows a report by the National Transportation and Safety Board (NTSB) that stated that WMATA “does not have a program to ensure that power cable connector assemblies are installed in accordance with its engineering design specifications.” “My constituents who use Metro deserve the highest safety standards, implemented with the utmost rigor,” said Congressman Delaney. “The NTSB’s report is troubling and shows that more action needs to take place to make sure that passengers are safe, which is why I’ve joined my colleagues in demanding better.” The full text of the letter is below: June 9, 2015 Mr. Jack Requa Interim General Manager Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority 600 5th Street NW Washington, D.C. 20001 Dear Mr. Requa, We are deeply disturbed by the circumstances that led to this week’s National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) recommendations to the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) for immediate action to ensure that all power cable connector assemblies are properly constructed and installed in accordance with WMATA’s own engineering design specifications. The recommendation issued by NTSB highlights an unacceptable condition in which numerous flaws and inconsistencies with the installation of the connectors have been allowed to persist throughout the system without any oversight or quality control. According to the NTSB report, cable connectors are required to be installed with sealing sleeves to ensure that the connector assemblies are weather-tight and prevent contamination that can lead to a short circuit, which can produce smoke and fire within the system tunnels. However, NTSB has found many assemblies installed without this critical component, “often with heat shrinking tubing or electrical tape used in place of sealing sleeves; and with different types of terminal lugs, some of which are not specified for use with their connector covers.” NTSB investigators found the cable connector assembly involved in the February 11, 2015, arcing incident at Court House Station on the Orange Line “was missing its sealing sleeves.” While the cable connectors in the January 12, 2015, fatal incident at L’Enfant Plaza on the Yellow Line were too charred to offer conclusive evidence, the NTSB notes that the post-accident repairs “did not include the sealing sleeves.” In addition to the lack of uniform installation that adheres to WMATA design specifications, NTSB reports that WMATA “does not have a program to ensure that power cable connector assemblies are installed in accordance with its engineering design specifications.” With connectors in place every few hundred feet along miles of metro track, this lack of oversight is unacceptable. We are appalled that riders’ lives may have been put at risk simply because a small, yet critical component of the power cable connectors was not installed as required by the manufacturer’s directions and WMATA engineering specifications. Problems arising from aging infrastructure may be understandable, but WMATA must explain how a failure to follow basic assembly instructions has been allowed to persist. In the wake of this latest NTSB report, we request the following: 1. A system-wide accounting of power cable connector assemblies that do not include sealing sleeves or other proper components in accordance with WMATA design specifications; 2. An explanation of how and why installations were performed without the sealing sleeves, an explanation for why WMATA has no system of quality control in place for this work, and what corrective actions will be taken to correct this situation; and 3. A comprehensive timeline and cost estimate for fixing this issue throughout the system. WMATA has spent considerable time and money working on the system upgrades that are necessary to maintain safety and reliability, and the federal government has made significant investments in those efforts. We, and our constituents, expect WMATA to provide robust oversight and exercise strict accountability to ensure this work is done properly, in accordance with WMATA’s own standards. Immediate action must be taken to protect the safety of all riders and ensure that we do not have repeated incidents. We ask for your swift attention to this inquiry and request a response addressing these and any other issues associated with this latest NTSB recommendation within 30 days. We will continue to work closely with you and the WMATA Board of Directors to resolve these issues. Sincerely, Mark R. Warner Barbara A. Mikulski Timothy M. Kaine Benjamin L. Cardin Gerald E. Connolly Chris Van Hollen Donald S. Beyer Steny H. Hoyer Barbara Comstock Donna F. Edwards John K. Delaney John P. Sarbanes Eleanor Holmes Norton ##
06.05.2015	CUMBERLAND – On Friday, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) joined local leaders and officials in Cumberland, Maryland, for a walk of the Greater Allegheny Passage (GAP) trail and to visit the site of a local trail infrastructure project. Saturday, June 6, is National Trails Day, celebrating and promoting the importance of public trails in the United States. “The United States is a country of explorers,” said Congressman Delaney, “from the men and women who’ve discovered new galaxies to those mapping the depths of our oceans. Our public trails give everyone an opportunity to become their own explorer and to discover the natural world, improving our quality of life. Trails in our state also promote economic growth. From Deep Creek to the C&O Canal Park, Western Maryland is home to natural treasures and opportunities for outdoor recreation that you can’t find anywhere else. This Trails Day is a chance to celebrate our public trails and to strengthen our commitment to protecting access to trails for all Americans.” This May, Congressman Delaney cosponsored legislation to permanently reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF). Since its creation in 1964, LWCF has provided over $3 billion to expand our nation’s parks and to fund projects improving park services. Congressman Delaney has also cosponsored the National Forest System Trails Stewardship Act, which directs the Forest Service to develop strategies to more effectively use volunteers and partners to assist in maintaining national forest trails. Local officials joining Congressman Delaney for the walk of the Greater Allegheny Passage included: Bill Valentine, President, Board of County Commissioners, Allegany County Jake Shade, Member, Board of County Commissioners, Allegany County Bill Atkinson, ARC Program Manager, Maryland Department of Planning David Eberly, Allegany County Administrator, Allegany County Adam Patterson, County Engineer, Allegany County ##
06.05.2015	CUMBERLAND – On Friday, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) hosted a Seniors Constituent Services Workshop in Cumberland. Caseworkers were on site to assist seniors. Over 75 attendees joined Friday’s workshop, which offered seniors a one-stop-shopping opportunity to meet with representatives from federal, state and local agencies and organizations, including Social Security, Medicare, the Allegany County Health Department, and others. “Over the course of a lifetime, our seniors have broken down barriers, they’ve driven economic growth and they raised the next generation of Americans,” said Congressman Delaney. “Our seniors made the United States what it is today, but sadly many older Americans face financial insecurity, hunger and housing instability. Seniors shouldn’t have to face those challenges alone, and today’s workshop was about giving them the one-on-one help they need. My workshop brought together caseworkers and program experts who connected seniors with the benefits and services they deserve.” Seniors in Maryland’s Sixth District who need help with a federal agency are encouraged to contact Congressman Delaney’s office at (301) 926-0300. Agencies and organizations represented at the Seniors Constituent Services Workshop included: Allegany County Human Resources Development Commission (HRDC), Senior Programs Social Security, Office for Cumberland Medicare Maryland Department of Aging Maryland Department of Labor, Licensing and Regulation Allegany County Health Department Maryland Adult Protective Services Allegany Law Foundation ##
06.05.2015	WASHINGTON – Friday, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) held public office hours at Garrett College in McHenry. Delaney met one-on-one with constituents for ninety minutes, discussing energy policy for Western Maryland, the economy in Garrett County, tourism and conservation efforts at Deep Creek Lake and expanding pre-K. Eighteen people attended the office hours, which was the third session hosted by Delaney this spring, following earlier events in Hagerstown and Frederick. “Meeting with my constituents in Maryland is a fundamental part of my work in office and I firmly believe that communication should be two-sided. One-on-one conversations with the people I am entrusted to represent in the House are an invaluable resource for me as a legislator and as their advocate. My conversations today were a reminder of the tremendous resources we have in Garrett County and the work we have to do, across Maryland, to create more good-paying jobs, protect our natural resources and make sure that every child has a chance to live the American Dream.” ##
06.04.2015	WASHINGTON – To combat gerrymandering and make congressional elections more representative Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has re-introduced the Open Our Democracy Act. Delaney’s election reform legislation has three components: 1) it institutes open primaries for House and Senate elections, allowing all voters including those registered as Independents or unaffiliated to participate, 2) creates a path for redistricting reform and the nationwide use of independent redistricting commissions, and 3) makes Election Day a holiday. “The Congress that works best for America is the Congress that best reflects America,” said Congressman Delaney. “Warped districts dominated by one party and unnecessary roadblocks to voting for working families have meant that the voice of the people has not been fully heard. The Open Our Democracy Act puts us on a path towards national redistricting reform, allows all registered voters, including independents, to vote in congressional primaries and will make it easier for working Americans to cast their ballot. I want the House of Representatives to be truly representative, representative of our diversity, representative of our communities, and representative of the national interest.” Rep. Jared Polis (CO-2) and Rep. Scott Peters (CA-52) are original cosponsors of the legislation. Delaney first introduced the Open Our Democracy Act in 2014 during the 113th Congress. The Open Our Democracy Act: Open Primaries: the Open Our Democracy Act would establish open primaries for all House and Senate elections. Under this system, which is also known as top-two primaries, all candidates regardless of party appear on a single primary ballot, which is open to all voters. The top two vote getters then advance to the general election. Makes Election Day a Holiday: the Open Our Democracy Act establishes that Election Day should be treated as a federal public holiday. Redistricting Reform: the Open Our Democracy Act directs the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to study the impact of existing redistricting procedures on the representation of minority and community interests in Congress. The GAO produces legislative recommendations for requiring all states to conduct congressional redistricting via independent commissions. The legislation also creates a path for subsequent legislation with the GAO’s recommendations to be considered by the Judicial Committee and on the House floor. Should a Member introduce GAO’s recommendations, the Judiciary Committee would have sixty days to report the legislation before any Member would have the privilege of bringing the bill to the House floor for a Yes/No vote. ##
06.04.2015	WASHINGTON – Thursday, the House of Representatives is expected to consider the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) and Related Agencies Appropriations Act (H.R. 2577). The legislation includes a 33% cut in federal support for the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority, reducing federal funding by $50 million. “By slashing one dollar in every three from Metro’s funding the House is headed down a dangerous track,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “My constituents depend on Metro every day and I am concerned that these cuts will impact their safety, their commute and their businesses. A safe, reliable and effective Metro transit system is essential to making the Capital Region work and it is misguided to cut our investment by a third when we should be upgrading, expanding and improving service.” Wednesday, Delaney cosponsored an amendment to the bill offered by Rep. Connolly that would have restored the funding, however the amendment was blocked by a point of order on the House floor. Delaney is the author of the Infrastructure 2.0 Act which provides for new infrastructure investment with revenues currently trapped overseas. Delaney’s legislation creates a new $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund to finance up to $750 billion in new state and local infrastructure projects. The legislation also provides funding for six years of Highway Trust Fund solvency. ##
06.01.2015	WASHINGTON – June is lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) Pride Month. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement: “This June, as we celebrate LGBT Pride Month let’s renew our fight to end discrimination against LGBT Americans. Members of the LGBT community shouldn’t face harassment and injustice because of who they are or who they love. Not at work, not at school - not anywhere. We’ve made progress on LGBT equality in recent years, but our work isn’t over. This Pride Month, and every month, I’m proud to stand with the LGBT community in support of equal rights for all Americans, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity.” This year, Congressman Delaney cosponsored the Student Non-Discrimination Act, a bill to prohibit discrimination against LGBT students in school. This legislation would strike down school policies preventing LGBT students from participating in student programs based on their gender or sexual orientation. Delaney has also cosponsored the Respect for Marriage Act, which would repeal the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) in its entirety, ensuring that legally married LGBT couples are treated as such by federal agencies, regardless of whether the state they currently live in recognizes their marriage. ##
05.29.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has authored an op-ed in the Washington Post supporting a new agenda for the Democratic Party. The op-ed argues that, rather than engaging in political rhetoric, the Democratic Party should focus its energy on fact-based solutions to create jobs and address the great challenges that our country faces. The full text of the op-ed can be read here: The last thing America needs? A left-wing version of the Tea Party. by John K. Delaney John K. Delaney, a Democrat from Maryland, is a member of the U.S. House of Representatives. Washington is paralyzed by extreme political rhetoric that creates powerful sound bites but poor policy. The big legislative updates that we need to compete in the 21st century and to raise living standards have been blocked by a reluctance to seek common ground. With Washington already broken, the last thing we need is a left-wing version of the tea party. But I am worried about where some of the loudest voices in the room could take the Democratic Party. Rejecting a trade agreement with Asia, expanding entitlement programs that crowd out other priorities and a desire to relitigate the financial crisis are becoming dominant positions among Democrats. Although these subjects may make for good partisan talking points, they do not provide the building blocks for a positive and bold agenda to create jobs and improve the lives of Americans. To create jobs, expand educational opportunities and protect the environment, I propose an agenda rooted in economic and political reality. We have to start grounding our policies in facts and recognize that a strong economy is critical for funding progressive priorities. First, we should rebuild the United States through a national job-creating infrastructure program that would allow us to invest in transportation, expand our ports and create a new electric grid. Our infrastructure, once the envy of the world, is crumbling before our eyes, hurting Democratic and Republican districts alike. Both parties want to do something about it, but we need a realistic way to pay for it. The answer is bipartisan tax reform that would free up the trillions of dollars of trapped overseas cash and allocate it to investments in the United States. Smart infrastructure investment can create jobs now and into the future, raise overall living standards and improve U.S. competitiveness. Second, we should create ways for the next generation to access education, which is the ultimate equalizer. The solution is to ask high-income Americans to help pay for it, which I believe they would be happy to do if they knew that 100 percent of the new money would be targeted at proven educational strategies with high levels of accountability. A new focus on universal pre-K and more affordable higher education at results-driven institutions are especially important. Third, we should take the lead on confronting the existential risk posed by climate change, which, at a minimum, is a clear threat to U.S. prosperity. It’s a big problem that demands an innovative answer. What’s needed is a market-based solution tied to broad tax reform. The free-market U.S. system is uniquely suited to tackle climate change, and we should let it do its work by taxing something we want to discourage — pollution — while reducing taxes on what we want to encourage — businesses that are growing, investing and creating jobs. By leveraging market forces in the service of the planet, we could position the United States to become a global leader in the new energy economy. Additionally, we need a philosophical shift in the Democratic Party, a new willingness to support programs that create pathways for nongovernmental and philanthropic innovation and investment to help solve the problems of society. We should embrace approaches, such as social impact bonds, that combine private-sector capital and expertise with public-interest goals to produce better government services. Such changes will require Democrats to leave our ideological comfort zone and move away from the idea that government, and government alone, is the answer to our problems. But instead of being used to voice an agenda that can bring the country together, the party microphone has been hijacked by people more interested in scoring points than in solving problems. They propose expanding Social Security rather than prioritizing serious efforts to preserve the program — even though it will be unable to provide full benefits as soon as 2032, the Congressional Budget Office has made clear. The only way a large-scale expansion could work is by allocating new revenue away from needed investments in the next generation or by shifting the financial burden to workers or our children. Likewise, as if the global economy will wait for us, protectionists demonize President Obama’s unfinished ­Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement. A fair trade deal is a crucial step in bolstering the U.S. manufacturing renaissance, boosting U.S. exports and growing our economy. If done right — something much more likely to happen if the negotiations are directed by this sitting Democratic president — the agreement could create middle-class jobs and allow the United States to set the rules in Asia. Unfortunately, Democratic recalcitrance is increasing the chance that the deal could be done instead by a Republican president. Lastly, some in our party continue to engage in time-consuming rhetoric attacking banks that has little chance of producing more financial reform and distracts from far more consequential areas of economic risk, such as climate change, chronic underinvestment in the next generation and our broken immigration and housing finance systems. As Democrats, we should bring forward big ideas to restore broad-based opportunity for all Americans. As progressives, we value fairness, justice and opportunity. Our values tell us to care more about people than institutions and to judge success not by the performance of the most fortunate but by the whole of society. We risk losing ground on these values unless we have the courage to be honest about the facts and the determination to lead with good policy. ##
05.26.2015	GERMANTOWN – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) hosted a Veterans’ Constituent Services Workshop this Tuesday at the Kramer Upcounty Regional Services Center in Germantown. Caseworkers were on site to assist veterans with health care, claims for compensation or pensions, replacement of medals, receipt of discharge papers, and other veterans’ services. Over 60 veterans attended Tuesday’s workshop, which offered veterans a one-stop-shopping opportunity to meet with veterans representatives from federal, state and local agencies and organizations. Agencies and organizations represented at the workshop included the VA, the Maryland Department of Labor, Licensing and Regulation (DLLR), the Montgomery County Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), and the Maryland Veterans Commission. “When it comes to our men and women in uniform, our nation has made a promise to remember those who’ve served and to care for those who return,” said Congressman Delaney. “Today’s workshop was about following through with that promise by connecting local veterans with the resources and support they need. This Monday, our nation observed Memorial Day, remembering the men and women in our Armed Forces who died in service to our country. We have a responsibility to honor their sacrifice, not just through one day of commemoration, but every day of the year by upholding our commitment to American veterans. “I’ve made veterans’ care a top priority in Congress, and today I heard from local men and women about the challenges that veterans in our state face. As we continue our fight for improved care and benefits programs, I’m dedicated to working with members on both sides of the aisle to help our veterans get the support that we’ve promised them.” This March, Congressman Delaney signed the Veterans’ Bill of Rights and became a cosponsor of the Real Choice for Veterans Act, both of which call for improvements to care and benefits programs at the VA. Sponsored by the Circle of Friends for American Veterans (COFAV), the Veterans Bill of Rights highlights veterans’ issues as a top national priority and calls for action addressing veterans’ concerns at the VA. The Real Choice for Veterans Act would offer veterans the opportunity to seek local, private care when a VA facility offering the appropriate services is more than 40-miles from home. Veterans in Maryland’s Sixth District who need help with the VA are encouraged to contact Congressman Delaney’s office at (301) 733-2900. Representatives attending the Veterans’ Constituent Services Workshop included: David Peterson, Commissioner, Maryland Veterans Commission Antone L. Waller, Director, VA Baltimore Regional Office Bob Pelletier, Local Veterans Employment Representative, Maryland DLLR David R. Jones, Assistant Veterans Service Center Manager, VA Baltimore Regional Office Luis G. Martinez, Diversity Outreach Coordinator, Office of Community Affairs, Montgomery County HHS ##
05.21.2015	WASHINGTON – This week, the House of Representatives passed six bipartisan bills designed to help America’s veterans thrive. The passed legislation included efforts to: boost veteran employment and encourage more family-owned veteran businesses, expand and maintain veterans housing programs, hold poor-performing employees at the Department of Veterans Affairs accountable, and create a new voluntary ID card for veterans allowing them to prove that they served. “Our veterans served our country and when their time in uniform has passed, their country should serve them. We have a sacred obligation to provide veterans with world-class health care, employment opportunities and affordable housing,” said Congressman Delaney. “Tragically, it is clear that we have more work to do in these areas and we should not rest until every veteran, from every branch, in every state, has been assisted. I am hopeful that the legislation passed by the House this week can help more veterans find a job, encourages more veteran-owned and veteran-employing businesses, expands veteran housing options and reduces veteran homelessness and continues our effort to bring accountability to the VA. Any veteran who needs help receiving their benefits should consider my office a resource and I invite them to contact us immediately.” Tuesday, Delaney will hold a Veterans Constituent Services Workshop in Germantown. The event will take place 10:00 AM – 12:00 PM at the Kramer Upcounty Regional Services Center, Meeting Room A, 12900 Middlebrook Road, Germantown. Representatives from state and federal agencies will be on hand, along with Delaney caseworkers. Constituents interested in attending are encouraged to RSVP by emailing Delaney.Casework@mail.house.gov. Veterans-Related Bills Passed by the House this week: Homeless Veterans’ Reintegration Programs Reauthorization Act (H.R. 474): Extends through FY2020 VA homeless veterans reintegration programs. Ensuring VA Employee Accountability Act (H.R. 1038): Requires the VA to retain a copy of any reprimand or admonishment received by a VA employee in the employee's permanent record. Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Business Relief Act (H.R. 1313): Treats the surviving spouse of a service-disabled veteran who acquires the ownership interest in a small business of the deceased veteran as such veteran for purposes of eligibility for VA service-disabled small business contracting goals and preferences for up to ten years. Boosting Rates of American Veteran Employment Act or the BRAVE Act (H.R. 1382): Authorizes the VA, in awarding a contract for the procurement of goods or services, to give preference to offerors based on the percentage of the offeror's employees who are veterans. Requires the debarment from contracting with the VA for not less than five years of any offeror determined to have willfully and intentionally misrepresented the veteran status of its employees. Veteran's I.D. Card Act (H.R. 91): Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to issue a veteran's identification card to any veteran who requests such card and is neither entitled to military retired pay nor enrolled in the VA system of patient enrollment. Requires such card, among other things, to: (1) display their name and photograph, and (2) serve as proof that the veteran honorably served in the Armed Forces Vulnerable Veterans Housing Reform Act of 2015 (H.R. 1816): Amends the United States Housing Act of 1937 to exclude as family income for Department of Housing and Urban Development housing assistance purposes any Department of Veterans Affairs payments made to veterans in need of regular aid and attendance for expenses related to such aid and attendance. ##
05.19.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House passed legislation to extend the Highway Trust Fund’s spending authority through July 31. The Highway Trust Fund is the nation’s primary tool for federal transportation projects. “We’re facing a national infrastructure crisis and we can’t rebuild America as long as Congress is stuck in neutral. It’s time for both parties to get in gear and work together on a long-term highway bill so that state and local governments can start building and make smart long-term plans,” said Congressman John K. Delaney. “Today’s short-term extension avoids an immediate lapse but doesn’t solve the problem. For the last three years, I’ve meet with over 200 members of Congress one-on-one to build support for using international corporate tax reform to pay for infrastructure. We have a bipartisan solution right in front of us that can pay for new infrastructure in a fiscally-responsible pro-growth way that creates jobs, rebuilds America and improves the lives of our constituents.” Rep. Delaney is the author of the bipartisan Infrastructure 2.0 Act, which funds the Highway Trust Fund at increased levels for six years and creates a new $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund for state and local projects with revenues from international corporate tax reform. The bill also provides a path for future international tax reform. Over 40 Republicans and 40 Democrats have signed on in support of this framework, which was first proposed last Congress in Delaney’s Partnership to Build America Act. ##
05.19.2015	WASHINGTON – Over 400 Marylanders have written to Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) sharing their stories of how America’s aging infrastructure has impacted their life. Responses came from all five counties in Maryland’s Sixth District and overwhelmingly stated that local and national infrastructure has become inadequate, hurting their quality of life as well as their economic and educational opportunities. In addition to infrastructure stories, over 650 Marylanders responded to an online infrastructure survey, giving America’s infrastructure a cumulative D+ grade and gave Congress an F grade on infrastructure policy. Delaney compiled a report on the infrastructure stories from Maryland and submitted it to Speaker John Boehner and Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi. Delaney’s Infrastructure 2.0 Act extends the Highway Trust Fund for six years at increased levels and creates a new $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund for state and local projects by using international corporate tax reform. Delaney has been a national leader in pushing for this new infrastructure solution. “I want leaders in Congress to know that America’s infrastructure deficit is causing real problems for real people,” said Congressman Delaney. “The stories make it clear that our infrastructure problem is so much bigger than crowded roads or crumbling bridges – poor infrastructure is limiting job and educational opportunities, hurting family and personal life, and creating safety hazards. We received stories from young and old, from small towns and from just outside the Capital Beltway, from highway commuters and transit riders. This is a comprehensive problem that needs a comprehensive solution, which is why I have filed the bipartisan Infrastructure 2.0 Act. By combining tax reform and infrastructure we can rebuild America, create jobs and grow our economy.” The report summarizes the top concerns of Marylanders and has a representative sample of 55 individual stories from Marylanders. The report is available online here. As stated in the report, the top infrastructure concerns include: Long commutes harming quality of life, limiting job and educational opportunities. Inadequate regional infrastructure limiting economic growth and business opportunities. Safety concerns on highways, especially I-81, on local roads, bridges, rail and Metro. Economic costs caused by wasted fuel, vehicle damage created by poor roads. Limited public transit options, especially for disabled Marylanders. In conjunction with the infrastructure stories initiative, Delaney has held roundtable discussions this month in Frederick and Hagerstown. ##
05.15.2015	WASHINGTON - May 16th is Armed Forces Day recognizing American service members for their work and commemorating the unification of the United States Armed Forces in 1950. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “Every American service member is required to swear an oath to support and defend the United States Constitution, a pledge that our men and women in uniform meet with courage, conviction and sacrifice. The work they do takes place near and far, in our communities and around the globe in some of the most dangerous environments imaginable. On Armed Services Day, we celebrate and remember their dedication to serving our country and recommit ourselves to providing our service members and veterans with the care and benefits they deserve. I encourage any veteran who needs help receiving their benefits to contact my office. Thank you to the men and women that work to defend our nation and protect the freedoms we all enjoy.” ##
05.15.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, together with Congressman John Delaney (all D-Md.) announced this week that the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) has awarded a $100,000 federal grant to Frostburg State University for the development of a geochemistry laboratory, which will help prepare students to work in the energy and environmental sectors. “Education is the opportunity ladder of this nation and higher education is a critical rung in that ladder,” Senator Mikulski said. “Our students deserve the chance to excel in their fields, with access to the best technology, so that they are prepared to fill the jobs of today and the jobs of tomorrow. This new laboratory allows Frostburg State University students and faculty to take a leading role in educating our students in the fields of geography and chemistry using the latest technology and teaching tools.” “Western Maryland is quickly becoming a hub for the quality high-tech jobs of tomorrow,” said Senator Cardin, who recently introduced bipartisan legislation to reauthorize funding for ARC. “Federal investment in the geochemistry lab at Frostburg ensures that we are training Maryland students to help fuel the continued growth of our region. I will continue to fight for legislation to make higher education more accessible to all students and to fund agencies like ARC that add value to our communities.” “Education is a top economic priority for our country, and our investment in students and teachers should reflect that,” Congressman Delaney said. “I’m proud to see Frostburg State University provides students with a path to competitive jobs in today’s changing global economy, and ARC’s grant will help to keep their classrooms at the forefront of discovery. This grant will help to provide our youngest generation with access to a world-class education and the economic opportunities they deserve.” These federal dollars will assist Frostburg State University establish a geochemistry lab. The facility, to be operational by fall 2015, will be used by undergraduate and graduate students in the applied science of geochemistry at the intersection of the geography and chemistry fields. The equipment will bring some existing courses up to date and allow for the introduction of new, more advanced courses. The major activities of the geochemistry lab will be hands-on analysis of samples both in the field and in the laboratory using industry standard technology such as X-ray fluorescence spectrometer, laser diffraction particle size analyzer, a closed chamber piston corer, and portable spectrophotometers. In addition to the $100,000 in ARC funds, state sources will provide another $100,000 bringing the total project funding to $200,000. ###
05.15.2015	WASHINGTON – The House has passed the 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 1735), legislation that includes an amendment by Rep. John K. Delaney (MD-6) to improve U.S. hostage recovery operations and improve communication with families. Authored by Delaney and Rep. Duncan Hunter (CA-50) the Delaney-Hunter amendment passed the House Thursday night. The Delaney-Hunter amendment creates a new Interagency Hostage Recovery Coordinator to direct hostage rescue efforts, lead a fusion cell and develop a strategy to improve communication with the families of American hostages. The White House announced in April that Rep. Delaney’s constituent, Dr. Warren Weinstein, was inadvertently killed in the bombing of an al-Qa’ida compound. Weinstein was held hostage for over three years. “Recent events have made it clear that we have to improve our hostage recovery operation. It’s an incredibly complex job and right now there’s too much bureaucracy. Too many Americans like Warren Weinstein aren’t coming home and that’s a tragedy we have to address,” said Congressman Delaney. “My amendment will create a new point person who can lead and direct our recovery efforts, cut across agency lines and the bureaucracy and make sure that families are properly informed. Getting these reforms included in the House’s Defense Authorization bill is an important first step, and I will continue to build bipartisan support for upgrading our hostage recovery efforts.” The Interagency Hostage Recovery Coordinator established by the Delaney-Hunter amendment will 1) coordinate and direct all activities of the federal government relating to hostage rescue 2) establish and direct a fusion cell of appropriate Federal personnel and 3) develop a strategy to better inform the families of American hostages of the status of their loved ones. The amendment states that nothing in the provision should be construed as authorizing negotiations with terrorists. Delaney filed standalone legislation to create a similar position earlier this month. Text of the Delaney hostage coordinator amendment available here. ##
05.14.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Congressman Duncan Hunter (CA-50) have introduced a measure to create a new Interagency Hostage Recovery Coordinator to direct hostage rescue efforts, lead a fusion cell and improve communication with families. The Delaney-Hunter amendment was successfully added to the 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 1735) during floor proceedings Thursday, passing by voice vote. In April, the White House announced that Rep. Delaney’s constituent, Dr. Warren Weinstein, was inadvertently killed in the bombing of an al-Qa’ida compound. Weinstein was held hostage for over three years. Delaney filed standalone legislation to create a similar position earlier this month. “The tragic loss of Dr. Warren Weinstein makes it clear that we have to reform our hostage recovery efforts. Warren was held hostage for nearly four years and on the day he was killed, we still didn’t know where he was,” said Congressman Delaney. “Working with the Weinstein family, I saw first-hand both the dedication of our federal intelligence and security personnel as well as the incredible complexity of bringing hostages home. This bipartisan amendment creates a new Interagency Hostage Recovery Coordinator who will coordinate our efforts, lead the fusion cell and make sure that families are properly informed. The Hostage Coordinator will be a high-level leader who is singularly focused on American hostages, using the expertise and abilities of all our defense, security and intelligence agencies and personnel. I am proud to work with Congressman Hunter on this bipartisan measure to create a Hostage Recovery Coordinator who can help bring more Americans home. The Interagency Hostage Recovery Coordinator will 1) coordinate and direct all activities of the federal government relating to hostage rescue 2) establish and direct a fusion cell of appropriate Federal personnel and 3) develop a strategy to better inform the families of American hostages of the status of their loved ones. The amendment states that nothing in the provision should be construed as authorizing negotiations with terrorists. Text of the amendment available here. A House vote on the overall bill is likely Friday. ##
05.13.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House Appropriations Committee approved a $50 million dollar funding cut for the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA). The cut, included in the 2016 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development appropriations bill, reduces federal support for WMATA from $150 million to $100 million annually. “Cutting Metro’s funding by 33% is irresponsible, short-sighted and an insult to my constituents. At the very moment when we need to be upgrading and improving Metro, some in Congress want to cut cutting federal support for this vital resource. It’s dangerous to cut corners and not fully fund infrastructure and I am fearful of the safety and economic consequences of continued under-investment. By making cuts today; we make it more likely that we will need to pay for even more costly repairs in the future. Recent events should make it clear that taking away one of every three federal dollars away from Metro is an egregious error. Metro makes the Nation’s Capital work – serving federal agencies, tourists from around the country and local businesses and families. My constituents need Metro to be safe, efficient and reliable and these proposed cuts hurt those goals. I will continue to oppose these irresponsible cuts and work with my colleagues to restore Metro funding.” ##
05.12.2015	WASHINGTON – This week the Department of Transportation notified state governments that federal funding for highway, transit and bridges will expire at the end of May. As reported in the Washington Post, the letter states, “Unless Congress acts prior to this date, the Federal Highway Administration will be unable to make any new obligations of federal-aid funds to your department’s highway projects. […] Under a lapse in authorization, reimbursements on all projects will be halted completely, not simply delayed.” “This is a major warning light on the infrastructure policy dashboard. This isn’t some arcane policy debate buried in the footnotes; our failure to act on the Highway Trust Fund means that real projects that real people need from coast to coast are in jeopardy. The Department of Transportation has made it abundantly clear that time is running out on needed infrastructure projects around the country,” said Congressman Delaney. “Rather than lurch from crisis to crisis with short-term patches, we need a big, bold and bipartisan infrastructure jobs bill that gives state and local governments the resources they need to serve their communities. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act creates millions of jobs, fixes the Highway Trust Fund for six years and creates a path for the tax reform we need to compete.” In January, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) filed the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, which uses international corporate tax reform to make the Highway Trust Fund solvent for six years, creates a new financing tool for state and local projects and establishes a path for broader pro-growth tax reform and improved infrastructure financing. Congressman Delaney has been a leader in building bipartisan support for combining tax reform and infrastructure to create jobs and improve the American economy. Delaney’s Partnership to Build America Act ended the 113th Congress with over 40 Republican and 40 Democratic cosponsors. Since March, Delaney has been gathering infrastructure stories from constituents. To date, over 350 Marylanders have submitted stories to Delaney about how America’s inadequate infrastructure has impacted their lives. ##
05.12.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, together with U.S. Representative John Delaney (all D-Md.) today announced that Garrett County Memorial Hospital in Oakland has been awarded $200,000 from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Rural Health Care Services Outreach program, which expands health care delivery in rural areas. “This rural health grant will provide Garrett County residents greater access to quality health care,” said Senator Mikulski, a senior member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee. “Many families in our rural communities have difficulty finding access to affordable, quality care. Federal funding, like this grant, helps save money, save time and save lives.” “Whatever your zip code, all Americans should have access to quality affordable health care,” said Senator Cardin, a member of the Senate Finance Health Care Subcommittee. “Federal grants like this help Marylanders overcome some of the unique challenges that come with accessing health care in rural areas. In times of shrinking federal budgets, I am committed to ensuring we continue to reduce barriers to health care for Western Marylanders and that we keep investing statewide in improving health care outcomes.” "We should be doing everything we can to provide Marylanders – wherever they live – with access to affordable and quality health care,” said Congressman Delaney. “The men and women who work at Garrett County Memorial Hospital make a powerful difference for my constituents, and today’s grant will help them expand their impact in rural and underserved communities. Garrett County Memorial Hospital has a long history of serving the health care needs of Garrett County, and I applaud HHS for helping to ensure they have the resources to continue that work.” The Rural Health Care Services Outreach program expands health care delivery in rural areas. Funding may be used to conduct health screenings, health fairs, education and training, and any other health service delivery activity that does not involve inpatient care. Projects are based on evidence-based or promising practice models and demonstrate health status improvement in rural communities. The community being served must be involved in the development and ongoing operations of the program, to appropriately address the needs of the population. This is a three-year grant program with maximum individual grant awards of $200,000 a year. ###
05.08.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, together with U.S. Representative John Delaney (all D-Md.) today announced that the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) has awarded $700,000 in federal funding to Allegany County for access road improvements for three sections of access roads serving the North Branch Industrial Park in Cumberland in Allegany County. The grant will be used to make improvements for approximately 1.6 miles of roadways including Mexico Farms Road, SE, Burbridge Road, SE and Pittsburgh Plate Glass Road, SE. “This grant is about jobs in Western Maryland,” Senator Mikulski said. “Investments in improving our transportation infrastructure are investments in Allegany County jobs. By making these roads safer, we will help attract new high-tech businesses, jobs and economic development to the region.” “Investing in upgrading and expanding our infrastructure is at the heart of job creation in this country,” said Senator Cardin, who recently introduced bipartisan legislation to reauthorize funding for ARC. “Western Maryland is quickly becoming a new hub for high-tech business. ARC grants go a long way in creating jobs and opportunity in the region, and I will continue to support initiatives to ensure growth in Allegany County.” “Smart investment in infrastructure creates jobs and boosts economic development, “said Congressman Delaney. “I am hopeful that this ARC grant for road improvements will make a difference at the North Branch Industrial Park and for my constituents in Allegany County. Top-notch infrastructure is essential to creating a strong economy in Western Maryland.” The project will provide improved access to the industrial park and additional 23 acres of vacant land. The road will be improved according to MSHA standards and specifications. It is estimated that the project will support the creation of approximately 100 new jobs and the retention of 1,675 existing jobs in the park. The Maryland State Highway Administration (MSHA) will administer the project and the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) will serve as the basic federal agency for the project. ###
05.08.2015	WASHINGTON – Numerous organizations have expressed their support for Congressman John K. Delaney’s (MD-6) Tax Pollution, Not Profits Act, legislation that reduces carbon pollution and combats climate change in a pro-growth, economically responsible manner. The Partnership for Responsible Growth, Environmental Defense Fund Action and the Union of Concerned Scientists have all issued statements of support, as has Adele Morris, Policy Director, Climate and Energy Economics Project at Brookings. “Nearly every day we see more evidence that climate change is happening. For our children and grandchildren, we have a responsibility to act,” said Congressman Delaney. “Climate change is likely to cause massive problems and we need a bold solution that tackles greenhouse gas emissions head on, using the power of the market to drive change. My legislation reduces harmful emissions, improves the business climate and makes sure that working families and coal miners will receive additional benefits. I’m proud to have the support of many leading environmental groups and will continue to work to build additional support.” The Tax Pollution, Not Profits Act establishes a tax on greenhouse gas emissions; with receipts from the tax being used to 1) reduce the corporate tax rate to grow the economy 2) provide monthly payments to low-income and middle-class households and 3) fund job training, early retirement and health care benefits for coal workers. The legislation is cosponsored by Rep. Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Rep. Jared Huffman (CA-2) and Rep. Jared Polis (CO-2). Environmental Defense Fund Action (EDFAction) President Elizabeth Thompson: “EDFAction applauds Rep. John Delaney for his leadership in calling for climate action – and introducing an approach to addressing climate change that the House of Representatives should consider. “According to Rep. Delaney, his bill -- the Tax Pollution, Not Profits Act -- places a tax on greenhouse gas emissions at $30 per metric ton of carbon dioxide or carbon dioxide equivalent in 2015 and increasing each subsequent year by 4 percent above inflation. All of the revenues generated will be returned, with 50 percent going to American families and 50 percent to lower the corporate tax. The bill also has provisions for coal workers, and low-income and middle class households.” “In recent weeks, members of Congress have placed various serious approaches to dealing with climate change on the table. We now call on the House to take up these proposals in serious debate and discussion and lay out a responsible path to protect America’s environment and economy from the ravages of climate change” Partnership for Responsible Growth: “Congressman John Delaney's new Tax Pollution, Not Profits bill provides a superior way for our nation to achieve the ten year 26% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions which the President has promised will be our nation's contribution to combatting climate change. It's a faster, cheaper, free-market solution, which lowers business taxes and should attract bipartisan support. We believe this approach will gather support from business leaders and environmentalists because it will make U.S. companies more competitive, increase economic growth, create jobs, and provide a more effective way to achieve EPA emission reduction goals than current approaches. It offers the added benefit of incentivizing other nations to adopt a similar approach. “We thank the Congressman for his farsighted leadership on this critical issue.” Union of Concerned Scientists: “Putting a price on carbon emissions harnesses the power of the marketplace to cut emissions cost-effectively and grow a clean energy economy. The Union of Concerned Scientists believes that the Tax Pollution, not Profits Act, introduced by Congressman Delaney, makes a strong contribution to the ongoing conversation.” Brookings Senior Fellow and Policy Director, Climate and Energy Economics Project Adele Morris: “Congressman Delaney is a remarkable climate policy leader, and his new bill embodies both ambitious environmental protection and responsible economic stewardship. Both environmentalists and climate skeptics can embrace this free enterprise, economy-wide alternative approach. Let us hope this bill prompts a reasoned bipartisan dialogue on this critically important, but paralytically polarized, issue.” The Tax Pollution, Not Profits Act (H.R. 2202) Establishes a federal tax on carbon pollution Places a tax on Green House Gas (GHG) emissions at $30 per metric ton of carbon dioxide or carbon dioxide equivalent in 2015, increasing each subsequent year at 4% above inflation. New carbon tax uses market forces and private sector innovation to reduce greenhouse gas pollution. Businesses benefit from predictable, market-driven approach. Lowers the corporate tax rate and returns revenues to the economy The legislation reduces the corporate tax rate from 35% to 28%, helping companies mitigate higher energy costs and, importantly, makes U.S. companies more competitive. Increasing U.S. economic competitiveness in a global economy will lead to gains in job creation, economic growth and increased domestic investment. Helps Impacted Coal Industry Workers Creates a new multi-billion dollar aid program administered by the Department of Labor (DOL) to assist workers in the coal industry that may be displaced as a result of the legislation. The assistance can include: worker retraining programs, financial assistance with relocation expenses, health care, early retirement and other benefits. There is precedent for the DOL to administer this kind of program. Since 1973 the Department of Labor has administered benefits to coal miners and their survivors impacted by black lung disease. Protects middle class and working families with an Energy Refund To ensure that low and middle-income households are not negatively impacted by the costs of transitioning to new energy sources, a portion of the revenues collected from the pollution tax will be redirected to low-income and middle-class working families via an Energy Refund. Households at or below 150% of the federal poverty line will receive direct monthly payments to fully offset increased energy costs. Households between 150-200% of the federal poverty line will receive a reduced monthly payment on a sliding scale. Households over 200% poverty level will be eligible for a refundable tax credit, with benefits also on a sliding scale. ##
05.07.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Barbara A. Mikulski together with Representatives Elijah Cummings, John Delaney, Donna F. Edwards, Steny Hoyer, Dutch Ruppersberger, John Sarbanes and Chris Van Hollen (all D-Md.) have sent a letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch supporting the request made this week by Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake to have the Department of Justice (DOJ) Civil Rights Division open a federal “pattern or practice” investigation of the Baltimore Police Department (BPD). “By using your authority under 42 U.S.C. § 14141, you have the ability to help repair the public’s trust in the BPD and ensure the protection of our citizens’ constitutional rights. Such an investigation could address issues such as allegations of persistent patterns of police misconduct, use of excessive force, discriminatory policing or use of profiling, and improper stops, searches, or arrests. We would welcome a detailed report on the BPD along with recommendations to reform this critical agency in a timely manner,” the Members wrote. “We ask the Justice Department to continue its Collaborative Reform Initiative through the COPS Office that is providing technical assistance to the BPD. We also ask the Justice Department continue its criminal and civil rights investigation into the death of Baltimore resident Freddie Gray.” The letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch follows: May 7, 2015 The Honorable Loretta Lynch Attorney General United States Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Attorney General Lynch: We thank you for visiting Baltimore, Maryland, earlier this week during your first official trip since being sworn into office last week. We appreciated the meetings you held with members of the Congressional delegation, local officials, community leaders, and the family of Freddie Gray. We welcome the active engagement in Baltimore of officials from the Civil Rights Division, COPS (Community Oriented Policing Services) Office, and Community Relations Service. We write to strongly support the request made earlier today of Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake of Baltimore to have the Civil Rights Division open a federal “pattern or practice” investigation of the Baltimore Police Department (BPD). By using your authority under 42 U.S.C. § 14141, you have the ability to help repair the public’s trust in the BPD and ensure the protection of our citizens’ constitutional rights. Such an investigation could address issues such as allegations of persistent patterns of police misconduct, use of excessive force, discriminatory policing or use of profiling, and improper stops, searches, or arrests. We would welcome a detailed report on the BPD along with recommendations to reform this critical agency in a timely manner. We ask the Justice Department to continue its Collaborative Reform Initiative through the COPS Office that is providing technical assistance to the BPD. We also ask the Justice Department continue its criminal and civil rights investigation into the death of Baltimore resident Freddie Gray. Thank you again for your leadership on these issues and the personal attention and time you have devoted on behalf of the citizens of Baltimore. We stand ready to assist you in your efforts and look forward to working with you as you begin your tenure as Attorney General. Sincerely, Benjamin L. Cardin Barbara A. Mikulski United States Senator United States Senator Elijah E. Cummings John Delaney Member of Congress Member of Congress Donna F. Edwards Steny H. Hoyer Member of Congress Member of Congress C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger John Sarbanes Member of Congress Member of Congress Chris Van Hollen Member of Congress ###
05.06.2015	WASHINGTON – On Wednesday, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) hosted public office hours for two hours at the Washington County Free Library in Hagerstown. Delaney met with over 30 constituents to discuss their concerns and legislative priorities and to help constituents address casework with federal agencies. Congressman Delaney plans to hold office hours regularly at locations across the district. “My public office hours are a chance to catch up with local residents one-on-one, to hear more about the issues that impact them, and to offer my help taking on the challenges our communities face,” said Congressman Delaney. “Better government starts with an open door, and my office hours are a chance for any constituent to bring up the issues that matter most to them. A one-on-one conversation is an opportunity to put yourself in someone else’s shoes, to hear about the challenges they face on a day-to-day basis or the changes they want to see at a national level. I spoke with constituents about jobs and the local economy, compensation for federal workers, retirement challenges, and election reform, and those are concerns I can take back to Congress.” Congressman Delaney plans to hold office hours regularly at locations across the district. For help with casework, constituents can also call district offices in Gaithersburg, at (301) 926-0300, or Hagerstown, at (301) 733-2900. ##
05.06.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Ben Cardin and Congressman John Delaney have introduced resolutions with Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (All D-Md.) to honor the memory of Dr. Warren Weinstein, a Marylander who died while being held hostage by al-Qaeda in Pakistan. His death, caused by an American strike on an al-Qaeda target, was a personal loss for Cardin, Mikulski and Delaney, who all worked tirelessly to bring their constituent back to his family in Rockville. The Cardin-Mikulski resolution (S. Res. 169), which passed the Senate by unanimous consent, and Delaney resolution (H.Res. 236) in the House of Representatives both express the condolences of the Congress to the family of Dr. Warren Weinstein, and commemorate his life and work as a humanitarian, teacher, public servant and loving family man. The lawmakers salute Dr. Weinstein for his commitment to humanitarian development work in challenging and dangerous circumstances and “calls on the United States to make the return of all United States citizens held captive abroad, regardless of their different circumstances, a top priority and provide a coordinated and consistent approach to supporting hostages and their families.” “Warren Weinstein has left a legacy of altruism, compassion and service that stands in great contrast to the terrorists who ripped him away from his family and life’s work,” said Senator Ben Cardin, Ranking Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. “As we grieve the loss of Dr. Weinstein, we come together to seek answers for his death and justice for his years in captivity. We also commit ourselves to ensuring better safeguards for the men and women who work on behalf of our nation to relieve suffering and empower local peoples around the world, and greater support for their families.” “Dr. Warren Weinstein dedicated his life to improving the conditions of others all throughout the world and his legacy will remain with us,” Senator Mikulski said. “I am proud to join my colleagues in introducing this resolution commemorating the life and work of Dr. Weinstein. We must also remember, for the Weinstein family this ordeal is not over. They have been brave beyond measure and now they deserve our continued support.” “Dr. Warren Weinstein was a scholar and a humanitarian who served his country and was committed to building a better world. Although Warren was tragically taken from us, he will never be forgotten,” said Congressman Delaney. “It is heartbreaking that this generous man who served others was held by terrorists for the final years of his life. I am proud to work with Senator Mikulski and Senator Cardin to bring forward this resolution expressing condolences to the Weinstein family.” ###
05.05.2015	WASHINGTON – Two major municipal ratings agencies have announced rating increases for bonds issued by Washington County, Maryland. Fitch Ratings upgraded Washington County general obligation bonds (GO) to an AA+ rating and Moody’s Investors upgraded Washington County GO public improvement bonds and consolidated public improvement refunding bonds to an Aa1 rating. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement: “Bond ratings are a key indicator of economic and public sector health and are hugely important to future growth. These higher bond ratings from Fitch and Moody’s mean a greater opportunity for investment in our local communities – infrastructure, schools, hospitals, etc. – and reflect Washington County’s improved financial position and the region’s growing economy. These upgrades speak to the hard work of everyone in the Washington County government, including elected officials, management and staff as well as the business owners and workers across the county who make Washington County strong.” For Fitch Ratings’ statement on the recent upgrades, click here. For Moody’s Investors’ statement on the upgrade of Washington County bonds, click here. ##
05.05.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has submitted an official statement honoring Cumberland Times-News Managing Editor Jan Alderton into the Congressional Record. After 48 years at the paper, Alderton will retire on June 1. The Congressional Record is an official record of House and Senate proceedings and has been published since 1873. Delaney’s statement for the record is as follows: “Mister Speaker, I would like to recognize and honor Mr. Jan Alderton, Managing Editor at the Cumberland Times-News, for his incredible career and his retirement after nearly 48 years of journalism. “Jan started at the Cumberland News in 1967 as a proofreader. Eventually, he worked his way through almost every newsroom position. From his coverage of the Maryland General Assembly in the 1970’s, to his work as a sports reporter, Jan showed true commitment to his craft, and worked hard to publish the best stories each day. “In 1987, Jan was named Managing Editor of the Times-News for the first time. There, Jan strived to make sure readers of the Times-News had access to breaking stories and the best reporting. His service to the people of Allegany County will be dearly missed. “Local journalism, like that at the Cumberland Times-News, provides a critical service for communities nationwide, highlighting events that aren’t covered elsewhere. When it comes to reading hometown news, there’s only one place to find it, and that’s your hometown paper. “I ask that you and my other distinguished colleagues help me in honoring Mr. Jan Alderton, for his dedication to honest reporting and his commitment to the people of Cumberland. Let’s wish Jan a happy and healthy retirement.” ##
05.04.2015	WASHINGTON – May is Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) Heritage Month. AAPI Heritage Month was first recognized in 1978, when President Jimmy Carter signed a Joint Resolution designating the annual celebration. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “AAPI Heritage Month is an important opportunity to recognize the economic, social and cultural contributions of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders. For centuries, Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders have been an integral part of our country, and I am proud to stand with my colleagues in Congress to wish all a happy AAPI Heritage Month. “Our nation’s greatest strength lies in our ability to bring together people from all backgrounds who offer a diversity of ideas and perspectives. When we provide all Americans with the opportunity to follow their dreams, we create a foundation for innovation and growth in the United States. This month is an important reminder of our nation’s unique character and the value of diversity.” ##
05.01.2015	WASHINGTON –Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has filed legislation to reduce carbon pollution and combat climate change in a pro-growth, economically responsible manner that helps working families. Delaney’s legislation offers a new approach, combining efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions with a reduction in the corporate tax rate and a new program to help impacted coal workers. The Tax Pollution, Not Profits Act establishes a tax on greenhouse gas emissions; with receipts from the tax directed towards 1) reducing the corporate tax rate to increase employment and reduce consumer costs 2) providing monthly payments to low-income and middle-class households and 3) funding job training, early retirement and health care benefits to coal workers. Delaney’s legislation positions the United States to become a global leader in new energy technology and production and in environmental policy by utilizing a market-based solution. “Climate change is a big problem that calls for a big solution. Climate change is a threat to American jobs, national security and national health. It’s time to get to work combating climate change and reducing greenhouse gas emissions before it is too late,” said Congressman Delaney. “The Tax Pollution, Not Profits Act combines strong environmental action with a market-based, pro-growth approach that will grow our economy, improve our business climate and make sure that working Americans can thrive. Importantly, we also ensure that coal workers – whose hard work is legendary and who have played a huge role in building this country – receive a helping hand. By reducing corporate taxes and taxing carbon, we can deliver a powerful double-bottom line which appeals to both sides of the aisle. In my view, climate change is the environmental issue of this century and we need to bring forward innovative policies that can garner wide support, policies like the Tax Pollution, Not Profits Act.” The Tax Pollution, Not Profits Act Establishes a federal tax on carbon pollution Places a tax on Green House Gas (GHG) emissions at $30 per metric ton of carbon dioxide or carbon dioxide equivalent in 2015, increasing each subsequent year at 4% above inflation. New carbon tax uses market forces and private sector innovation to reduce greenhouse gas pollution. Businesses benefit from predictable, market-driven approach. Lowers the corporate tax rate and returns revenues to the economy The legislation reduces the corporate tax rate from 35% to 28%, helping companies mitigate higher energy costs and, importantly, makes U.S. companies more competitive. Increasing U.S. economic competitiveness in a global economy will lead to gains in job creation, economic growth and increased domestic investment. Helps Impacted Coal Industry Workers Creates a new multi-billion dollar aid program administered by the Department of Labor (DOL) to assist workers in the coal industry that may be displaced as a result of the legislation. The assistance can include: worker retraining programs, financial assistance with relocation expenses, health care, early retirement and other benefits. There is precedent for the DOL to administer this kind of program. Since 1973 the Department of Labor has administered benefits to coal miners and their survivors impacted by black lung disease. Protects middle class and working families with an Energy Refund To ensure that low and middle-income households are not negatively impacted by the costs of transitioning to new energy sources, a portion of the revenues collected from the pollution tax will be redirected to low-income and middle-class working families via an Energy Refund. Households at or below 150% of the federal poverty line will receive direct monthly payments to fully offset increased energy costs. Households between 150-200% of the federal poverty line will receive a reduced monthly payment on a sliding scale. Households over 200% poverty level will be eligible for a refundable tax credit, with benefits also on a sliding scale. ##
05.01.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has filed legislation to create a new Hostage Czar, a high-level government official whose sole responsibility is to lead U.S. efforts to locate and recover American hostages. Last week, the White House announced that Dr. Warren Weinstein, a constituent of Rep. Delaney, was inadvertently killed in the bombing of an al-Qa’ida compound. Weinstein was held hostage for over three years. The Warren Weinstein Hostage Rescue Act creates a Hostage Czar who serves on the National Security Council and oversees an interagency fusion cell. Delaney’s legislation states that no portion of the bill should be construed as authorizing the federal government to negotiate with terrorists. Bill text available here. “The tragic loss of Dr. Warren Weinstein should be a call to action, because our hostage rescue operations have to improve. I firmly believe that improvement starts with a new Hostage Czar who can direct and coordinate our efforts across agency lines, a high-level official who can leverage all our relevant agencies in the service of one goal,” said Congressman Delaney. “Hostage rescue is incredibly complex and multiple agencies have a role in the process, which at times has complicated our ability to act efficiently. Under the leadership of a Hostage Czar, we can improve coordination, cut through the bureaucracy, and better communicate with families. We need a new member of the National Security Council who wakes up every morning focused solely on bringing American hostages home. With a Hostage Czar our world-class security, intelligence, diplomatic and defense personnel will be empowered to get the job done and bring our hostages home.” Working with Senator Ben Cardin (MD) and Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (MD) Delaney has also introduced a House Resolution to honor the memory of Dr. Weinstein and calls upon Congress to make the return of all American hostages a priority. Under Delaney’s legislation, the Hostage Czar’s function would be to: Coordinate the efforts of relevant agencies to find and retrieve U.S. citizens held hostage. The legislation creates an interagency fusion cell Develop strategies and guidelines for bringing hostages home Develop policies and procedures to effectively share information between all agencies responsible for hostage intelligence, reconnaissance and rescue Oversee and direct communications with the families of U.S. hostages informed with regular updates that do not compromise U.S. intelligence Ensure U.S. agencies are using all available assets, including foreign allies and non-governmental organizations to assist in hostage-rescue operations and intelligence ##
05.01.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement on the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act, legislation to give President Obama Trade Promotion Authority (TPA): “Right now, two things are happening: 1) Congress is considering a bipartisan agreement that instructs the President on trade negotiations and begins the deliberation process for a new accord and 2) China is working on their own regional trade agreement. I support giving President Obama Trade Promotion Authority because it will give the President the tools he needs to negotiate the best trade deal for America and our workers. For the first time, the bipartisan Trade Promotion Authority package includes groundbreaking environmental and labor standards and provides unprecedented human rights protections. The Trade Promotion Authority Package gives President Obama new ways to enforce these standards to make sure we’re not having a race to the bottom that drags American workers down. So it’s either going to be our country setting the terms for trade or it’s going to be China. I want our country, our government and this President setting the terms of international trade, not China. “Every day, Maryland workers and businesses compete in a global economy and as a lawmaker I believe it is my responsibility to help them succeed. On balance, trade materially helps Maryland’s economy and if you care about Maryland’s economy you have to care about trade. According to the Department of Commerce, last year 59,000 Maryland jobs were supported by over $12 billion in exports. However, we also know that certain regions and industries have suffered from the combined effects of technological innovation and globalization. Working together, these trends have hollowed out middle class jobs and the negative effects of these trends must be reversed. Good trade deals can do this by adding important momentum to the manufacturing resurgence that is occurring in the United States. Low energy costs combined with technological innovation and a growing recognition by companies that there are many advantages to being in the United States are making manufacturing – again – one of the fastest growing segments of our economy. A good trade deal will open more markets for these U.S. manufacturers and create more jobs. But we also need other polices as well, such as a national infrastructure jobs program – an area I have focused on in Congress – and investments in education and job training, plus pro-worker polices like a higher minimum wage." ##
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON –Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) is an original cosponsor of the Raise the Wage Act, legislation filed today by Rep. Bobby Scott (VA-3) to increase the federal minimum wage, gradually eliminate the subminimum wage for tipped workers, and index the wage to increases in the median wage. In 2013-14, Delaney was a leader in raising the minimum wage in Maryland. “To help more working families thrive, we need to raise the minimum wage. If you have a job and you’re working full time, you should be able to support yourself and your family. As a former entrepreneur and CEO, I know that companies do well when they treat their employees well,” said Congressman Delaney. “Millions of Americans rely on a minimum wage job to put food on the table, pay for school and keep the lights on. When the minimum wage stagnates, so does their ability to support their families and join the middle class. Today’s bill will help bring minimum-wage earners out of poverty and index their pay to ensure they’re never left behind again.” The minimum wage has not been increased since 2009, when it was raised to $7.25. Beginning in January of 2016, the Raise the Wage Act would increase the federal minimum wage by $0.75 to $8.00 per hour. Every year thereafter, the minimum wage would increase by $1.00 per hour until it reaches $12.00. Starting in 2021, the federal minimum wage would keep pace with rising wages through automatic annual increases. The Raise the Wage Act would also gradually eliminate the subminimum tipped wage. ##
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, House Committee on Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan announced that he is working on a short-term fix for the Highway Trust Fund during an event at the Christian Science Monitor. Speaking at the Monitor’s Breakfast, Ryan discussed using international tax reform to rebuild America’s infrastructure. Chairman Ryan stated that there is a “sense of urgency” to reform the international tax code and that he plans to “exhaust the possibility” of using international tax reform for a multi-year highway bill before considering other strategies. Ryan signaled that his first preference for a highway bill would be international tax reform. In January, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) filed the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, which uses international corporate tax reform to patch the Highway Trust Fund hole for six years, creates a new financing tool and establishes a path for broader pro-growth tax reform and improved infrastructure financing. Since 2013, Delaney has been a leader in building support for this framework, with his Partnership to Build America Act ending the 113th Congress with over 40 Republican and 40 Democratic cosponsors. “This morning Chairman Ryan commented on pairing international tax reform and infrastructure investments. As someone who has spent the last several years building a large bipartisan coalition around this concept, I view Mr. Ryan's thinking on the topic to be smart and well-reasoned,” said Congressman Delaney. “He correctly points out that repatriation holidays don't work and change behavior in a counter-productive way and his comments also reflect a deep understanding of the anti-competitive nature of our current international tax system and the perverse incentives that flow from it. We will continue to make the bipartisan case for the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, which follows Mr. Ryan's macro framing, by permanently fixing our international tax system, creates a path for trillions of dollars of overseas cash to return to the U.S., funds a six-year highway bill and launches a massive U.S. infrastructure investment program.” Video of Chairman Ryan’s remarks here. ##
04.29.2015	Joint statement issued by Reps. Gerald E. Connolly (VA-11th), Donald S. Beyer Jr. (VA-8th), Barbara Comstock (VA-10th), Steny H. Hoyer (MD-5th), Chris Van Hollen (MD-8th), Donna F. Edwards (MD-4th), John P. Sarbanes (MD-3rd), John K. Delaney (MD-6th), Eleanor Holmes Norton, (DC- At-large): We are deeply disappointed by the House Appropriations Committee’s proposal to cut $75 million in grant funding for the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (Metro). Providing anything less than the federal commitment of $150 million would jeopardize rider safety and the successful partnership with Virginia, Maryland, and the District of Columbia to fund the purchase of new rail cars and vital safety improvements throughout the system in response to NTSB and FTA recommendations. The proposed reduction would only exacerbate the operations and safety issues that our delegation has been working with Metro to resolve. Since 2009, Congress has worked in bipartisan fashion to fulfill its annual commitment of $150 million, which is matched by $50 million each from Virginia, Maryland, and the District of Columbia, under a partnership created by the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act (PL 110-432). It would be shortsighted for Congress to threaten to unravel this partnership given the federal government’s unique relationship with and responsibility to Metro. Nearly 40% of rush-hour riders are federal employees, and half of all Metro stations are located on federal property. Metro is also a critical component of the National Capital Region’s emergency response system. We respectfully urge our colleagues on the Appropriations Committee, as they prepare for the full Committee markup, to maintain our commitment to our state and local funding partners, and work with us to ensure robust oversight of Metro’s ongoing efforts to address financial and safety concerns identified by the FTA and NTSB. ##
04.28.2015	WASHINGTON – Tuesday, April 28, is Workers’ Memorial Day, remembering the men and women killed, injured, or disabled on the job. This Workers’ Memorial Day, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) will attend events in Hagerstown and Cumberland. “Every American worker has the right to a safe workplace. Our workers are a source of talent, innovation, and energy. When they get hurt, their families suffer and our economy suffers,” said Congressman Delaney. “Thousands of workers die on the job each year, a tragedy that we can’t ignore. Workers’ Memorial Day is an important opportunity to remember the men and women who’ve lost their lives or suffered an injury on the job and recommit ourselves in the effort to ensure all employees have a safe place to work.” On April 15, 2015, Delaney joined 79 other Members in the House of Representatives to write the Secretary of Labor and the Director of OMB, urging the completion of proposed rules enforcing pay fairness and workplace safety standards. The new rules require federal contractors to certify compliance with labor and workplace safety laws to receive government contracts. For the full text of the letter, click here. ##
04.26.2015	WASHINGTON - Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) will file legislation to create a new high-level government official whose sole responsibility is to lead U.S. efforts to locate and recover American hostages. The Hostage Czar created by Delaney’s legislation will chair the Committee on Hostage Recovery and sit on the National Security Council. Delaney discussed the legislation on ABC’s “This Week” on Sunday. On Thursday, the White House announced that Delaney’s constituent, Warren Weinstein, was inadvertently killed in the bombing of an al-Qa’ida compound. Weinstein had been held hostage since 2011. In a House Committee on Foreign Affairs hearing last December, Delaney pressed government officials on the level of cooperation from allies in the region. Delaney also asked the panel if a hostage czar could help improve the government’s response. “Finding hostages and bringing them home is one of the toughest jobs on the planet. To best respond to the complex challenges associated with this growing problem, we need a new Hostage Czar to ensure that our government response is focused, coordinated and resourceful,” said Congressman Delaney. “American hostages need a high-level security official who wakes up every morning solely focused on bringing them home. Our security, defense and intelligence personnel are the best in the world and I believe that under the leadership of a Hostage Czar, they will be empowered to do their heroic work more effectively.” “Tragically, we were not able to bring Warren Weinstein home,” Delaney continued. “He was an incredible man, a man who served others, a man who worked to build a better world. We lost Warren 1251 days after his capture. After 1251 days we still didn’t have the most important piece of information needed to begin to bring him home: we didn’t know where he was. In my view, we have to look at that hard fact and reform our practices and policies. I believe a Hostage Czar is essential to an effective security operation.” Under Delaney’s legislation, the Hostage Czar’s function would be to: Coordinate the efforts of relevant agencies to find and retrieve U.S. citizens held hostage Develop strategies and guidelines for bringing hostages home Develop policies and procedures to effectively share information between all agencies responsible for hostage intelligence, reconnaissance and rescue Provide a single point of contact to keep the families of U.S. hostages informed with regular updates that do not compromise U.S. intelligence Ensure U.S. agencies are using all available assets, including foreign allies and non-governmental organizations to assist in hostage-rescue operations and intelligence ##
04.23.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the White House announced that Warren Weinstein, who had been held hostage by al-Qa’ida, was killed earlier this year. Weinstein, a Montgomery County resident, was captured in Pakistan in 2011. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6), Weinstein’s representative in the House, releases the following statement: “The loss of Warren is devastating, a tragic event that we must never forget. Warren was a beloved husband, father and grandfather. Warren’s family has endured his long captivity with incredible strength, dignity and resolve. At this heart-rending time, April and I send our prayers to Warren’s family, including his wife Elaine, daughters Alisa and Jennifer and the rest of his family. Over the last two years, I feel so fortunate to have developed a relationship with them as we’ve pursued efforts to bring Warren home. I wish I would have had an opportunity to meet Warren. People in his life all say Warren was a warm friend to people around the world, a man who served our country as a member of the Peace Corps and at USAID. Warren represented the very best of our country; he was a gentle and loving man who dedicated his career to building a better world. We need more Warren Weinsteins in the world. “Warren was taken from his family and held hostage by terrorists who hold no decency and no humanity. Their actions will not deter us for one second in our efforts to defeat them and bring them to justice. “I’m saddened, disappointed and outraged that our government was not able to bring Warren home. Today’s news is a personal tragedy for Warren’s family but also a sobering national security and government failure. As Warren’s representative, I feel like his country failed him in his greatest time of need. I’m determined to ensure that Warren’s story is not forgotten, that we get to the bottom of why Warren wasn’t found and how he was killed, and that we drive tangible improvements to our hostage response process from an intelligence and resources coordination perspective. I have been working on legislation to reform, streamline and upgrade our ability to respond to hostage taking, which I plan to introduce soon, in the hope that more families don’t suffer the same fate. It is essential that the review of this tragic accident be a true investigation that focuses on the events surrounding Warren’s death and the intelligence efforts that were deployed to locate him. Our national security and intelligence response to hostages must improve and improve quickly. “My thoughts and condolences are also with the family of Giovanni Lo Porto, an aid worker held hostage with Warren Weinstein.” ##
04.22.2015	WASHINGTON – On Earth Day, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) announces that he will introduce new legislation this spring designed to respond to the global crisis of climate change in a fiscally-responsible way that ensures that middle class families don’t pay the price for pollution. Delaney’s legislation is a unique solution to the environmental and economic costs of climate change in that it reduces the corporate tax rate and creates a new aid program for coal workers. The Tax Pollution, Not Profits Act establishes a tax on greenhouse gas emissions; these revenues will then be used to 1) provide monthly payments to low-income and middle-class households 2) reduce the corporate tax rate to increase employment and reduce consumer costs and 3) fund job training, early retirement and health care benefits to coal workers. By utilizing market forces to respond to climate change, Delaney’s legislation positions the United States to become a global leader in new energy technology and production and in environmental policy. “Climate change is the greatest environmental threat of our time, it is a threat to American jobs and our economy, it is a threat to our food and water supply, and it is a threat to public health and national security. Climate change is real and it is imperative that we do something about it,” said Congressman Delaney. “We must be honest: this is a big problem that demands a big solution. By taxing carbon and using the bulk of the proceeds to improve U.S. competitiveness, we can use one of the most powerful engines on the planet, free-market enterprise and innovation, to create the new energy solutions we need. My framework offers a new pro-growth approach that helps the most vulnerable and strengthens our economy by reducing corporate taxes. The Tax Pollution, Not Profits Act makes an alternative energy economy possible, protects coal workers and working families as we transition to new energy sources and makes the United States a global leader on climate change.” The Tax Pollution, Not Profits Act Establishes a federal tax on carbon pollution Places a tax on Green House Gas (GHG) emissions at $30 per metric ton of carbon dioxide or carbon dioxide equivalent in 2015, increasing each subsequent year at 4% above inflation. New carbon tax uses market forces and private sector innovation to reduce greenhouse gas pollution. Businesses benefit from predictable, market-driven approach. Lowers the corporate tax rate and returns revenues to the economy The legislation reduces the corporate tax rate from 35% to 28%, helping companies mitigate higher energy costs and, importantly, makes U.S. companies more competitive. Increasing U.S. economic competitiveness in a global economy will lead to gains in job creation, economic growth and increased domestic investment. Helps Impacted Coal Industry Workers Creates a new multi-billion dollar aid program administered by the Department of Labor (DOL) to assist workers in the coal industry that may be displaced as a result of the legislation. The assistance can include: worker retraining programs, financial assistance with relocation expenses, health, early retirement and other benefits. There is precedent for the DOL to administer this kind of program. Since 1973 the Department of Labor has administered benefits to coal miners and their survivors impacted by black lung disease. Protects middle class and working families with an Energy Refund To ensure that low and middle-income households are not negatively impacted by the costs of transitioning to new energy sources, a portion of the revenues collected from the pollution tax will be redirected to low-income and middle-class working families via an Energy Refund. Households at or below 150% of the federal poverty line will receive direct monthly payments to fully offset increased energy costs. Households between 150-200% of the federal poverty line will receive a reduced monthly payment on a sliding scale. Households over 200% poverty level will be eligible for a refundable tax credit, with benefits also on a sliding scale. ##
04.21.2015	WASHINGTON – The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) have announced $65 million in grants nationwide to help veterans find permanent supportive housing through the HUD-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program. This week’s announcement includes a grant of $200,841 to the Housing Authority of the City of Hagerstown (HACH) and a grant of $72,776 to the Housing Opportunity Commission (HOC) of Montgomery County, both serving veterans in Maryland’s Sixth District. “No one who has served our country should ever have to face homelessness,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “That’s a basic commitment that our country can and must live up to if we’re going to begin repaying our veterans for their service. The supportive housing program is designed to reduce homelessness among veteran populations in coordination with local agencies. These grants to local agencies will make a big difference for veterans struggling to find a place to call home. Everyone who serves should have a home to return to and the extraordinary work of Hagerstown Housing Authority and the Housing Opportunity Commission of Montgomery County help to make that a reality.” Each year, HUD-VASH helps approximately 10,000 American veterans escape homelessness by combining rental assistance, in the form of a HUD voucher, with case management and supportive services provided by the VA. On March 23, 2015, Congressman John Delaney joined over fifty colleagues in the House of Representatives in a letter to congressional leadership on the House Committee on Appropriations requesting funding for the HUD-VASH program for Fiscal Year 2016. For more information on HUD-VASH, click here. ##
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON – April 16, 2015, is Holocaust Remembrance Day, a time to remember the suffering of victims and survivors of the Holocaust. Holocaust Remembrance Day corresponds with the 27th of Nisan on the Hebrew calendar, which in 1943, marked the beginning of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “Today we honor the victims and survivors of the Holocaust, we remember their lives, mourn their suffering, and pledge never to forget the cost of inaction. Holocaust Remembrance Day is an important moment for all of us to stand together and say ‘never again.’ Holocaust Remembrance Day is an opportunity to renew our commitment to ending injustice, bigotry and anti-Semitism, both in our own community and around the globe. Last week, vandals spray-painted hateful messages on a Gaithersburg synagogue, reminding Marylanders that even in our own state, our work to confront hatred and intolerance is not over.” On Wednesday, April 15, police in Montgomery County arrested a vandal for spray-painting swastikas and other graffiti on the Shaare Torah synagogue in Gaithersburg. For Delaney’s original statement on the incident, click here. ##
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted against H.R. 1105, legislation that repeals the federal estate tax. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, the legislation would add $269 billion to the federal deficit. Under current law, the estate tax only applies to estates worth over $5.43 million dollars, less than one quarter of one percent of the population. Delaney, the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in the House of Representatives, authored an op-ed criticizing the legislation in the Huffington Post. “It’s hard not to look at this vote and conclude that Congress is focusing on the wrong priorities and the wrong agenda,” said Congressman Delaney. “Instead of spending time on special interest legislation that only applies to a small number of the most fortunate Americans, we should work on bills that move the needle for the middle class and create jobs. Giving the heirs of the most fortunate a tax cut isn’t going to get more people back to work, rebuild roads and bridges, or reduce the deficit. The estate tax isn’t perfect, no policy is, but a complete repeal is a drastic and irresponsible measure that is wrong for the country.” ##
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has authored an op-ed in the Huffington Post in opposition to legislation which repeals the federal estate tax. The House is scheduled to vote on H.R. 1105, which repeals the estate tax on Thursday. Currently, the estate tax only applies to estates worth over $5.43 million dollars. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, the legislation would add $269 billion to the federal deficit. Delaney is the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in the House of Representatives. The op-ed is available online here. The text is copied below: Repealing the Estate Tax is Wrong for America By Rep. John K. Delaney (MD-6) Huffington Post, 4/15/15 This week House Republicans plan to add $269 billion to our debt by repealing the estate tax. While there are certain tax solutions, like the R&D tax credit, that I support that boost the economy and have a large economic multiplier, the estate tax is not one of them. Repealing the estate tax won’t create jobs, it won’t boost GDP, and it won’t add efficiency to the market. Instead, repealing the estate tax will simply add to the debt, hurt our ability to build a stronger economy and worsen economic inequality. It is hard to look at this vote and not think that Congress is focusing on the wrong things. We already spend too few days in Congress working on meaningful legislation; we simply can’t afford to waste more time on legislation that doesn’t move the needle to improve the lives of everyday Americans. Whether you’re a Republican or Democrat, liberal or conservative, it is clear that we’ve got big problems that we need to address, starting with making our economy more competitive so that we can create more good-paying jobs for the middle class. It is important to note that only a very tiny subset of the wealthiest families need to worry about paying the estate tax. The estate tax affects around only 5,500 households each year and an individual must be worth well over $5 million before they pay even a dime of the tax. I believe it is important that I speak out against this misguided legislation. I’ve been fortunate to live the American Dream. I grew up in a blue collar family in a working class neighborhood. My dad was a union electrician. My parents didn’t earn a lot of money or have the chance to go to college, but with help from scholarships, I was able to get an education and have a rewarding career as an entrepreneur. I will have to pay the estate tax when I leave an inheritance to my children. That’s not a bad thing; the estate tax encourages wealthy individuals to donate to charity. Instead of serving special interests, Congress should focus on the big picture. Globalization and technology have completely reshaped our economy in recent decades and if we don’t respond, we’re putting the future of the middle class at risk. To my view, this means investing in the future by upgrading our infrastructure, supporting science, research and education and restoring our fiscal health. To throw away $269 billion with a complete repeal is particularly troubling given the current state of our country’s infrastructure, investments which Congress has been repeatedly unwilling to fund. Currently, the Highway Trust Fund is set to run out of funding as early as June, imperiling road and bridge construction and repair projects all across the nation. The American Society of Civil Engineers has already given our infrastructure a D+ grade, calling upgrades to our airports, roads, ports, and rail system. A truly world-class infrastructure grid that drives economic growth is far more valuable to our long-term economic health than a short-sighted sacrifice of key revenue. Instead of working to repeal the estate tax, leaders in Congress should instead get behind an infrastructure fix that will make our country more competitive, create jobs and end the cycle of staggering from transportation funding crisis to crisis. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act, which I introduced earlier this year, funds the Highway Trust Fund for six years and creates an additional $750 billion of infrastructure financing for states and local governments to use for their infrastructure projects. This bipartisan bill finds a way to use the record levels of overseas capital currently floating abroad and put it to good use domestically, in a way that makes our country and our economy stronger. It’s good for business, it’s good for the middle class, and it’s good for our nation’s future. The estate tax, like all policies, isn’t perfect. No one wants the estate tax to force family businesses to be sold or to unnecessarily burden truly small family businesses, which may have low cash reserves. We should also look at reforms that allow families to spread their estate tax payments out over time. But that’s not what this bill is – a repeal is drastic and fiscally irresponsible policy. This week, as Congress debates whether to repeal a tax paid by only the most fortunate Americans, a tax that impacts less than 1% percent of all estates, I ask my colleagues in Congress to reflect on their experiences and the future of the country. I know that in my case – and I suspect most others – I did not build my company by making decisions that prioritized short-term profit over long-term strength. Sound business strategy calls for making prudent investments at the right time that pay off in the future, while cultivating an environment for growth. Our country is no different, and we should reject this ill-considered estate tax repeal and turn our attention to working to create the conditions America needs to grow and thrive. ##
04.15.2015	FREDERICK – Tuesday, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) hosted an Awards Reception announcing winners of the 2015 Congressional Art Competition and honoring all submitted student work at the Delaplaine Visual Arts Education Center in Frederick. A panel of judges from local colleges selected Jean-Baptiste Bolou as the competition’s first place winner for his work, titled TypeFACE. Bolou attends Northwest High School and lives in Germantown. “Maryland is home to some of the most gifted students in the country, and tonight’s competition showcased their talent,” said Congressman Delaney. “The great works submitted to this year’s Art Competition spoke to the skill and ambition of our students and to the dedication of Maryland teachers, who help to inspire our youngest generation. Jean-Baptiste Bolou submitted a thought-provoking piece which captured our attention and he deserves to be recognized for his talent.” The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to encourage and recognize outstanding student talent in the visual arts. Each spring, the House of Representatives hosts the art competition which is open to high school students nationwide. Congressman Delaney accepted entries from students in Maryland’s 6th District. More than 60 students submitted works for the 2015 Congressional Art Competition for Maryland’s 6th District. In addition to choosing a first-place submission, judges selected nine runners-up. All submitted student works were on display at the Awards Reception on Tuesday, which hosted over 60 attendees, including student participants, teachers, family and members of the arts community. For a high-resolution photo of Jean-Baptiste Bolou’s winning entry, contact Will McDonald. ##
04.15.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Congressman Richard Hanna (NY-22) have written House leadership calling for a long-term highway bill. Authorization for the Highway Trust Fund, the nation’s primary source for federal transportation projects, will expire at the end of May. The letter was sent to Rep. Paul Ryan, Chairman of the Committee on Ways and Means; Rep. Sander Levin, Ranking Member of the Committee on Ways and Means; Rep. Bill Shuster, Chairman of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and Rep. Peter DeFazio, Ranking Member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. In January, Delaney introduced the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, legislation that uses international corporate tax reform to patch the Highway Trust Fund hole for six years, creates a new $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund for state and local governments and establishes a path for broader pro-growth tax reform and improved infrastructure financing. The legislation builds on the Partnership to Build America Act, the first major legislation to use repatriated revenues to build new infrastructure and create jobs with broad bipartisan support. The text of the letter is as follows: April 15, 2015 The Honorable Paul Ryan The Honorable Sander Levin Chairman Ranking Member Committee on Ways and Means Committee on Ways and Means 1102 Longworth House Office Building 1106 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Bill Shuster The Honorable Peter DeFazio Chairman Ranking Member Committee on Transportation Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and Infrastructure 2165 Rayburn House Office Building 2163 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Ryan, Chairman Shuster, Ranking Member Levin and Ranking Member DeFazio: We know that each of you is committed to improving our failing infrastructure. Unfortunately, it has been almost two decades since Congress last passed a six-year Surface Transportation bill. We all know that short term extensions do a disservice to our economy and our constituents, as well as decrease our long-term global competitiveness. Infrastructure projects cannot be turned on and off in short spurts—proper infrastructure planning and construction requires a long-term authorization and certainty around funding and financing. The current short-term extension expires at the end of next month. We believe it is time to commit to a long-term bill and business certainty for the construction community. Moreover, we should commit to investing in the middle-class jobs that infrastructure creates. Now is the time to make strategic decisions about what we want our infrastructure to look like in order to stay competitive in the 21st century global economy. Congress should move past budget gimmicks that supposedly pay for short-term transportation extensions. We should not wait until the end of next month to quickly push through another stop-gap. There are bipartisan proposals on the table right now to pay for a long-term funding bill. Our bill, the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, is one such proposal. It has support on both sides of the aisle and among the infrastructure community. We respectfully request that committees review this bill so that our colleagues may offer constructive amendments in hopes of then bringing the bill to the floor. Postponing infrastructure repair and construction only makes it more expensive in the long-term. Let’s make the fiscally responsible decision to invest now. Sincerely, John Delaney Richard Hanna Member of Congress Member of Congress ##
04.15.2015	WASHINGTON – Tuesday, the Joint Economic Committee (JEC) released a report detailing the economic challenges faced by African Americans, including disparities in employment, income, housing and education. The report, Economic Challenges in the Black Community is available online here. According to the report, African Americans in Maryland and around the country face significantly higher unemployment than their white counterparts, with much lower median household income and a higher poverty rate. The report follows years of effort from the Congressional Black Caucus to call attention to African American economic hardship during and after the recession. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6), a member of the Joint Economic Committee spoke at the press conference announcing the report, joining JEC Ranking Member Rep. Carolyn Maloney (NY-12), Rep. G.K. Butterfield (NC-1), Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus and other members. Video of Delaney’s remarks available here. Maryland data from the JEC report: African American White Unemployment 8.7% 4.6% Median Household Income $57,900 $81,900 Poverty Rate 14.9% 6.9% According to the report, the employment gap between whites and African Americans has grown since 2007. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “If you care about equal opportunity for all, this is a very troubling report. We’ve known about these disparities for a long time, the Congressional Black Caucus has highlighted these disparities for a long time and this report is another data point that makes it crystal clear that many of our fellow citizens are truly struggling and that some disparities are getting even worse. This includes people in Maryland, where the African-American unemployment rate is nearly twice that of whites and the median household income is barely half. “I think about my own life. I grew up in a working class neighborhood in a blue collar family. My parents didn’t go to college and my dad was a union electrician. But I received a helping hand from so many people and organizations, including scholarships that helped me get a good education, which led to a rewarding career as an entrepreneur and then the privilege of serving in Congress. It is really difficult for me to read this report and then think about my own life and the opportunities that I had and feel completely good about them, because this report is more evidence that not everyone had the same chances I had. When I read this report, I see that someone like me, but who happens to be African American, is far less likely to have the same opportunities in life that I did, and that’s really disturbing. We have a moral obligation to step forward and do something about this so that everyone has a chance to live the American Dream. “I believe the single most important thing we can do to expand opportunity is to encourage new job creation and economic development. I ran a company that provided thousands of loans to small businesses across the country. And I can tell you first-hand that greater access to affordable capital is needed in the African-American community; it’s not just about helping minority business owners and entrepreneurs grow and thrive, it’s also essential to creating stronger communities, because small businesses create two out of every three jobs. We need to do even more to provide access to job creating affordable loans to small businesses in the African-American community.” In 2010, Delaney’s business, CapitalSource, received the Bank Enterprise Award from the Obama Administration, a program supporting financial institutions that are dedicated to financing and encouraging economic development in distressed communities. ##
04.13.2015	WASHINGTON – On April 10, 2015 the Baltimore Sun published an editorial supporting Congressman John K. Delaney’s Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 413) as part of a path to a comprehensive, long-term infrastructure solution. In 2013, Delaney first introduced the Partnership to Build America Act, which creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund that is capitalized by selling bonds to private companies. In exchange for purchasing these bonds, the companies will receive a one-time tax break on repatriating their overseas profits. Delaney has expanded the framework of the Partnership to Build America Act with the Infrastructure 2.0 Act. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act also creates the same $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund and also fixes the Highway Trust Fund shortfall for six years, using revenues from international corporate tax reform. Delaney’s solution was later included in the President’s Budget and the Department of Transportation’s Grow America plan. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act also establishes a bipartisan and bicameral commission tasked with developing a permanent solvency solution for the Highway Trust Fund. The Baltimore Sun’s editorial is copied below and is available online here: Congress on the budget clock, again By Editorial Board, Baltimore Sun, April 10, 2015 Wouldn't it be great to live with 1993 prices? A dozen eggs was less than a dollar. First-class postage was 29 cents. And the cost of a gallon of gas was $1.13. Of course, average income was significantly less 22 years ago, too, at slightly over $30,000 per household, but that tends to be forgotten. Say what you will about the first year of Bill Clinton's presidency (when the unemployment rate 6.9 percent, much worse than today's), but at least the prices were good by 21st century standards. Obviously, you can't turn back the clock. Producers can't sell eggs for that price because the cost of raising hens is much higher today. The U.S. Postal Service faces much greater expenses, and even with the recent spike in production of oil and a possible nuclear agreement with Iran, gasoline prices aren't likely to sink to 1993 levels either. So why would anyone believe the United States can have its highways, bridges and public transit for 22-year-old prices? But that's essentially what we're stuck with as Congress hasn't changed the gas tax — the primary source of revenue for the federal Highway Trust Fund — since it was last increased in 1993. Most taxpayers probably don't even realize this. Sales taxes, property taxes, income taxes and many other sources of revenue used to pay for government services increase with inflation. But the federal gas tax still returns the same 18.4 cents per gallon (24.4 cents on diesel) that it did in 1993. Because of this loss in buying power (as well as improved fuel economy of vehicles), the federal highway fund is set to go bankrupt in a matter of weeks. There are any number of short-term fixes available between now and the May 31 deadline. It's entirely possible Congress might do what it's done in the past — take money from elsewhere to keep the transportation budget limping along for another six months to a year or two. But it's time that such short-term fixes — which amounts to borrowing money from China to pay to patch domestic pot holes —come to an end. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx has begun promoting the administration's $478 billion, 6-year plan which uses a one-time tax on overseas profits to augment gas tax receipts. Rep. John Delaney of Maryland has gotten some interest in tapping that same well of repatriated profits to finance infrastructure through a somewhat different mechanism. Still, what's missing from either approach is a reality-check on the gas tax and a commitment to the much larger sum this country needs to invest in its crumbling transportation infrastructure. Granted, the federal gas tax isn't popular, particularly in Red States. But that seems to be mostly a problem for politicians and not the public. Opinion surveys show voters are willing to pay more in taxes for improved roads and bridges. One poll by AAA found 68 percent of Americans felt that way, and a majority would be willing to pay $10 more per month (which, incidentally, would mean doubling the gas tax). But there's a simpler answer. Don't immediately raise the gas tax from 1993 levels. Instead, first take advantage of new revenues related to corporate tax reform and repatriation of profits as President Obama and Congressman Delaney have proposed. Then allow the gas tax to automatically adjust with inflation annually in future years. Maryland's most recent gas tax hike included just such a mechanism. It simply puts the tax on a level playing field with most other taxes. These periodic increases would be so small as to be irrelevant, particularly when gas prices rise or fall a dime or more in a week. But more important, Congress will have provided a more reliable and responsible fix to its aging transportation infrastructure, a growing problem that is costing consumers much more in lost time and economic opportunity than any advantage gained by keeping the federal gas tax at 1993 levels. In the meantime, the clock is ticking. Should Congress fail to act and the trust fund become insolvent, officials estimate that 6,000 transportation construction projects may be stopped in their tracks along with 660,000 jobs. Corporate tax reform and the indexing of the gas tax would seem to be modest sacrifices to avoid a major road block. ##
04.08.2015	FREDERICK – On Wednesday evening, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) hosted a Service Academy Information Forum at the Bernard Brown Community Center in Frederick, offering local students, families and educators an opportunity to learn about U.S. Service Academies and related admissions and nominations processes. Representatives from Congressman Delaney’s office and staff from each academy and the Army ROTC were available to answer questions and share information. “Tonight’s event helped to connect our youngest generation with an opportunity to learn, serve, and lead by applying to a military academy,” said Congressman Delaney. “Maryland is home to some of the brightest young men and women in the country, and I’m honored to have the privilege of nominating these students for enrollment. Our service academies produce the next generation of American military leadership by challenging students to live by a code of integrity, honor, and excellence. Students at tonight’s forum were able to meet with representatives from our nation’s military academies and to learn more about what it means to answer the call to service.” More than 70 students attended Wednesday’s Service Academy Information Forum. Also present were representatives from the U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Coast Guard Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and the Army ROTC. Rep. Delaney nominates students for U.S. Service Academies. For more information on the service academy nominations process, click here. For those that wish to be considered for a nomination from Congressman Delaney, completed applications must be submitted to the Hagerstown District Office by October 16, 2015. ##
04.08.2015	HAGERSTOWN – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) hosted a Veterans’ Constituent Services Workshop this morning at the Washington County Free Library, serving Maryland veterans in need of help with Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) issues. Caseworkers were on site to assist veterans with health care, claims for compensation or pensions, replacement of medals, receipt of discharge papers, and other veterans’ services. Over 80 veterans attended Wednesday’s workshop, which brought together representatives from the VA, the Maryland Department of Veterans Affairs, the Maryland Department of Labor, Licensing and Regulation (DLLR), and the University System of Maryland. “As a Member of Congress, I’ve made it a top priority to connect local veterans with the resources and support they need,” said Congressman Delaney. “We’ve made a promise to our veterans, and today’s workshop was about following through with that promise, and taking action to ensure that men and women who’ve served receive the support they need when they need it. When they’re on active duty, our veterans face extraordinary challenges in their work to protect and defend our country. After their service, it shouldn’t be a challenge for our veterans to receive health, housing and employment benefits. While recent changes at the VA made progress strengthening veterans’ services, our fight to secure timely, quality care for the Americans who fought for us is far from over.” This March, Congressman Delaney signed the Veterans’ Bill of Rights and became a cosponsor of the Real Choice for Veterans Act, both of which call for improvements to care and benefits programs at the VA. Sponsored by the Circle of Friends for American Veterans (COFAV), the Veterans Bill of Rights highlights veterans’ issues as a top national priority and calls for action addressing veterans’ concerns at the VA. The Real Choice for Veterans Act would offer veterans the opportunity to seek local, private care when a VA facility offering the appropriate services is more than 40-miles from home. Veterans in Maryland’s Sixth District who need help with the VA are encouraged to contact Congressman Delaney’s office at (301) 733-2900. Representatives attending the Veterans’ Constituent Services Workshop included: Fred Shinbur, Chairman, Maryland Veterans Commission Timothy J. Cooke, Medical Center Director, Martinsburg VA Jamie Bushong, Coordinator of Student Services and Outreach, University System of Maryland Hagerstown Jonathan Hunt, Veterans Representative, Washington County Job Center, Maryland DLLR Jim Lichtinger, Veterans Benefit Specialist, MD Department of Veterans Affairs John Donnelly, Congressional Liaison, VA Baltimore Regional Office Daniel Yates, VA Baltimore Regional Office ##
04.08.2015	GAITHERSBURG – This Tuesday, vandals spray painted the Shaare Torah synagogue in Gaithersburg with hateful graffiti. The vandalism takes place during the Jewish holiday of Passover. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “I am disgusted, disappointed and saddened by the vandalism of Shaare Torah in Gaithersburg. No one should suffer persecution, violence, or injustice because of who they are, and yesterday’s desecration of a place of worship is unacceptable. The congregation and leadership at Shaare Torah have responded strongly and admirably. The Gaithersburg community rejects anti-Semitism or discrimination against any religion, and as police move forward with an investigation, our message should be clear: hate crimes will not be tolerated. “As we work to overcome discrimination in our own community, many communities around the world are preparing to recognize Holocaust Remembrance Day, commemorating victims and families that suffered during the Holocaust. Next week’s events provide an opportunity to reflect on the importance of confronting hatred and intolerance and embracing the diversity that makes our country great.” Holocaust Remembrance Day takes place next week, starting on Wednesday, April 15, and ending on Thursday, April 16. In Gaithersburg, April 12 through 19 will be celebrated as Days of Remembrance, offering an opportunity to commemorate individuals who suffered or lost their lives during the Holocaust. ##
04.07.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has signed onto the Veterans’ Bill of Rights sponsored by the Circle of Friends for American Veterans (COFAV). COFAV is a non-profit organization dedicated to raising awareness about veterans’ issues and the Veterans’ Bill of Rights makes a statement of principle and highlights actions which can be taken to support American veterans. A bipartisan coalition of 89 Members from both the House and the Senate has pledged support for the Veterans’ Bill of Rights. On Wednesday, Delaney will host a Veterans Constituent Services Workshop in Hagerstown. “Our veterans should never feel voiceless at the VA,” said Congressman Delaney. “The Veterans’ Bill of Rights makes it clear that when it comes to healthcare, when it comes to housing and when it comes to the many challenges veterans face returning home, our men and women in uniform do not stand alone. Fixing the backlogs, waitlists and delays in care at the VA shouldn’t just be a veterans’ issue, it should be a national priority. The Veterans’ Bill of Rights is a statement of values and priorities that every lawmaker should stand by and I’m proud to support it.” In addition to joining the Veterans’ Bill of Rights, Congressman Delaney has cosponsored the Real Choice for Veterans Act and has written to the VA in support of rule changes that would strengthen veterans’ access to private care when a VA facility is too far from a home. Currently, veterans are provided access to private care based on their proximity to a VA facility, regardless of the type of care they seek or the services the nearest facility provides. The Real Choice for Veterans Act would provide veterans with access to private care based on their distance from a VA facility that provides the type of care they need, extending the option of local, private care to many veterans in need of specialized treatment not offered at the nearest clinic. Veterans’ Bill of Rights Provisions: I) Veterans are a Top National Priority American veterans are a top priority for the nation’s policy agenda. II) Veterans Deserve Timely Answers The wait time for veterans filing a disability claim should be no more than 125 days. III) Negotiation in VA Procurement Services The VA should negotiate for procurement services at competitive rates. IV) VA Collection of Insurance Fees The VA should improve billing and collection processes for charges to insurance companies, collecting on all possible past and ongoing insurance fees owed to the agency. ##
04.02.2015	WASHINGTON – More than 61,000 bridges in the United States are structurally deficient, according to a report published this week by the American Road & Transportation Builders Association. Data from the report shows that Maryland is home to 5,305 compromised bridges, with about 6 percent of all bridges in the state labeled as structurally deficient. The analysis by ARTBA comes with less than two months before funding runs out for the Highway Trust Fund (HTF). HTF funds roughly 90% of federal surface transportation projects, and is the source of over half of all highway and bridge capital investments made annually by states. “No one should have to hold their breath driving over a bridge or cross their fingers going under an overpass. Our commuters, our school buses and our businesses rely on Maryland roads and bridges every day and this week’s report by ARTBA makes it clear that we’re underinvesting in their safety,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “In addition to putting our families in danger, aging infrastructure drags down economic growth. Marylanders deserve better, and with the Highway Trust Fund on the brink of insolvency, it’s critical that Congress enact a long-term plan to bring our out-of-date infrastructure up to speed. My bipartisan Infrastructure 2.0 Act fixes the Highway Trust Fund crisis, creates jobs and empowers state and local governments to build new projects, it’s time for us to work together to rebuild America.” This year, Delaney introduced the bipartisan Infrastructure 2.0 Act, legislation to rebuild the nation’s infrastructure, create jobs and make our economy more competitive in a fiscally-responsible way. Delaney’s legislation would put the HTF on solid ground for the next six years and would create the new American Infrastructure Fund, which provides state and local governments with additional resources for transportation, water, energy, education and communications projects. ##
04.02.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) will host a U.S. Service Academy Information Forum Wednesday April 8 in Frederick at the Bernard Brown Community Center. The informational session will feature representatives from the U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Coast Guard Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and the Army ROTC. The event is free and open to the public. WHAT: U.S. Service Academy Information ForumWHEN: Wednesday April 8, 5:00 PM – 7:00 PMWHO: Congressman John K. Delaney and staff, Service Academy representatives, interested students, parents and educatorsWHERE: Bernard Brown Community Center, 629 N. Market Street, 2nd Floor Community Room, Frederick MD 21701 “I encourage any local parents, students or educators who are interested in learning more about our Service Academies and the application process to attend our Information Forum Wednesday in Frederick,” said Congressman Delaney. “I am honored to nominate the best and the brightest from our community for our Service Academies, incredible institutions which train the future leaders of America and help make our country safer.” For more information or to RSVP call 301-733-2900 or email Delaney.Academy@mail.house.gov. As a member of the House of Representatives, Rep. Delaney nominates students for U.S. Service Academies. For more information, click here. ##
04.01.2015	WASHINGTON – April is Sexual Assault Awareness Month (SAAM), a campaign dedicated to raising awareness about sexual violence and educating communities on prevention. SAAM was first observed nationally in 2001. In 2009, the month was recognized by presidential proclamation for the first time. According to a study by the Centers for Disease Control, 18% of women reported being raped in their lifetime. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement on Sexual Assault Awareness Month: “Sexual Assault Awareness Month is an important reminder of the necessity of using every tool at our disposal to stop sexual assault and support victims. This month, gives us a chance to recommit ourselves in the fight against this devastating crime and to further build a culture of consent and respect. Everyone should feel safe from sexual violence, whether they’re in their home, on a college campus, or in our Armed Forces. The fact that nearly one in five women experiences rape in their lifetime is an outrage and it means our work is far from over. It’s our job to act as a voice for victims and Sexual Assault Awareness Month helps to provide a foundation for raising awareness, teaching prevention and building respect.” On March 20, 2015, Congressman Delaney joined colleagues in writing to the House Committee on Appropriations requesting maintained and increased support for the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), the Family Violence Prevention and Services Act, and related programs. VAWA programs help survivors find safety and receive services while strengthening the work of law enforcement to hold perpetrators accountable. Last Congress, Delaney cosponsored the VAWA Reauthorization Act, a version of which was signed into law on March 7, 2013. ##
04.01.2015	WASHINGTON - Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) will host a Veterans Constituent Services Workshop next Wednesday in Hagerstown. The event is free and open to the public. “I invite any local veteran or their families who is having problems receiving the care or benefits they’ve earned to attend our Veterans Constituent Services Workshop in Hagerstown,” said Congressman Delaney. “My office and my staff are here to help you and to be your voice in Washington. I believe we have a sacred obligation to provide veterans with the very best and I invite you to consider our office a resource.” WHO: Veterans, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6), Rep. Delaney CaseworkersWHAT: Veterans Constituent Services WorkshopWHERE: Washington County Free Library, Conference Room 334, 100 South Potomac Street, Hagerstown Maryland 21740WHEN: Wednesday April 8, 9:30-11:00 AM Caseworkers from Delaney’s office will be on hand to help veterans with Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) issues, including health care, claims for compensation or pensions, replacement of medals, receipt of discharge papers and other veterans’ services. Caseworkers can also assist with other federal government agencies, including Social Security and Medicare. Attendees are encouraged to RSVP with Delaney’s Hagerstown office, by calling 301-733-2900 or emailing Diana.Modelski@mail.house.gov. Veterans who cannot attend can also contact the Hagerstown office to set up an individual appointment. Delaney is a cosponsor of the Real Choice for Veterans Act, which would expand private care options for veterans. ##
03.30.2015	WASHINGTON – Last week state legislation was signed into law in Indiana that according to the Human Rights Campaign will allow discrimination against lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) individuals and other minorities. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “Discrimination has no place in America and no place in American businesses. I am deeply disappointed to see legislative efforts around the country to allow discrimination and restrict LGBT rights. The right to free speech and freedom of religion is fundamental, but does not extend to a right to discriminate. I join the many civil rights groups, business leaders and legal experts in expressing dismay at what has happened in Indiana, which represents a step backwards and is an affront to our values of dignity, decency and equality.” ##
03.30.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the Department of Transportation (DOT) announced their Grow America Act, which increases federal support for infrastructure. The DOT proposes a six-year transportation bill funded by pro-growth international tax reform, the same solution first developed by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). Absent Congressional action, the Highway Trust Fund will run out of money on May 31. Delaney’s Infrastructure 2.0 Act, filed in January, funds the Highway Trust Fund for six years and creates a new American Infrastructure Fund with revenues from an 8.75% tax on existing overseas profits. The DOT plan uses a 14% rate. “America’s aging infrastructure is a big problem that needs a big solution. We were pleased that the President adopted our infrastructure-repatriation framework in his budget and we are even more pleased today to see it animated in the DOT’s Grow America plan,” said Congressman Delaney. “With time running out on the Highway Trust Fund, pro-growth international tax reform is the funding solution we need. Rebuilding America’s infrastructure should be our top economic priority. New infrastructure projects will create good-paying middle-class jobs, make our businesses more competitive and improve public safety. Republicans and Democrats, Congress and the White House, should work together to get this done.” A 2014 study by Standard and Poor’s found that every $1.3 billion invested in infrastructure creates 13,000 jobs and $2 billion in economic growth. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act is modelled upon Delaney’s Partnership to Build America Act, which emerged as one of the most bipartisan pieces of legislation in Washington, ending 2014 with over 40 Republican and 40 Democratic cosponsors. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act (H.R. 625) Investing in 21st Century Infrastructure with Deemed Repatriation at 8.75% Tax Rate Existing overseas profits accumulated by U.S. multi-national corporations would be subject to a mandatory, one-time 8.75% tax, replacing deferral option and current rate of 35%. $120 billion to the Highway Trust Fund, enough to meet funding gap at increased levels for six years. $50 billion to capitalize the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) a new financing mechanism for transportation, water, energy, communications and education projects. Leveraged to $750 billion, AIF financing is available to state and local governments. $25 million pilot program to create regional infrastructure accelerators, similar to the West Coast Infrastructure Exchange Creating Long-term Highway Trust Fund Solvency and Policy Certainty The Infrastructure 2.0 Act provides six years of HTF solvency, providing immediate certainty to the private sector and policymakers. The legislation also establishes a bipartisan and bicameral commission that is tasked with developing a solution for permanent solvency of the Highway Trust Fund. Building a Path for Broader Tax Reform The Infrastructure 2.0 Act creates an eighteen month deadline for international tax reform. To encourage action, the legislation includes a forcing function: if reform is not enacted, a fallback international tax package to make U.S. business climate more competitive would be implemented. This pro-growth fallback reform package would end deferral, reduce anti-competitive over taxation, decrease taxes for companies paying fair rates abroad but increase taxes for companies in tax havens. This would eliminate the lock-out effect and allow for the free flow of profits back to the United States. Under this option, for Active Market Foreign Income, a company would pay a 12.25% tax to the U.S. on overseas profits if they are currently paying no tax and a 2% tax to the U.S. if they are already paying the OECD average of 25% abroad, with a sliding scale in-between. ##
03.27.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has cosponsored the Real Choice for Veterans Act (H.R. 1096). The legislation would expand health care access options for veterans, by revising the Veterans Choice Program. Delaney is the first House Democrat to cosponsor the Real Choice for Veterans Act, which was authored by Rep. Bradley Byrne (AL-1). Under current law, any veteran who lives more than 40 miles from any Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) facility is eligible to receive care from a private medical provider. However, the 40 mile rule does not refer to whether the veteran’s specific health care need, such as surgery, is provided within 40 miles at a VA facility. This limits the effectiveness of the Veterans Choice Program. “America’s veterans deserve world class health care that is delivered promptly and conveniently, period,” said Congressman Delaney. “We need to reduce wait times, end the backlog and make sure veterans have health care options and flexibility. Progress has been made, but more work needs to be done. The Real Choice for Veterans Act would provide new options for many of my constituents in Western Maryland, who are currently locked out of the program because they live relatively close to a VA facility, even if that facility doesn’t provide the services they actually need. This is a commonsense legislative fix that provides for the true intent of the VA reforms that were enacted last year.” The Veterans Choice Program was established in 2014 when major VA reforms were signed into law. Sixth District veterans who need help with the VA are encouraged to contact Congressman Delaney’s office. ##
03.25.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has signed on as an original cosponsor of the Paycheck Fairness Act, which was reintroduced today by Senator Barbara Mikulski (MD) and Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-3). The Paycheck Fairness Act is designed to address the wage gap between men and women and strengthen the Equal Pay Act so that women receive equal pay for equal work. “Equal pay for equal work is fundamental to our nation’s values,” said Congressman Delaney. “When women aren’t paid fairly it hurts individuals, hurts families and hurts our nation’s economic potential. It is fitting that this legislation is being filed this week, as Congress debates the House Majority’s Budget, which includes a number of harmful cuts to important programs that help working women and their families. The Paycheck Fairness Act, which will lead to more fairness and justice, is an example of what our priorities should be in Congress. I want to thank Senator Mikulski for her years of continued leadership on this issue. I am proud to stand with Senator Mikulski, Congresswoman DeLauro and the women of America in support of this bill.” The Paycheck Fairness Act strengthens the Equal Pay Act signed into law in 1963 by President Kennedy. The bill would require employers to show pay disparity is truly related to job performance, not gender, and prohibits employer retaliation against workers who share salary information with coworkers. The Paycheck Fairness Act also strengthens remedies for pay discrimination by increasing the compensation women can seek, allowing them to seek both back pay and punitive damages for pay discrimination. The legislation also requires the Department of Labor to enhance outreach and training efforts to eliminate pay disparities. The Paycheck Fairness Act has been endorsed by a coalition of over 300 advocacy groups. ###
03.25.2015	WASHINGTON – Tuesday, the Department of Veterans Affairs announced that it would expand the number of veterans eligible to participate in the new Veterans Choice Program. The program allows veterans to receive non-VA care if they have not received an appointment within 30 days or if they live more than 40 miles one-way from the nearest VA medical facility. However, the VA had used an un-realistic straight-line or “as the crow flies” standard for measuring distance, not driving distance. The VA’s announcement means that driving distance will now be used. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) supports this change, but also believes a wider expansion of the Veterans Choice Program is necessary. Delaney also supports allowing veterans to receive non-VA care if their VA facility does not provide the specialized care they need as well as further reforms that factor in drive time in addition to mileage. Many veterans need specialized care that is not available at their closest VA facility or live in high-traffic areas where 40 miles of one-way travel is a significant burden. “I applaud the VA’s commonsense revision to the Veterans Choice Program. This change will give more veterans more ways to receive the care they’ve earned and that should be our top priority,” said Congressman Delaney. “I thank the VA for listening to veterans who have called for this change. While this announcement is good news, we still have more work to do to guarantee access to care and reduce wait times. There is bipartisan support for these changes in Congress and I hope that we can work with the VA to meet the original aims of the VA reforms that passed last year: our nation’s heroes deserve nothing less.” Earlier this month, Congressman Delaney signed a letter to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs requesting expanded access to civilian care through the Veterans Choice Program. The March 3 letter, which was signed by Congressman Delaney and over 40 colleagues, expressed support for expanded access to the Veterans Choice Program. The letter included 1) the driving distance change that was adopted by the VA as well as 2) a request that the VA measure the distance between a veteran’s home and the distance to the nearest facility that provides the care they need, as opposed to any VA facility and 3) a request that the VA also consider driving times in addition to raw mileage. The Veterans Choice Program was created in 2014 with the passage of the Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act. ##
03.24.2015	WASHINGTON – On March 24, 2015 Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) filed the Social Security Commission Act of 2015 with Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4). The legislation is designed to find a solution that guarantees the long-term health of Social Security, bringing together both parties in coordination with the President. The legislation mandates 75 year solvency for Social Security. “Social Security is one of the most successful government initiatives ever, keeping millions of seniors across decades out of poverty,” said Congressman Delaney. “I’ve filed legislation to create a new bipartisan and bicameral Social Security Commission tasked with protecting and preserving Social Security for decades to come because I believe that this program is too important to ignore. To make my personal views on Social Security clear, I have released my Statement of Principles on Social Security. For the long term health and effectiveness of Social Security I would increase revenues coming into Social Security and expand benefits for those most in need.” Delaney Statement of Principles to Preserve and Protect Social Security By any measure, Social Security is one of the most successful government initiatives in our nation’s history and is a vitally important program for millions of Americans. For decades, Social Security has made our country stronger. For most Americans, Social Security’s modest benefits will be the only source of retirement income that is guaranteed to last a lifetime and keep up with inflation. According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, Social Security keeps over 20 million Americans out of poverty. My top priority is protecting and preserving Social Security. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has made clear that due to demographic changes, Social Security will become unable to pay full benefits starting in 2031, the program’s actuaries peg that date at 2033. If we do not any take action in the interim, at that time, it is estimated that we will have to drastically reduce benefits by over 20%. I firmly believe that letting this happen would be immoral. We must be diligent in having the facts guide our policy-making. While the need for changes is irrefutable, many have inflated the threat or exaggerated the nature of the problem. In truth, modest calibrations to the program now can save Social Security for generations to come. Social Security is not broken or insolvent. Social Security is not a pyramid scheme. Social Security does not need to be privatized. But the program does need some calibration to secure benefits long-term. I believe that any adjustments to Social Security must be grounded in a sense of justice and fairness, with special consideration given to our most vulnerable. We have a clear historical precedent for amending Social Security in order to preserve the program in a fair, just and fiscally sound way. The bipartisan commission led by Alan Greenspan in 1983 is a model that we should follow, which is why I have introduced legislation with Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) to start this process again. My desire to create a commission is rooted in my view that we need good process in government. To avoid a massive benefit reduction and keep the promise of Social Security alive, I recommend the following improvements in accordance with progressive values. Other proposals that have been made, including those by the Simpson-Bowles commission, go modestly too far in restricting benefits and not far enough in creating additional funding. Increase the taxable maximum and add a second threshold for very high-incomes so that wealthier Americans pay a little bit more into the system. Right now, a very high income and a middle class earner can contribute the same amount to Social Security. Improve the benefits formula so that recipients with modest incomes receive higher payments through strengthening the special minimum benefit and/or other means. Enhance benefits for the very old, the majority of which are women, so that our neighbors who need the program the most can maintain a decent standard of living. Adjust the inflation calculation to reflect more accurate price changes, including special consideration for the very elderly and those who rely on Social Security for a long period of time. Value caregivers by providing those who care for a dependent relative without monetary compensation credit under Social Security’s benefits computation. Respect all marriages by ensuring legally married same-sex couples have access to spousal benefits. ##
03.24.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) have filed legislation to guarantee the long-term solvency of Social Security. The Social Security Commission Act of 2015 creates a bicameral and bipartisan commission that is designed to bring both parties and chambers of Congress together, along with the President, to ensure that Social Security is fully funded for decades to come. The commission created by the legislation is modelled on the 1983 Social Security Commission and would automatically produce an up or down vote in Congress. According to the Social Security and Medicare Boards of Trustees 2014 Annual Report, absent policy changes, Social Security’s combined trust funds will be exhausted in 2033. “Social Security is a promise made to the American people, it’s fundamental and essential. We need to protect and preserve Social Security for generations to come and that’s the singular aim of this legislation, to guarantee Social Security keeps working for the next 75 years,” said Congressman Delaney. “I am deeply concerned about the possibility of drastic cuts to benefits in the future, because the data in front of us is irrefutable. The Social Security Commission Act creates the bipartisan and bicameral process we need to guarantee that a healthy Social Security is waiting for our grandchildren. I am honored to work with Congressman Cole on this legislation.” “Throughout the entirety of their working life, every American contributes to Social Security and trusts in the promise of future benefits from the program later on in life. Unfortunately, Social Security is in grave danger,” said Congressman Cole. “Without immediate changes that modernize the current system, Social Security will not be able to pay the benefits that American workers have earned and have come to rely upon. Rather than risk breaking the promise made to generations who have paid or will pay into the system, I am pleased to reintroduce bipartisan legislation today with Congressman Delaney that will hopefully result in common sense solutions for saving Social Security for future generations of retirees.” The Delaney-Cole legislation would provide for the following: A 13 member commission, the Commission on Long Term Social Security Solvency, with 12 members appointed by leadership from both parties in the House and Senate (three appointees from each party’s leader in each chamber). Two of the Congressional appointees must be non-elected experts. The commission is chaired by the 13th appointee, named by the President. The President’s appointee means that the President’s party will appoint 7 members, the other party appointing six. Within one year of their first meeting, the commission must report to Congress on the 75-year health of Social Security and provide recommendations for how to improve the program. The commission’s report must have a minimum of 9 votes, guaranteeing bipartisan consensus. The legislation based on the commission’s plan would then receive expedited consideration in Congress for an up or down vote. ##
03.19.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6), Congressman John Carney (DE-At Large) and Congressman Jim Himes (CT-4) have introduced legislation designed to protect the fixed-rate 30-year mortgage – a key instrument to ensure home affordability for the middle class – and shield American taxpayers from future bailouts by reforming the housing finance system. The Partnership to Strengthen Homeownership Act combines the private sector’s superior ability to price risk with the federal government’s unique ability to provide capacity. Original cosponsors of The Partnership to Strengthen Homeownership Act are: Rep. Denny Heck (WA-10), Rep. Gregory Meeks (NY-5), Rep. Patrick Murphy (FL-18), Rep. Jared Polis (CO-2), Rep. Mike Quigley (IL-5), Congressman David Scott (GA-13), Rep. Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-9), and Rep. Peter Welch (VT – At Large). “Without access to quality affordable housing, there’s no American Dream for millions of middle class families,” said Congressman Delaney. “I’m proud to work with Congressman Himes and Congressman Carney on legislation that keeps the fixed-rate thirty-year mortgage alive and preserves a government guarantee while introducing greater fiscal responsibility and stability to the housing finance system. The financial crisis and the bailout of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac made it clear that we need reform to protect taxpayers. The Partnership to Strengthen Homeownership takes the best ideas from both parties to create a 21st century housing finance system that combines the strengths of the private sector and the public sector. Housing finance reform is too important for us to ignore and I look forward to working with my colleagues in both parties in moving this legislation forward.” “This proposal seeks to preserve housing affordability while protecting taxpayers from another bailout," said Congressman Carney. “It finds the middle ground between public sector and private sector involvement in the housing sector. If we to want to preserve the dream of home ownership and make sure taxpayers aren’t on the hook for another bailout -- the status quo has to change. Our bill is the right policy, and it’s also an approach that appeals to both sides of the aisle. As Congress works to reform our housing finance system, I’m optimistic that a proposal like ours -- that combines private sector pricing with the government’s ability to expand access to credit – can cut through the partisan divide.” “This bill ensures that new homeowners will continue to have access to the affordable, predictable financing options they need, while safeguarding taxpayers and our economy from future downturns,” said Congressman Himes. “Our legislation brings together the market’s efficiency in pricing risk with government's unique ability to provide scale to create a safer, more liquid housing market that preserves access to affordable housing for American families.” The Delaney-Carney-Himes legislation, first introduced last Congress, establishes an insurance program through Ginnie Mae which maintains the full faith and credit of the federal government, but protects taxpayer investment by requiring adequate private sector capital and accurate pricing of government reinsurance. All government guaranteed single-family and multi-family mortgage-backed securities will be supported by a minimum of 5% private sector capital, which will stand in a first loss position. The remaining 95% of the risk will be shared between Ginnie Mae and a private reinsurer on a pari passu basis. Fees paid to Ginnie Mae for providing these securities will be allocated to affordable housing programs. The bill winds down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and allows them to be sold and recapitalized. The Partnership to Strengthen Homeownership Private Capital and Privately Priced Government Guarantee Ginnie Mae will establish a mortgage insurance program where at least 5% of the “first loss” is held by private entities and the remaining 95% of the risk is shared on a pari passu basis between the government and private reinsurer. Ginnie will design and study two types of programs, then implement one , or both programs, if they further an effective, efficient secondary mortgage market and maintain the risk sharing principles outlined above. Program 1: Reinsurance Bid Program Aggregators and issuers will be permitted to deliver qualified mortgage pools to Ginnie. The price Ginnie charges for the guarantee will be ascertained through an insurance bidding process described below. Ginnie will secure forward reinsurance contracts on a periodic basis (30-90 days), with the assistance of a reinsurance broker appointed annually in a competitive process. The bids will seek coverage for two levels of risk on each securitization – the 5% “first loss” and the remaining 95% “second loss.” From these bids, Ginnie will contract with a series of carriers for each risk and aggregate the policies. For the first loss, Ginnie will seek bids for 100% of its expected exposure. For the second loss, Ginnie will seek bids for 100% of its aggregate exposure but will offer retrocessional reinsurance for up to 90% of the second loss cover. Ginnie’s guarantee fee quote will cover a forward period (Quote Period) as determined by Ginnie. Prices passed onto originators may vary based on quality of product, and other factors as determined by Ginnie, so long as the overall pricing equals a weighted-average bid in a given period. Program 2: Bond Guarantor Program Ginnie will reinsure first loss holders of risk through an insurance system where insurers/guarantors will hold mortgage credit risk on an aggregate, loan by loan, or security basis. In addition to security level coverage, insurers/guarantors are authorized to issue loan level coverage to lenders as long as the coverage is for 100%, or if less than 100% loan level coverage, the servicer is responsible for any losses the guarantor did not cover Ginnie will reinsure bond guarantor and/or issuers by entering into contracts with private sector reinsurers sharing risk on a 90/10 pari passu basis To the extent Ginnie Mae will be reinsuring insolvency of a bond guarantor and/or insurers, it will be required to enter into risk-sharing contracts with private reinsurers to assess the risk of default of any entity. Under either program, each MBS meeting the outlined private sector capital requirements will carry the full faith and credit of the United States Government, but with private sector directed pricing. Banks, life insurance companies, Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs), insurance companies and other Ginnie approved market participants will be eligible to participate in the insurance and risk sharing transactions with Ginnie Mae All market participants will be overseen by Ginnie Mae and Ginnie will have authority to establish necessary capital levels and stress tests Small Lender Access During the transition Fannie and Freddie may remain as aggregators of mortgage loans for small lenders that do not have the sufficient volume to pool and create these new securities with their mortgage loans on their own, so long as adequate private sector alternatives do not exist The Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLBs) will be authorized to aggregate and pool mortgages for small lenders Issuing Platform The platform will allow for standardized securities thus creating a single security and creating a deeper and more liquid TBA market which will reduce the cost of mortgage credit for consumers. Standardized Mortgages, Servicing, and Capital Requirements Transition Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) regulation to Ginnie Mae with oversight over the secondary mortgage market Mortgages eligible for the full faith guaranty must meet minimum underwriting standards Ginnie will maintain the power to stress test all market particpants and define adequate capital standards. Winding Down Fannie and Freddie Fannie and Freddie will be wound down over a five year period. Their government guarantee and charter will be removed and they will repay the government with interest for the government’s investment in the institutions. The repayment must take into account both the injection of capital and overall exposure to the government. During the transition, Fannie and Freddie may act as an aggregator for small lenders to retain small lender access to the new Ginnie Platform. The transition will continue until competitive access for small lenders is established and Ginnie has achieved an adequate return to taxpayers and established a competitive private housing finance market. The assets of Fannie and Freddie will be returned to the private sector and may operate within the new mortgage system as issuers and/or aggregators Affordable Housing Ginnie Mae will charge a fee for the insurance that they provide for these securities. The fees charged will be 10 basis points of the total principal balance of these mortgages. The money acquired will be allocated to strengthen affordable housing programs facilitated by the federal government. The funds received will be allocated to the Housing Trust Fund (75%), the Capital Management Fund (15%) and the Market Access Fund (10%). Ginnie will be under a duty to serve all markets Multifamily Housing Fannie and Freddie’s multifamily business will be spun out as separate entities. Ginnie will be required to create and implement a workable multifamily guarantee that utilizes private sector pricing consistent with the single family model. The current multifamily businesses of Fannie and Freddie will continue to function within the new multifamily housing market as purely private organizations with an explicit government guarantee provided by Ginnie Mae and a private sector reinsurer. Well-functioning TBA Market Investors will receive timely principle and interest payments through Ginnie Mae. This model will also ensure that one standardized security is delivered to the TBA Market. This will increase liquidity and limit disruptions to the secondary mortgage market, which will ultimately benefit consumers. ##
03.18.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) invites Marylanders to share their stories about how America’s inadequate infrastructure is impacting their daily lives. In Congress, Delaney has made upgrading U.S. infrastructure a priority and his bipartisan Infrastructure 2.0 Act rebuilds the nation’s infrastructure, creates jobs and makes our economy more competitive in a fiscally-responsible way. Delaney’s legislation would also create a new infrastructure fund that would provide state and local governments an additional resource for transportation, water, energy, education and communications projects. Delaney plans to share feedback and concerns from his constituents with colleagues in Congress. Marylanders are invited to share their story by clicking here or emailing DelaneyMD6@mail.house.gov. “Too often, infrastructure is presented as an abstract statistical problem. But long commutes, unsafe bridges and overcrowded ports, railways and airports have a direct impact on people’s lives, on their businesses, on the amount of time we all are able to spend with our loved ones,” said Congressman Delaney. “I want to make sure my colleagues in Congress understand how our out of date infrastructure is an everyday problem for working families. Gridlock in Congress equals gridlock on our highways and Marylanders deserve better. My Infrastructure 2.0 Act is a bipartisan solution that will create good-paying jobs and improve public safety and quality of life, making our country more competitive.” The American Society of Civil Engineers has given America’s infrastructure a D+ grade. In just 74 days, the Highway Trust Fund, which funds roughly 90% of federal surface transportation projects in the United States, will run out of money. ##
03.13.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) spoke at the Volvo Powertrain North America facility in Hagerstown Friday on improving the economic climate and expanding job creation in Western Maryland. Addressing the 2015 Class of Leadership Washington County, Delaney stressed the importance of infrastructure, encouraging new Maryland manufacturing and making the nation more competitive. In February, working with state legislators, Delaney created the 2015 Western Maryland Agenda – a set of policy recommendations sent to the Governor to create jobs in Western Maryland. “Western Maryland needs more good-paying jobs and more economic opportunity. I want a child growing up in Washington County to have a chance to live the American Dream, just like I did,” said Congressman Delaney. “Upgrading local infrastructure, improving the business climate with a better enterprise zone program, better state tourism efforts and expanding rural broadband and other measures can really help job creation in Western Maryland. Widening I-81, for example, would create a triple-bottom line, creating short-term jobs, improving long-term productivity and quality of life, and boosting our attractiveness as a logistics and manufacturing hub. The men and women of Leadership Washington County are just another data point in why everyone should believe in Western Maryland – there is incredible potential in this region and real assets that we can build upon. My Western Maryland Agenda is a bipartisan platform that can help move us in the right direction.” On Thursday, Delaney met with legislators in Annapolis to discuss the Western Maryland Agenda and testified on behalf of state legislation authored by Senator Roger Manno to boost Maryland manufacturing. In Congress, Delaney is the author of the Infrastructure 2.0 Act and the Partnership to Build America Act, two bipartisan jobs bills that combine international tax reform and new infrastructure investment to grow the economy. Established in 1987, Leadership Washington County is designed to develop and enhance community leadership, training individuals in a ten-month program. ##
03.13.2015	WASHINGTON – This week Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) honored the Poolesville High School Girls and Boys Swim and Dive Teams in the Congressional Record. Poolesville is the 2015 Class 3A/2A/1A State Champion in Maryland. The title was the fourth consecutive for the Falcon boys and the second in three years for the Falcon girls team. The Congressional Record is the official record of the proceedings and debates of the United States Congress. The statement submitted to the Record reads as follows: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Poolesville High School's Girls and Boys Swim and Dive Teams, which last month became 2015 Class 3A/2A/1A State Champions in Maryland. This year's win is the fourth consecutive state championship for the Poolesville Boys Team and the second championship in three years for the Poolesville Girls Team. “Both team members and Poolesville Coach Jon Leong deserve recognition for their outstanding performance, their ability to work as a team, and their athletic talent. This year's championship will make the Poolesville Boys Swim and Dive Team the first high school team in Maryland to win more than three state swimming titles. Throughout their work, members of the Boys and Girls Swim and Dive Teams have acted as role models for their peers, and they should be proud of their accomplishments. “I ask that you and my other distinguished colleagues help me in honoring the significant occasion of this year's Swim and Dive State Championship victories for Poolesville High School. The boys and girls teams are model organizations and are an inspiration in our community.” ##
03.12.2015	ANNAPOLIS – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) met with state officials Thursday to build support for his Western Maryland Agenda, a platform to create job growth and economic opportunity in Maryland’s three westernmost counties. Delaney also testified on behalf of the Maryland Strong Manufacturing Development Act (SB 107) legislation introduced by Sen. Roger Manno (District 19) to establish new tax credits for hard manufacturing. “Too many Western Maryland families are struggling and they need a robust jobs portfolio and a full-throttle approach from their elected officials,” said Congressman Delaney. “The goals of this project are clear: to make sure that someone growing up in Western Maryland has the same chance to live the American Dream as anyone else. As a former entrepreneur, when I look at Western Maryland I see a tremendous growth opportunity, because the region has strong core fundamentals that can be better utilized to create good-paying jobs. The Western Maryland Agenda was developed in coordination with local officials and I believe our platform contains straightforward commonsense measures that should generate bipartisan support in Annapolis. One component of the Western Maryland Agenda is to improve our enterprise zones and Senator Manno’s bill is good legislation that could encourage new manufacturing jobs. My constituents are served best when local, state and federal officials are on the same page and I hope to build on the momentum generated today.” On February 19, Delaney sent the Western Maryland Agenda to Governor Hogan, Senate President Miller and House Speaker Busch. The letter was signed by was signed by Senator George C. Edwards (District 1), Delegate Wendell R. Beitzel (District 1A), Delegate Jason C. Buckel (District 1B), Delegate Mike McKay (District 1C) and Delegate Brett R. Wilson (District 2B). The Western Maryland Agenda includes: improving the enterprise zone tax credit program, fully funding local transportation needs, increased promotion of Western Maryland in state tourism efforts, helping Maryland farmers, improving rural broadband access, reviewing the impact of state policies on rural communities and responsibly utilizing natural resources. ##
03.12.2015	WASHINGTON – The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has announced a $818,182 grant to the Garrett County Community Action Committee for Head Start. Head Start is a federal program that promotes school readiness for children under five. “Giving more families access to high-quality early learning opportunities is one of the smartest investments we can make,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “Study after study shows that early education programs have an incredible impact on our children, improving not only cognitive abilities, but also motivation, sociability and self-esteem. Years down the road, that kind of investment means better focused classrooms, stronger academic records, and more open doors for our youngest generation. Today’s grant, which combines Head Start’s resources with the organizational capabilities of Garrett County Community Action Committee, promises to make a real difference for families in Western Maryland.” Founded in 1965, the Garrett County Community Action Committee is a private non-profit corporation that provides services to Garrett County residents. The GCCAC is governed by a 15-member board of directors composed of community leaders from across Garrett County. Congressman Delaney toured Garrett County Community Action’s headquarters in Oakland earlier last year and met with Duane Yoder, President, to discuss the organization’s needs and priorities. ##
03.11.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) announces the 2015 Congressional Art Competition for Maryland’s 6th Congressional District. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to encourage and recognize outstanding student talent in the visual arts. Each spring, the House of Representatives hosts the art competition which is open to high school students nationwide. Congressman Delaney will accept entries from students in Maryland’s 6th District. For guidelines on competition entry, and requirements for submitted art, please visit Congressman Delaney’s website. In 2014, Alexa Thompson of Gaithersburg won the Congressional Art Competition for Maryland’s 6th District for her portrait, titled, “As I Am.” For more information on the Congressional Art Competition, interested students and educators may contact Tristan.Fernandez@mail.house.gov. Entries are due by April 6, 2015, and winners will be recognized at the Congressional Art Competition Awards Ceremony on April 14, 2015. ##
03.10.2015	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday, the White House announced that it would ask federal agencies to “develop recommendations for regulatory and legislative changes for all student loan borrowers, including possible changes to the treatment of loans in bankruptcy proceedings.” In January, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) filed legislation to make student loan debt dischargeable in bankruptcy. Under current law, student loan debt is treated differently than other common forms of debt and cannot be discharged. Delaney’s legislation, The Discharge Student Loans in Bankruptcy Act (H.R. 449), applies to both federal and private loans. Delaney releases the following statement: “Excessive student loan debt is a real problem for middle class families, stalling the American Dream and holding back our next generation of entrepreneurs and leaders. I applaud the White House for making student loan debt a priority and hope that we see more momentum for student loan reform. Congress needs to act as well, which is why I’ve filed legislation to make student loan debt dischargeable. Bankruptcy isn’t fun and isn’t easy, but it has been an essential part of our financial system for a long time. It simply doesn’t make sense that we would treat auto loan debt or credit card debt completely differently than student loan debt. The White House and Congress should work together to address this national problem.” ##
03.06.2015	WASHINGTON – Saturday is the 50th anniversary of Bloody Sunday in Selma. On March 7, 1965 unarmed civil rights protestors seeking voting rights for African-Americans were beaten as they attempted to cross the Edmund Pettus Bridge. Over 50 protestors were treated for injuries received at the hands of Alabama state troopers and local police. The Voting Rights Act would be signed into law months later. Ceremonies marking the anniversary will be held throughout the weekend across Alabama. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “Fifty years ago at Selma, protestors seeking one of the most fundamental civil rights – the right to vote – were attacked and beaten by those who should have been protecting them. It was a day of reckoning for our nation and the images and memories from that day still hold the power to shock and horrify. However, because of the courage of those who marched, needed changes came to America, including the landmark Voting Rights Act. The anniversary of Bloody Sunday is a reminder that the road to justice is long, that the terrain is difficult, but that the destination is not unreachable. The battle for voting rights is not yet won and new legislation is needed to ensure protections are preserved. On this anniversary, we should strengthen our resolve to make sure that all Americans have access to liberty and justice for all.” ##
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON – Senator Ben Cardin (MD) and Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) have urged the federal government to restore Allegany County’s rural designation, which will maintain local eligibility for federal rural health care funding. The Cardin-Delaney letter was sent to Sylvia Mathews Burwell, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. In their letter, Rep. Delaney and Senator Cardin informed Sec. Burwell that Allegany County is a largely rural community and that access to vital health programs and services should be restored. The text of the letter is below: February 27, 2015 The Honorable Sylvia Mathews Burwell Secretary U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Ave SW Washington, DC 20201-0004 Dear Secretary Burwell, We are writing to express our concern that Allegany County, Maryland, has been designated as an urbanized area containing no rural communities, disqualifying it from receiving federal rural health funding. We request that you take action to restore the county’s rural designation to preserve our constituents’ access to vital health programs and services. The Maryland Rural Health Association (MRHA) reports that Allegany County based funding for Western Maryland health programs has received $2 million in federal funding and created four new jobs over the past five years.[1] These programs have achieved important successes for the rural community they serve, from increasing access to critical services like direct dental care and mental health services to recruiting and supporting a much needed rural health workforce. We understand that the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) uses rural designations made by the U.S. Department of Agriculture Office of Rural Health Policy (ORHP) and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), and that ORHP and OMB designated Allegany County as a Metropolitan Statistical Areas with only metropolitan Rural-Urban Commuting Area codes. However, although Allegany County as a whole may no longer be considered rural under this methodology due to the impact of the Cumberland Metropolitan Statistical Area, the county remains a largely rural community. This re-designation unfairly disqualifies it from important targeted rural health funding. Thank you for your attention on this important matter. We look forward to working with you to ensure that Allegany County continues to receive the federal funding needed to support quality health programs in this rural community. Sincerely, ________________ ________________ Benjamin L. Cardin John K. Delaney United States Senator Member of Congress ## [1] Maryland’s Changing Rurality at the Federal Level and Lost of Significant Funding, Maryland Rural Health Association, available at https://mdruralhealth.org/MdRurality.pdf.
03.02.2015	WASHINGTON – Senator Barbara Mikulski has announced that she will retire at the end of her current term. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “Senator Barbara Mikulski has been an incomparable leader for the issues that matter most to middle-class Americans, and for that, her state and her country owe her the deepest gratitude. A rare combination of intelligence, compassion and grit has made her a singular champion for issues impacting women, children, our environment and our beloved state of Maryland. We have been blessed to have her as our Senator. “Senator Mikulski changed Washington, improved the lives of Marylanders and inspired an entire generation of women to pursue public office. For five decades she’s been Maryland’s voice in Washington, standing as a national leader of the highest acclaim and a tireless fighter for our state and our people. Senator Mikulski has also been a moral voice; she has been a champion for civil rights and equality. I join the rest of the state – from the mountains to Baltimore to the Eastern Shore - in thanking Senator Mikulski for an awe-inspiring lifetime of service.” ##
02.27.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) successfully amended House legislation to improve teacher training and retention. During consideration of the reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (H.R. 5), Delaney offered an amendment that improves training and retention programs by allowing state and local governments to use Pay for Success initiatives to improve outcomes and save money. Also known as Social Impact Bonds, Pay for Success programs use evidence-based policies and private capital to improve outcomes and reduce long-term costs. In this model the government only pays for success, not failure. According to the Alliance for Excellent Education, educator turnover costs states millions of dollars each year, including an estimated $20 million dollars in Maryland. By improving job training and retention efforts, education will improve and overall costs will go down. “Our values demand that every student has access to a world-class education. One of the most straightforward things we can do in pursuit of this goal is to support teachers and make sure that great teachers stay on the job,” said Congressman Delaney. “Teacher turnover is a drain on schools and a drain on resources. My bipartisan amendment will give state and local governments another tool in the toolbox to support teachers, expanding training programs and boost retention efforts. The Pay for Success model can help bring us a triple bottom line: better outcomes in the classroom, more support for teacher training, reduced long-term costs.” The Delaney Amendment was cosponsored by Rep. Todd Young (IN-9) and Rep. Jared Polis (CO-2) and passed on the House floor by a voice vote. The text of the Delaney Amendment to H.R. 5 is available here. Video footage of the floor proceedings is online here. For more information on Pay for Success programs, click here. ##
02.24.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) is an original cosponsor of bipartisan legislation that ensures that all Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employees receive retroactive pay if there is a DHS shutdown, regardless of their furlough status. The DHS Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act was filed by Rep. Don Beyer (VA-8) with Rep. Rob Wittman (VA-1) as the lead Republican. “I am proud to represent many dedicated men and women who work each day to make sure that our country is safe at the Department of Homeland Security,” said Congressman Delaney. “As someone who employed hundreds of people in the private sector, I am embarrassed that we habitually play politics with federal workers – that’s no way to treat a workforce. This bipartisan legislation will ensure that even in the event of a partial shutdown Homeland Security Employees will receive the pay they deserve for the critical work they do.” Absent Congressional action, DHS funding will run out on February 27 at midnight. Approximately 30,000 employees would be furloughed without pay in the event of a funding lapse, while the majority of DHS staff would report to work without pay. ##
02.23.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) spoke today at a White House event calling for new investor protections for retirement accounts. Rep. Delaney, the only former CEO of a publicly traded company in the House of Representatives, was joined by President Obama, Senator Elizabeth Warren (MA) and Senator Cory Booker (NJ). In his remarks at the American Association of Retired Persons (AARP), Delaney stressed how recent economic and policy trends have made saving for retirement more difficult. Delaney underscored the need to protect hard-working Americans from receiving investment advice that is not in their interest. The Administration’s new investment standard is designed to protect clients from receiving advice that steers their savings into funds with higher fees and lower returns due to brokers receiving backdoor payments. Monday, the White House Council of Economic Advisers released a report showing that conflicts of interest can cost middle-class families a large percentage of their retirement savings. According to White House data, this conflicted investment advice costs middle-class investors 1 percentage point annually on their returns, leading to an estimated loss of $17 billion dollars each year. “Retiring with dignity and economic security is becoming more difficult than ever, which means it is absolutely essential that we protect middle-class investors from receiving deliberately harmful advice,” said Congressman Delaney. “In recent decades, changing economic and policy trends have made retirement more expensive and placed unprecedented pressure on middle-class families. By holding retirement advisers to a more consumer-friendly and investor-friendly standard, we can help avoid a devastating retirement savings crisis for working families. When my constituents receive financial advice, that advice should be based on what is in their interest. This is good for the investor and good for the company. This isn’t just a theoretical matter either, because for millions of Americans, every unnecessary fee, every percentage point matters, especially when compounded over decades. The amount of lost potential savings, often 10-20% of total savings, is staggering. As someone who spent decades in the private sector starting and running successful businesses, I understand deeply the power of incentives. We need to make sure that financial advisers have the right incentives – as many already do – to put their clients first.” The president directed the Department of Labor to move forward with a proposed rulemaking to protect investors from receiving bad retirement advice by requiring retirement advisers to abide by a “fiduciary” standard – meaning they must put their clients’ best interest before their own profits. The Department of Labor will issue a notice of proposed rulemaking in months, beginning a period of extensive public comment. Investor protections for retirement investment advice have not been significantly updated since 1975. The Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) gives the Department of Labor authority in this area. ##
02.19.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and legislators representing Garrett, Allegany and Washington County have written to Maryland state leaders addressing the needs and opportunities for economic growth in Western Maryland. The letter, initiated by Rep. Delaney, was signed by Senator George C. Edwards (District 1), Delegate Wendell R. Beitzel (District 1A), Delegate Jason C. Buckel (District 1B), Delegate Mike McKay (District 1C) and Delegate Brett R. Wilson (District 2B). The Western Maryland Agenda was sent to Maryland Governor Larry Hogan, Senate President Mike Miller and Speaker of the House Michael Busch and outlines Western Maryland legislative priorities in Annapolis. These include: improving the enterprise zone tax credit program, fully funding local transportation needs, increased promotion of Western Maryland in state tourism efforts, helping Maryland farmers, improving rural broadband access, reviewing the impact of state policies on rural communities and responsibly utilizing natural resources. The letter states, “we believe that significant action must be taken on behalf of the people of Western Maryland. Our paramount goal is to guarantee that a child growing up in Oakland, Frostburg or Smithsburg has the same opportunities to succeed as any other Marylander.” The text of the letter and agenda is below: February 19, 2015 Governor Larry Hogan 100 State Circle Annapolis, Maryland 21401 Senate President Thomas V. Mike Miller, Jr. State House, H-107 Annapolis, Maryland 21401 Speaker Michael E. Busch State House, H-101 Annapolis, Maryland 21401 Gentlemen, Perhaps too forward, but we write as elected officials representing the citizens of Western Maryland. Part of our duty in office is to ensure that the needs of our constituents are fairly considered, including in the upcoming session of the Maryland General Assembly. Communities in Garrett, Allegany and Washington County share much in common with the rest of our great state, but they also face certain singular challenges and opportunities. Unfortunately, many of Western Maryland’s traditional economic engines have been in long-term decline, while others remain under intense pressure. We believe that significant action must be taken on behalf of the people of Western Maryland. Our paramount goal is to guarantee that a child growing up in Oakland, Frostburg or Smithsburg has the same opportunities to succeed as any other Marylander. Western Maryland is one of the most beautiful places in the country. However, economic hardship in the region is just as visible as the mountains, rivers and lakes. The good news is that Western Maryland also has a number of advantages, including lower costs, proximity to different markets, stunning natural beauty, and significant transportation resources. The region is also home to local leaders that have been intensely focused on economic issues for some time. With a robust partnership from Annapolis, business owners and workers Western Maryland can deliver. In order to position the region to thrive across the next decade, we the undersigned have come together to focus on certain actions that will benefit the common good of the region, which are reflected in the attached “2015 Western Maryland Agenda.” This agenda is not designed to be an inclusive list of all the priorities for the region. In fact, each of the undersigned has other ideas that have tremendous merit and which are not included in the agenda. Instead, we view the agenda as a listing of matters in which there is a clear consensus that we can do more for the common good of citizens of Washington, Allegany and Garrett counties. We believe that by improving existing programs, encouraging private sector growth and better integrating the Western Maryland economy with the rest of the state, we can make a difference for our constituents. The heavy lifting on this work will certainly be done by the undersigned Senators and Delegates who represent the Western Maryland communities in the General Assembly, but as a group we are committed to work at the federal and local level to advance these priorities as well. We stand ready to work with you to boost the economy of Western Maryland and improve the quality of life of its residents. We know that as individuals you care deeply about the needs of all Maryland citizens, including Western Marylanders. We hope our efforts will be viewed as a constructive attempt to focus your attention on some of the most significant priorities for Western Maryland. A stronger middle class and a healthier business climate in Western Maryland isn’t just good for the region, it’s good for the entire state. With our deepest respect and appreciation, we ask that you consider our policy recommendations and we look forward to working with you to better serve our constituents. May God bless you and your work this session, Rep. John K. Delaney United States House of Representatives, Maryland Sixth District Senator George C. Edwards Maryland Senate, District 1 Delegate Wendell R. Beitzel Maryland House of Delegates, District 1A Delegate Jason C. Buckel Maryland House of Delegates, District 1B Delegate Mike McKay Maryland House of Delegates, District 1C Delegate Brett R. Wilson Maryland House of Delegates, District 2B 2015 Western Maryland Agenda Improve the Enterprise Zone Tax Credit Program Maryland was one of the first states to implement an enterprise zone tax credit program. Studies done by the state since the 1980s have indicated that these programs are not performing well in terms of job creation. Western Maryland would benefit from an improved business tax credit zone program to facilitate more start-ups in Western Maryland, incentivize out-of-state businesses to relocate to Western Maryland, and encourage existing Western Maryland businesses to expand. Maryland’s current Enterprise Zone Tax Credit Program has not been successful for Western Maryland and should be examined and improved. In the decades since Maryland began their program in 1982, the economy has changed significantly and states around the country have implemented a variety of programs. We should take the best ideas from other states and develop a new strategy that reflects today’s environment. Fully Fund Western Maryland’s Transportation Needs It is our view that Western Maryland’s voice on transportation funding has been overshadowed by high-profile projects in larger counties. However, the infrastructure needs in Western Maryland are just as acute, as evidenced by the staggering traffic on I-81 in Washington County, one of the busiest stretches of highway in Maryland. In addition to improving public safety, the quality of life, and the productivity of local businesses and workers, upgrading Western Maryland’s infrastructure, including both the Route 219 and 220 sections of the North-South Appalachian Highway project, is an essential ingredient for long-term economic growth. Located in close proximity to both the Richmond-Boston mega-region and large interior Southern and Midwestern markets, Western Maryland is well-positioned to develop into a major shipping and logistics hub. Historically, Western Maryland has thrived in this role and we believe it could again. Increase and Improve State Efforts to Promote Western Maryland Tourism Western Maryland is blessed with many highly desirable tourist attractions that are a unique complement to the state’s overall profile. However, according to state figures, Western Maryland has received only a small proportion of the state’s visitors. In our view, this is an area where the state can improve and expand their efforts. It is important that the beauty of Western Maryland, including Deep Creek Lake, the C&O Canal and the region’s mountains, streams, trails and lakes be robustly promoted by the Maryland Office of Tourism Development in partnership with local agencies. Moreover, Western Maryland’s proximity to many large out-of-state markets is a growth opportunity for the state. Support Maryland Farmers We believe that choosing between supporting agriculture, Maryland’s largest economic sector and a vital part of the Western Maryland economy, and protecting the natural beauty of Maryland, including operating to high standards around clean air and water, is a false choice. We are committed to both objectives. We believe that the state should reexamine the regulatory climate for agriculture, look at new ways of promoting Maryland-grown products and encourage more coordination between local farms and schools. Maryland farmers are especially concerned about duplicative regulations from the state and federal government, the length and nature of the permitting process and overly costly runoff regulations without additional support in bearing them. The increased importance of locally-sourced products to many consumers as well as Western Maryland’s proximity to large consumer markets has created a new opportunity for local farmers. We should be proactive in helping Maryland farmers succeed. Connect Western Maryland Western Maryland entrepreneurs, business and civic leaders and students have made it clear that a lack of high-speed internet access across the region is hurting economic development and, as a result, Western Maryland has been left behind in the growth of key industries in the state, like cybersecurity and biotechnology, which have produced well-paying jobs and robust economic development in other counties to the east. High-speed and high-bandwidth connectivity is essential in today’s economy and a must if Western Maryland is to remain competitive in the future. In recent years progress has been made in expanding broadband capabilities in Western Maryland, but more remains to be done. The Appalachian Regional Commission has demonstrated that there is federal support for tackling this problem. The state should be an active partner in building federal-state-local and public-private partnerships to make sure that homes and businesses in Western Maryland are just as plugged in as their peers in Baltimore or Montgomery County. Review Policies That Disproportionally Hurt Rural Communities Western Maryland is one of the most rural regions of the state, which has contributed to the area falling through the legislative cracks far too often. This past year Allegany and Washington County were hit hard by flooding, with Cresaptown and Clear Spring receiving significant damage. The Governor’s office elected not to apply for FEMA relief because statutory requirements for total damages were not met. However, it is FEMA policy to consider additional factors, such as the income level of the community impacted and the local resources available to rebuild. Unfortunately the state did not consider this potential avenue. Additionally, we believe FEMA’s damage thresholds are artificially high, given the lower nominal property values in many rural areas. In our view, the needs and circumstances of rural communities are often not fully understood or appreciated. The inadequate response to Western Maryland flooding also highlighted the need for a state disaster relief fund that is adequate to the state’s needs. Because FEMA’s damage thresholds are unlikely to change, state support will remain especially critical. We encourage the review of all policies and procedures where minimum thresholds may not capture the needs of smaller communities. Utilize Natural Resources The utilization of natural resources has long been a part of the heritage and history of Western Maryland and an economic driver and major employer in the region. Our natural resources have drawn people to our hills and valleys for centuries and with proper stewardship and management this can continue. We ask the Governor and state leaders to continue this rich tradition of supporting the use of our natural resources in a safe and effective manner, striking the right balance between job creation and environmental protection. No one cares more about the soil, water and air of Western Maryland than its people and they are ready to move forward with responsible pro-growth policies. As a new administration and legislative session begins, we look forward to working together to making sure that natural resource development is a part of our economic portfolio. ##
02.12.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, President Obama signed into law the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans (SAV) Act, bipartisan legislation to improve mental health care at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and stem veteran suicide. The legislation is named for Iraq and Afghanistan veteran and suicide prevention advocate Clay Hunt, who took his own life in 2011. According to a study done by the VA, 22 veterans commit suicide each day. A RAND Corp study found that an estimated 31% of those who served in combat in Iraq and Afghanistan suffer from depression, post-traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain injury. “When it comes to veterans, we should be crystal clear: anyone who has worn our nation’s uniform should receive the benefits they’ve earned, including world class mental health care,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “In recent years our nation has suffered grievously from an epidemic of veterans suicide and sadly stories like Clay Hunt’s have been all too common. We have a lot of work left to do, but the Clay Hunt SAV Act is a step in the right direction. This legislation increases oversight of existing VA programs to make sure they’re working and devotes additional resources to expediting mental health care. I am proud that Congress and the White House, Democrats and Republicans, were able to work together to pass the Clay Hunt SAV Act. I hope that we can continue to build on this momentum and re-double our efforts to improve VA care, reduce wait times and help our veterans better transition to civilian life.” Last month, Delaney authored an op-ed on the importance of the bill in the Frederick News-Post. The Clay Hunt SAV Act is supported by numerous veterans groups, including the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA) and the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA). Key Provisions in the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act: Establishes a peer support and community outreach pilot program to help transitioning servicemembers access VA mental health care services Authorizes the Department of Veterans Affairs to conduct a new recruitment program for hiring and retaining psychiatrists by creating a student loan repayment pilot program Mandates a centralized website, a one-stop-shop listing all the mental health care services available to veterans, which will be updated each 90 days Requires a yearly third-party evaluation of all mental health care and suicide prevention efforts in the Department of Defense and VA Requires the Department of Defense and National Guard to review staffing requirements for Directors of Psychological Health in each state Reviews the discharge characterizations of individuals diagnosed with Traumatic Brain Injury or Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder ##
02.08.2015	WASHINGTON – Sunday’s Washington Post highlighted the traction behind Congressman John K. Delaney’s answer to the nation’s infrastructure crisis and the looming insolvency of the Highway Trust Fund. The Post story outlined how Delaney has built bipartisan support for a new solution that combines international corporate tax reform and new infrastructure investment. Delaney’s model has been endorsed by a diverse group of lawmakers and was included in the President’s 2016 budget. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act uses deemed repatriation to patch the Highway Trust Fund hole for six years, creates a new financing tool for state and local governments and establishes a path for broader reforms to the tax code and the Highway Trust Fund. Delaney’s plan would tax existing overseas profits at 8.75% and end deferral, stopping the lock-out effect that has seen trillions in corporate profits become trapped overseas and encouraged damaging inversions. The legislation builds on the framework of Delaney’s Partnership to Build America Act, which ended the last Congress with over 40 cosponsors from each party. For information on Delaney’s Infrastructure 2.0 Act, click here. The Washington Post story is available online and is posted below. An ‘out-of-the-box idea’ to fund transportation projects gains traction By Ashley Halsey III Washington Post, 2/7/15 The sophomore congressman from Maryland isn’t given to pauses in his monologue, but this time he ponders for a second or two when asked how he came up with an idea to yank America out of transportation quicksand. “I looked at all the factors a while ago and said, ‘This is where we’re going to go. People may not realize it, but they will,’ ” says Rep. John Delaney (D). They realize it now. Just as success has a thousand fathers, the concept of using almost $2 trillion in offshore corporate cash to bail out the beleaguered federal trust fund for roads, bridges and transit seems to have lots of parents on Capitol Hill these days. “The number one source that is being talked about is this repatriation of funds,” House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-Pa.) told the U.S. Conference of Mayors in January. A couple of years ago, however, when the then-freshman congressman from Potomac began pushing the concept, it took a while before bipartisan support — more than 40 members from each party — emerged. “When we started talking about this two years ago, people were like, ‘What’s that idea?’ People viewed it as a real out-of-the-box idea,” Delaney says, “and now everyone’s talking about it. The president’s making references to it, Speaker [John] Boehner talked about it, and you hear that Rand Paul and Barbara Boxer are thinking about a bill.” In fact, when Boxer and Paul announced their proposal, the unlikely marriage between the liberal California Democratic senator and the Libertarian-leaning Kentucky Republican senator drew attention as much for style as for content. “There’s a tremendous amount of momentum in the Congress and the administration converging toward this idea,” Delaney says. “There’s a real natural deal to be done there between Democrats and Republicans.” He figures it’s picking up steam because there is “a total absence of other ideas to deal with this problem, other than ‘let’s raise the gas tax.’ ” “It’s a win-win for everyone,” he says. “When people started focusing on it, they saw it was good public policy, paring best ideas from the progressive and the conservative movement, and that’s how you can do things on a bipartisan basis. People who care desperately about deficits and debt think this is a really good idea, people who care about infrastructure think this is a good idea and people who care about international competitiveness think this is a really good idea.” Figuring out deals is nothing new for Delaney. By the time he arrived in Congress, elected to represent a wildly gerrymandered district that squiggles through Montgomery County to cover all of Western Maryland, Delaney, 51, was thoroughly versed in the corporate world. The son of a New Jersey union electrician, Delaney went on from Georgetown University’s law school to found two companies that were listed on the New York Stock Exchange. He’s ranked as one of the wealthiest people in Congress. His first crack at a repatriation bill to fund transportation won support from almost 100 colleagues and a score of outside groups, but the congressional leadership ignored it last summer. Instead, they tapped into the general fund for an additional $10.8 billion and extended the current transportation bill until May. “Leadership has the luxury of sitting back and, hopefully, having good ideas percolate up,” Delaney says. “When we came up with this idea, no one had really thought about it — it was a totally new idea. So I think it’s not unreasonable for leadership to say, ‘Let’s see if there’s any there there.’ We proved that there’s a lot of there there.” Although there are significant differences between the Delaney and Senate proposals, the basic goal is the same. U.S.-based corporations have stashed close to $2 trillion in offshore accounts to escape the 35 percent U.S. corporate tax rate. If that rate is slashed — to 8.75 percent in Delaney’s bill or to 6.5 percent in the Boxer-Paul version — the belief is that that money might come flooding home. They want to use that tax money to shore up the Highway Trust Fund, which relies on the federal gas tax to pay the federal share of transportation funding. Hemorrhaging in an era of fuel efficiency, the trust fund has been rescued several times with billions in general tax fund dollars. With the current funding set to expire May 31, Congress has to consider its options fairly quickly. Few of them are as relatively pain free for the middle class that both parties hope to woo in 2016 as the Delaney-Boxer-Paul concept, commonly known as repatriation. Raising the federal gas tax substantially is a non-starter for House Republicans and the White House. Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wis.), chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, has floated an idea to use royalties from oil and gas exploration on federal land to refuel the transportation trust fund. There also is a push to shift more of the funding burden to state and local governments. About 20 states — including Maryland and Virginia in 2013 — have raised their state gas taxes or are considering doing so. The White House and some heavy hitters on Capitol Hill, such as Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.), see the cash for transportation coming from corporate tax reforms, but dealing with the multiple tentacles of a major overhaul in time to meet the deadline — even if that deadline is extended — seems doubtful. Delaney’s bill is the antithesis of simple, but nowhere so massive as revision of the tax code, and he says he thinks the repatriated tax money might arrive in time to meet the May deadline. “I think so, or it could be a couple-of-month extension on the trust fund while things like this get debated,” he says. The Boxer-Paul proposal came in for criticism the day it was announced last month, with the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities calling it a “tax holiday” that would cost the U.S. treasury $96 billion over the next 11 years. That’s in large part because companies that rushed to take advantage of it could duck higher taxes that they might have paid had they brought the cash home later. The key word to know in understanding Delaney’s plan is “deferral.” In theory, the U.S.-based companies have deferred payment of taxes on their $2 trillion in cash overseas, a wink-and-a-nod suggestion that it all will come home some day. Unless Congress moves on broader corporate tax reform, Delaney wants to end deferral. His proposal would create a one-time tax rate of 8.75 percent on cash coming home — enough, he says, to provide an additional $120 billion for a six-year surface transportation bill. He says there would be cash left over for a $50 billion infrastructure fund that he thinks could leverage $750 billion through loans, bond guarantees and equity for state and local governments. Delaney’s bill carries an 18-month deadline for international tax reform. If those reforms don’t come about, a provision in his bill would kick in to end deferral. Companies with their money stashed in tax-free havens would be subject to a 12.25 percent tax, even if they left it where it is. If the money is in countries where they pay a tax of 25 percent or more to foreign governments, they would face an additional 2 percent U.S. tax. The bill, which Delaney calls the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, also would establish a bipartisan commission of the House and Senate to come up with a long-term fix for the depleted Highway Trust Fund. “We clearly need to come up with a longtime fix. I have a view that the Congress is not ready between now and May to settle in on that fix,” he says. “You can’t fix it quickly, because the fixes are too painful and just not fair. If you have a good idea but you’re going to slam people with it right away, they’re less likely to do it. But if you have a good idea and you say we can do this really gradually, you can see people get behind it.” The current crop of ideas — which Congress until recently has avoided addressing — includes a big hike in the federal gas tax of 18.4 cents per gallon, charging people for each mile they drive or shifting the tax-collection burden more heavily to the states. None is a popular option. Delaney doesn’t expect Infrastructure 2.0 to be popular with everyone, either. “I used to say in business that the best business deals are ones in which everyone feels a little bad when they’re done,” he says. “There’s no question that there’s something in our bill that everyone can feel a little bad about, but in general, I think it’s a bill that satisfies what each party really cares about.” ##
02.06.2015	WASHINGTON – This Friday, the Chesapeake & Ohio Canal National Historical Park (C&O Canal) rescinded its proposal to expand the collection of recreation fees park-wide. Earlier this week, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) wrote to National Park Service officials, opposing the proposed expansion. Park officials at the C&O Canal will continue to gather public input on other proposed changes. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: "I am pleased that the park has announced that they will not impose new park-wide fees. My constituents were very concerned about this change, which in my view was not the right approach. We have to be extremely sensitive to major changes such as this, because the economic impacts can be meaningful for people and communities. Park officials should be commended for being extremely transparent throughout this process and really listening to public feedback. In addition to being a natural and historical treasure for visitors, the park is an important economic engine for our area and I hope to continue to work with National Park Service and C&O Canal Park officials to make sure that the park has the resources it needs to thrive." ##
02.04.2015	WASHINGTON - In his State of the State address, Maryland Governor Larry Hogan announced that he will create a bipartisan commission to examine Maryland’s redistricting procedure, “with the goal of fully reforming this process and giving this authority to an independent, bipartisan commission.” “Maryland needs redistricting reform,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “This isn’t a partisan issue; it’s a good government issue. All too often, gerrymandered one-party districts falsely distort the voice of the people. Maryland is far from unique in this regard and I believe that we also need nationwide reforms that get partisanship out of district-making once and for all. Today’s announcement is good news for my constituents and good news for our state. I look forward to further details regarding reform in Maryland and stand ready to work with state officials to bring redistricting reform to our state.” Since first running for office in 2012, Delaney has been a proponent of establishing independent redistricting commissions. Last Congress, Delaney introduced the Open Our Democracy Act, which directed the Comptroller General of the Government Accountability Office to study the feasibility of establishing national standards for redistricting, a first step towards federal reforms. The legislation also included provisions making Election Day a federal holiday and creating open primaries for House elections, allowing independents to vote in primaries. ##
02.03.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has written to National Park Service officials requesting that park-wide fees not be established at the Chesapeake & Ohio Canal National Historical Park. In his letter to Jon Jarvis, Director of the National Park Service and Kevin Brandt, Superintendent of the Chesapeake & Ohio Canal National Historical Park, Delaney stated, “I am opposed to park-wide fees because of the possibility that they will create undue financial hardship on local residents and limit the overall economic impact of the park.” Delaney added, “I believe that the challenges facing the Chesapeake & Ohio Canal National Historical Park are best addressed through the budget and appropriations process. I stand at the ready to work with park and NPS officials to request additional federal resources for the park or fight for a larger share of funding for our park in the NPS budget.” The full text of the letter is below: February 3, 2015 Jon Jarvis, Director National Park Service 1849 C Street NW Washington, DC 20240 Kevin Brandt, Superintendent Chesapeake & Ohio Canal National Historical Park 1850 Dual Highway, Suite 100 Hagerstown, MD 21740-6620 Dear Director Jarvis & Superintendent Brandt: I am writing you today to express my deep concern over the proposed fee increase for the Chesapeake & Ohio Canal National Historical Park, specifically the section on the new fees being enacted park-wide. Since this announcement, I have been contacted by many of my constituents regarding this change. I share their concerns and recommend that you do not implement park-wide fees. While I understand the financial pressures the park is operating under, I am opposed to park-wide fees because of the possibility that they will create undue financial hardship on local residents and limit the overall economic impact of the park. The Chesapeake & Ohio Canal National Historical Park has a long history of enriching the daily life of Marylanders from Allegany to Montgomery County. Extending from Washington D.C. to Cumberland, the park provides a wonderful opportunity for my constituents to hike, bike, fish and explore the many historical structures along the C&O Canal. Whether it is for just a couple of hours a week or a day trip on the weekend to bike or fish, the park has become an essential part of their everyday lives. For much of the park’s history dating back to 1961, people enjoyed this scenic diversion without an additional levy being required. Only recently has it become necessary to charge for its services in the way of an entrance fee at the Great Falls Tavern Visitor Center in Potomac; the only place it was logistically possible to collect such a fee. While this has placed a burden on a small proportion of residents, the effects have not been widespread. Extending this fee park-wide will place a strain on local residents. Even a seemingly small fee could become large when considered over multiple visits, which is a goal we would otherwise want to encourage. The public response has been quite clear on this point and I hope that you will take it under consideration. We should be extremely sensitive to measures that discourage visitors to use the park. According to NPS data, park visitation statistics have been extremely volatile over the years. This suggests that outside factors play a large role in determining use. I am concerned that a drastic change such as this fee implementation could have unforeseen consequences on park use and ultimately on the park’s economic impact. That economic impact is critical to many communities in Western Maryland. Congress will soon be considering the federal budget. I believe that the challenges facing the Chesapeake & Ohio Canal National Historical Park are best addressed through the budget and appropriations process. I stand at the ready to work with park and NPS officials to request additional federal resources for the park or fight for a larger share of funding for our park in the NPS budget. I would like to thank you and the Park Service for your willingness to discuss these proposed changes with local residents. Your openness and transparency should be commended. I hope that we can work together with local, federal and park officials to find an alternative solution. My constituents love this wonderful treasure, truly, and want nothing more than to pass it along to their grandchildren, while sharing it with visitors from around the country. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, John K. Delaney Member of Congress ##
02.01.2015	WASHINGTON – The White House has announced that President Obama’s 2016 Budget proposal will include international tax reform to pay for new infrastructure projects. This is the same framework Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has advocated for two years, building a bipartisan coalition in Congress around combining international tax reform and infrastructure. In the 113th Congress, over 40 Republicans and 40 Democrats signed onto Delaney’s Partnership to Build America Act. Last week, Rep. Delaney filed the Infrastructure 2.0 Act (H.R. 625), which establishes an 8.75% rate on existing earnings and using those revenues to fund the Highway Trust Fund for six years and establish a new infrastructure fund for state and local governments. “We are pleased that the President has adopted the larger framework we laid out in the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, pairing international tax reform with increased infrastructure investment,” said Congressman Delaney. “As we proved last Congress with the enormously bipartisan Partnership to Build America Act, there is a deal to do with Democrats and Republicans using this new approach. By making our tax code more competitive and rebuilding the country’s crumbling infrastructure, we take the best ideas from both parties to serve the common good. I hope the Administration will continue to move closer to the specifics in our bill so that we can get this done with broad based support that it deserves. If we get the details right, we have the opportunity to create a triple bottom line benefit for our country: better infrastructure, more domestic investment and more good-paying jobs.” Delaney is the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in the House of Representatives. Delaney’s Infrastructure 2.0 Act also includes a trigger for broader tax reform as well as a mechanism for long-term Highway Trust Fund stability. A summary is below. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act Investing in 21st Century Infrastructure with Deemed Repatriation at 8.75% Tax Rate Under the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, existing overseas profits accumulated by U.S. multi-national corporations would be subject to a mandatory, one-time 8.75% tax, replacing deferral option and current rate of 35%. $120 billion to the Highway Trust Fund, enough to meet funding gap at increased levels for six years. $50 billion to capitalize the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) a new financing mechanism for transportation, water, energy, communications and education projects. Leveraged to $750 billion, AIF financing (loans, bond guarantees and equity) is available to state and local governments. American Infrastructure Fund was first proposed in Rep. Delaney’s bipartisan Partnership to Build America Act. $25 million pilot program to create regional infrastructure accelerators, similar to the West Coast Infrastructure Exchange This frees the estimated $2 trillion in overseas earnings to return to the United States, spurring private sector re-investment and growth. Creating Long-term Highway Trust Fund Solvency and Policy Certainty The Infrastructure 2.0 Act provides six years of HTF solvency, providing immediate certainty to the private sector and policymakers. The legislation also establishes a bipartisan and bicameral commission that is tasked with developing a solution for permanent solvency of the Highway Trust Fund. Building a Path for Broader Tax Reform The Infrastructure 2.0 Act creates an eighteen month deadline for international tax reform. To encourage action, the legislation includes a forcing function: if reform is not enacted, a fallback international tax package to make U.S. business climate more competitive would be implemented. This pro-growth fallback reform package would end deferral, reduce anti-competitive over taxation, decrease taxes for companies paying fair rates abroad but increase taxes for companies in tax havens. This would eliminate the lock-out effect and allow for the free flow of profits back to the United States. Under this option, for Active Market Foreign Income, a company would pay a 12.25% tax to the U.S. on overseas profits if they are currently paying no tax and a 2% tax to the U.S. if they are already paying the OECD average of 25% abroad, with a sliding scale in-between. ##
02.01.2015	WASHINGTON – Since 1976, February has been recognized as Black History Month. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement. “We cannot understand our present without understanding our past. Black history is American history and Maryland history and is an important part of our shared story that deserves to be told. Some of our country’s most important leaders have been African-Americans from Maryland, from Harriet Tubman to Frederick Douglass to Thurgood Marshall. As a Member of the House of Representatives, it stands out to me that African-Americans were once banned from even setting foot inside the House Chamber, and that no African-American formally spoke in the people’s House until Marylander Henry Highland Garnet did so in 1865. This February, I look forward to joining my constituents in celebrating Black History Month.” ##
01.28.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) will introduce new bipartisan legislation to address the Highway Trust Fund solvency crisis and spur new infrastructure projects across the country. A new approach to funding and financing America’s infrastructure, The Infrastructure 2.0 Act uses international corporate tax reform to patch the Highway Trust Fund hole for six years, creates a new financing tool and establishes a path for broader pro-growth tax reform and improved infrastructure financing. Congressman Richard Hanna (R-NY-22) is a cosponsor of the bill. Rep. Delaney expects to build a large bipartisan coalition in support of the Infrastructure 2.0 Act similar to what was built for the Partnership to Build America Act, which closed last Congress with over 40 Republican and 40 Democratic cosponsors. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act establishes deemed repatriation at an 8.75% tax rate for existing overseas earnings. This produces enough revenue to provide an additional $120 billon to the Highway Trust Fund, enough for six years of solvency at increased levels, as well as funding for the creation of a new $50 billion dollar American Infrastructure Fund, which will be leveraged to finance $750 billion in new infrastructure projects in transportation, water, energy, communications and education. Finally, the bill also includes a trigger for broader international tax reform and establishes a commission for long-term Highway Trust Fund solvency. While the legislation has not been scored, preliminary indications are that it will score well. (Bill summary below.) “America’s infrastructure needs to be rebuilt, re-launched and reimagined. To create jobs, compete globally and improve our quality of life, building a 21st century national infrastructure this should be our top economic priority,” said Congressman John K. Delaney. “The Infrastructure 2.0 Act is the new policy solution we need to break the legislative gridlock that’s created clogged highways, crowded runways and costly delays for entrepreneurs and workers. With a looming Highway Trust Fund crisis ahead of us, it is clear that we need a new answer. Over the last two years, I’ve worked with Republicans and Democrats to build bipartisan support for using international tax reform to pay for new infrastructure projects and there’s more momentum behind this framework than ever before. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act addresses our immediate concerns and guarantees that Congress enacts long-term fixes to both the Highway Trust Fund and the international tax code.” “ASCE supports the continued leadership of Congressman Delaney as he seeks to craft innovative, bipartisan solutions that can help address our nation’s infrastructure funding deficit and improve the lives of all Americans. His bill, the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, would provide the revenue needed to fund a multi-year surface transportation bill that would grow the current program while at the same time setting the stage for a more long-term revenue fix upon that bill’s expiration. ASCE looks forward to continuing to work with Congressman Delaney to #FixTheTrustFund and restore our country’s infrastructure to its former greatness,” said Robert D. Stevens, Ph.D., P.E., President of the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE). “Improving infrastructure in America is job #1 to increase economic growth and middle class prosperity. Congressman Delaney’s proposal is innovative, leverages the private sector, and would dramatically improve our infrastructure,” said Gabriel Horwitz, Economic Program Director Third Way. “For many reasons, The Infrastructure 2.0 Act is an innovative and refreshing approach to addressing America’s infrastructure needs. Excavation and utility contractors nationwide appreciate and support Congressman Delaney for introducing this legislation aimed directly at creating jobs and growing the economy through infrastructure investment,” said Will Brown, Director of Government Affairs, National Utility Contractors Association. “The engineering industry applauds Congressman Delaney for his creative and aggressive approach to addressing our nation’s infrastructure priorities. While Congress needs to raise revenues to support the core federal infrastructure programs, we also need to supplement these investments with additional options and leverage state, local and private sources of capital. Improvements to the condition and performance of the nation’s transportation system will immediately boost demand for goods and services, enhance public health and safety, and improve our national competitiveness. In these ways, Congressman Delaney’s innovative legislation is a win-win,” said David A. Raymond, President & CEO American Council of Engineering Companies. “The Congressman’s proposal puts a lot of good ideas on the table that we hope spur vigorous discussion over how best to use tax reform to finance America’s aging infrastructure. Congressman Delaney is a serious legislator who understands what levers Congress can use to spur economic growth. The introduction of this measure is another reminder that Congress should act quickly to address our growing infrastructure needs by identifying the best ways to pay for a long-term federal surface transportation program,” said Stephen E. Sandherr, Chief Executive Officer, Associated General Contractors of America. The American Business Conference and the American Planning Association have also authored letters of support on the bill. The Infrastructure 2.0 Act Investing in 21st Century Infrastructure with Deemed Repatriation at 8.75% Tax Rate Under the Infrastructure 2.0 Act, existing overseas profits accumulated by U.S. multi-national corporations would be subject to a mandatory, one-time 8.75% tax, replacing deferral option and current rate of 35%. $120 billion to the Highway Trust Fund, enough to meet funding gap at increased levels for six years. $50 billion to capitalize the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) a new financing mechanism for transportation, water, energy, communications and education projects. Leveraged to $750 billion, AIF financing (loans, bond guarantees and equity) is available to state and local governments. American Infrastructure Fund was first proposed in Rep. Delaney’s bipartisan Partnership to Build America Act. $25 million pilot program to create regional infrastructure accelerators, similar to the West Coast Infrastructure Exchange This frees the estimated $2 trillion in overseas earnings to return to the United States, spurring private sector re-investment and growth. Creating Long-term Highway Trust Fund Solvency and Policy Certainty The Infrastructure 2.0 Act provides six years of HTF solvency, providing immediate certainty to the private sector and policymakers. The legislation also establishes a bipartisan and bicameral commission that is tasked with developing a solution for permanent solvency of the Highway Trust Fund. Building a Path for Broader Tax Reform The Infrastructure 2.0 Act creates an eighteen month deadline for international tax reform. To encourage action, the legislation includes a forcing function: if reform is not enacted, a fallback international tax package to make U.S. business climate more competitive would be implemented. This pro-growth fallback reform package would end deferral, reduce anti-competitive over taxation, decrease taxes for companies paying fair rates abroad but increase taxes for companies in tax havens. This would eliminate the lock-out effect and allow for the free flow of profits back to the United States. Under this option, for Active Market Foreign Income, a company would pay a 12.25% tax to the U.S. on overseas profits if they are currently paying no tax and a 2% tax to the U.S. if they are already paying the OECD average of 25% abroad, with a sliding scale in-between. ##
01.22.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has filed legislation to help address Americans struggling with student loan debt. The Discharge Student Loans in Bankruptcy Act (H.R. 449) would make student loans dischargeable under bankruptcy. Under current law, student loan debt is treated differently than other forms of debt and cannot be discharged. “Student loan debt is dragging down economic growth, keeping the American Dream out of reach for many and is a monthly strain for millions. While student loan debt is a complex problem that will require many solutions – increased support for grant programs, efforts to increase affordability, improved consumer education – we also need to reform our laws to help those with the absolute greatest need. Right now, there is effectively a huge student loan loophole in bankruptcy law that’s hurting real people,” said Congressman Delaney. “Bankruptcy has long been an option of last resort for individuals facing an irresolvable level of debt; bankruptcy isn’t easy or enjoyable, but it’s a necessary part of our financial system. It doesn’t make sense for students with heavy debt burdens to be worse than someone with credit card, auto loan debt or mortgage debt. Every member of Congress from every state in the country has constituents who are struggling severely because of student loan debt. At the very least we should have some basic fairness in the law.” Delaney is a cosponsor of the Middle Class CHANCE Act, which increases support provided by Pell Grants. Last Congress, Delaney voted for legislation in the House to prevent student loan rates from rapidly increasing and cosponsored the Truth in Tuition Act, which requires institutions to provide multi-year tuition and fee schedules. According to a study done by The Institute for College Access & Success, 69% of graduates from the class of 2013 graduated with student loan debt, owing an average of $28,400. ##
01.21.2015	WASHINGTON – Officials from the National Transportation and Safety Review Board (NTSB) and the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) briefed members of the Maryland, District of Columbia and Virginia congressional delegations today at the Capitol. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) attended the briefing. The briefing included an update on NTSB’s investigation and information from WMATA about emergency protocols and evacuation procedures. “Stepping onto a train car shouldn’t require a leap of faith about your safety. What happened on the Yellow Line earlier this month was completely unacceptable and we cannot lose sight of that,” said Congressman Delaney. “From that starting point, we need to work backwards to make sure that this doesn’t happen again, isolating what went wrong and how we fix it. From track safety, to tunnel evacuation to crisis response times, passenger and worker safety is at issue. I appreciate the NTSB and WMATA officials providing members of the regional delegation a briefing. As the investigation continues, my constituents deserve the highest degree of transparency and a clear agenda from Metro for how operations will improve.” ##
01.21.2015	WASHINGTON – On January 20, 2015 President Obama addressed a joint session of Congress for the State of the Union Address. In his remarks, the President stated, “let’s pass a bipartisan infrastructure plan” to create jobs and “make this country stronger for decades to come.” Earlier on Tuesday, Delaney re-filed the Partnership to Build America Act. One of the largest bipartisan bills in Congress, the Partnership to Build America Act uses international tax reform to finance new infrastructure projects. “As the President rightly pointed out, it is time to leave the rancor and the cynicism behind and work together,” said Congressman Delaney. “The President called upon Congress to pass a big bipartisan infrastructure bill. That’s precisely what we have with the Partnership to Build America Act, a new solution that takes the best ideas from both parties, with over 40 members of each party offering their support. For two years I’ve been working to build a new coalition around this approach to infrastructure and I was heartened to see the President offer his support for our framework. We’re going to continue to work to sustain the momentum behind our bill. The President’s remarks were an important reminder of the big picture – the strength and resilience of the American people, the progress we’ve made, the ideals we share and the work left to be done.” Last week, Delaney led a bipartisan group of lawmakers in urging President Obama to highlight infrastructure and tax reform in his remarks. ##
01.20.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Congressman Mike Fitzpatrick (PA-8) will reintroduce today the Partnership to Build America Act, bipartisan legislation to rebuild America’s infrastructure in a fiscally-responsible way. The Partnership to Build America Act upgrades America’s crumbling infrastructure, which has received a D+ grade from the American Society of Civil Engineers by using a portion of the trillions of dollars trapped overseas. Instead of using appropriated funds, the Delaney infrastructure bill creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund that is capitalized by selling bonds to private companies. In exchange for purchasing these bonds, the companies will be able to bring back a portion of their overseas earnings, one-time, tax free. The bill has secured some of the deepest bipartisan support in Congress. “Rebooting America’s infrastructure will create good jobs, help our businesses grow for decades to come, improve our quality of life and make our communities safer. We can’t compete in a high-tech global economy with a 1960s infrastructure. Although Washington remains divided, combining infrastructure investment with corporate tax reform is a bipartisan solution that can bring both sides together,” said Rep. John Delaney (MD-6). “I thank Congressman Fitzpatrick for partnering with me on reintroducing this bill. The Partnership to Build America Act combines progressive and conservative economic principles to create an innovative framework that breaks the legislative gridlock. We filed the bill ahead of the President’s State of the Union to make it clear that new policy answers that bring both sides together are possible.” “A 21st century economy requires a 21st century infrastructure. It’s time for leaders on both sides of the aisle to get creative. The Partnership to Build America Act is that opportunity. This bill provides an innovative way to finance hundreds of billions of dollars in infrastructure projects with no, new appropriated costs. I’m proud to work with Congressman Delaney on bipartisan legislation that strengthens our nation, rebuilds our roads, bridges, and waterways, and gets Americans back to work,” said Rep. Mike Fitzpatrick (PA-8). The Partnership to Build America Act The American Infrastructure Fund The Partnership to Build America Act creates the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF), a new entity to provide financing to state and local governments for new infrastructure projects. Transportation, energy, communications, water and education projects are eligible to receive AIF financing. Local governments would apply directly to the AIF for support. To encourage public-private partnerships 35% of AIF supported projects must have at least 10% of their financing be private debt or equity. The AIF will be capitalized by $50 billion in infrastructure bond sales and leveraged at a 15:1 ratio to provide up to $750 billion in loans or guarantees. Infrastructure Bond Sale Rather than using appropriated funds out of the federal budget to establish the American Infrastructure Fund, the Partnership to Build America Act uses a bond sale. AIF bonds would have a 50 year term, pay a 1% fixed rate return and would not be guaranteed by the U.S. government. These bonds are not intended to be a good investment on their own and are transferable after purchase. To incentivize companies to purchase these bonds, U.S. companies would be allowed to repatriate a certain amount of their overseas earnings tax free for every $1.00 they invest in the bonds. This multiplier will be set by a “reverse Dutch auction” – which allows the market to set the rate, ensuring that enough funds are raised to capitalize the fund. Assuming a 1:4 ratio is set by the auction; a company will be able to repatriate $4.00 tax-free for every $1 in AIF bonds they purchase. Benefits Creates a new large-scale infrastructure solution with zero appropriations. New infrastructure projects will create significant middle-class jobs in the short-term and make the national economy more competitive in the long-term. Allows for profits held overseas to be brought back to the United States, encouraging domestic investment and economic growth. Encourages and creates a framework for growth in public-private partnerships. ##
01.19.2015	WASHINGTON – The White House has announced that the President will outline a series of changes to the tax code during the 2015 State of the Union. The President’s proposal includes new tax credits for two-earner families, expanded child care and education benefits along with changes to the capital gains tax, estate tax and financial services sector. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6), the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in the House, issues the following statement: “The economy has been transformed by globalization and technology and too many have been left behind. We need a big new agenda to make sure more Americans benefit from these historical trends and a key component is a fairer tax code. For many years I have believed that the various ways that we tax different kinds of income in the tax code is unfair. Middle-class Americans shouldn’t pay a higher share than the most fortunate, which is why I’ve long supported changes like the Buffett Rule. Problems with the capital gains and estate tax have been at the core of why our tax code has become distorted. “I approach this issue as someone who has been incredibly blessed. As an entrepreneur and someone who raised lots of capital to start businesses, I understand first-hand that investment capital will continue to flow. The stated aims of our current capital gains policy simply don’t reflect the reality of what happens in the private sector when companies form or expand. I founded and led two companies that became publicly-traded and was the CEO of a commercial lender that helped thousands of small businesses grow. The capital gains rate was largely irrelevant. “As a pro-growth progressive, I applaud the President for using the State of the Union to start a national conversation about tax reform and how it can be focused on helping working Americans. I look forward to reviewing the details of his proposal. A fairer tax code, paired with broader corporate tax reform and smart investments in infrastructure and research, can encourage more growth and shared prosperity.” ##
01.18.2015	WASHINGTON – January 19 is Martin Luther King Jr. Day. On Monday, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) will join the Montgomery County Service Projects Volunteer Fair. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “Martin Luther King Jr. Day is a time to reflect on the legacy of one of our country’s greatest leaders and to revive and renew our commitment to liberty and justice for all. We commemorate and celebrate to remind ourselves of the courage and of Dr. King and those that stood with him to demand a better country. We know that even today division and discord are present and that not all the wounds of the past have been healed. However, in his ‘Letter from Birmingham Jail’ Dr. King wrote ‘we are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny.’ The bonds that unite us are stronger than the forces that pull us apart. In the 114th Congress, it is my hope that we can recommit ourselves to the cause of justice, fairness and opportunity for all Americans.” ##
01.16.2015	WASHINGTON – A bipartisan group of lawmakers from the House and Senate have written to President Obama urging him to “highlight the importance of rebuilding America’s infrastructure and fixing the broken international tax code” in the 2015 State of the Union. The letter, led by Congressman John K. Delaney (D-MD-6) was signed by Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO), Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) and Congressman Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA-8). The bipartisan group points out there is a “consensus in both parties that our roads, bridges, dams, and overall infrastructure need an upgrade and that tax reform is the way to get it done.” This is the framework used by the Partnership to Build America Act, which was introduced by Delaney in 2013. Senator Bennet and Senator Blunt are the lead sponsors of the legislation in the Senate, which has become one of the largest bipartisan bills in Congress. The text of the letter is as follows: January 16, 2015 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Obama: As you prepare for next week’s State of the Union Address, we urge you to highlight the importance of rebuilding America’s infrastructure and fixing the broken international tax code in your remarks. The country wants us to work together constructively and there is consensus in both parties that our roads, bridges, dams, and overall infrastructure need an upgrade and that tax reform is the way to get it done. We believe that international tax reform can provide a needed funding source for our nation’s infrastructure needs. Specifically, we can use overseas earnings through a deemed repatriation to provide a revenue source for both the highway trust fund and for and an independent infrastructure bank. This should be part of a broader, forward looking international tax reform plan that increases our competitiveness and creates jobs. By working together on a bipartisan infrastructure solution, we can boost our economy, create jobs, and position American businesses, small and large, to succeed in the global market. In their most recent report, the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) gave our nation’s infrastructure a D+ grade. America’s inadequate infrastructure has created a drag on economic growth, is a significant public safety risk and has impacted the quality of life of millions. Our flawed tax code has created a similar and interrelated economic drag, driving down growth and slowing domestic investment. Over the last two years, we have worked in both chambers of Congress, with Democrats and Republicans, to build support for an innovative approach that combines international corporate tax reform and new infrastructure investment. In the House and Senate, 45 Democrats and 46 Republicans have joined together to sponsor the Partnership to Build America Act. We are working to expand this idea to ensure a reliable funding source for both an infrastructure bank and the highway trust fund as part of a broader international tax reform effort. This approach is pro-growth, fiscally-responsible, and will create a huge number of good-paying jobs. The State of the Union is a singular platform to set the agenda and the tone for the next year in Washington. We sincerely hope that you consider using it as an opportunity to shine a spotlight on a truly bipartisan approach to two of the most vexing problems facing America’s economy. Respectfully, Congressman John K. Delaney Congressman Mike Fitzpatrick Senator Roy Blunt Senator Michael Bennet ##
01.15.2015	Washington, D.C. (Jan. 15, 2015)—Today, Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, and Representatives Elijah E. Cummings, Steny H. Hoyer, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, Chris Van Hollen, John P. Sarbanes, Donna F. Edwards, and John K. Delaney (all D-MD) joined to send a letter to Governor-elect Larry Hogan expressing their strong support for the planned Red Line and Greater Washington Purple Line transit projects. “We know that you share our commitment to strengthening Maryland’s economy and ensuring that the people of Maryland have access to infrastructure they need to excel in their lives, and we believe construction of the Red and Purple Lines is central to achieving these priorities,” the Members wrote. The recently passed Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act of 2015 (Public Law 113-235) includes the first installment of federal funding for the Red and Purple Lines, $100 million for each project. Maryland could receive up to $900 million for each transit project over the entire construction period if Maryland signs full funding agreements for each project by the end of September as currently planned. Click here and see below for the full letter. January 15, 2015 Governor-Elect Larry Hogan Transition Office Tawes State Office Building 580 Taylor Ave Annapolis, MD 21401 Dear Governor-Elect Hogan: We write today to express our strong support for the Baltimore Red Line and Greater Washington Purple Line planned transit projects. We know you share our commitment to strengthening Maryland’s economy and ensuring that the people of Maryland have access to infrastructure they need to excel in their lives, and we believe construction of the Red and Purple Lines is central to achieving these priorities. The Red Line is a proposed 14.1-mile light rail system that would link Baltimore’s East and West sides with the heart of downtown. With 19 stations – including at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Woodlawn, the West Baltimore MARC Station, the Inner Harbor and the Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center – this transit system will significantly improve mobility in Baltimore, and will be a critical catalyst for economic growth and job creation throughout the city. Like the Red Line, the Purple Line – a 16-mile east-west transit line linking New Carrollton and Bethesda – will also revitalize community development, create employment opportunities, and generate a more rapid and reliable transit system. The project would provide easier access to the Metro lines, commuter rail, and local bus services. Both the Purple Line and the Red Line will help connect people to jobs, major economic centers, and key activity areas in the region – bolstering economic development and creating more efficient transportation systems. According to a study completed by the Jacob France Institute at the University of Baltimore’s Merrick School of Business, construction of the Red Line would generate more than $2 billion in economic activity during the construction period alone, while creating more than 9,000 construction and related jobs. The Purple Line is expected to create 6,300 regional jobs during the six-year construction period. The State of Maryland and dozens of local agencies and entities have spent years crafting the policies and goals needed to ensure that the projects benefit local communities and directly support Maryland’s most critical economic development goals. Recognizing the significance of these projects, we secured the first installment of federal funding for both the Red and Purple Lines in the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act of 2015 (Public Law 113-235). If Maryland signs full funding grant agreements for each project with the Federal Transit Administration by the end of this September as currently planned, the Red Line and the Purple Line will each receive $100 million in federal funding this fiscal year, and up to $900 million in federal funding over the entire construction period. The entire Baltimore and Greater Washington area Congressional delegations have fought hard to ensure that federal funds are available to support the Red and Purple Lines, and we have worked closely with State and local leaders to put in place the many components needed to qualify the projects for federal funding. This is truly an historic opportunity that may never come again, and we look forward to working with you to finalize plans for the Red and Purple Lines in order to ensure that Maryland benefits from the better future these projects will create. Sincerely, Barbara A. Mikulski Benjamin L. Cardin United States Senator United States Senator Elijah E. Cummings Steny H. Hoyer Member of Congress Member of Congress C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Chris Van Hollen Member of Congress Member of Congress John P. Sarbanes Donna F. Edwards Member of Congress Member of Congress John K. Delaney Member of Congress
01.13.2015	WASHINGTON – On January 12 smoke filled a tunnel near the L’Enfant Plaza station on the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority’s Yellow Line. The incident led to one death and resulted in over 80 riders receiving hospital care for smoke inhalation. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “I am saddened and concerned by safety and maintenance failure in the tunnel near L’Enfant, which led to dozens being hospitalized and one fatality. It’s an unacceptable breakdown and the reports of what the riders trapped on the train went through and how long they were trapped is disturbing. Thousands of my constituents rely on Metro every day and they deserve and demand better. I am confident that local and federal authorities will conduct a full and thorough investigation to get to the bottom of what went wrong.” ##
01.12.2015	WASHINGTON - The House of Representatives has passed the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans (SAV) Act, a bill to strengthen mental health care at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Named for veteran and suicide prevention advocate Marine Cpl. Clay Hunt, the legislation improves recruitment and retention efforts for mental health professionals at the VA, centralizes resources for veterans in need of care, and brings stronger oversight and accountability to the VA. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted for the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act. Delaney also supported the measure last Congress, which passed the House in December. Clay Hunt struggled to receive adequate care following his return from Iraq and Afghanistan before taking his own life in 2011. “When we fail our commitment to American veterans and they don’t receive the care they’ve earned, the results can be devastating. On average, 22 veterans commit suicide each day – so it is imperative we act,” said Congressman Delaney. “Veterans’ suicide is a tragedy we can and must address, and although we still have work to do, the reforms contained in the Clay Hunt SAV Act are an important step forward. By strengthening VA oversight, centralizing resources for veterans, and investing in recruitment of mental health professionals, we can help to ensure that our veterans receive the world-class care they deserve. I am proud that the House of Representatives has worked together to pass this bipartisan bill.” The Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act is supported by the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA) and the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA). Key provisions in the Clay Hunt SAV Act include: establishing a pilot program to help transitioning service members access VA mental health services, authorizing a new recruitment program to hire and retain psychiatrists, the creation of a centralized website so veterans have a one-stop shop for VA care services, and a yearly third-party evaluation of all mental health care and suicide prevention efforts in the Department of Defense and VA. ##
01.09.2015	WASHINGTON – The House has passed legislation to approve construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline, which would carry crude oil from Canada to the Gulf Coast. The legislation passed by a 266-153 vote, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) opposed the bill. “Coming from the private sector, I have been trained to look at who is advantaged by any transaction and I have applied that analysis to Keystone,” said Congressman Delaney. “I understand why Keystone is good for Canada, China and the Asian countries that will most benefit from the sale of tar sands oil on the world market, but I have yet to be convinced why it is good for America. As a Representative of Maryland’s Sixth District, I’m sworn to do what’s best for our country. ‎Keystone creates very few permanent jobs, unlike U.S. natural gas exploration it has nothing to do with American energy assets and it will not contribute to U.S. energy independence. Moreover, this pipeline project is contrary to making progress on climate change. Instead of helping foreign interests, Congress should focus instead on new projects that spur long-term job creation and increase our U.S. economic competitiveness.” ##
01.08.2015	WASHINGTON - The House has passed the Save American Workers Act (H.R. 30) which improves the Affordable Care Act and is designed to prevent workers from losing hours due to the law. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted for the bill, which passed in a 252-171 vote. The legislation changes the definition of a full-time worker under the Affordable Care Act for the purposes of determining applicability of the employer mandate from 30 hours to 40 hours per week. “For millions of Americans the key to a middle class life isn’t just securing a job, it’s securing enough hours at that job to support themselves and their families. The last thing I want is a constituent in Hagerstown or Gaithersburg to see their hours cut when we can take a simple step to make that less likely,” said Congressman Delaney. “I support the Affordable Care Act, but believe that it should be improved in response to real-world consequences. Supporters and opponents of the Affordable Care Act agree that it is complex and wide-ranging legislation. I think that most of the changes, on balance, are good: patients and consumers have important new protections and more people will have access to health care coverage. But I remain concerned that the structure of the employee mandate will encourage a wide-scale reduction of hours, with an end result that many hard-working Americans will be stuck at 29 hours of work a week. This bipartisan legislation prevents this unintended consequence of the Affordable Care Act from taking place.” ##
01.07.2015	WASHINGTON - Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has published an op-ed in the Washington Post on the new House rule to partially implement dynamic scoring. Delaney, the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in the House of Representatives, argues that he supports dynamic scoring if implemented correctly, but that under the new House rule, “one-half of the policy agenda will use one set of facts, while the other half will use a different set. This is intellectually dishonest, and it’s wrong.” The text of the op-ed is below: The House should keep ‘dynamic scoring’ honest By Rep. John K. Delaney (MD-6) Washington Post, 1/7/15 My Republican colleagues have adopted a new rule for how legislation will be analyzed during the 114th Congress, one that has enormous potential to alter the direction of the legislative process in Washington. The new rule will require budget forecasters to use “dynamic scoring” to evaluate the real-world impact of certain bills. I lived with such real-world financial projections when I was in the private sector, and I would welcome this change — provided that it will be done in a consistent and intellectually honest way. Sadly, it does not appear that this will be the case. As background, the Congressional Budget Office and the Joint Committee on Taxation provide Congress with a nonpartisan financial projection — or “score” — of the expected effect of proposed legislation on the federal budget. In the past, the CBO and the JCT have made their determination using a “static” methodology that makes limited assumptions about how legislation would change people’s behavior. Dynamic scoring will require the CBO to consider behavioral and macroeconomic changes that result from new legislation. Using static scoring, tax cuts are broadly assumed to “cost” a raw amount of reduced revenue. With dynamic scoring, the new revenue likely to flow from increased economic activity produced by a tax cut is considered, improving the accuracy of the projection. But new investments also create scoring problems: Under static scoring, a $1 billion investment in infrastructure is assumed to cost $1 billion, with no consideration given to any new tax revenue produced by the projects. With dynamic scoring, that $1 billion investment will “cost” less than $1 billion because of the effect of new jobs, goods sold and other economic factors. Since Congress is generally required to pay for a new law with offsetting revenue or spending cuts — which can be hard to produce in today’s tight fiscal environment — dynamic scoring could make lawmakers’ jobs easier. That means that dynamic scoring could accomplish two goals at once: increasing the accuracy of budget forecasts while lowering the barriers to passing new laws. If done correctly, dynamic scoring will provide a more complete picture of Congress’s actions. This is exactly the type of modeling the private sector uses, and advances in data collection and analysis create an opportunity for it to be employed accurately. In addition, as a pro-growth progressive, I favor dynamic scoring because I want to increase our nation’s investment in infrastructure, education and research, which will be difficult to do unless we take economic benefits into account. Federal research dollars invested at the National Institutes of Health seem expensive until we factor in the economic growth and jobs created by our world-leading life sciences industry. New highways, ports and runways appear economically foolish if we don’t understand the economic growth that flows from such investments. If dynamic scoring is truly about reflecting the on-the-ground impact of government action, it must be applied to both sides of the ledger: spending and revenue. Unfortunately, the Republicans’ new rule effectively amounts to dynamically scoring only tax cuts. It does this by excluding appropriations bills and stating that only “major” pieces of legislation — defined as affecting the economy annually by 0.25 percent of gross domestic product, or $43 billion per year — will be dynamically scored. While that sounds reasonable, only comprehensive tax reform bills would meet that threshold. Other bills that increase investments in infrastructure, education and research generally do not rise to that level. So tax cuts will be seen in a shiny new light, while smart investments will remain unattractive. One-half of the policy agenda will use one set of facts, while the other half will use a different set. This is intellectually dishonest, and it’s wrong. If we are going to move to dynamic scoring, let’s do it right. Congress shouldn’t implement an artificial trigger that only serves the policy objectives of conservatives. Instead, we should set the trigger in a way that includes categories such as taxes, infrastructure, education, research and immigration. Because these items matter to both conservatives and progressives, such an approach could lead to healthier, and potentially more bipartisan, public policy debate. If we only apply dynamic scoring to tax reform, it will clearly be no more than a partisan gimmick — not serious economics. ##
12.17.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) hails the release of Alan Gross from a Cuban prison and his return to the United States. Montgomery County native Alan Gross had been sent to Cuba as a contractor for the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and has been held captive since 2009. “We have been praying and lobbying for Alan’s release. We are elated that he gets to come home to his wife Judy and his friends and family who never gave up hope and who never stopped working for his release. Let us welcome Alan home and continue to push to bring home all of our American citizens that are held captive overseas.” ##
12.16.2014	WASHINGTON – The Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget (CRFB) has published an analysis of Congressman John K. Delaney’s (MD-6) Infrastructure and Global Tax Competitiveness Act (H.R. 5857), calling the legislation “fiscally-responsible” and “worthy of consideration next Congress.” Delaney introduced his new infrastructure legislation last week, which makes the Highway Trust Fund solvent for six years, creates a new infrastructure fund for state and local governments to access, and reforms the overseas tax code. The bill also creates an eighteen-month deadline for comprehensive or international tax reform. Under the legislation, if no international tax reform bill passes into law, a fallback option that ends deferral but with greatly reduced rates is triggered. Additionally, the bill establishes a commission to create permanent solvency for the Highway Trust Fund. The CRFB concludes: “Delaney's proposal is fiscally responsible: it appears to raise enough revenue to offset the HTF shortfall and fund an infrastructure bank, all without double-counting revenue as Camp's Tax Reform Act did. (Camp's tax reform plan claimed that same revenue as contributing toward overall revenue-neutrality). More importantly, the proposal recognizes this solution is only a band-aid for both the issues of tax reform and infrastructure spending, and puts processes in place to accomplish both. In addition, the increased infrastructure spending and more efficient tax code would boost long-term economic growth. For these reasons, the proposal is certainly worthy of consideration next Congress.” The Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget is a bipartisan, non-profit organization. For more information on the CRFB, click here. The Infrastructure and Global Tax Competitiveness Act (H.R. 5857): Deemed Repatriation at 8.75% Tax Rate to Pay for Infrastructure Same rate proposed for cash held abroad by outgoing House Ways & Means Chairman Dave Camp in his tax reform package. Existing overseas profits accumulated by U.S. multi-national corporations would be subject to 8.75% rate, replacing deferral option and current rate of 35%. Funds six year reauthorization of a Surface Transportation Bill by replenishing the Highway Trust Fund, the federal government’s primary funding mechanism for surface transportation projects. Capitalizes $50 billion dollar American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) which is leveraged to finance $750 billion of additional transportation, water, energy, communications and education infrastructure projects. Financing only available to state and local governments. Broader Tax Reform Trigger Infrastructure and Global Tax Competitiveness Act creates an eighteen month deadline for tax reform, which remains an urgent priority for our economy. Constructive tax reform proposals have been put forward in both chambers, but Congress needs a deadline to cross the finish line. Fallback International Tax Reform If reform is not enacted, a fallback international tax package to make U.S. business climate more competitive would be implemented. Fallback reform would end deferral and establish new lower rates on international earnings, eliminating the lock-out effect that discourages repatriation and allowing for the free flow of profits back to the United States. Follows “Option Z” framework developed by Senate Finance Chair Max Baucus, but with different rates. On Active Market Foreign Income, a company would pay a 12.25% tax to the U.S. if they earn their money in a zero tax jurisdiction, but only a 2% tax to the U.S. if they are already paying the OECD average of 25% abroad, with a sliding scale in-between. Reduces a multi-national company’s incentive to invert. Long-term Highway Trust Fund Solvency The Highway Trust Fund’s importance to the nation’s economy cannot be overstated and Congress must act to stabilize the fund so that vital transportation needs can be met. The Highway Trust Fund faces an annual shortfall of $15-18 billion due to outdated funding stream levels and technological and demographic changes. The Infrastructure and Global Tax Competitiveness Act provides six years of solvency, providing immediate certainty to the private sector and policymakers. To create even longer-term certainty and stability, the Infrastructure and Global Tax Competitiveness Act establishes a bipartisan and bicameral commission that is tasked with researching and proposing a solution for permanent solvency of the Highway Trust Fund. ##
12.15.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has submitted remarks honoring the Fort Hill Sentinels of Cumberland to the official Congressional Record. Earlier this December the Sentinels won a second consecutive state title, defeating Douglass High School 40-8 to cap an undefeated season. A copy of the record will be sent to the team. Since 1873, the record has been published daily when Congress is in session. The statement for the record is as follows: “Mr. DELANEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the Fort Hill High School football team and Head Coach Todd Appel for winning the Maryland Class 1A State Football Championship for the second year in a row on Saturday, December 6th. “The Fort Hill Sentinels finished a second consecutive perfect 14-0 season with a 40-8 win against Douglass High School. The Sentinels have now won back-to-back state championships, their fourth in school history. They continued last season's dominance, outscoring their opponents 197-64. “Coach Appel has now compiled an impressive 80-11 record through seven seasons. The Sentinels started as the favorite and never looked back, sweeping the regular season and playoffs. I want to thank Coach Appel and his staff for their leadership, as well as all the student-athletes for their hard work and determination to be the best they can be both in the classroom and on the field. The Sentinels success over the last two years has brought pride to both Fort Hill High School and the local community. I also wish the Fort Hill Sentinels the best of luck as they look to win their third straight title next season. “I ask that you and my other distinguished colleagues help me in honoring this significant accomplishment.” ##
12.15.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has submitted remarks honoring the Northwest High School Jaguars to the official Congressional Record. Northwest won the Maryland Class 4A State Football Championship earlier this month by defeating Old Mill 34-31, delivering the Germantown school’s second straight title. A copy of the record will be sent to the team. Since 1873, the record has been published daily when Congress is in session. The statement for the record is as follows: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the Northwest High School football team and Head Coach Mike Neubeiser of Germantown, Maryland. On Friday, December 5, the Jaguars won their second consecutive Maryland Class 4A State Football Championship. “The Northwest Jaguars capped off a 13-1 season with a 34-31 win over Old Mill. The Jaguars rolled through the playoffs, outscoring their opponents by an impressive 147-67 margin. The Jaguars repeated last year's success by winning their second title in a row, and being the first Montgomery County team to do so in 15 years. The championship is the team's third title. “Being the reigning champion, Coach Neubeiser's squad started the season as the favorite. Their only loss came in week 9, and the Jaguars quickly rebounded to stay on the championship road. I want to thank Coach Neubeiser and his staff for their leadership, as well as all the student-athletes for their hard work and determination to be the best they can be both in the classroom and on the field. I also wish the Northwest Jaguars the best of luck as they look to win their third straight title next season. “I ask that you and my other distinguished colleagues help me in honoring this significant accomplishment.” ##
12.12.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has filed legislation, the Infrastructure and Global Tax Competitiveness Act, to strengthen America’s economy by rebuilding the nation’s infrastructure and reforming the broken corporate tax code. The legislation is designed to create jobs, spur economic growth, improve quality of life, and discourage corporate inversions. “As we head into a new year and a new Congress, it is essential that we keep infrastructure and tax reform at the top of our agenda. The Infrastructure and Global Tax Competitiveness Act creates millions of jobs, brings pro-growth reforms to our broken tax code and helps build the 21st century infrastructure system that my constituents and Americans from coast to coast need. said Congressman Delaney. “A large bipartisan coalition has rallied behind the Partnership to Build America Act and we’ve proven that there is strong bipartisan support for tying international tax reform to new investments in infrastructure. The rising threat of corporate inversions, the looming insolvency of the Highway Trust Fund, and the daily problems caused by inadequate infrastructure all mean that we shouldn’t delay. It’s time for a new solution.” Delaney’s Infrastructure and Global Tax Competitiveness Act uses repatriated revenue to increase infrastructure investment by imposing a mandatory deemed repatriation tax on corporate earnings currently held overseas. This revenue will fund a six-year reauthorization of the Highway Trust Fund at increased levels and capitalize a new resource, the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF). State and local governments will be able to receive financing from the AIF for transportation, water, energy, education and communications projects. The Infrastructure and Global Tax Competitiveness Act also creates an eighteen month deadline for comprehensive or international tax reform. Under the legislation, if no international tax reform bill passes into law, a fallback option that ends deferral but with greatly reduced rates is triggered. Additionally, the bill establishes a commission to create permanent solvency for the Highway Trust Fund. The legislation builds on the framework and bipartisan success of the Partnership to Build America Act, which demonstrated that there is a deep vein of support on both sides of the aisle for a new approach that uses tax reform to facilitate new infrastructure investment. Introduced in 2013, the Partnership to Build America Act is supported by a large bipartisan coalition. The bill has 39 Republican and 37 Democratic cosponsors in the House and 1 Independent, 7 Republican, 7 Democratic cosponsors in the Senate. The Infrastructure and Global Tax Competitiveness Act: Deemed Repatriation at 8.75% Tax Rate to Pay for Infrastructure Same rate proposed for cash held abroad by outgoing House Ways & Means Chairman Dave Camp in his tax reform package. Existing overseas profits accumulated by U.S. multi-national corporations would be subject to 8.75% rate, replacing deferral option and current rate of 35%. Funds six year reauthorization of a Surface Transportation Bill by replenishing the Highway Trust Fund, the federal government’s primary funding mechanism for surface transportation projects. Capitalizes $50 billion dollar American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) which is leveraged to finance $750 billion of additional transportation, water, energy, communications and education infrastructure projects. Financing only available to state and local governments. Broader Tax Reform Trigger Infrastructure and Global Tax Competitiveness Act creates an eighteen month deadline for tax reform, which remains an urgent priority for our economy. Constructive tax reform proposals have been put forward in both chambers, but Congress needs a deadline to cross the finish line. Fallback International Tax Reform If reform is not enacted, a fallback international tax package to make U.S. business climate more competitive would be implemented. Fallback reform would end deferral and establish new lower rates on international earnings, eliminating the lock-out effect that discourages repatriation and allowing for the free flow of profits back to the United States. Follows “Option Z” framework developed by Senate Finance Chair Max Baucus, but with different rates. On Active Market Foreign Income, a company would pay a 12.25% tax to the U.S. if they earn their money in a zero tax jurisdiction, but only a 2% tax to the U.S. if they are already paying the OECD average of 25% abroad, with a sliding scale in-between. Reduces a multi-national company’s incentive to invert. Long-term Highway Trust Fund Solvency The Highway Trust Fund’s importance to the nation’s economy cannot be overstated and Congress must act to stabilize the fund so that vital transportation needs can be met. The Highway Trust Fund faces an annual shortfall of $15-18 billion due to outdated funding stream levels and technological and demographic changes. The Infrastructure and Global Tax Competitiveness Act provides six years of solvency, providing immediate certainty to the private sector and policymakers. To create even longer-term certainty and stability, the Infrastructure and Global Tax Competitiveness Act establishes a bipartisan and bicameral commission that is tasked with researching and proposing a solution for permanent solvency of the Highway Trust Fund. ##
12.11.2014	WASHINGTON – Thursday evening the House voted on legislation to fund the government. The measure passed 219-206. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement: “The bill before us isn’t perfect. It is, however, a constructive compromise that is the product of a negotiation with each side at the table, House and Senate, Democrats and Republicans. “This bill includes important provisions such as increased funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs, a military pay raise, support for much needed infrastructure projects, expanded funding for child care and special education grants, more resources for the FBI and much needed emergency funding to combat Ebola. “We have an obligation to legislate and to govern. I support keeping the government open, which means we keep paying our troops at Fort Detrick, we keep disease researchers at NIH and scientists and engineers at NIST on the job, and that we keep air traffic control towers in Hagerstown and Frederick open, to name just a few examples. I don’t agree with everything in this bill but, on balance, I believe that it is better for Maryland than the alternative.” ##
12.11.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) took part in a House Committee on Foreign Affairs hearing on Afghanistan and Pakistan policy Wednesday. Although not a member of the committee, Delaney requested to take part in the hearing in order to press administration officials on the handling of Warren Weinstein, a Rockville resident and constituent who was abducted in Pakistan in 2011. In the hearing, Delaney asked the panel of officials from the Department of State, U.S. Agency for International Development, and Department of Justice. Congressman Delaney issues the following statement on yesterday’s hearing: “Over three years ago Warren Weinstein was captured – and he’s still not free. That singular fact should dominate our approach. We need to reexamine Pakistan’s level of cooperation and we need to reexamine what our own government is doing and how we can improve. There should be no hesitation from Pakistani officials in providing us with information about Warren’s location and the details related to his case. We have the leverage to ask for Pakistan’s assistance on such important matters and we should use it. I am also concerned that our own response to freeing American hostages needs to improve. We have to remember Warren and the other Americans being held abroad – every day that they aren’t home is a tragedy. Let’s make sure our agency responses are well coordinated, that we’re giving hostages the highest priority, and that Congress is responsive to any requests for how to improve. I thank the leaders of the Foreign Affairs Committee for allowing me to join yesterday’s hearing so that our government can hear once again that we must remember Warren Weinstein.” For video of Congressman Delaney’s remarks in the hearing, click here. (Delaney remarks begin at 2:25:40.) The hearing, titled “The Way Forward in Afghanistan and Pakistan” was a joint subcommittee hearing held by the Asia and Pacific Subcommittee and the Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee within Foreign Affairs. The witnesses were the Honorable Jarret Blanc, Deputy Special Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan – U.S. Department of State; the Honorable Donald L. Sampler, Assistant to the Administrator - Office of Afghanistan and Pakistan Affairs, U.S. Agency for International Development; and Mr. James Soiles, Deputy Chief of Operations - Office of Global Enforcement, Drug Enforcement Administration, U.S. Department of Justice. Delaney has introduced a House Resolution (H. Con. Res 101) in support of Weinstein, which was subsequently introduced in the Senate by Senator Barbara Mikulski (MD) and Senator Ben Cardin (MD). In June, Delaney spoke on the House floor in support of Weinstein, to view his remarks, click here. In January, Delaney wrote to President Obama and Secretary of State Kerry, urging them to “do everything they can” to bring Warren home. ##
12.09.2014	WASHINGTON - The House of Representatives today passed the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act (SAV) Act (H.R. 5059), a comprehensive bill to combat veteran suicide and improve psychiatric care. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) is a cosponsor of the Clay Hunt SAV Act, which is named for Iraq and Afghanistan veteran and suicide prevention advocate Clay Hunt, who took his own life in 2011. The bill passed Tuesday by a voice vote. “We have to do more to improve the mental health care treatment our veterans receive. Veteran suicide rates, an average of 22 a day, are tragically high, underscoring the profound need to act,” Congressman Delaney. “Clay Hunt was one of the individuals behind that statistic, an Iraq and Afghanistan veteran who relied on the VA and didn’t receive the care that he deserved. The reforms contained in today’s Clay Hunt SAV Act are a critical step in the right direction: bringing more accountability and oversight to the VA, ramped up efforts to hire and retain VA doctors, therapists, and caregivers; and new initiatives to centralize resources for veterans. Let’s find out what’s working, what’s not, and make sure that America’s veterans receive truly world-class care.” The legislation was first introduced by Democrats Rep. Tim Walz (MN-1) and Rep. Tammy Duckworth (IL-8) and the Republican Chairman of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Rep. Jeff Miller (FL-1). The Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act is supported by the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA) and the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA). Key Provisions in the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act: Establishes a peer support and community outreach pilot program to help transitioning servicemembers access VA mental health care services Authorizes the Department of Veterans Affairs to conduct a new recruitment program for hiring and retaining psychiatrists by creating a student loan repayment pilot program Mandates a centralized website, a one-stop-shop listing all the mental health care services available to veterans, which will be updated each 90 days Requires a yearly third-party evaluation of all mental health care and suicide prevention efforts in the Department of Defense and VA Requires the Department of Defense and National Guard to review staffing requirements for Directors of Psychological Health in each state Reviews the discharge characterizations of individuals diagnosed with Traumatic Brain Injury or Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder ##
12.08.2014	WASHINGTON – On Monday a small plane crashed into a residential neighborhood in Gaithersburg, killing at least six people, including three Gaithersburg residents. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement: “Today has been a tremendously sad and heart-breaking day in Gaithersburg. I can’t imagine the pain and grief felt by the family members of those who died today. Thank you to the first responders for rushing to the scene. Tonight, I join with so many others in prayer for the lives lost and the family and loved ones that remain.” ##
12.05.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has filed legislation designed to help states combat climate change and meet new Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) requirements on greenhouse gas emissions. In June, the EPA proposed new regulations for existing power plans under section 111(d) of the Clean Air Act. The State’s Choice Act mandates that the EPA allow a state level excise tax as a compliance option. “Climate change is a threat to our economy, our public health, our food supply and our national security; it’s imperative that we respond before it is too late,” said Congressman Delaney. “The good news is that we can turn this challenge into a massive economic opportunity by unleashing the greatest scientists, engineers and entrepreneurs in the world right here in the United States and put the power of the market behind them. As an entrepreneur with deep private sector experience, I understand that markets are very powerful and that if we create the right incentives, industry will respond very quickly. Allocating the true cost to greenhouse gas pollution is the most effective and efficient way of reducing emissions. The State’s Choice Act will give states another means of meeting new EPA requirements, encourage market-driven solutions and facilitate a new approach that can be used to spur economic growth at the same time. We would expect the revenues generated from a state level excise tax on carbon, when combined with regulatory savings, will allow states to reduce other taxes to citizens and businesses and invest in key growth priorities like education and infrastructure.” Earlier this month, Delaney wrote to EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy, asking that the agency give “strong consideration to allowing states the additional compliance option of placing a price on greenhouse gas emissions.” The State’s Choice Act: The legislation requires that the EPA offer states the option of imposing a state level excise tax on greenhouse gas emissions from regulated sources as a way to comply with regulations under section 111(d) of the Clean Air Act. The state-imposed carbon tax rate must be no less than $20 per metric ton of carbon dioxide or carbon dioxide equivalent in 2015 and higher each subsequent year by a rate no less than 4% above inflation as measured by the Consumer Price Index. Under the legislation, this tax rate will be reevaluated in 2025 to ensure that each state that has implemented a tax is on track to achieve their emissions reduction goal by 2030. The legislation imposes no new requirement upon states, it simply gives them an additional option. Benefits The State’s Choice Act benefits the environment because a carbon tax ensures that the true cost of carbon, including its health and environmental costs are accounted for using market forces to incentivize reduced emissions. Individual states benefit from the State’s Choice Act because they receive additional flexibility when developing their State Implementation Plan for EPA compliance. States can also potentially reduce administrative costs and use the revenues from the carbon tax to reduce other taxes and mitigate increased energy costs. Alternative energy producers benefit from the State’s Choice Act because they will be placed on a level playing field once the true cost of carbon is accounted for, allowing them to compete on their merits. The State’s Choice Act will provide all energy producers and related businesses with greater cost-certainty, which will allow them to adjust more easily to new emissions requirements. Consumers benefit from the robust market competition created by the State’s Choice Act, which will further facilitate the U.S. taking the lead in advanced energy technology, driving down clean energy costs. ##
12.03.2014	WASHINGTON – December 3, 2014 marks the fifth anniversary of the arrest of Alan Gross in Cuba. Gross was sent to Cuba as a contractor with the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). In Cuba, Gross worked with the country’s Jewish community to improve their internet access. Cuba charged Gross with crimes against the state and was sentenced to 15 years in prison. Gross was a Montgomery County resident at the time of his imprisonment. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “Alan Gross’s imprisonment is unjust, unfair and indecent. Every hour that he is behind bars is a violation of justice, five years is unimaginable. The Cuban government should do the right thing and release Alan immediately. It is vitally important that we remember all Americans being held in captivity and work for their release. Alan’s wrongful incarceration is another front in our nation’s long-standing commitment to fight for religious freedom and liberty and I urge our leaders to continue to do everything they can to bring Alan home to his family.” ##
12.01.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has submitted a formal comment to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regarding the agency’s proposed rule to reduce carbon pollution from existing power plants. Writing to EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy, Delaney asked that the agency give “strong consideration to allowing states the additional compliance option of placing a price on greenhouse gas emissions.” In May, Delaney released a discussion draft of The State’s Choice Act, which requires the EPA to offer states the option of imposing a state-level excise tax on greenhouse gas emissions as a way of complying with section 111 (d) of the Clean Air Act. The state-imposed carbon tax must be no less than $20 per metric ton of carbon dioxide or carbon dioxide equivalent. Delaney will file The State’s Choice Act later this week. The text of Delaney’s letter is as follows: Gina McCarthy Administrator Environmental Protection Agency EPA Docket Center (EPA/DC) Mailcode 28221T Attention Docket ID No. OAR–2013-0602 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20460 Dear Administrator McCarthy: As you take public comments on your June 2, 2014 proposed rule for regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from existing power plants, I encourage you to give strong consideration to allowing states the additional compliance option of placing a price on greenhouse gas emissions. It is clear that climate change is the environmental challenge of our time, and businesses are already making plans incorporating its effects and an eventual price on emissions. I support the actions that the EPA has taken with this proposed rule. We have to reduce our emissions, and I applaud the flexibility that the proposed rule gives to states. I believe, however, that we can achieve the same emissions reductions more effectively and efficiently by applying a simple price on emissions. Allowing states this additional option will let them use this market-based approach to reduce administrative burden. Americans on both sides of the aisle are looking for ways to protect the environment without overly burdensome regulations. This option accomplishes the goal without bloating bureaucracy or creating more red tape for businesses. By appropriately pricing carbon pollution, we can marshal the power of the market to achieve important environmental and public health goals more effectively and efficiently. In addition, the revenues that the state collects via a carbon tax can be used to lower other taxes in a tax-swap that will provide a net-benefit to economic growth. While there remains disagreement on what should be done to address climate change, there should be complete agreement that it’s better to tax pollution than to tax individuals and businesses making money. Giving states this simple option will put the right incentives in place to reduce pollution and at the same time help businesses keep more of their money to hire more people and help individuals have more take-home pay. As you know, I have legislation titled the “State’s Choice Act” that would give states this option for this rule and for any future 111(d) regulations designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. I look forward to seeing this additional compliance option offered in the final rule and welcome any discussion. Best, John K. Delaney Member of Congress ##
11.20.2014	WASHINGTON – The U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) has issued a report outlining how the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) can improve their process for designating nonbank institutions as a Systemically Important Financial Institution (SIFI). A SIFI designation triggers additional regulatory requirements. In July, Rep. John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Rep. Dennis Ross (FL-15) introduced legislation to reform FSOC, The Financial Stability Oversight Council Improvement Act (H.R. 5180). The legislation reforms specific elements of the FSOC and the Office of Financial Research (OFR), improving their ability to accurately respond to threats to financial stability, while also maintaining the core function of comprehensively monitoring the stability of our nation’s financial system. The GAO report outlines three areas where FSOC could “enhance the accountability and transparency of the designation process”: tracking and monitoring, disclosure and transparency, and scope of evaluation procedures. To read the GAO report, click here. “Today’s GAO report highlights the need for greater transparency in FSOC’s process of designating nonbank institutions as SIFIs,” said Ross. “Backroom decisions made by FSOC are leading to increased costs for families across Florida and the United States who are simply trying to invest and plan for their future. I introduced H.R.5180, the Financial Stability Oversight Council Improvement Act of 2014 with Rep. Delaney to increase the transparency and accountability of this board of federal financial regulators. I am proud of this bipartisan effort, and look forward to working with Rep. Delaney to ensure hasty decisions being made by this group of financial regulators are not forcing additional burdens or costs on American families.” “It is clear that we need more transparency from FSOC so that they can best carry out their important mission. The GAO’s nonpartisan report highlights a number of my concerns with the designation process and a need for more communication and hopefully puts more momentum behind reform. Getting the details right is important here because FSOC’s mission to mitigate systemic risk is paramount,” said Delaney. Along with my colleague Rep. Dennis Ross, I introduced The FSOC Improvement Act to address the same transparency and accountability concerns that the GAO underscored today and I look forward to working with the Financial Services Committee next year to address these very real concerns in a bipartisan manner.” The Financial Stability Oversight Council Improvement Act reforms the SIFI designation procedure for FSOC. Reforms in H.R. 5180 include: Requiring FSOC to notify a nonbank financial company that it has been identified for SIFI evaluation with an explanation of their concerns, prior to a SIFI designation Codifying FSOC procedures for SIFI designation and voting requirements Requiring FSOC to consider the impact of SIFI designation Mandating that FSOC explain the basis of its designation to the institution Allowing an institution to submit a plan to modify its business prior to designation Allowing an institution to contest their SIFI designation every five years ##
11.18.2014	WASHINGTON – Four rabbis were killed Tuesday morning in an attack inside a synagogue in West Jerusalem. Three of the victims were Americans with dual Israel-U.S. passports. According to the New York Times, the victims were killed during the middle of morning prayers and at least a dozen worshipers were injured. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement: “The attack on rabbis and worshippers inside a Jerusalem synagogue is an inhuman act of barbarism that deserves the condemnation of the world. We stand in mourning with the people of Israel and the families of the victims, including the three Americans who were killed. “The murdering of innocent people gathered to pray is an affront to civilization. However we know that this act of terrorism will only strengthen the resolve of the Israeli people and the bond between our two countries. This attack is a sobering reminder of the importance of a robust war on terrorism and the need for all parties in the region to respect Israel’s right to exist.”
11.18.2014	WASHINGTON – The House has passed legislation to update the federal charter of the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) to reflect the service of women in the armed forces. H.R. 5441 makes two wording changes, replacing “men” with “veterans” and “widows” with “surviving spouses.” The changes are supported by the VFW, whose delegates voted in support of the change at the 115th VFW National Convention, held in St. Louis earlier this year. The House Resolution to amend the charter passed by voice vote Monday. “Hundreds of thousands of women are active duty members of our armed forces, serving at home and abroad to defend our nation. Women have been a permanent part of our military since 1948 and served in both World Wars. While this update to the federal charter of the Veterans of Foreign Wars might seem minor, there’s nothing small about the contribution women make each day to defending our country,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “Moreover, it is with solemn reverence that we must also note that not all surviving spouses are widows. I’m proud that the House has taken action in coordination with the VFW to update the language of their charter to more accurately reflect today’s military and veteran community.” The VFW charter was signed by President Roosevelt in 1936. Women first joined the military during World War I, but after the war their service opportunity was discontinued. Women served again in World War II and Congress granted women permanent status within the armed forces in 1948. The VFW’s mission is, “To foster camaraderie among United States veterans of overseas conflicts. To serve our veterans, the military, and our communities. To advocate on behalf of all veterans.” ##
11.13.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has authored an op-ed calling on Congress to work together to rebuild America’s infrastructure. Delaney outlines how there is deep bipartisan support for a new jobs plan that combines infrastructure investment and international tax reform to make the country more competitive. Delaney, the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in Congress, is the author of the Partnership to Build America Act, which currently has 45 Democratic cosponsors and 46 Republican cosponsors. The legislation creates a new infrastructure fund that is capitalized by selling bonds to U.S. corporations. In exchange for purchasing these bonds, the companies would be allowed to repatriate a portion of their overseas earnings back to the United States, one-time, tax-free. The op-ed is available online here and is copied below: The Low-Hanging Fruit on Bipartisanship By Rep. John K. Delaney In the wake of the November elections there is a renewed interest in bipartisanship, civility and cooperation in Washington. This push for Democrats and Republicans to work together for the common good of the country comes directly from the American people, who have spoken clearly that they are tired of dysfunction and want Washington to tackle the major issues facing the country. In an era of divided government, finding common ground is the surest way to move the country forward. With millions of Americans struggling to remain in the middle class, we should prioritize bipartisan initiatives that create jobs and encourage economic growth. To get this done, I encourage my colleagues in the House and Senate who are seeking bipartisan solutions to look no further than The Partnership to Build America Act (PBAA).This legislation is the low-hanging fruit of bipartisan progress and has the support of liberals, moderates and conservatives because it represents a truly new approach that takes the best ideas from both parties. Even amidst the acrimony of the last Congress, I’ve found that there is a deep well of bipartisan support for increasing our investment in infrastructure, provided that it is done in a fiscally-responsible way. By combining new infrastructure projects with international tax reform, we can create new jobs in the short-term, make our country more competitive in two of the most critical areas of need long-term, and improve the quality of life for millions of Americans. We can’t compete in a global economy with roads, bridges, airports and ports that were built in the Eisenhower era. The American Society of Civil Engineers has given our nation’s infrastructure a D+ grade and estimates that we now have a $3.6 trillion dollar infrastructure deficit. A substandard transportation, energy and water management grid is a drain on our national productivity, a hidden tax on countless American companies that would like to expand and a real public safety threat to millions each day. Moreover, as evidenced by continued problems with maintaining the Highway Trust Fund and the myriad fiscal difficulties faced by state and local governments around the country, it is clear that the old ways of funding and financing infrastructure just aren’t up to the task. Single-party solutions, likewise, however much they may please party idealists, are also unlikely to go anywhere. The Partnership to Build America Act, which I introduced in the House last year and Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO) and Roy Blunt (R-MO) filed in the Senate, currently has 45 Democratic cosponsors and 46 Republican cosponsors across both chambers. That fact alone makes it the largest piece of bipartisan economic legislation in the Congress. Full stop. The PBAA creates a large-scale infrastructure fund that is funded without additional spending or taxes. Instead, it’s funded by selling infrastructure bonds to private corporations. In exchange for purchasing these low-yield bonds the companies are allowed to repatriate a portion of their overseas earnings, one-time, tax-free. It’s a double bottom line jobs bill for the American economy – the legislation will create jobs by both building infrastructure and by bringing back to our homeland trapped overseas profits. The infrastructure piece alone is estimated to create over a million jobs. The hard work done by myself and my 90 cosponsors has resulted in letters of support from think tanks and business and labor groups from both sides of the aisle. The PBAA has garnered such broad support because it brings together good ideas from both sides of the aisle. Democrats have correctly argued for increasing our investment in infrastructure to make us more competitive and create jobs and Republicans have correctly argued to fix our broken international corporate tax system to allow profits to flow back to the United States and discourage inversions. The fusion of these ideas is good public policy and it is good for Americans. In fact, we are working on an expansion of the bill to fund the Highway Trust Fund for years to come and provide broader fixes to our international tax code. And as we know, infrastructure investment pencils out. According to numerous economic studies, including a May 2014 study by Standard & Poor’s, $1.3 billion in new infrastructure projects would generate $2 billion in real economic growth. That’s growth we need and jobs we need. By any measure, the Partnership to Build America Act proves that a bipartisan jobs bill can be crafted on infrastructure and international tax reform. Let’s get to work. Congressman John K. Delaney represents Maryland’s Sixth District and is the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in Congress. ##
11.12.2014	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday, the Montgomery County Board of Education voted not to give equal recognition to the Muslim holy day of Eid al-Adha and to strip religious labels from holidays on next year’s school calendar. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “I’d like to see Montgomery County Public Schools continue to recognize religious holidays on the calendar, including those important to the Christian, Jewish and Muslim faith communities. Eid al-Adha is a holy day for my many Muslim constituents and I believe it should be a school holiday.” ##
11.10.2014	WASHINGTON – November 11 is Veterans Day. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “On Veterans Day a proud nation honors our heroes in uniform, thanks the millions of Americans who have defended our country, and reflects on the legacy built by generations of valor. Because of the sacrifices of veterans, we are blessed to live in the greatest nation on Earth. As we celebrate Veterans Day, I extend my deepest thanks to the over 450,000 veterans in Maryland. “Importantly, this holiday is a reminder that we must make sure that our veterans and their families receive the benefits and support they have earned and that our commitment to them is matched by the commitment they made to us. More work remains to be done to improve services and accountability at the Department of Veterans Affairs, upgrade our benefit programs to tackle new problems, and help veterans transition to civilian life. I hope that as the current Congress concludes and the next session begins next January, we remain focused on improving veterans’ health care, education and employment opportunities.” ##
10.17.2014	WASHINGTON – In response to a third confirmed case of Ebola in the United States and growing concerns about the government’s response, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) believes that House Speaker John Boehner should call the House back into session so that the government is fully empowered to respond. In September, Delaney urged a more aggressive response to the Ebola, writing to the President, Speaker Boehner and Democratic Leader Pelosi that the United States “make every effort to get ahead of the crisis, not play catch up.” “My constituents are deeply concerned about the threat of Ebola and recent events have made it clear that we don’t have this crisis sufficiently under control,” said Congressman Delaney. “I don’t believe it is appropriate to remain in recess until mid-November with such large and complex public health threat before us. Speaker Boehner should call the House back into session so that Congress and the Administration can work together on a comprehensive strategy to protect Americans from Ebola, including eliminating it in Africa, which will likely involve additional funding and protective and corrective actions as necessary. All branches of government and all parties need to work together in our national interest.” ##
10.16.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has written to Jon Jarvis, Director of the National Park Service in support of a proposal to upgrade the C&O Canal National Historical Park in Hancock. Earlier this year, Delaney spoke with Hancock Mayor Daniel Murphy about the importance of the park to economic development in Hancock. “I want the National Park Service to fully understand how important this is to my constituents,” said Congressman Delaney. “The C&O Canal National Historical Park has the potential to be a real economic asset for Hancock, which makes it a top priority for me. Hancock is a natural fit for an enhanced tourist experience at the park. These upgrades are good for Washington County and good for the park and I want the National Park Service to move forward.” In September, the House passed legislation introduced by Delaney, Rep. Chris Van Hollen (MD-8) and Rep. Frank Wolf (VA-10) to increase community input in the management of the park. The text of the letter is as follows: October 15th, 2014 Jon Jarvis Director, National Park Service U.S. Department of the Interior 1849 C Street, NW, Room 3325 Washington, D.C. 20240 Dear Director Jarvis: I am writing today to express my support for the National Park Service proposal to enhance the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal (C&O Canal) National Historical Park in Hancock, Maryland. The project would update the Hancock “Bowles House” Visitor Center, include a campsite for visitors, restore the natural appearance of the canal, and make physical improvements to surrounding historical structures. Additionally, the project would incorporate canal boat rides that will enhance the visitor experience and promote tourism in the region. Enhancing the C&O Canal National Historical Park in Hancock, Maryland will offer a unique opportunity to attract tourism to an area of Western Maryland that has experienced economic hardship over the last several decades. In 1905, the Western Maryland Railroad entered Hancock, joining the Baltimore region and the major cities of Ohio. This railroad was an important part of Hancock’s commerce until it closed in 1976. Since then, Hancock has struggled to promote economic investment. Hancock is in need of a new industry to revitalize the area and tourism, resulting from a restored C&O Canal National Historical Park, offers this chance. I believe that Western Maryland and the town of Hancock will be able to rebuild its economy by utilizing the natural resources in the region. Restoring and revitalizing the National Park infrastructure around the C&O Canal can create the groundwork for an economic renaissance. Please consider this letter as a formal letter of support for the enhancement of the National Historical Park in Hancock, Maryland. I thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, John K. Delaney Member of Congress Maryland 6th District ##
10.15.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has published an op-ed in the Huffington Post arguing that Congress should take action to improve mental health care for veterans. According to a recent study, on average 22 veterans commit suicide each day. The piece discusses the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act (H.R. 5059), bipartisan reform legislation that would improve diagnostic efforts, expand efforts to hire and retain psychiatrists at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and mandate regular third-party evaluation of VA programs to make sure they are working. The op-ed is as follows: We Must Improve Anti-Suicide and Mental Health Care Programs at the VA Rep. John Delaney, Huffington Post, 10/14/14 America's men and women in uniform bravely defend our nation and our values. Their skill, dedication and valor are the envy of the world. When their time in uniform is over, they are entitled to world-class health care, a benefit they've earned and that their country is grateful to provide for them. We have to improve Department of Veterans' Affairs (VA) services: wait times are too long, veterans don't have enough options and benefits paperwork takes too long to process, especially for veterans in Maryland that use the Baltimore VA. The bipartisan VA reform bill that was signed into law this summer is a good start -- providing more funding, more flexibility and more accountability -- but we still have work to do. One of the most critical areas of need is improving our suicide prevention efforts. According to a study conducted by the VA, on average, 22 veterans a day commit suicide. That's one tragedy every 65 minutes and according to analysis done by CNN, that number could be even higher. This is an area where the American people are clearly united that we have to do more. To improve mental health care services for veterans and improve VA programs, Congress should pass the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act as soon as possible. The legislation is named for an exceptional young man whose story deserves to be told. Clay Hunt was the kind of individual that has made America a great country. In 2005, when his country needed him, he enlisted in the Marine Corps. Shot in Iraq, he earned a Purple Heart and after he recuperated, he graduated from Marine Corps Scout Sniper School and was deployed to Afghanistan. After leaving the military in 2009, he became an advocate for veterans and worked with Team Rubicon, a humanitarian aid organization. However, Clay also struggled with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), depression and survivor's guilt as he transitioned to civilian life. He lost friends in both Iraq and Afghanistan and witnessed fellow soldiers being killed. But Clay received a low PTSD disability rating (30 percent) from the VA and struggled to receive adequate counseling and care. He had to wait months to see a psychiatrist and the bulk of his counseling was related to medications he was prescribed. Clay attempted to appeal his PTSD rating and dealt with the VA misplacing his paperwork. In 2011, Clay took his own life. Weeks later, the VA approved his appeal and rated his PTSD disability at 100 percent. This can't happen to more veterans like Clay. He relied on the VA and tragically, he didn't get the care he needed in time. That's unacceptable to me. Introduced by a group of Republicans and Democrats in the House, this bipartisan legislation tackles the problem of veterans' suicide in three key ways, it updates VA mental health care programs so that veterans receive a more accurate diagnosis, it expands efforts to increase the number of psychiatrists at the VA and it increases oversight of VA practices. Specifically, this bill will amend the requirements for reviewing discharge characterizations for individuals diagnosed with PTSD or Traumatic Brain Injury to increase access to mental health care. We can't treat people that the system doesn't fully recognize as needing help. The legislation also authorizes the VA to conduct a student loan repayment program to increase VA recruitment and retention of psychiatrists and requires a review of staffing requirements in each state. Finally, the legislation mandates that a third-party evaluate the mental health care practices and programs at the Department of Defense and VA each year. This is an issue of national importance. Veterans come from all walks of life and they live in small towns and big cities, in red states and blue states. Maryland is home to over 400,000 veterans and this issue touches all the communities I represent. Thankfully, since being introduced in July, over 100 representatives, including members from both parties, have signed on to the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act. I'm proud to be one of them. Earlier this year, Clay's mother testified before the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs. In her testimony, she stated, "the reforms, evaluations and programs directed by this legislation will be critical to helping the VA better serve and treat veterans suffering from mental injuries from war. Had the VA been doing these things all along, it very well may have saved Clay's life." Congress needs to pass this bill. ##
10.09.2014	TUSCARORA – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has been named a Friend of the Farm Bureau for his work in support of agriculture in Maryland’s Sixth District. Delaney received the award from Chuck Fry, President of the Maryland Farm Bureau on Mr. Fry’s farm in Tuscarora, Maryland. Also attending the event was Sam Roop, Board Member Frederick County Farm Bureau. After receiving the award, Delaney joined local farmers at the Rocky Point Creamery. “I am proud to represent many Maryland farmers in Congress and honored to receive the Friend of Farm Bureau Award,” said Congressman Delaney. “For centuries, agriculture has been one of the leading industries in Maryland and that heritage continues to this day, employing over 300,000 people in this state. Many Maryland farmers are also small business owners and entrepreneurs, not only putting food on our plates but making our local economy stronger. I want Maryland farmers to have every opportunity to succeed and that starts by making sure that we have the right policies in place federally.” Delaney was one of just two members of the Maryland House Delegation to vote for the final version of the Farm Bill. Since taking office, Delaney has held three agriculture forums with local farmers. In August, Delaney convened a meeting with farmers to discuss federal and state agriculture policy, which featured Maryland Secretary of Agriculture Buddy Hance, Maryland Senate President Mike Miller, and Maryland Senate Finance Chair Thomas Middleton. In presenting the Friend of Farm Bureau Award, Maryland Farm Bureau President Chuck Fry read the following proclamation: “The Friend of Farm Bureau Award is the Farm Bureau’s method of recognizing Members of Congress who have voted with the farm community on priority issues over the 2-year term of each Congress. The award program began in 1996. This is the 10th bi-annual presentation of the Award. “To qualify for the Friend of Farm Bureau Award, a legislator must have scored a 60% or better voting record on priority bills and amendments identified by our national office. Legislators must be nominated by their State Farm Bureau Board of Directors. The American Farm Bureau Federation’s Board makes the final award decisions. “This year we are honored to have nominated Congressman John Delaney of the 6th Congressional District for his dedication and service to the farm community. Congressman Delaney cast key votes in support of farmers on the Farm Bill, Water Resources and Small Business Tax Relief bills. Congressman Delaney also signed onto the Cash Accounting practices letter to support farmers in this region. “At this time, it is my pleasure to present this award for outstanding service during the 113th Congress to the Honorable John Delaney.” ##
10.02.2014	WASHINGTON – Wednesday, the Social Innovation Fund at the Corporation for National and Community Service announced the winners of their $12 million grant competition to expand and scale the Pay For Success model. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) gave the keynote address at the announcement ceremony and participated in a “fireside chat” with Jean Case of the Case Foundation and Salt Lake County Mayor Ben McAdams about the potential of Pay For Success in the United States. “The team at the Social Innovation Fund at the Corporation for National and Community Service deserve a lot of credit for implementing a successful Pay For Success grant competition on a tight deadline,” said Congressman Delaney. “Pay For Success and Social Impact Bonds have the potential to unlock private capital for the public good, improve social outcomes, shift our focus towards outcomes rather than inputs, and accomplish all of this in a fiscally prudent manner that has gathered bipartisan support. I’ve been pleased to work with my Republican colleague Todd Young from Indiana on legislation to increase the federal government’s involvement in Pay For Success. He is a fantastic advocate and true leader in the field. I also want to congratulate the winners of the grant competition. I’m excited to see their work to expand the model throughout the country so that we can achieve better outcomes for our citizens.” In June, Congressman Delaney and Congressman Todd Young from Indiana introduced the bipartisan Social Impact Bond Act, and together they coauthored an op-ed in the Washington Times in July outlining how Social Impact Bonds can help us shift away from a focus on inputs and instead focus on successful outcomes in a fiscally responsible manner that appeals to both sides of the aisle. According to the Social Innovation Fund, the following groups won grant funding: Corporation for Supportive Housing With a grant of $750,000, the Corporation for Supportive Housing will provide technical assistance to government and nonprofit organizations, building their capacity to pursue PFS pilots that improve outcomes and reduce costs for high-cost vulnerable populations, namely homeless individuals, youth and families, and disabled residents of health care institutions who prefer to live in the community. Green & Healthy Homes Initiative, Coalition to End Childhood Lead Poisoning With a grant of $1.011 million, the program will assess the feasibility of constructing asthma-related PFS projects and will provide technical assistance to healthcare organizations and nonprofit service providers. This program will be based on the asthma-focused PFS project that is being explored in Baltimore by a partnership between GHHI, the Calvert Foundation, and Johns Hopkins HealthCare and the Johns Hopkins Health System. Harvard Kennedy School Social Impact Bond Lab The SIB Lab will use its $1.93 million grant to provide technical assistance to 10 local and state governments to build their capacity to pursue PFS projects. Institute For Child Success, Inc. With a grant of $782,412, ICS will provide technical assistance to help jurisdictions use PFS financing to improve outcomes for children and families. ICS will provide technical assistance to jurisdictions for 9 to 12 months with a goal of yielding 5 early childhood PFS deals in 5 years. Partnering with the Nonprofit Finance Fund, ICS will also build capacity of early childhood service providers. National Council on Crime and Delinquency With a grant of $863,959, NCCD will assist three state or local governments or nonprofit organizations to build their capacity to use PFS to promote interventions addressing positive youth development, with a focus on juvenile justice or child welfare system-involved youth or youth at risk of entering or crossing over into these systems, and addressing high rates of racial disparity in these systems. Nonprofit Finance Fund The $3.6 million grant will fund technical assistance to support the structuring of PFS deals. The program leverages NFF's recognized roles as a leading thought leader and independent trusted advisor to PFS stakeholders across a broad range of geographies and social issues. The primary outcome will be the provision of $2.88 million in grant funding to state and local governments, and nonprofit providers to structure high-quality PFS transactions. Third Sector Capital Partners With $1.90 million, this project will tackle the most pressing challenge in the PFS field today: how to develop multi-government-level (local, state, federal) contracting and financing for outcomes-driven services. This project will create a laboratory for testing promising PFS mechanisms by providing technical assistance to governments and will convert lessons learned from individual projects into scalable PFS blueprints. University of Utah David Eccles School of Business PFS Lab With $1,150,000, the PFS Lab will provide technical assistance to nonprofit service providers to increase their capacity to participate in PFS deals. The PFS lab will focus its activities on building the PFS field in the Western United States with an initial focus on the intermountain west. In May, Congressman Delaney successfully introduced an amendment to the Commerce-Justice-Science appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2015 (H.R. 4660) to increase funding for Pay For Success. In February, Delaney authored an op-ed in The Hill, explaining how Pay For Success, also known as Social Impact Bonds, can improve public services while lowering taxpayer costs. ##
10.01.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) joined over 100 of his House colleagues in writing to Carolyn W. Colvin, the Acting Commissioner of the Social Security Administration (SSA) urging the SSA to increase their efforts to reach out to same sex couples who were previously denied spousal and survivor benefits and who may now be eligible. The letter was led by Rep. Allyson Schwartz (PA-13), Rep. Mark Takano (CA-41), and Rep. Susan Davis (CA-53). “We’ve seen historic progress on marriage equality in the last decade and a much-needed expansion of LGBT civil rights. Because of these changes, thousands of Americans, including many in Maryland, are now eligible for Social Security benefits and may not know it,” said Congressman Delaney. “For this reason, along with my colleagues, I believe the SSA should increase their efforts to educate the taxpayers they serve. Millions depend on Social Security and LGBT Americans are no different.” Currently, SSA uses a domicile standard in determining benefit eligibility – meaning that an applicant’s union must be legally recognized in their state. With marriage equality rapidly expanding in recent years, a large number of Americans are now newly eligible and may not know it. For example, a same-sex couple in Maryland that applied for benefits in 2012 would have been denied, but today could be accepted. Delaney is also a cosponsor of The Social Security and Marriage Equality Act (H.R. 4664) that expands Social Security benefit eligibility to all couples who are legally married, including in a different state; i.e., SSA would recognize a couple’s marriage in Maryland even if the applicant currently lives in West Virginia. The letter to SSA Acting Commissioner Colvin, dated September 30, is as follows: The Honorable Carolyn W. Colvin Acting Commissioner Social Security Administration 6401 Security Boulevard Baltimore, MD 21235 Dear Commissioner Colvin: We write to urge the Social Security Administration (SSA) to take steps to ensure that same-sex couples receive the Social Security spousal and survivor benefits that they have earned. In June 2013, the Supreme Court ruled in United States v. Windsor that Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act, restricting federal recognition to only heterosexual unions, was unconstitutional. By striking down this discriminatory law, the Supreme Court enabled federal agencies to begin extending federal benefits to many same-sex couples. We appreciate the significant steps that SSA has taken to ensure that same-sex couples receive their earned benefits. Social Security benefits are especially important for same-sex couples. Elderly gay couples have higher poverty rates than their heterosexual counterparts, and elderly lesbians are twice as likely to be poor as heterosexual married couples. Social Security benefits are currently determined based on a “place of domicile” standard, meaning that same-sex couples are generally only eligible to receive benefits if they live in a state that recognizes the validity of their union. With marriage equality being recognized in a growing number of states, we are concerned that same-sex couple may not be aware that they are now eligible for Social Security benefits and we believe that additional efforts are needed. Following the Windsor decision, it is our understanding that SSA began to specifically track applications from individuals who applied for same-sex spousal and survivor benefits. This means that Social Security has the ability to identify individuals who previously applied for and were denied benefits, but who are eligible because their state now recognizes marriage equality. It is also our understanding that SSA has not reached out to these individuals and has no plans to do so. We strongly urge you to identify all individuals in same-sex relationships who have applied for spousal benefits and been denied, including individuals who applied for benefits prior to the Windsor decision, in order to educate them regarding changes in state and federal law and inform them that they may reapply for benefits. Additionally, we ask that you provide us with statistics detailing the number of individuals in same-sex relationships that have applied for spousal benefits and the status of these applications. We appreciate the extensive and ongoing efforts that you and your agency have undertaken to reduce discrimination against same-sex couples, and we thank you for your consideration and your attention to this important issue. Sincerely, ##
09.30.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, the U.S. Department of Education announced that Northern Garrett High School in Accident and Frost Elementary School in Frostburg were selected as 2014 National Blue Ribbon Schools. Nationwide, only 337 schools received this honor, and just ten total in Maryland. “Today’s Blue Ribbon Awards celebrate Northern Garrett High School and Frost Elementary as two of the best schools in the United States,” said Congressman John K. Delaney. “Everyone in Allegany and Garrett County should be proud of the success of these two schools and the work done by extraordinary teachers, administrators, and parents to help our students thrive. I believe it is especially important to shine a spotlight on success, so that best practices can be further implemented and innovative solutions recognized. Every student deserves a world-class education, which is integral to keeping the American Dream alive for everyone.” The National Blue Ribbon Schools Program recognizes public and private schools based on their overall academic excellence or their progress in closing achievement gaps among student subgroups. Both Northern Garrett High School and Frost Elementary School received their Blue Ribbon award in the Exemplary High Performing Schools category. ##
09.29.2014	WASHINGTON – Frederick Community College has been awarded a $1,172,276 grant from the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Continuing Training Grant Program. These grants will support Frederick Community College led workshops across the country to improve local disaster preparedness, focusing on how to improve information sharing, continuity of operations, gap remediation and how to strengthen private sector resilience and collaboration. “The best way to mitigate the impact of disasters is to properly prepare ahead of time and make sure that all levels of government, along with the private sector, are ready,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “Frederick Community College’s Emergency Management program offers valuable training to students locally and around the country in disaster management, hazard mitigation, and response operations. This FEMA grant will help FCC continue to lead in this area and share their expertise around the region, making our country safer. Along with Fort Detrick, the National Emergency Training Center in Emmitsburg and the many men and women who work in the security and public health sectors in our area, we have so many local resources in Frederick County that help make the entire nation safer.” The workshops will be three one-day sessions in FEMA regions I, II, III, which stretches from Maine to Virginia, bringing together up to 100 small business and local government officials. For more information on the Continuing Training Grant (CTG) Program, click here. For information on FCC’s Emergency Management Program, click here. ##
09.24.2014	WASHINGTON – The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has awarded grants to three health care facilities in Western Maryland. The Tri-State Community Health Center in Hancock was awarded $231,686; the Walnut Street Community Health Center in Hagerstown was awarded $210,088; and the Western Maryland Health Care Corporation in Oakland was awarded $197,032. All three are Health and Resources Services Administration (HRSA) grants, which are intended to improve and expand health care services for underserved people. “I’m proud to announce that much-needed federal funds are being deployed to help improve local health care in Western Maryland,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “These grants are designed to help local residents and will give dedicated professionals across Western Maryland more resources to do what they do best. In Washington, Allegany, and Garrett County, the need is especially great, because we have many members of our community who are struggling economically.” ##
09.22.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has signed on as a cosponsor of the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act (H.R. 5059), comprehensive legislation to combat veteran suicide and improve psychiatric care. The legislation is named in honor of Clay Hunt, a combat veteran who served in Iraq and Afghanistan and became a leading veterans’ advocate before he took his own life in 2011. According to a report by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) 22 veterans commit suicide each day on average. “I’m proud to cosponsor this important legislation to improve VA mental health services, because we have to do more to combat the tragedy of veteran suicide,” said Congressman Delaney. “The Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act helps upgrade our mental health care services, expands access to care by improving the diagnostic process, and adds more oversight and accountability so that we can ensure that we’re doing absolutely everything we can to help America’s veterans. Clay Hunt’s story is heart-wrenching, because he was clearly such an exceptional man who served his country, worked to help others and simply didn’t receive the care he was owed. Clay was frustrated with the bureaucracy he faced and wasn’t properly diagnosed until it was too late. We absolutely have to take action to prevent further tragedy, I hope that we can continue the bipartisan momentum behind this important suicide prevention legislation and pass these vital reforms.” The legislation was first introduced by Democrats Rep. Tim Walz (MN-1) and Rep. Tammy Duckworth (IL-8) and the Republican Chairman of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Rep. Jeff Miller (FL-1). The Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act is supported by the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) and the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA). Key Provisions in the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act: Amends the requirements for reviewing the discharge characterizations of individuals diagnosed with Traumatic Brain Injury or Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder to increase access to mental health care. Authorizes the Department of Veterans Affairs to conduct a new recruitment program for hiring and retaining psychiatrists by creating a student loan repayment pilot program. Requires a yearly evaluation, conducted by a third party, of all mental health care and suicide prevention efforts in the Department of Defense and VA. Requires the Department of Defense and National Guard to review staffing requirements for Directors of Psychological Health in each state. Mandates a centralized website listing all the mental health care services available to veterans, which will be updated each 90 days. ##
09.19.2014	WASHINGTON – Thursday the House passed The Jobs for America Act (H.R.4), legislation that includes multiple bills and is designed to reduce taxes, regulations, and unfunded mandates. The Jobs for America Act also encourages small business growth, research and development, and the hiring of more veterans. The bill reforms the Affordable Care Act to prevent unintended consequences that lead to more workers becoming part-time and forbids state and local governments from taxing internet access. The Jobs for America Act was introduced Rep. Dave Camp (R-M-4) and passed the House by a 253-163, 32 Democrats voted for the bill. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted for the bill. “Many of my constituents are struggling and even more are anxious about their economic security. Unemployment in large parts of my district is still very high, including over 8% in Hagerstown, so we’ve got to do everything we can to help our economy grow and create jobs,” said Congressman Delaney. “Congress should work together to improve our tax policies, improve our regulatory policies, do more to encourage innovation, research and development, and help businesses grow. We have to make sure there is a proper balance and avoid unnecessary regulations that kill jobs and depress growth. I’m not interested in who authored the legislation or which party takes credit for it; I’m interested in empowering people in Maryland’s Sixth District who want to better provide for their families.” Delaney’s infrastructure jobs bill, the Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) is currently one of the largest bipartisan economic bills in Congress, with over 40 Democratic and 40 Republican cosponsors. Delaney’s bill would create a large scale infrastructure fund that would be capitalized by selling bonds to private sector. For information on the Delaney infrastructure bill, click here. The Jobs for America Act includes the following: • H.R. 2575, the Save American Workers Act, which amends the Affordable Care Act’s definition of full-time employment from 30 hours to 40 hours for purposes of the employer mandate • H.R. 899, the Unfunded Mandates Information and Transparency Act, which equips Congress and the public with tools to determine the true costs of regulations; • H.R. 2804, the Achieving Less Excess in Regulation and Requiring Transparency (ALERRT) Act, which promotes jobs, better wages, and economic growth through regulatory reform; • H.R. 367, Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act ensures that Congress votes on all new major rules before they can be enforced; • H.R. 1105, the Small Business Capital Access and Job Preservation Act, which prevents Dodd-Frank Act regulations from diverting capital from small- and medium-sized businesses; • H.R. 2274, the Small Business Mergers, Acquisitions, Sales, and Brokerage Simplification Act, which streamlines regulatory requirements to help facilitate capital formation to grow small- and medium-sized businesses; • H.R. 3474, the Hire More Heroes Act, which incentivizes businesses to hire veterans by excluding them from the Affordable Care Act’s employer mandate threshold because they are already covered; • H.R. 1526, the Restoring Healthy Forests for Healthy Communities Act, which will put Americans back to work by promoting responsible timber production; • H.R. 761, the National Strategic and Critical Minerals Production Act, which allows the U.S. to develop resources that are critical to our economic competiveness; • H.R. 3086, the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act, which protects internet access for all Americans and fosters growth in the digital economy; • H.R. 4438, the American Research and Competitiveness Act, which makes the R&D Tax Credit permanent, paving the way for increased innovation and investment in the U.S.; • H.R. 4457, the America’s Small Business Tax Relief Act, which makes section 179 expensing permanent ensuring that our small businesses have the certainty they need to grow their businesses and create jobs; • H.R. 4453, the S Corporation Permanent Tax Relief Act, which provides the necessary flexibility for S corporations to access capital and make new investments; and • H.R. 4718, Amending the Internal Revenue code of 1986, making bonus depreciation permanent in order to lower the cost of capital for businesses. ##
09.17.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, the House passed legislation to reinstate the C&O Canal National Historical Park Commission (S. 476). Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) was an original cosponsor of the House version of the legislation (H.R. 2255) which was first introduced in 2013 by Congressman Chris Van Hollen (MD-8) with Congressman Frank Wolf (VA-10) also as an original cosponsor of the House bill. In the Senate, the legislation was sponsored by Senator Benjamin Cardin (MD) and Senator Barbara Mikulski (MD). The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Historical Park had a Park Commission from 1971 through 2011, when the Commission’s authority expired. The Commission is comprised of 19 representatives from local communities along the park’s borders, including eight from the Maryland. The Commission advises the U.S. Secretary of the Interior on policy matters relating to the administration of the park. “The C&O Canal National Historical Park enshrines our nation’s past, delights area residents in the present, and should be a part of the future of Maryland. I am proud to see the House pass this legislation, because the reauthorization of the C&O Canal National Historical Park Commission gives Maryland communities that I represent a voice in the operations of the park,” said Congressman Delaney. “With Congressman Van Hollen and Congressman Wolf in the House, we’ve worked on both sides of the aisle and both sides of the canal to make sure that local voices are heard; that’s good for the park, good for our region, and good for the tourists around the country who visit the park.” Following the House’s 419-0 vote in favor of the legislation, the bill has now passed the House and Senate and goes to the President’s desk. The park runs for over 180 miles from Washington, DC, to Cumberland, MD. ##
09.17.2014	WASHINGTON – Tuesday, the House has passed the Promoting Job Creation and Reducing Small Business Burdens Act (H.R. 5405), a comprehensive bill that includes legislation introduced by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) designed to make it easier for companies to go public by streamlining the Initial Public Offering (IPO) process. Delaney’s legislation, The Improving Access to Capital for Emerging Growth Companies Act (H.R. 3623) passed the House Committee on Financial Services by a 56-0 vote in March and was introduced with Republican Stephen Fincher (TN-8). Delaney voted for the overall jobs and regulatory reform bill, which passed by a 320-102 vote and included 11 separate bills. “As someone who took two companies public, I saw firsthand how this process could be improved in a commonsense way. I’m proud that my bipartisan legislation to streamline the IPO on-ramp has passed the House,” said Congressman Delaney. “When more companies go public, more jobs get created and our economy grows. The data suggests that the process has become too burdensome over past decades as the number of IPOs has declined, so we have work to do to reverse these trends. I thank my colleague Congressman Fincher for working with me on this legislation, as well as Congressman Fitzpatrick for including it in his job creation bill. With so many American people struggling, we should be working together every day to improve the economy.” According to a study published in Forbes, after becoming a publicly-traded company the average business adds over 800 employees. To view video of Rep. Delaney discussing his IPO legislation before the Financial Services Committee, click here. The Delaney-Fincher Improving Access to Capital for Emerging Growth Companies Act (H.R. 3623, passed as part of H.R. 5405): Allows an Emerging Growth Company (EGC) to conduct a road show more quickly. The legislation reduces from 21 days to 15 days the length of time an Emerging Growth Company must have a confidential registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) before they may conduct a road show. Clarifies the definition of an EGC to prevent the unintended consequence of eligible companies being excluded. H.R. 3623 clarifies that an issuer that was an EGC at the time it filed a confidential registration statement but grows outside the bounds of a defined EGC during the registration process will continue to be treated as an EGC through the date of the IPO. Simplifies the financial statement disclosure requirements for EGCs. Currently, an EGC must submit their previous two years of audited financials when it files for registration. During the review process, however, a new financial year could begin. Under H.R. 3623, the EGC would not have to submit additional financials effective 30 days after first submission. The legislation also allows EGCs to submit a draft registration statement confidentially to the SEC for any follow-on securities offerings after its IPO.
09.17.2014	WASHINGTON – September 17 is Constitution Day, celebrating the 1787 signing of the United States Constitution. This year marks the 227th anniversary of the signing, at which thirty-nine delegates, including three from Maryland, approved the Constitution. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “The Constitution protects the civil rights of the American people, sets up a system of checks and balances so that no branch of government assumes too much power, and establishes a system of representative government that gives voice to the states and the people. The Constitution remains a beacon to the world that we celebrate today. Constitution Day is also a powerful reminder of how good policy is born out of deliberation, innovation, and compromise. When our forefathers came together for a Constitutional Convention more than two centuries ago, they had different visions for our country and different understandings of government. But they engaged in debate, found common ground and in 1787 they approved a document that has since provided a foundation for our democracy and our federal system of government.” The Constitution became law in 1788 after nine of the original thirteen colonies ratified the document. Today, the Constitution remains the world’s longest surviving written government charter. ##
09.16.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has written to the President, Speaker of the House John Boehner and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi concerning the Ebola outbreak in Africa. In response to the increased risk of a major outbreak, Rep. Delaney argued that “controlling this outbreak before the virus becomes airborne should be our top priority” and that “it is critical that the United States make every effort to get ahead of this crisis, not play catch up. Rather than simply responding to the crisis as it stands now, we must over-correct and prepare for what could become a much larger outbreak.” Tuesday, the White House released a Fact Sheet detailing the federal response to Ebola. The House is expected to consider additional funding in response to the crisis this week. The text of the letter is as follows: September 15, 2014 Dear President Obama, Speaker Boehner and Leader Pelosi: I write today on behalf of my constituents regarding the Ebola crisis in West Africa, which is now the largest outbreak in history. As reported in the Wall Street Journal, 4,784 people have been infected with Ebola to date and the World Health Organization recently warned that the number of new cases in Liberia is increasing exponentially.[1] The number of cases in urban areas is particularly troubling because this has heightened the risk of a larger outbreak and with it a heightened risk of mutation and the virus becoming airborne. The Director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research at the University of Minnesota wrote in the New York Times that “we are in totally unchartered waters,” and that the epidemic “has the potential to alter history as much as any plague has ever done.”[2] Despite true heroism from many individuals on the scene, including Americans, the overall international response thus far has been insufficient, and the potential of the outbreak spreading further is a threat to the entire globe. Controlling this outbreak before the virus becomes airborne should be our top priority. Because of the growing potential for huge losses of life, our standard in responding to Ebola should be aggressive. It is critical that the United States make every effort to get ahead of this crisis, not play catch up. Rather than simply responding to the crisis as it stands now, we must over-correct and prepare for what could become a much larger outbreak. From both a humanitarian and a risk-management perspective, it is better to over-correct because thousands, perhaps millions of lives could be at stake. Mr. President, I am encouraged by recent reports that you will be outlining a significant U.S. offensive against Ebola this week, including improving the local health infrastructure, training care providers in Africa, and increasing international support.[3] These measures move us in the right direction. House leadership should also be commended for accepting the Administration’s request for an additional $88 million in funding to respond. Given how rapidly the situation has been changing, we must be prepared to dedicate all necessary resources to prevent the current outbreak from spiraling out of control. This issue is particularly concerning for my constituents in Maryland’s Sixth District. Given the district’s proximity to three international airports, my constituents are just hours away from this outbreak. As their representative, I ask you to ensure the U.S. is taking an active role in ending this outbreak. Given the gravity of this crisis, all branches of the government should work hand-in-hand to prevent an international catastrophe. Thank you for your attention in this matter. Sincerely, John K. Delaney Member of Congress [1] Ebola situation in Liberia: Non-Conventional Interventions Needed, WHO Situation Assessment, September 8, 2014, available at https://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/ebola/8-september-2014/en/. [2] What We’re Afraid to Say About Ebola, September 11, 2014 available at https://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/12/opinion/what-were-afraid-to-say-about-ebola.html [3] Obama Plans Major Ebola Offensive, Wall Street Journal, September 15, 2014, available at https://online.wsj.com/articles/obama-plans-major-ebola-offensive-1410738096.
09.15.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has submitted an official statement to the Congressional Record honoring Arnold Harvey of Gaithersburg. Harvey, a commercial driver for Waste Management, has gained national acclaim for his work helping others in Montgomery County. After seeing so many people in need on his route, Harvey took action to make a difference, organizing food and clothing drives and founding God’s Connection Transition, a non-profit that provides food to thousands of families. The Congressional Record is the official record of the House and Senate and is permanently chronicled. Delaney’s statement was entered into the record on September 9 and reads as follows: Today, I pay special tribute to an outstanding citizen from the state of Maryland, Arnold Harvey. One of the great strengths of this country is how the American people look out for one another. When our neighbor is suffering, we lend a hand. Arnold Harvey personifies that virtue. A Waste Management commercial driver for over 20 years, Mr. Harvey saw individuals and families in need along his route and worked to do something about it. In cooperation with his employer, Mr. Harvey organized food and clothing drives. He also founded a non-profit, God’s Connection Transition to help those in his community in Gaithersburg, Maryland. Today, in partnership with grocery stores, retailers, churches and shelters, his non-profit donates food to 5,000 families a month. Arnold Harvey is a shining light helping others during dark times. The Congressional Record should reflect the good work he has done as a permanent testament to his generosity and the generosity of the American people. Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in recognizing Arnold Harvey for his outstanding service to his community. ##
09.15.2014	WASHINGTON – September 15 marks the beginning of Hispanic Heritage Month, a celebration of the contributions of Hispanic-Americans to the United States. In 1968, President Johnson recognized Hispanic Heritage Week, which was expanded to Hispanic Heritage Month in 1988 by President Reagan. Hispanic Heritage Month runs from September 15 to October 15. According the Census Bureau, there are over 90,000 Hispanic-Americans in Maryland’s Sixth District. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement: “Hispanic Heritage Month is a wonderful opportunity to commemorate the achievements of Hispanic-Americans, note the ways in which Hispanic culture has enriched our way of life in the United States, and bring people of all backgrounds and ethnicities together. I’d like to wish all my constituents a Happy Hispanic Heritage Month. “The beginning of Hispanic Heritage Month is also yet another reminder of the unique character of the American Dream. In this great country, we welcome people from around the world and are united not by a common heritage but by a common idea: that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, and that to secure these rights governments are derived from the consent of the governed. “For centuries, Hispanics have been an integral part of our country. I’m proud to cosponsor comprehensive immigration reform legislation that will give many of our neighbors who work hard and follow the law a path to citizenship. May we use this month to build stronger bonds between all of our communities.” ##
09.12.2014	WASHINGTON – September 13 marks the 20th anniversary of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), which was signed into law in 1994 by President Bill Clinton. In addition to providing funding towards the investigation and prosecution of violent crimes against women, VAWA increased services available to victims, created a national domestic violence hotline and directed all states to recognize and enforce protection orders issued by other jurisdictions. Subsequent reauthorizations of the law have also included tougher penalties for federal domestic violence and stalking crimes. VAWA created the National Domestic Violence Hotline and expanded the network of rape crisis and domestic violence shelters across the country. According to the Department of Justice, the overall rate of intimate partner violence declined by 64% from 1994 to 2010. “We needed the reforms and federal support for anti-domestic violence programs in the Violence Against Women Act in 1994 and we need them today,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “Thanks to VAWA, we have stronger federal punishments for domestic violence, funding to train law enforcement officers and prosecutors to better respond to partner violence, and additional resources for state and local agencies to help victims in need. All women deserve to feel safe from abuse and all levels of government have a role to play. I’m committed to having Congress do its part and thankfully we reauthorized VAWA last year so programs that work can continue. I’m proud to have also worked with my colleagues in the House in pushing for better protections for women in the military, college students, the LGBT community and others here in the United States and abroad.” Congressman Delaney cosponsored the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act, a version of which was signed into law on March 7, 2013. This year, Delaney joined 39 colleagues in the House to write the Department of Education, urging greater transparency in investigations against universities for violations in the handling of sexual assault and harassment complaints. Delaney has also cosponsored the Sexual Assault Training Oversight and Prevention Act and the International Violence Against Women Act, which would create a military Sexual Assault Oversight and Response Council and an Office of Global Women’s Issues, respectively. ##
09.11.2014	WASHINGTON – September 11, 2014 marks the 13th anniversary of the terrorist attacks against the United States on September 11, 2001. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “Today, we pause to remember and mourn the thousands who lost their lives on this day in 2001. We remember the wives and daughters and fathers and sons who died. We remember the brave first responders who were killed while saving others. We remember the victims of terrorism in the years since and the men and women in uniform who have given their lives to continue to protect America. We thank the heroes among us who rushed to the scene that day, including the many from our own area. I pray, with my family, for all those we have lost and for those families who grieve today. Our country is committed to honoring their memory, protecting the innocent, and taking the fight to those who threaten us.” ##
09.10.2014	WASHINGTON – Tuesday, the House Committee on Ways and Means hosted a hearing on Social Impact Bonds, an innovative way of improving government services while reducing costs. Titled, “Social Impact Bonds: Can They Help Government Achieve Better Results for Families in Need” the hearing was held by the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Human Resources and featured testimony from experts in the public and private sector. The hearing was chaired by Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA-8). In June, Congressman John K. Delaney (D-MD-6) and Congressman Todd Young (R-IN-9) introduced the Social Impact Bond Act (H.R. 4885). The bill would foster the creation of public-private partnerships that harness philanthropic and private-sector investments to expand data-proven social and public health programs. The Social Impact Bonds Act sets aside $300 million to provide payment to state and local governments if they implement cost-saving programs that achieve positive outcomes. “Social Impact Bonds can improve outcomes, reduce costs to the taxpayer, and bring a data-driven results-oriented focus to public policy,” said Congressman Delaney. “I’d like to thank Chairman Reichert for bringing this topic before the subcommittee. Social Impact Bonds are truly bipartisan because both sides of the aisle want government to work. With my Republican colleague, Congressman Todd Young, I’ve introduced legislation that would encourage expanded use of Social Impact Bonds at the state and local level. I look forward to continuing to work with Congressman Young to build support for our legislation and for the innovative Social Impact Bond model.” For a section-by-section summary of the Social Impact Bond Act, click here. The Young-Delaney Social Impact Bond Act is bipartisan legislation that is currently cosponsored by 12 Democrats and 12 Republicans in the House. In July, Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) and Senator Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) introduced the Pay for Performance Act, the Senate companion to the Young-Delaney bill. ##
09.09.2014	WASHINGTON – September 9 is the 57th anniversary of the Civil Rights Act of 1957, which was signed into law on September 9, 1957 by President Dwight D. Eisenhower. The legislation, which was designed to protect the voting rights of all Americans, was the first civil rights legislation enacted after Reconstruction. In addition to prohibiting voter intimidation and coercion, the law created the Civil Rights Division at the Department of Justice, as well as the Commission on Civil Rights to investigate discriminatory election practices in the United States. The Civil Rights Act of 1957 would be followed by the Civil Rights Act of 1960, 1964, and 1968; as well as the Voting Rights Act of 1965 and numerous other actions to combat discrimination in the United States. In 1957, the Civil Rights Act passed the House by a vote of 285 to 126 and the Senate by a vote of 72 to 18. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “Fifty-seven years ago, Congress and President Eisenhower, Democrats and Republicans, came together to pass legislation that strengthened American democracy; addressing racial discrimination in elections for the first time since Reconstruction. The Civil Rights Act of 1957 ended nearly a century of silence and inaction on racial discrimination and was a first step in our march towards greater equality. Led by the American people – including heroic individuals who risked their lives to work for a more just nation – future Presidents and Congresses would build on the Civil Rights Act of 1957 in the decades that followed. As our nation continues that march towards equality today, it is critical that we remember the bipartisan spirit and the commitment to justice that allowed for passage of this historic legislation, remember those times when Congress put doing the right thing above doing what was politically expedient, and refocus our efforts on protecting access to the ballot and civil rights for all for decades to come.” ##
09.08.2014	WASHINGTON –Montgomery County observes African Heritage Month each September. According the U.S. Census, over 50,000 Montgomery County residents were born in Africa. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has released the following statement: “African Heritage Month in Montgomery County helps us celebrate the heritage of many of our neighbors and learn more about their traditions and culture. America has always been a nation of immigrants, a characteristic that sets us apart and makes our country stronger. I believe that events like African Heritage Month are tremendously valuable because they help bring people together and allow new voices to be heard, which enriches our democracy. Happy African Heritage Month to all my constituents who will be celebrating this September.” ##
09.08.2014	COLLEGE PARK – Friday, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) toured Mid-Maryland Mission of Mercy (MOM) & Health Equity Festival at the University of Maryland (UMD) in College Park, MD. Organized by the dental and health care community, the Catholic Charities of Washington and UMD, the Mid-MD MOM & Health Equity Festival is a three-day event providing free emergency dental care and health screenings to underserved and low-income patients. “It was a privilege to tour the MOM & Health Equity Festival and to see so many volunteers coming together to make a difference in our state,” said Congressman Delaney. “Low-income households face any number of barriers to accessing regular dental care, and volunteers at this week’s event stepped forward to help families meet those challenges. “The MOM & Health Equity Festival provides an example of the powerful impact that partnerships between the private and nonprofit sectors can have. By combining the resources of UMD and the Catholic Charities, this weekend’s event provided needed care to hundreds of underserved families over just three days. “During my first term in Congress, I’ve supported legislation that will help to provide health services for underserved families in rural and low-income communities, and today’s visit allowed me to see first-hand the impact that access to care can have.” Congressman Delaney is a cosponsor of the Coordination of Pro Bono Medically Recommended Dental Care Act, which would provide grants for national dental programs that coordinate medically recommended care for low-income individuals. ###
09.04.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) announced that MetLife has been preliminarily designated as a Systematically Important Financial Institution (SIFI), triggering additional regulatory requirements. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) a member of the House Committee on Financial Services, issues the following statement: “I won’t comment on the specific merits of the MetLife designation, but I do have concerns about the process behind the designation, particularly regarding the lack of communication and transparency. To best address systemic risk, maintain healthy markets, and protect American jobs, I believe we need to improve FSOC processes, which is why I introduced bipartisan FSOC reform. I generally support FSOC and its goals, but believe the details can be improved. SIFI designation is a relevant tool for FSOC to have at its disposal, but one it must employ with significant caution, as it has very material implications to companies designated. The Council should focus on the riskiness of the underlying activities at these entities, including how they are structured and capitalized.” In July, Rep. Delaney and Rep. Dennis Ross (FL-15) introduced The Financial Stability Oversight Council Improvement Act (H.R. 5180) to address concerns about their lack of transparency in the SIFI designation process. The bill reforms specific elements of the FSOC and the Office of Financial Research (OFR), improving their ability to accurately respond to threats to financial stability while also maintaining the core function and mission of comprehensively monitoring the stability of our nation’s financial system. The legislation directly reforms the SIFI designation procedure for FSOC. Reforms include: Requiring FSOC to notify a nonbank financial company that it has been identified for SIFI evaluation with an explanation of their concerns, prior to a SIFI designation Codifying FSOC procedures for SIFI designation and voting requirements Requiring FSOC to consider the impact of SIFI designation Mandating that FSOC explain the basis of its designation to the institution Allowing an institution to submit a plan to modify its business prior to designation Allowing an institution to contest their SIFI designation every five years ##
09.04.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement on the launch of the campaign to bring the 2024 to the Capital Region: “I’m a strong supporter of our region hosting the 2024 Summer Olympic and Paralympic games. The Olympics are a singular event, and we’ve seen how they capture the attention of the world every four years. In a DVR age, live sporting events are more compelling than ever. A successful summer games would generate long-lasting tangible and intangible benefits for communities in Maryland, Virginia, and the District of Columbia, serving as a weeks’ long advertisement for the place we are blessed to call home. Our region, including Maryland’s Sixth District, has so much to offer the world and I believe that we would thrive on a global platform. I congratulate the DC 2024 team on the launch of their efforts and look forward to working with them to promote the bid.” ##
09.03.2014	WASHINGTON – The September 3 edition of the Washington Post features an op-ed by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) on election and congressional reform. The piece makes the case for Delaney’s Open Our Democracy Act (H.R. 5334), which was filed in July. Delaney’s legislation includes 1) open primaries for House elections, 2) redistricting reform, 3) making Election Day a holiday. Delaney’s Post op-ed can be read online or below: The Solution to Fixing Dysfunction in Congress By John K. Delaney Washington Post, 9/3/14 Representative democracy is in crisis in the United States. One of the three pillars of our system of government — the legislative branch — is failing. The current Congress has shut down the federal government, bickers constantly and increasingly does not speak broadly to the American people. Obvious problems, from a struggling middle class to a flawed tax code to crumbling roads and bridges, go unaddressed. The American people have certainly noticed; according to Gallup, 80 percent disapprove of Congress. We can’t let 535 people continue to limit the progress of a nation of more than 300 million. After two decades spent gaining a data-driven perspective in the private sector, I believe that problems on this scale are usually caused by structural failures. Our electoral process has created perverse incentives that have warped our democracy and empowered special interests and a vocal minority. Congressional dysfunction is the logical result of closed primaries, too many gerrymandered one-party seats and low-turnout elections. To address these problems, I filed the Open Our Democracy Act in July. If passed, the legislation would mandate open primaries for House elections, begin the process of national redistricting reform and make Election Day the equivalent of a federal holiday. Step one is giving independents and moderates a voice. Maryland, where independents are the fastest-growing voter bloc, is an example of a changing electorate that isn’t being served by the current system. In January 2001, according to data from the state Board of Elections, 13 percent of Maryland voters were not registered as Democrats or Republicans; by July 2014, that number was 19 percent. This group now includes more than 700,000 people — more than the population of Baltimore — but it plays little role in Maryland politics, because in most of the state, primary elections are the only contests that matter. Around the country, we select candidates using a partisan primary filter, then act surprised when the huge portion of the electorate that isn’t ideological is unhappy with its general-election options. My legislation would open House primaries to allow all voters to participate in one race, with the top two vote-getters advancing to the general election. Such a system is much more likely to send pragmatic bridge-builders to Washington. Because of low turnout, candidates in traditional, closed primaries have an incentive to appeal only to the most committed — and ideological — voters. In an open primary, the electoral math changes, and reaching out to swing voters becomes more important. Open primaries can have a moderating effect even in districts that are so red or blue that the top two candidates are likely to come from the same party; in both primary and general elections, an ability to win votes beyond a narrow base could be decisive. Step two is redistricting reform. Gerrymandering has turned the vast majority of House districts into one-party enclaves, whose representatives’ main concern is making the most rabid faction of their parties happy. According to the Cook Political Report, only 16 percent of House districts are competitive, and I can tell you from firsthand experience that members from these districts are much more likely to work on a bipartisan basis. We know what’s happened in Maryland, which Governing magazine ranked as having the most gerrymandered congressional districts in the United States, but my state isn’t alone. In Virginia, a true purple state, there is only one competitive House contest this fall; meanwhile, the state’s congressional delegation is dominated by a party that has lost the last three statewide elections. Not only do safe districts encourage the election of members who won’t compromise, they rely on irrational boundaries to achieve their goals. When this happens, communities lose their vote in Congress. My bill would put us on a better path, directing the Government Accountability Office to examine the feasibility of national standards for drawing district lines. Let’s examine what works — a number of states provide good examples — and develop a framework. Step three is to make it easier to vote. In some states, polls close as early as 6 p.m., and even later closing times can be difficult to manage for working parents who have to commute from work to day care to home to a polling place. My bill treats Election Day as a federal holiday so more Americans can participate. We need to act. Low voter turnout, gerrymandering and non-competitive elections are creating a frightening negative feedback loop. As mainstream voters grow increasingly disgusted and apathetic, only extreme partisans stay interested, creating more race-to-the-base contests, which then turn off more moderates and on and on. Congress has lost the will to find bipartisan solutions. In the past, divided government didn’t mean open political warfare. The Highway Act, the Clean Water Act, tax reform and the Americans With Disabilities Act were accomplished under divided government. We can get there again. Each of the reforms in the Open Our Democracy Act, individually, would help counteract the dysfunction that has broken Congress. Taken together, they can do more than that. Let’s make the House of Representatives actually representative. ##
09.02.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) hosted a workforce development forum with United States Secretary of Labor Thomas Perez Tuesday morning at the Universities at Shady Grove (USG). The event brought together educators, business owners, and elected officials and was attended by over 100 people. The discussion was moderated by Dr. Stewart Edelstein, Executive Director of the Universities at Shady Grove. Dr. DeRionne Pollard, President of Montgomery College; Diego Uriburu, Executive Director of Identity Inc.; and Patrick Caulfield, co-owner, Coakley & Williams Construction joined the panel. The forum touched on connecting job training programs with growing industries that need more workers, how to improve collaboration between the public and private sector, and the skills students need to compete and win in a global economy. The Universities at Shady Grove features a unique partnership model led by the USG Board of Advisors, which includes over 30 community members. “There has never been a stronger correlation between the quality of an individual’s education and the quality of their job,” said Congressman Delaney. “I thank Secretary Perez for joining us in Montgomery County to help shine a spotlight on workforce development and gather feedback from our community. The workforce development programs that will work best are those that provide workers and students with the skills they need to work in the industries and sectors that are expanding. “We need more collaboration and open dialogue between businesses leaders and educators. We should use every tool at our disposal so that every American who wants a job can find a job: apprenticeship programs, partnerships with local community colleges, vocational and technical training, more emphasis on workplace soft skills like office etiquette, how to handle a job interview, etc., are all needed,” Delaney continued. “I was especially interested to hear more from business owner Patrick Caulfield on what specific skills they are looking for here in our area. It is vitally important that we continue to focus on workforce development here in Maryland and around the country. When you look around the country and around the world, in the places where the economy is growing and workers are thriving, the public and private sector work together.” ##
08.29.2014	BOONSBORO – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) convened an agriculture panel Friday in Boonsboro at the Washington County Agricultural Education Center. The panel included Maryland Agriculture Secretary Buddy Hance, Maryland Senate President Mike Miller, and Senate Finance Chair Thomas “Mac” Middleton. The event was the third agriculture panel held by Congressman Delaney since taking office, following earlier events in Smithsburg and Cumberland. Over 40 farmers from the area attended the discussion. “I’m proud to represent a large number of farmers and I want agriculture to remain a vibrant part of our region for decades to come. It’s extremely important to me to get local feedback from the agricultural community and learn more about their needs and concerns,” said Congressman Delaney. “I’m grateful to Secretary Hance, Senate President Miller and Senate Finance Chair Middleton for joining me today in Washington County. I’ve made it a priority to try to bring federal, state, and local officials and constituents together. When we invited Secretary Hance and President Miller to hear from local voices here, there was absolutely no hesitation on their part, and President Miller even went so far as to invite Chairman Middleton, a working farmer, to join us. I believe that now that we’ve passed a five year Farm Bill – which will provide vital support to America’s farmers – Congress should focus on easing the regulatory strain imposed on many family farmers. I firmly believe there’s a commonsense middle ground where we can protect the environment, keep farming profitable, and maintain Maryland’s proud agricultural heritage.” Questions from the audience included concerns about state and federal regulations, the need to encourage more young people to pursue agriculture, and the growing black bear population in Western Maryland. In January, Delaney was one of two members of the Maryland House Delegation to vote for the Farm Bill. While in Washington County, Delaney also held a small business roundtable in downtown Hagerstown and visited Clear Spring to thank the first responders for their work in flood relief and response. ##
08.28.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) hosted a panel discussion Wednesday on the challenges faced by women in the workforce. The panel brought together experts from national nonprofit organizations, local elected officials, federal agency representatives and Sixth District constituents to discuss barriers that continue to hinder women’s professional development and success. The panel took place at Montgomery College’s Germantown campus. Topics discussed by the panel included pay equity, the glass ceiling, and barriers to child care and gender and pregnancy discrimination. Dr. DeRionne Pollard, President of Montgomery College; Linda Smith, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Early Childhood Development at the Department of Health and Human Services; Mary Tiernan from the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; Liz Watson of the National Women’s Law Center; and Delegate Aruna Miller, representing Maryland’s 15th Legislative District, spoke on the panel, which was moderated by Congressman Delaney. “I was honored to moderate the women’s issues panel and to host a thoughtful discussion about how we can expand opportunities for women and girls in this country,” said Congressman Delaney. “It was especially gratifying to see so many students at Montgomery College so engaged on this topic. Making sure women have equal opportunities to succeed is one of the biggest issues facing our country, as both a moral and an economic issue. While women have made tremendous gains in the workforce over the last several decades, we still have work to do empowering women to climb the ladder of success. We need to enforce the anti-discrimination laws that we have, pass commonsense bills like the Paycheck Fairness Act and the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act that strengthen protections for women, and do more to create a welcoming environment for women in the workplace.” Congressman Delaney is a cosponsor of the Paycheck Fairness Act (H.R. 377), which would update and strengthen the existing Equal Pay Act, and has signed a discharge petition to bring the bill to the floor of the House for a vote. Delaney is also a co-sponsor of the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act (H.R. 1975), which strengthens workplace protections for pregnant workers, and the Healthy Families Act (H.R. 1286), which provides workers with seven protected paid sick days each year. After the women in the workforce panel, Delaney spoke with students in the Hillman Entrepreneurs Program at Montgomery College about his experience starting his own businesses. ##
08.26.2014	WASHINGTON – August 26, 2014 is Women’s Equality Day, a date marking the anniversary of the 19th Amendment’s ratification and congressional certification. The 19th Amendment gave women the right to vote. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “Women’s Equality Day marks one of the most important landmarks in American history: American women being granted the right to vote in 1920. From the very beginning, women played a crucial role in our nation’s history, but the right to vote made sure that the voice of women was clearly and loudly heard in our democracy. As the father of four daughters, I can’t imagine a world in which they would be denied the ballot, but that progress was only possible thanks to the work of brave and dedicated women across the country, who fought for decades and who often stood up to public mockery and scorn. “In the 94 years since ratification of the 19th Amendment, American women have overcome challenge after challenge to achieve new heights and make countless contributions to our country. While our nation has made tremendous progress, we still have a long way to go before we can achieve the equality that today’s anniversary stands for. If we want to build a stronger country and a competitive workforce in today’s global economy, we need to start by empowering women through protections against discriminatory practices, fight for fair wages and protect health care rights. “This Women’s Equality Day let us all remember the generations of women who dedicated themselves to securing women’s rights and recommit ourselves in our march towards equality in the United States.” Wednesday, Delaney will host a panel discussion on the challenges facing working women at Montgomery College in Germantown. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) is a co-sponsor of the Paycheck Fairness Act (H.R. 377) and has signed a discharge petition to bring the Paycheck Fairness Act to the House Floor for a vote. The Paycheck Fairness Act would update and strengthen the Equal Pay Act, which was signed into law by President Kennedy in 1963. Delaney is also a sponsor of the Healthy Families Act (H.R. 1286) which provides workers with seven paid sick days each year and the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act (H.R. 1975), which strengthens workplace protections for pregnant workers. ##
08.22.2014	HAGERSTOWN – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) toured downtown Boonsboro with Mayor Skip Kauffman and spoke with constituents in Hagerstown Friday. In Boonsboro, Delaney joined Mayor Kauffman and members of the Town Council in visiting the Inn at BoonsBoro, Fit in Boonsboro, Turn the Page Bookstore, and the First Hose Company of Boonsboro. At the fire station, Delaney met with Chief Oley Griffith and Vice President Ed Williams. Delaney’s office helped the fire department secure 501(c)(3) status, allowing them to receive a donation from Boonsboro native Nora Roberts. “I’d like to thank Mayor Kauffman, Chief Oley Griffith and the other local leaders who took time out of their schedule to meet with me this morning, as well as everyone who joined us for coffee in Hagerstown,” said Congressman Delaney. “Washington County residents are concerned about the state of the middle class, our over-burdened infrastructure, and about making the federal and state government work for them. We need Washington D.C. to look more like Washington County, where each day local officials, small business owners, and community members work together to get things done.” In Hagerstown, Delaney held a Coffee with Your Congressman session with constituents at local eatery, the Gourmet Goat. Topics included assistance for Clear Spring, Delaney’s Western Maryland agenda, his election reform bill the Open Our Democracy Act, the minimum wage, creating more middle class jobs, and the federal budget. ##
08.22.2014	WASHINGTON - The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded a Fire Prevention and Safety (FP&S) Grant totaling $393,300 to the Cumberland Valley Volunteer Fireman’s Association (CVVFA). Founded in 1901, the CVVFA is a multistate association that promotes mutual aid and fire service awareness amongst fire departments in Maryland, Delaware, Virginia, West Virginia, and Pennsylvania. “For over a century the Cumberland Valley Volunteer Fireman’s Association has provided firefighters and first responders with important training, promoted safety measures, and built important ties between departments across our region,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “Deploying federal resources towards fire prevention as well as public and first responder safety measures is vitally important. I am hopeful that this FEMA grant to the CVVFA will help keep our communities and first responders safe.” Fire Prevention and Safety (FP&S) Grants are part of FEMA’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program and support projects that enhance the safety of the public and firefighters from fire and related hazards. The program goal is to reduce injury and prevent death among high-risk populations. According to the CVVFA, the organization has over 1100 members with over 100 organizations on its rolls, including volunteer and career firefighters. In 2013, Chief Greg Yost of the Hancock Fire Department was selected as the CVVFA Member of the Year. ##
08.14.2014	WASHINGTON – On August 14, 1935, President Roosevelt signed the Social Security Act into law. According to the Social Security Administration, as of December 2013 there were 917,497 Social Security beneficiaries in Maryland and 111,219 beneficiaries in the Sixth District. “Social Security is a program to celebrate. For decades, Social Security has kept millions of Americans out of poverty and helped countless seniors live in dignity after decades of hard work supporting their families,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “Social Security is vitally important to thousands of my constituents and I want to make sure that we’re still celebrating Social Security’s birthday for decades to come. Let’s ignore the falsehoods and mischaracterizations – Social Security isn’t insolvent or a pyramid scheme and shouldn’t be privatized – and stick to the facts: in the long-term we need to recalibrate the program so that benefits aren’t reduced. I’m proud to have introduced legislation to protect Social Security by bringing both parties and both chambers together to develop a long-term solution.” To read Delaney’s Social Security principles, click here. According to the Social Security Trustees 2014 report Social Security will be unable to pay full benefits after 2033. In May, Delaney introduced bipartisan legislation to protect and preserve Social Security. Delaney and Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) filed legislation to create a bipartisan and bicameral Social Security Commission to guarantee the fiscal health of Social Security for the next 75 years. ##
08.13.2014	WASHINGTON – Montgomery County resident Warren Weinstein was kidnapped in Pakistan on August 13, 2011. A former USAID employee and Peace Corps member, in 2011 Weinstein was working for a USAID contractor to promote economic development. Since his capture, al-Qaeda has released three videos of Warren, the most recent being released in December 2013. Weinstein is a constituent of Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) who has called upon the President and the State Department to use every tool at their disposal to bring Warren Weinstein home. Delaney has introduced a House Resolution (H. Con. Res 101) in support of Weinstein, which was subsequently introduced in the Senate by Senator Barbara Mikulski (MD) and Senator Ben Cardin (MD). Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “Three years ago Warren Weinstein was captured by terrorists. Today, Warren Weinstein, an American, a husband, a father, and a grandfather is still in al-Qaeda’s hands. We know that Warren is in ill health and needs medical care; but Warren is in the hands of terrorists, not those who love him. “This anniversary is a somber occasion, but also a reminder that we must continue to stand with Warren and the Weinstein family. I call upon the President and the State Department to do everything they can to bring Warren home. Pakistan must also cooperate with our efforts. Any American held overseas must be a priority and we must use every lever available to us. Warren, you are not forgotten.” In June, Delaney spoke on the House floor in support of Weinstein, to view his remarks, click here. In January, Delaney wrote to President Obama and Secretary of State Kerry, urging them to “do everything they can” to bring Warren home. ##
08.07.2014	WASHINGTON – Today the President will sign into law the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act (H.R. 3230), bipartisan and bicameral legislation to reform the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The bill represents a compromise agreement incorporating numerous House and Senate bills that passed this year in response to widespread problems at the VA, including extremely long wait times at some hospitals and improper bookkeeping by VA staff. The legislation includes new emergency funding to allow veterans to receive care outside VA facilities, hire more medical personnel, and open new facilities around the country. The bill also includes increased accountability measures, authorizing the VA to fire or demote poor performing employees. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted for the legislation last week. “VA reform is about keeping a promise to our veterans who have served our country and deserve world class health care,” said Congressman Delaney. “The entire country was horrified by the long wait times and mismanagement at the VA and rightly demanded a response. This legislation has good Democratic ideas and good Republican ideas and strikes the right balance: we need to expand VA operations and hold those responsible accountable. The bipartisan effort behind this much-needed bill shows that we can work together to serve the common good. “There is still work to be done. In particular, Maryland veterans have been hurt by extremely long processing times at the Baltimore VA. The Secretary of the VA should meet with the entire Maryland delegation and explain what has gone wrong in Baltimore and what they’re doing to fix the problems.” In May, Congressman Delaney was one of the first Members of Congress to call on then Secretary of the VA, Eric Shinseki, to resign. Earlier this year, Delaney voted for H.R. 4810, which allows veterans to seek treatment at non-VA facilities and H.R. 4031, which allows the VA to hold poor performing employees accountable. ##
08.06.2014	WASHINGTON - Across the United States, the first Tuesday in August is recognized as National Night Out, an annual event to spread awareness about anti-crime and drug prevention programs. On August 5, many Maryland towns and counties held their own events to mark the occasion. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “Last night, Marylanders came together for National Night Out. Across our state, neighbors learned more about the importance of crime prevention programs, they spent time together, got to know each other better, and helped build bonds with each other and local law enforcement. Awareness and community connections are important in building safer communities. I was proud to see my own staff join our neighbors and police, fire and rescue personnel to spread the message that together we’re fighting back against crime. National Night Out is also a reminder of the hard work and sacrifices made by our local law enforcement officials to keep us safe. I’d like to congratulate everyone who made National Night Out a success.” ##
08.05.2014	WASHINGTON - Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has filed election reform legislation so that Congress will more accurately reflect the interests of the American people. The Open Our Democracy Act (H.R. 5334) mandates open primary elections for the House of Representatives, begins the process for redistricting reform, and makes general Election Day a legal public holiday. “Congress is broken,” said Delaney. “The American people are frustrated because the common good of the country isn’t being served. An electoral system that rewards extreme partisanship, is warped by gerrymandering, and features low turnout elections produces a House of Representatives that doesn’t live up to its name. The Open Our Democracy Act addresses these problems by giving independents, moderates, and non-partisans a voice in our elections; beginning the process for national redistricting reform so that congressional districts are representative and making Election Day a holiday. In the end, that means better electoral choices, better districts, and more people voting; a hugely beneficial prescription for a healthier republic. “In addition to these structural changes, I believe lawmakers must do their part to change the culture in Washington. I’m a big believer in civility and bipartisanship, and have worked hard to find common ground with my colleagues in both parties. My constituents work with their colleagues every day and Congress should do the same.” The Open Our Democracy Act: Open primaries: Members of the House of Representatives shall be elected through a single open primary and a single general election. All candidates, regardless of party preference, compete on a single primary ballot, with all registered voters – regardless of party affiliation – eligible to vote. The two candidates who receive the greatest number of votes will appear on the general election ballot. Benefits: greater voice for independents, elections not dominated by partisan contests. Redistricting reform: Directs the Comptroller General of the Government Accountability Office to conduct a study on the feasibility of establishing national standards for redistricting. Benefits: Congressional districts that truly represent local communities, less safe seats dominated by a single party and fewer members focused only on winning a partisan primary. Making Election Day a holiday: General Election Day shall be a legal public holiday equivalent to a federal holiday. The legislation also expresses the sense of Congress that private employers should give employees time off to vote. Benefits: more participation in our elections. ##
07.31.2014	WASHINGTON – In response to historic June flooding, the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) has declared Allegany, Washington, Frederick, and Garrett Counties a disaster area. The declaration follows a state request. The declaration allows home and business owners, as well as renters and non-profit operators to apply for low-interest loans. Loans are available to repair or replace property, produce working capital, and respond to economic hardship caused by the flood. On July 24, Delaney wrote to the state requesting that the state reconsider their decision not to apply for Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) assistance. “First and foremost, this is good news for Western Maryland. Local officials have made it clear that more assistance is needed in response to such damaging storms and I believe the federal government should play a role, that’s why I urged the state to request FEMA aid,” said Congressman Delaney. “I encourage any Sixth District resident who was impacted by June’s floods to contact my office for more information or help in applying for low interest SBA loans. My staff in Hagerstown and Washington are happy to help. “I’m pleased that the state and federal government have partnered together to provide an additional avenue of assistance for my constituents through the SBA loan programs. I thank the state, especially the Maryland Emergency Management Agency, for their work with the federal government in securing this option for Western Marylanders. I hope that the SBA disaster declaration provides additional encouragement for the state to submit a request for FEMA assistance.” The loan interest rates are between 2% and 6% depending on whether the applicant has access to credit elsewhere, with terms ranging from 7 to 30 years. Sixth District residents interested in applying for assistance can call SBA at 800-659-2955 or email disastercustomerservice@sba.gov or contact Congressman Delaney’s office at 301-926-0300 or 301-733-2900. ##
07.31.2014	WASHINGTON – The National Science Foundation (NSF) has announced a $713,996 grant to Hagerstown Community College (HCC) for cybersecurity research. The grant will provide HCC with resources to offer students hands-on learning opportunities in cybersecurity and to improve recruitment for the college’s cybersecurity program. “Today our country faces more frequent, more powerful and more sophisticated cyber-attacks than ever before,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “If we want to protect our businesses, our families, and our national defense from online attacks, investing in cybersecurity research and education has to be a top priority. I’m proud to see Hagerstown Community College take the lead in training our next generation of information technology specialists. Maryland has become a leader in cybersecurity, and this grant will help Hagerstown and our state build on that strength. We can’t compete in the global economy unless our trade secrets are safe, our personal information is secure, and our Armed Forces are a step ahead of cyber-attacks. The work of both NSF and HCC in meeting that challenge is critically important.” The NSF award is scheduled to begin on October 1, 2014, and continue through 2017. ##
07.31.2014	WASHINGTON – Wednesday, the House passed the bipartisan bicameral House-Senate compromise to reform the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The Veterans’ Access to Care through Choice, Accountability, and Transparency Act expands veterans’ care options, appropriates funds for treatment and medical staff, creates additional medical facilities and holds poorly performing employees accountable. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted for the measure. House and Senate negotiators reached a compromise this week on a legislative package based on bills passed earlier this year in both chambers after reports of widespread problems at the VA including long wait times, falsified bookkeeping and mismanagement. “The problems at the VA are an outrage and unacceptable. The veterans I represent deserve better and Congress has an obligation to make sure that America’s veterans receive world class care in a prompt manner,” said Congressman Delaney. “I was proud to support this bipartisan and bicameral effort to improve veterans’ health care. By expanding coverage options, securing additional funding for treatment and medical staff, and bringing accountability to the VA, we’ve taken a positive step forward. In the days and weeks to come we must be vigilant to make sure that VA services improve.” The legislation does the following: Allows veterans to seek medical care from private health care providers if their wait times exceed 30 days Empowers the VA to hold poor performing employees accountable and caps VA bonuses Appropriates $10 billion in emergency spending to pay for increased medical care for veterans Appropriates $5 billion for medical staff recruitment Creates 27 new VA medical facilities Broadens VA treatment of sexual assault Requires the VA to track wait times nationally and to adopt performance and quality-care metrics In May, Congressman Delaney was one of the first Members of Congress to call on then Secretary of the VA, Eric Shinseki, to resign. Earlier this year, Delaney voted for H.R. 4810, which allows veterans to seek treatment at non-VA facilities and H.R. 4031, which allows the VA to hold poor performing employees accountable. ##
07.30.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, the House passed H. Con. Res 107, which denounces the use of civilians as human shields by Hamas and other terrorist organizations in violation of international human law. The resolution passed by voice vote. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “Israel has a right to defend itself and an obligation to protect her people from the continual onslaught of her enemies. I have been to Sderot, in southern Israel, and seen up close how bombs targeting civilians have been a part of daily life in Israel for a very long time. According to the New York Times, over 2,600 rockets have been launched at Israel from Gaza in July alone. It is tragic that Hamas has spent so many resources on tunnels and weapons of war, rather than improving the lives of their people. As a father, my heart breaks for the suffering that is taking place, particularly the deaths of children, because tragedy has struck both Israelis and Palestinians this month. Hamas should cease their terroristic activity, end their deplorable practice of using human shields, and Israelis and Palestinians should come together for a long-term peaceful two-state solution.” ##
07.30.2014	WASHINGTON – Wednesday, the Bureau of Economic Analysis at the U.S. Department of Commerce reported that the real gross domestic product (GDP) grew by 4 percent in the second quarter of 2014. To read their report, click here. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6), the only former CEO of a publicly traded company in Congress releases the following statement: “Today’s economic report is encouraging, especially the details that disposable personal income and exports increased this spring. At the macro level, we’re seeing signs of health, but now is not the time for Washington to pat itself on the back. I hear from constituents in the Sixth District every day, from Montgomery to Garrett County, that they’re still concerned about the economy, worried about the job market, worried that the American Dream may be out of reach for their kids. Later today, I’m speaking with the Mayor of Hancock about economic development; Hancock is a small town in Western Maryland that has seen industries and jobs leave in recent decades. Hancock is at the narrowest point in Maryland, and in places like Hancock, for a long time now, the margin for success has been narrow, through no fault of their own. Long term trends have hurt places around the country and reduced the number of good-paying middle class jobs. “I believe we’re still vulnerable to an employment crisis. A bipartisan jobs bill should be our top legislative priority. “My infrastructure jobs bill, the Partnership to Build America Act, currently has 46 Republican cosponsors and 43 Democratic cosponsors, making it the largest piece of bipartisan economic legislation in Congress. This legislation would create over a million jobs by combining pro-growth tax reform with increased infrastructure investment, making our country more competitive and improving our quality of life. “In addition to rebuilding our infrastructure, we need to reduce corporate taxes, continue to invest in the industries of the future, and reach a long-term deficit reduction deal. I’m ready to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to get this done.” For more information on the Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund that can be leveraged to $750 billion. This fund will be capitalized by the sale of 50-year bonds that are not guaranteed by the federal government and pay a 1% interest rate. To encourage U.S. corporations to purchase these bonds, they will be allowed to repatriate a certain dollar amount – determined by auction – in overseas earnings tax-free for every $1 they invest in the bonds. The fund will then provide loans or loan guarantees to states and municipalities to finance transportation, energy, education, communications, and water infrastructure projects. ##
07.30.2014	WASHINGTON - July 30, 2014, marks the 49th anniversary of the establishment of Medicare, our nation’s largest provider of health care coverage for Americans 65 and older. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “On July 30, 1965, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed legislation creating Medicare, sparking the single largest increase in health care coverage in United States history. Nearly half a century later, the program provides more than 50 million Americans with critical access to the services they need to stay healthy. The anniversary of the creation of Medicare is a time to recommit ourselves to protecting this program for years to come. Over a lifetime of work and service, our seniors helped to build their communities, raise another generation of Americans and strengthen our country’s future. Today, it’s our turn to ensure that older Americans have the support they deserve by making certain that Medicare remains a strong, reliable program for generations to come. For these reasons, I continue to oppose any effort to take away the Medicare guarantee and turn Medicare into a voucher program.” Congressman Delaney has voted against the Ryan plan to voucherize Medicare each year in office. To view Delaney’s floor speech against the Ryan budget, click here. ##
07.28.2014	WASHINGTON – Monday’s Washington Times features an op-ed by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Congressman Todd Young (IN-9) on how Social Impact Bonds can improve public sector outcomes and reduce taxpayer costs. In June, Delaney and Young introduced the Social Impact Bond Act (H.R. 4885). The Young-Delaney legislation is the first piece of legislation to adapt the Social Impact Bond or Pay for Success model for broad use at the federal level, and the first proposal to incentivize the realization of savings across multiple layers of government. For more information on the bill, click here. The text of the Delaney-Young joint op-ed is below: YOUNG & DELANEY: A Safety Net That Works Reps. Todd Young and John Delaney, The Washington Times, 7/25/14 Every American can agree that too many government social programs fail citizens they are intended to serve. However, efforts to improve delivery of social services regularly degenerate into partisan arguments about funding levels. The right accuses the left of spending inefficiently, while the left shoots back that the right doesn’t care enough to spend more. For generations, politicians of every political stripe have measured compassion by inputs into our social safety net, rather than gauging the outcomes of those Americans who have become trapped in it. Washington’s lack of focus on results, as much as anything, explains why our nation’s social programs have not made further progress in addressing perennial challenges that face low-income and at-risk Americans — challenges such as chronic homelessness, recidivism, reintegrating the long-term unemployed into the work force, and myriad public health issues. Today, we have an opportunity to recalibrate our focus on successful outcomes, while simultaneously driving more resources to these challenges and saving taxpayer money. It might sound far-fetched, even a bit contradictory — how do you spend more and save more at the same time? Through the development of a new policy innovation called a social-impact bond, it’s possible. First developed in the United Kingdom within the past decade, social-impact bonds are now widely used in that country. Slowly, they are being adopted at the state and local level in the United States. A few weeks ago, we introduced — with broad bipartisan support — the first detailed legislative proposal to adapt social-impact bonds for use at the federal level: the Social Impact Bond Act. While not strictly a bond in the traditional rate-and-term sense, a social-impact bond would unleash private-sector working capital to expand existing, scientifically proven social interventions. As with traditional bonds, the principal would typically be repaid by the government to private-sector investors with a modest return on investment. Here’s the catch: The evidence-based interventions that we propose scaling up must drive government costs down, and in every instance an independent evaluator must validate that the intervention actually delivers to beneficiaries agreed upon positive social outcomes before investor principal or interest is returned. In short, the government only pays for success, and only pays investors out of realized taxpayer savings. Consider the real-world example of the Nurse-Family Partnership program, a nonprofit program established in the 1970s that sends licensed nurses for home visits with pregnant women on Medicaid. The nurses work with the expectant mother on prenatal care and screenings, and continue to visit the family for regular checkups until the child is two years old. Four decades of rigorously evaluated data on this program tells us that served children are more likely to be healthier from birth through adolescence. Consequently, beneficiaries’ expected Medicaid costs are dramatically reduced. A handful of states have looked at using social-impact bonds to expand Nurse-Family Partnership from their larger cities to their statewide population. Let’s approximate that the projected cost of running the program in a particular state is $10,000 per child, but the projected Medicaid savings is $20,000 per child. A social-impact bond would raise the $10,000 in working capital from private investors, use the money to expand and administer the program, and then evaluate the results. If the desired outcomes of healthier children and lowered Medicaid costs were achieved, the government could repay the investors $11,000 per child (a healthy 10 percent return) and still show net savings of $9,000 per child (a whopping 45 percent reduction in spending). The result: A renewed focus on outcomes that actually improve lives, more resources driven to our nation’s pressing social challenges, and taxpayer savings to boot. Every American comes out a winner. Social-impact bonds have the power to fundamentally transform our nation’s social safety net. They will improve outcomes for citizens, drive innovation in social services, and save taxpayer money — a triple bottom line. While innovative states and cities are already finding ways to use them, our legislative proposal aims to entice investors to scale up programs that work by simultaneously capturing savings at the federal, state and local levels — savings which can be used to reward positive outcomes. We invite our colleagues, Republican and Democrat, to shift our collective focus from arbitrary inputs to successful outcomes, and join in this unique opportunity to meaningfully improve lives while advancing fiscal responsibility. ##
07.24.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) wrote to Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley and MEMA Executive Director Ken Mallette asking that the state reconsider its decision to not request federal aid for communities impacted by the June flooding in Western Maryland. The text of the letter is below: July 24, 2014 Governor Martin O’Malley Maryland State House 100 State Circle Annapolis, Maryland 21401 Ken Mallette Executive Director Maryland Emergency Management Agency 5401 Rue St. Lo Drive Reisterstown, Maryland 21136 Dear Governor O’Malley & Executive Director Mallette: On June 12, 2014, heavy rain fell throughout the day in sections of Allegany and Washington Counties in Western Maryland. The storm produced several inches of rain, resulting in severe flooding. Well over 200 residences were impacted, resulting in millions of dollars in damages. I write today to express my worry that my constituents in Washington and Allegany County will not receive the assistance they need to rebuild and repair their lives and their communities. Respectfully, I would like to ask that the state reconsider its decision not to seek federal aid, given the possibility that additional factors could increase the likelihood of assistance. I know how committed you and your team at the Maryland Emergency Management Administration have been to the well-being of Marylanders in the past and I appreciate the prompt action you took in declaring Allegany and Washington County disaster areas in June. Given the interrelated state and federal components of the aid process, I look forward to working together to do all that we can for our constituents. As you know, distribution of federal assistance is incumbent upon a state request to the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA). It is important to stress the extent of the damages in these counties. To date, several families have lost their homes, many more were damaged, and churches, businesses and schools are in need of repairs. Initial estimates in Allegany and Washington counties have assessed the costs at $3.6 million which includes debris removal, emergency protective measures, damaged roads, bridges and buildings. In Allegany County, 175 residences were impacted by the flood and in Washington County 65 residences were damaged or destroyed. It appears that no family affected by the flood in Allegany County has flood insurance and only three families in Washington County are insured. This unfortunate reality exacerbates the emotional and financial cost of repairing and rebuilding. Additionally, several businesses have been damaged by the flood, resulting in financial trauma to not only the owners of these businesses but also the communities that rely on them. No formal request for federal assistance was made by your office to FEMA in the form of the Preliminary Damage Assessment (PDA). Typically, federal assistance is often based on state “indicators” a mathematical calculation based on a state’s population and per capita accumulated damage. Maryland’s threshold to trigger federal assistance is $8,025,237.38 dollars. However, there are additional factors that can be considered by FEMA for Federal Individual Assistance for disasters. One of these special considerations is the breadth of insurance coverage among affected residents. FEMA can also consider what they call “special populations” that are especially distressed. These special populations include low-income communities and communities with a large proportion of unemployed residents. Consideration is also given to the concentration of damage, as well as the capability of local governments and charities to respond fully. I am concerned that these additional considerations, especially the widespread lack of insurance and the depth of the need in these communities, were not fully considered by MEMA. In letters sent to Washington and Allegany Counties on July 9, in response to their appeal for federal aid through FEMA, MEMA Executive Director Mallette wrote the following: MEMA’s experience in applying for these individual assistance programs in the past is that FEMA relies heavily on the chart detailing the Average Amount of Assistance per Disaster in considering individual assistance applications. For the purposes of this program, Maryland is considered a mid-sized state, and on average FEMA looks for 582 homes with major damage or which are destroyed before approving individual assistance. […] In light of these numbers and the broader context of the application criteria and process, we have concluded that Allegany and Washington counties will not meet FEMA’s standards for federal individual disaster assistance. Based on this statement, it appears that the state did not consider all the factors which could influence FEMA’s aid decision for the families and business owners in Western Maryland. I do not want our constituents in Western Maryland to fall through the cracks. It is vitally important that we do all that we can to get assistance to these families that are in need of our support. Although the date to submit a PDA with FEMA has passed, it may be possible to receive an extension from FEMA and to apply for assistance. I respectfully request that your office explore filing an extension for FEMA federal aid for the families of Western Maryland. Given the problematic nature of FEMA’s assistance thresholds and formulas, it is likely that similar situations will continue to arise, with bad outcomes for Marylanders. I believe this is an area where our offices can work together to make the case for our constituents and to make sure that FEMA standards are applicable. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, John K. Delaney Member of Congress Maryland’s Sixth Congressional District ##
07.22.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, the House passed H.R. 5035, to reauthorize the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). The legislation authorizes NIST for fiscal years 2014 and 2015. Founded in 1901, NIST is an agency of the Department of Commerce which works to promote innovation in the United States and enhance the competitiveness of American industries by advancing measurement, calibration and quality assurance techniques that support U.S. commerce, technological progress, public safety and product reliability. NIST research areas include: bioscience, fire research, chemistry, energy, information technology, manufacturing, nanotechnology and telecommunications. “NIST helps America compete by supporting American businesses and jobs in today’s high-tech global economy,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “NIST’s partnership with the private sector and its work to strengthen measurement and quality control standards helps our nation’s businesses to deliver world-class products and services. I’m proud to represent many of the men and women who make up NIST’s highly skilled workforce. NIST’s reauthorization is good news for America; this agency has served the country since 1901 and should continue to do so for years to come.” NIST carries out its mission through a number of programs, including: the world-class NIST Laboratories; the Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership, a nationwide network of local centers offering business assistance; and the Baldrige Performance Excellence Program, which promotes excellence amongst U.S. companies. NIST operates out of two locations, Gaithersburg, Maryland; and Boulder, Colorado. Funding for NIST came in the Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, which passed the House on May 15. Delaney voted for the bill. ##
07.18.2014	WASHINGTON – Thursday Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted for a package of tax breaks designed to encourage charitable giving in the United States. The House passed the legislation, The Fighting Hunger Incentive Act of 2014 (H.R. 4719) in a 277-130 vote. The bill restores and makes permanent three charitable-giving tax provisions that expired last year and creates two new tax benefits. “I was proud to vote for commonsense legislation that encourages more giving and reduces taxes related to charitable activity, this is the right thing to do,” said Congressman Delaney. “We’ve got to respond to the suffering and hardship we know is happening all around us. Government has a role, charities have a role, and individuals have a role. I’ve seen firsthand the incredible and heroic work done by our local charities like Manna Foods in Gaithersburg, the United Way Prosperity Center in Frederick, Jane’s Place in Cumberland, and Walnut Street Community Health Center in Hagerstown. In Washington we need to spend more time thinking about the less fortunate and how we can find common ground and work together to help those in need.” H.R. 4719 does the following: revives and expands the enhanced deduction for businesses that contribute food inventory to charities, renews a provision allowing tax-free distributions from individual retirement accounts to qualifying charities, restores the deduction of charitable contributions of real property for conservation purposes, allows individuals to deduct charitable contributions made after a year but before a return is due and reduces to 1 percent the investment income excise tax rate for private foundations. The legislation was supported by The American Red Cross, The Salvation Army, The Girl Scouts, The Natural Resources Defense Council, and over 800 other organizations. ##
07.18.2014	WASHINGTON – Thursday a Malaysia Airlines plane crashed in eastern Ukraine with 298 people on board. According to the Washington Post, U.S. intelligence believes that the plane was brought down by an antiaircraft missile. At least one American citizen was killed aboard the plane. President Obama has announced that the United States is prepared to offer the support of the FBI and the National Transportation Safety Board to fully investigate the crash site and called for a credible international investigation of the incident. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement: “The crash and potential missile attack upon this plane is deeply troubling and deeply sad. Hundreds of lives were lost from countries around the world, including our own, in what appears to be a heinous act of aggression upon innocent people. We must gather the facts and send a resolute message to the world in defense of our people, our allies, and our values. “The turmoil and violence in the region were already a crisis and it appears that the chaos and instability is spreading and intensifying. This international flight, with passengers from around the world, tragically exemplifies how in our interconnected world no conflict of this scale is an isolated matter. “New sanctions against Russia were just announced this week and we must keep the pressure on Russia and Russian-aligned groups and stand firm with our allies in support of the people of Ukraine. It is time to rededicate our commitment to NATO and encourage our partners to do the same and renew our commitment to peace in the region so that we can avoid further catastrophes such as this huge loss of civilian life.” ##
07.16.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) announces his intention to introduce legislation this fall that would provide funding for a long-term highway bill at increased levels of investment. The Delaney bill will provide additional transportation revenue through international tax reform and provide a long-term solution to funding the Highway Trust Fund. Yesterday, the House passed the Highway and Transportation Funding Act (H.R. 5021), which extends authorization for the Surface Transportation programs (MAP-21) until May 31 and patches the Highway Trust Fund only through May. In May, Delaney outlined a long-term funding solution to the Highway Trust Fund in the Washington Post. Delaney’s proposal in the Washington Post provides enough funding for six years of solvency for the Highway Trust Fund, even at higher levels of investment, and creates a new American Infrastructure Fund to finance additional projects using revenues from overseas earnings. Delaney’s Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084), currently the most bipartisan economic bill in Congress, with 37 Republican and 33 Democratic cosponsors in the House, uses the same framework. “Although I supported the short-term patch to the Highway Trust Fund because jobs depend on the Highway Trust Fund remaining solvent through the busy summer construction season, this patch is nothing to celebrate,” said Congressman Delaney. “We have a real problem, America’s infrastructure is crumbling and we desperately need to create more jobs and help our businesses grow. A clear commonsense bipartisan solution is before us: fix the corporate tax code and use overseas revenues to provide enough funding for a long-term highway bill at increased levels of investment so we can rebuild the country. For the last year, I’ve been working on this issue, meeting with members of each party, one-on-one, to build common ground. There’s bipartisan support for this framework, which combines goals important to both liberals and conservatives. Importantly, a long-term solution will give our businesses certainty so they can grow and hire more people. The American Society of Civil Engineers has given America’s infrastructure a D+ grade: I don’t believe in a D+ America.” The Highway Trust Fund funds roughly 90 percent of federal surface transportation projects in the United States. The $10 billion dollar patch to the Highway Trust Fund passed Tuesday is paid for by pension smoothing, a one-year extension of user fees, and a transfer from a trust fund used to remediate leaking underground storage tanks. ##
07.15.2014	WASHINGTON – The Office of Inspector General (OIG) has issued a report on the inappropriate handling of records at the Baltimore VA Regional Office. According to the OIG report, which was issued July 14, “a supervisor had inappropriately stockpiled about 8,000 documents in an office” and “more than 9,500 documents and 80 claims folders lacked the oversight necessary to ensure timely claims processing and the protection of veteran and employee PII” (Personally Identifiable Information). The report is available online here. In 2013 the Baltimore Sun reported that the Baltimore VA has the slowest processing times in the country. Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (MD-5) has called for Sloan Gibson, Acting Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to meet with the Maryland Delegation to address the widespread problems at the Baltimore VA. Hoyer has requested that Undersecretary Hickey and Acting Director Waller also attend the briefing. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement: “The details revealed in this report are an outrage. Maryland’s veterans deserve better than this. The problems reported this week are deeply troubling: mismanagement has led to delayed claims processing and a considerable identity security risk to our veterans. What makes this report deeply concerning is that the Baltimore VA has been plagued by widespread problems for a long time and has been the slowest in the country in processing disability claims. My office hears from constituents nearly every single day about problems originating from the Baltimore VA. As a former CEO, the OIG report isn’t a single data point to me; it is evidence that the entire structure and system at this facility needs to be reevaluated. The VA needs to name a new Director of the Baltimore office as soon as possible, because this is a time when leadership matters. I join Congressman Hoyer in calling for Acting Secretary Gibson to meet with us, face-to-face. It’s time to get to the bottom of what’s gone wrong in Baltimore.” In May, Congressman Delaney was one of the first elected officials to call for VA Secretary Shinseki to resign. This spring, Delaney voted for measures to improve VA services (H.R. 4810) and new legislation to hold poorly performing VA employees accountable (H.R. 4031). ##
07.14.2014	WASHINGTON – On Friday, July 11, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) awarded a $207,176 federal grant to the Shaft Volunteer Fire Department in Frostburg. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) is designed to help fire departments and first response units obtain equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training and other resources. The Shaft Volunteer Fire Department was organized in 1938, serving a 25 mile area. “I’m happy to announce federal support for the Shaft Volunteer Fire Department, which is extremely well-deserved. The Shaft Volunteer Fire Department responds to hundreds of calls a year and over the decades has become a trusted community institution,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “When it comes to public safety, the local, state, and federal levels of government all have a role to play, and I believe it is highly appropriate for federal grants to support local firefighters. Local fire departments are fundamental to safe communities: putting out fires in homes, businesses, and vehicles; removing hazardous materials; performing rescues and more. Firefighters are our local heroes and we should give them the tools they need to continue to save lives.” ##
07.10.2014	Washington, D.C. – Representatives John K. Delaney (MD-6), John Carney (DE – at large), and Jim Himes (CT-4) today introduced innovative housing finance reform legislation, the Partnership to Strengthen Homeownership Act (H.R. 5055). This legislation preserves the 30-year fixed rate mortgage and protects American taxpayers by using private sector pricing to reduce the risk of future bailouts. It shifts the housing finance market away from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and keeps home ownership attainable for working families by strengthening affordable housing programs. The Partnership to Strengthen Homeownership Act combines the federal government’s unique ability to provide capacity with the private sector’s superior ability to price and analyze risk. Joining Delaney, Carney, and Himes are 9 additional original cosponsors: Rep. Jared Polis (CO-2), Rep. Denny Heck (WA-10), Rep. Bill Owens (NY-21), Rep. Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-9), Rep. Patrick Murphy (FL-18), Rep. Peter Welch (VT – at large), Rep. David Scott (GA-13), Rep. Gregory Meeks (NY-5), and Rep. Bill Foster (IL-13). The bill establishes an insurance program through Ginnie Mae whereby it makes available the full faith and credit of the federal government, while protecting taxpayer dollars through adequate private sector capital and accurate pricing of government reinsurance. All government guaranteed single-family and multi-family mortgage-backed securities will be supported by a minimum of 5% private sector capital, standing in a first loss position. The remaining 95% of the risk will be shared between Ginnie Mae and a private reinsurer on a pari passu basis. The bill winds down Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s current activities and revokes their charter, but allows them to be sold and recapitalized as entities with different business plans without any of their current unique powers. “America needs housing finance reform for the long-term health of the economy, the viability of the American Dream of homeownership, and the protection of the U.S. taxpayer. Congress has to act and we are committed to keeping housing finance reform on the agenda,” said Congressman Delaney. “We’ve seen what happens when the housing market becomes distorted and policy fails the public: hard-working Americans lose their homes, the economy slumps and the taxpayer is left responsible. By maintaining a government guarantee, introducing private sector pricing and increased taxpayer protections, our legislation can bring both sides of the aisle together. Neither side has a monopoly on good ideas and I look forward to working with my colleagues and stakeholder groups so that we can stabilize the housing finance market for decades to come.” “The driving force behind my work on this bill is to keep home-buying affordable by preserving the thirty-year fixed rate mortgage, while protecting taxpayer dollars in the event of another housing downturn,” said Congressman Carney. “We aren’t the first group to try to find a solution to reforming our housing finance system. But we think our proposal has promise because it strikes the necessary balance between public and private sector involvement in the housing market. If we don’t fix the current system, taxpayers continue to be the backstop in case of another crisis, and the thirty-year fixed rate mortgage is in danger.” “This legislation ensures that new homeowners will continue to have access to the affordable, predictable financing options they need, while protecting taxpayers and our economy from future downturns,” said Congressman Himes. “Our bill combines the market’s efficiency in pricing risk with government's ability to provide scale to create a safer, more liquid housing market that preserves access to affordable housing for American families.” The full text of the legislation is available here. Delaney-Carney-Himes Partnership to Strengthen Homeownership Bill Summary Private Capital and Privately-Priced Government Guarantee Ginnie Mae will establish a mortgage insurance program where at least 5% of the first loss capital is held by private entities and the remaining 95% of the risk is shared on a pari passu basis between the government and private reinsurer. Ginnie Mae will study and design two types of programs and implement the most efficient program to achieve the risk-sharing principles outlined above. Program 1: Reinsurance Bid Model Aggregators and issuers will be permitted to deliver qualified mortgage pools to Ginnie Mae. The pricing Ginnie charges for the guarantee will be ascertained through an insurance bidding process described below. Ginnie will secure forward reinsurance contracts on a periodic basis (30-90 days), with the assistance of a reinsurance broker appointed annually in a competitive process. The bids will seek coverage for two levels of risk on each securitization – the 5% “first loss” and the remaining 95% “second loss.” From these bids, Ginnie will contract with a series of carriers for each risk and aggregate the policies. For the first loss, Ginnie will seek bids for 100% of its expected exposure. For the second loss, Ginnie will seek bids for 100% of its aggregate exposure but will offer retrocessional reinsurance for up to 90% of the second loss cover. Ginnie Mae’s guarantee fee quote will cover a forward period (Quote Period) as determined by Ginnie. Prices passed onto originators may vary based on quality of product, and other factors as determined by Ginnie, so long as the overall pricing is equivalent to a weighted-average bid in a given period. Program 2: Guarantor Model Ginnie Mae will reinsure first loss holders of risk through an insurance system where insurers/guarantors holding mortgage credit risk on an aggregate, loan by loan, or security basis. In addition to security level coverage, insurers/guarantors are authorized to issue loan level coverage to lenders as long as the coverage is for 100%, or if less than 100% loan level coverage, the servicer is responsible for any losses the guarantor did not cover Ginnie will reinsure bond guarantor and/or issuers by entering into contracts with private sector reinsurers sharing risk on a 90/10 pari passu basis To the extent Ginnie Mae will be reinsuring insolvency of a bond guarantor and/or insurers, it will be required to enter into risk-sharing contracts with private reinsurers to assess the risk of default of any entity. Under either program, each mortgage-backed security meeting the outlined private sector capital requirements will carry the full faith and credit of the United States Government, but with private sector directed pricing. Banks, life insurance companies, REITS, insurance companies and other Ginnie approved market participants will be eligible to participate in the insurance and risk sharing transactions with Ginnie Mae. All market participants will be overseen by Ginnie Mae and Ginnie will have authority to establish necessary capital levels and stress tests. Small Lender Access Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac may remain as aggregators of mortgage loans for small lenders that do not have the sufficient volume to pool and create these new securities with their mortgage loans on their own, so long as adequate private sector alternatives do not exist. The Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLBs) will be authorized to aggregate and pool mortgages for small lenders. Issuing Platform The platform will allow for standardized securities thus creating a single security and creating a deeper and more liquid TBA market which will reduce the cost of mortgage credit for consumers. Standardized Mortgages, Servicing, and Capital Requirements Transition FHFA regulation to Ginnie Mae with oversight over the secondary mortgage market. Mortgages eligible for the full faith guaranty must meet minimum underwriting standards. Ginnie will maintain the power to stress test all market participants and define adequate capital standards. Fannie and Freddie Fannie and Freddie will be wound down over a five year period. Their government guarantee and charter will be removed and they will repay the government with interest for the government’s investment in the institutions. The repayment must take into account both the injection of capital and the overall exposure to the government. During the transition, Fannie and Freddie may act as an aggregator for small lenders to retain small lender access to the new Ginnie Mae Platform. The transition will continue until competitive access for small lenders is established and Ginnie has achieved and adequate return to taxpayers and established a competitive private housing finance market. The assets of Fannie and Freddie will be returned to the private sector and may operate within the new mortgage system as issuers and/or aggregators. Affordable Housing Ginnie Mae will charge a fee for the insurance that they provide for these securities. The fees charged will range 10 basis points of the total principal balance of these mortgages. The monies acquired will be allocated to strengthening affordable housing programs facilitated by the federal government. The funds received will be allocated to the Housing Trust Fund (75%), the Capital Management Fund (15%) and the Market Access Fund (10%). Ginnie will be under a duty to serve all markets. Multifamily Housing Fannie and Freddie’s multifamily business will be spun out as separate entities. Ginnie will be required to create and implement a workable multifamily guarantee that utilizes private sector pricing consistent with the single family model. The current multifamily businesses of Fannie and Freddie will continue to function within the new multifamily housing market as purely private organizations with an explicit government guarantee provided by Ginnie Mae and a private sector reinsurer. Well-functioning TBA Market Investors will receive timely principle and interest payments through Ginnie Mae. This model will also ensure that the one standardized security is delivered to the TBA Market. This will increase liquidity and limit disruptions to the secondary mortgage market, which will ultimately benefit consumers. ##
07.09.2014	WASHINGTON - On Tuesday Frederick County announced that the major municipal rating agencies had issued favorable assessments of the county’s credit. Frederick County received the following ratings: Fitch Ratings, AAA with a stable outlook; Moody’s Investors, Aa1 with a stable outlook; and Standard & Poor’s, AAA with a stable outlook. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement: “I’d like to congratulate Frederick County on receiving their highest bond ratings in history this week. This is big news for Frederick County: with higher ratings comes increased flexibility and greater ease of investment. Good credit is essential to a growing jurisdiction like Frederick County, which has fast become one of the most dynamic areas of our state. Coming from the financial services sector, I understand how thorough the credit evaluation process from the major agencies can be, so these evaluations are a real testament to the work of everyone in County government, from the Commissioners to the employees.” ##
07.03.2014	WASHINGTON –Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement on Independence Day: “On this day, more than 200 years ago, a nation was born thanks to one incredible founding document, the Declaration of Independence. In the years since, the Declaration has provided a foundation for our democracy and a statement of our values. This July 4th gives us all a moment to reflect on the work of our founders and their fight to secure equality, sovereignty and inalienable rights for their country and for the generations to come. For over two centuries, these values have provided a compass for the United States, guiding our nation’s progress and inspiring democratic efforts around the world. “As we come together with friends and family to celebrate this Independence Day, I’m happy to recognize today’s patriots who continue to take a stand for the United States, from those Americans who serve in our Armed Forces, to America’s veterans, to the men and women who work in their local communities to build a better country, neighborhood by neighborhood. In big cities, suburbs, and small towns, from Accident to Gaithersburg, the Spirit of 1776 is alive today and our flag still flies. “My family and I wish everyone a happy Independence Day. God bless America.” ##
06.30.2014	WASHINGTON – Today the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) awarded the Garrett County Community Action Committee (GCCAC) with a $1,696,669 grant for Head Start. Head Start is a federal program that promotes school readiness for children under 5 from low-income households. “Today’s announcement of the HHS Head Start grant for Garrett County Community Action is good news for my constituents in Maryland’s westernmost county. Head Start is one of our most important federal programs because supporting early education clearly benefits both individual children and our society as a whole,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “Every child in America deserves a world-class education and an opportunity to pursue the American Dream. I have been impressed by the work done by The Garrett County Community Action Committee, which is a tremendous on-the-ground resource for the people of Garrett County in implementing federal programs and helping people in need. Partnerships that combine federal resources with local expertise can often produce better results, especially with a dedicated staff such as the one at the GCCAC.” Founded in 1965, the Garrett County Community Action Committee is a private non-profit corporation that provides services to Garrett County residents. The GCCAC is governed by a 15-member board of directors composed of community leaders from across Garrett County. Congressman Delaney toured Garrett County Community Action’s headquarters in Oakland earlier this year and met with Duane Yoder, President, to discuss the organization’s needs and priorities. ##
06.26.2014	WASHINGTON – Thursday, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) met with the Teachers of the Year from each of the five counties in Maryland’s Sixth District at the Capitol, joining them for lunch in the Member’s Dining Room and offering his congratulations. Delaney also submitted an official statement of recognition into the Congressional Record. The following teachers, each who have been named 2014-15 Teachers of the Year in their counties, joined Delaney in Washington: Dana Reinhardt: Allegany County Public Schools, George’s Creek Elementary Erin Doolittle: Frederick County Public Schools, Hillcrest Elementary School Ryan Wolf: Garrett County Public Schools, Southern Garrett High School Jane Lindsay: Montgomery County Public Schools, John Poole Middle School Courtney Leard: Washington County Public Schools, Fountaindale Elementary School Delaney submitted the following statement into the official Congressional Record: Mr. Speaker, I would like to recognize and honor the following Teachers for being named Teacher of the Year in their counties, each of which is in Maryland’s Sixth District: Mrs. Dana Reinhardt: Teacher of the Year Allegany County Public Schools, 3rd Grade, George’s Creek Elementary School. Ms. Erin Doolittle: Teacher of the Year Frederick County Public Schools, Pre-K, Hillcrest Elementary School. Mr. Ryan Wolf: Teacher of the Year Garrett County Public Schools, Math, Southern Garrett High School. Mrs. Jane Lindsay: Teacher of the Year Montgomery County Public Schools, 8th Grade Reading and English, John Poole Middle School. Mrs. Courtney Leard: Teacher of the Year Washington County Public Schools , 2nd Grade, Fountaindale Elementary School. There are few callings more important to society than teaching, and these teachers have shown extraordinary skill, commitment, and ingenuity in the classroom. Dana Reinhardt, Erin Doolittle, Ryan Wolf, Jane Lindsay, and Courtney Leard have made a difference for their students and made their communities stronger. Their example is a reminder of the great work done by teachers across Maryland and around the country. Every child in America deserves teachers like this and schools that position them to succeed as adults. It was my sincere honor to meet with them in the U.S. Capitol and hear their perspective on the major issues in education today. Mr. Speaker, I ask that you and my other distinguished colleagues join me in congratulating these Teachers of the Year for their tremendous achievement. Thank You ##
06.25.2014	WASHINGTON – Alexa Thompson of Gaithersburg is the winner of the 2014 Congressional Art Competition for Maryland’s Sixth District. Today, Alexa met Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) at the Capitol and was honored with other district winners from around the country. Alexa is a student at Quince Orchard High School. Alexa’s art teacher is Julie Newcomer. Alexa’s entry – titled, “As I Am” – was created using a digital palette knife. Her work is a portrait of a girl contrasting warm color tones with cooler tones. “As I Am” is currently hanging in the U.S. Capitol, in the tunnel leading to the Cannon House Building, one of the busiest corridors in the Capitol complex. “I’m excited to announce Alexa Thompson as the 2014 Congressional Art Competition winner for our district,” said Congressman Delaney. “We had so many wonderful entries this year, but Alexa’s entry ‘As I Am’ stood out. Her work is a modern take on one of the oldest genres, the self-portrait, with arresting colors that capture the eye from across the room. It is a privilege and a pleasure to conduct the Congressional Art Competition, which is an annual reminder of the incredible talent of students like Alexa and others across our region.” The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to encourage and recognize artistic talent. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated in the nationwide competition. Earlier this year, student entries from the Sixth District were displayed at the Delaplaine Arts Center in Frederick. For a high-res photo of Alexa and Congressman Delaney or Alexa, her mother and her winning entry, contact Will McDonald. ##
06.20.2014	WASHINGTON – Today the House passed the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for 2015 (H.R. 4870). The legislation includes a measure introduced by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) to increase funding for Fisher House, which provides free lodging near military and Veterans Affairs (VA) facilities for military families. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted for the bill. “Providing for the common defense is one of the core duties of our government. These are challenging times, at home and abroad, and this Defense appropriations bill – while not perfect – helps our country respond to the needs of the 21st century, including more funding for research and development, increased support for medical study, and a ramped up effort to prevent military suicides,” said Congressman Delaney. “Most importantly, this bill gives our military a much-deserved raise.” “I was proud to play a role in improving this bill by increasing our support for Fisher House, which is consistently rated as one of the nation’s top military non-profits,” Delaney continued. “No American veteran or warfighter should have to receive hospital care alone, simply because their family cannot afford to stay nearby. Fisher House keeps thousands of military families together during extremely difficult times. My amendment will allow Fisher House to build more homes away from home, which is much needed. I look forward to working with my colleagues to build support for Fisher House in the Senate.” The increased funding for Fisher House will allow the foundation to build more homes and is fully offset by a reduction in the Operation and Maintenance account. Since 1990, the Fisher House Foundation has provided more than five million days of lodging to more than 180,000 families. Delaney also successfully increased funding for Fisher House in last year’s House Defense Appropriations bill, however, that measure was not included in the final conference version that emerged after the government shutdown. Currently, there are 63 Fisher Houses located on 23 military installations and 24 VA medical centers across the country. Fisher Houses are normally located within walking distance of the treatment facility or provide transportation for guests. The Fisher House Foundation is a Maryland-based 501(c)(3) not-for-profit that builds the homes and then donates them to the U.S. government. The Defense Appropriations Act also included a pay raise for military personnel of 1.8%, an additional $20 million for the Suicide Prevention Office, and an increase of $500 million above the White House request for medical research, including Traumatic Brain Injury. The legislation was also amended to maintain the A-10 Warthog, an amendment supported by Rep. Delaney. ##
06.20.2014	WASHINGTON – This week, President Obama announced that his administration plans to issue an executive order banning discrimination by federal contractors on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) is also an original cosponsor of the House version of the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA), which would prohibit employment discrimination based upon actual or perceived sexual orientation or gender identity in the private sector. “Workplace discrimination based upon sexual orientation or gender identity has no place in America,” said Congressman Delaney. “Congress should pass ENDA immediately, but while America waits for an end to the partisan gridlock around this commonsense law, the President’s actions are an appropriate step. Federal contractors supported by taxpayer dollars should not discriminate. The good news is that many leading companies are already doing the right thing on LGBT protections, but more work remains to be done.” Additionally, Delaney is a cosponsor of The Student Non-Discrimination Act, which would prohibit public schools from excluding LGBT students from programs based on their orientation or identity, and is a cosponsor of the Safe Schools Act, which would require schools to adopt policies that ensure LGBT youth are protected from bullying and intimidation. Delaney has also cosponsored legislation to expand LGBT rights in the adoption and foster care process, the Every Child Deserves a Family Act. ##
06.19.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has successfully introduced a measure to increase federal funding for Fisher Houses by $16 million. Fisher Houses are designed to be a “home away from home” for the families of patients receiving medical care at major military and VA medical centers. Families stay for free while the patient is receiving care. The Delaney amendment passed by voice vote Wednesday and will be included in the final version of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act (H.R. 4870). The increase in funding for Fisher Houses was fully offset by a $24 million dollar decrease in the $32 billion dollar Operation and Maintenance Defense-wide account, where outlays are usually only 67% of budget authority. “Recent reports of problems at the VA have underscored the need for us to marshal additional resources in this most critical national area,” said Congressman Delaney. “Fisher Houses are a tremendous resource for veterans and their families; allowing them to avoid financial hardship so that they can be together when one of our heroes is receiving care. My amendment will allow the Fisher House Foundation to build new homes across the country. I thank my colleagues for supporting my amendment and look forward to building further support for this worthy cause.” Delaney also successfully introduced an amendment to increase funding for Fisher House last year, but the amendment was not included in the final conference version of Defense Appropriations. The Fisher House Foundation is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit that builds these homes and then donates them to the U.S. government. Currently, there are 63 Fisher Houses located on 23 military installations and 24 VA medical centers across the country. Fisher Houses are normally located within walking distance of the treatment facility or provide transportation for guests. Since 1990, the Fisher House Foundation has provided more than five million days of lodging to more than 180,000 families. ##
06.18.2014	WASHINGTON - Reps. Todd Young (R-IN9) and John Delaney (D-MD6) introduced H.R. 4885, the Social Impact Bond Act, on Wednesday, legislation that would foster the creation of public-private partnerships that harness philanthropic and other private-sector investments to scale up scientifically-proven social and public health programs. Joining Young and Delaney in introducing the bill were Reps. Tim Griffin (R-AR2), John Larson (D-CT1), Tom Reed (R-NY23), Jared Polis (D-CO2), Dennis Ross (R-FL15), Joe Kennedy (D-MA4), and Aaron Schock (R-IL18). Under the proposed legislation, the federal government would establish desired outcomes to pressing social challenges that, if achieved, would improve lives and save government money. State and municipal governments could then submit proposals to work towards those outcomes—such as increasing adoption rates of teenagers in foster care, or improving the health and mortality rates of infants born into low-income families—by scaling up existing, scientifically-proven interventions. Private sector investors would provide the capital needed to expand the existing programs, and, if an independent evaluator were able to validate that the desired outcomes were met and money was saved, the investors would be paid back their initial investment plus a small return from the realized government savings. “Social Impact Bonds have the potential to transform our nation’s social safety net by shifting the focus of such programs from inputs to outcomes,” said Young. “In other words, instead of arguing about how much or how little we are spending, policymakers should reward what works based on actual evidence. Whether you think government ought to do more to help our fellow Americans in need, or you think government needs to save money wherever possible, social impact bonds provide a solution on both counts. I’ve been honored to work on this idea with a bipartisan group of colleagues, chief among them Congressman John Delaney, and I look forward to our continued cooperation on these efforts.” “This bipartisan legislation harnesses the power of the private sector to improve government services while saving taxpayer dollars,” said Delaney. “Best of all, it moves our government to be more evidence-focused, so we can pay for achieving desired outcomes rather than paying for services regardless of the outcome. This is a true win-win for our constituents and for our taxpayers. The Social Impact Bonds already being implemented in the States prove it can be done, and if we want federal savings, we need to get the federal government involved. I have a been a strong supporter of Social Impact Bonds and the Pay For Success model, and I want to thank Congressman Todd Young for his leadership on this issue. He and his staff have been a pleasure to work with, and I look forward to continuing to work with him as we push to advance this legislation in Congress.” Additional statements from legislative co-sponsors and outside groups can be found at https://toddyoung.house.gov/sib-supporters. Already in widespread use in the United Kingdom, thus far social impact bonds have only been utilized on a very limited scale in the United States. The Social Impact Bond Act is the first detailed proposal to adapt the social impact bond model for broad use at the federal level, and the first proposal to incentivize the realization of savings across multiple layers of government (i.e., federal, state, and local). More information on the concept and legislation, including full bill text, supplementary materials, and a list of supporters, can be found at https://toddyoung.house.gov/social-impact-bonds. ###
06.16.2014	WASHINGTON – The Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) has awarded the Washington County Board of Commissioners a $25,000 grant for a manufacturing supply chain study. The ARC grant will be matched by local support, for a project total of $50,000. The funds will allow the Washington County Economic Development Commission to identify supply chain opportunities and highlight companies that could potentially relocate to Washington County. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement: “Whether you’re growing you own small business or jumpstarting a regional economy, it’s important to gather the relevant data and identify your strengths, weaknesses, and opportunities. Local officials in Washington County have taken a proactive approach, which I think is very constructive, and I applaud the Appalachian Regional Commission for supporting this study. Encouraging middle class job growth is one of the key challenges of our time, locally and nationally and this is an appropriate federal and local partnership. We need a strong manufacturing sector for a strong middle class. Washington County’s location and infrastructure give it great potential as a supply chain and manufacturing hub.” ##
06.13.2014	WASHINGTON – Severe flooding has impacted communities across Maryland in the last two days, including extensive damage in Allegany and Washington County. Maryland Governor Martin O`Malley issued a Declaration of Emergency for Allegany and Washington County Friday afternoon. The Maryland Emergency Management Agency will complete their Preliminary Disaster Assessment next week, the first step in requesting federal assistance. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement: “In the last two days, parts of Washington and Allegany County have seen some of the worst flooding in years. In some places, these floods have been nearly unprecedented and occurred with shocking rapidity. April and I join thousands across the region who are praying for a dry weekend and a rapid recovery and rebuild. While the full extent of the damage is not yet known, and more storms remain in the forecast, it is clear that significant losses have taken place. First and foremost, I encourage any Marylander impacted by these floods to consider my office at your service in the days and weeks to come. “We are working in conjunction with MEMA to determine if federal assistance can be garnered. I stand ready to coordinate and assist in any capacity and to be an advocate for Allegany and Washington County. “I would also like to personally thank the first responders, many who began heroic work yesterday across the area. I applaud the Governor for issuing the Declaration of Emergency for the counties today, the first step in additional assistance coming to the area. I’d also like to thank the local officials and those working with the Red Cross, United Way, and Salvation Army; as well as those individuals who have volunteered to help their neighbors. Their actions, even more than the rising waters, are what will be remembered for years to come.” Sixth District residents impacted by the floods are encouraged to contact Delaney’s Hagerstown office: 301-733-2900. ##
06.12.2014	WASHINGTON – This week, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted for The Veteran Access to Care Act (H.R. 4810), which passed the House in a strong bipartisan vote. There have been widespread problems at Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) hospitals across the country, including: secret waiting lists, long wait times for care, and mismanaged treatments. The legislation requires the VA to enter into contracts with private health facilities to provide care to veterans who experience long wait times. The Access to Care Act also allows veterans that live more than 40 miles away from a VA hospital or clinic to receive care from non-VA providers. On May 21, Delaney voted for the Department of Veterans Affairs Management Accountability Act (H.R. 4031), which makes it easier for the VA to fire ineffective employees. “What’s happening at the VA is a real outrage and Congress must remain vigilant in response to the problems taking place. This is straightforward to me: those who serve our country deserve the benefits they’ve earned, including prompt and effective medical care,” said Congressman Delaney. “There are tens of thousands of veterans in my district and they deserve first class care. There are also many dedicated public servants who work at the VA and I want to make sure they have the resources and the policies in place to do their jobs well. The problems at the VA are wide-ranging, including a huge backlog for processing benefit and disability claims, especially for my constituents dealing with the Baltimore Regional Office, it’s clear we have more work to do and we must aggressively tackle these issues. I encourage any of my constituents who are experiencing problems with the VA to contact my office immediately; we are ready to be your advocate.” Constituents who need help with the VA can contact Congressman Delaney’s office at 301-926-0300. ##
06.11.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has introduced a House resolution in support of his constituent, Warren Weinstein. Weinstein was kidnapped by al-Qaeda in Pakistan in 2011, while working for a government contractor. Delaney also spoke on the House floor Tuesday, highlighting Warren’s capture. In January, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) wrote to President Obama and Secretary of State Kerry, urging them to “do everything they can” to bring Warren home. The Delaney House resolution urges the Administration to bring Weinstein home. The text of the Resolution is below: Whereas Warren Weinstein was abducted in Pakistan in 2011 and is currently being held captive by al-Qaeda; Whereas Warren Weinstein is a former Peace Corps and former United States Agency for International Development official; Whereas Warren Weinstein is widely recognized as a scholar and humanitarian who has spent his career working to improve the lives of men, women, and children around the world; and Whereas video released of Warren Weinstein by his captors confirms that he is in poor health: Now, therefore, be it Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), That it is the sense of Congress that the Administration should— (1) use all of the lawful tools at its disposal to bring Warren Weinstein home to his family; (2) make the return of all United States citizens held captive abroad, regardless of their different circumstances, a top priority; and (3) keep Congress apprised of its actions to achieve these goals as new information is available, or quarterly if no new information is available. Congressman Delaney’s floor remarks are available online and copied below: Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Today, I rise in support of my constituent, Warren Weinstein, who has been held captive by Al-Qaeda for over one thousand days. This past week the headlines have been dominated by the release of Bowe Bergdahl. But, these headlines should also remind us that there are other Americans held as prisoners overseas. Warren is a loving husband, a father, a grandfather. He’s 72 years old. Recent videos released by Al-Qaeda show him in bad and deteriorating health. This is a man of peace, and of love. He has dedicated his life to public service, starting with the Peace Corps up until his service with the USAID, which is what he was doing in Pakistan when he was captured, four days before his scheduled return. I have written the administration, and encouraged them to use all means available to bring Warren home. And this week we’ll be introducing a resolution in the House, encouraging them to do the same for Warren and for every American held overseas. We must not forget these Americans. We must bring them home. Warren, today, you are not forgotten by this Congress or this country. I yield back. ##
06.06.2014	WASHINGTON – June 6 marks the 70th anniversary of D-Day. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) published an op-ed in the Hagerstown Herald-Mail on the importance of the anniversary and the contributions made by Marylanders at Normandy. The op-ed can be read online or below: The Anniversary of D-Day is a Reminder of Local Heroism and Sacrifice By John K. Delaney (MD-6) Hagerstown Herald-Mail It was one of the defining days in world history and the operations were set to begin early, at 6:30 a.m. Hours before it began, General Eisenhower told the troops that they were embarking upon a “great crusade.” How right he was. Seventy years ago, on June 6, 1944, Allied troops landed along a 50-mile stretch of the Normandy coastline in France. Known as D-Day, the invasion led to the eventual liberation of Europe and the defeat of the Nazi regime. This anniversary is an important moment to once again thank and commemorate the soldiers who fought in World War II and recommit ourselves to supporting all of the men and women who serve our country. As Marylanders, we should be extremely proud of the contribution our state made on that epochal day. The sons of Maryland played a disproportionate role in the victory at Normandy, particularly at Omaha Beach, where a Maryland-heavy division, the Army’s 29th Infantry Division, comprised half the troops that made landfall. The 29th Infantry Division had long been comprised primarily of soldiers from Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Washington, D.C., and according to Maryland historian Robert Brugger, nearly one-fifth of all Marylanders who served in the Army in WWII were members of the 29th. Many had crossed the Atlantic in the fall of 1943 and spent the intervening months training in Britain. By May of 1944, they had moved in secrecy to the southern coast of England. For most members of the 29th Infantry Division, D-Day was their first combat experience, which began before their boats even reached the shore. Four hundred yards from landing, the Germans began firing. The German defenses at Omaha were unexpectedly strong and 500 men from the 29th alone died on the beach that morning. Men from nearly every community in Washington County, large and small, fought to liberate Europe in the 29th: privates from Boonsboro, Cascade and Clear Spring; technicians from Williamsport, Smithsburg and Hancock; sergeants from Sharpsburg and Hagerstown and many more. They were joined by brothers in arms from across Maryland, including large numbers from Western Maryland. Between D-Day and continuous fighting that led to the critical capture of St. Lo in mid-July, 7,000 men from the 29th were killed or wounded. But the 29th persevered, continuing through France and fighting across Germany until the end of the war. Of course, Marylanders served with honor in all branches, in all stages, and in both theaters of the war. On this historic anniversary, the story of the 29th is a microcosm of the incredible bravery and heroism of Marylanders and their fellow Americans in World War II. More broadly, the anniversary of D-Day is a powerful reminder of the service done by all of America’s veterans and our sacred obligation to support them. In recent weeks, profoundly troubling reports regarding wait times, bureaucratic malfeasance, and poor care at VA hospitals have shocked the nation. In Maryland, we’ve been dealing with these problems for some time, with the Baltimore VA having some of the worst wait times in the country. I met with Secretary Shinseki last year to get the facts behind what was happening at Baltimore and to make clear that the level of service was unacceptable. Unfortunately, problems have persisted, culminating in his resignation, which I had called for and I believe is in the best interest of the country. Although such systematic problems were not his alone, as a former CEO of a large company, I believe that management must be held accountable when you have major failures. For that reason, I voted for a House bill in May to bring more accountability to the VA and make it easier for employees who aren’t performing to be transferred or fired. While many at our VA hospitals are doing an admirable job, the facts are clear that changes must be made. Due to our wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, the number of veterans with major and traumatic injuries has increased and we have to take comprehensive steps to ensure proper care. I encourage any veteran who has had problems with the VA to contact my office immediately. We have a number of caseworkers on staff who can assist you and can be your advocate. Reflecting upon D-Day, I cannot imagine how they felt, shortly before the boat doors opened 70 years ago. I cannot imagine how they struggled to reach the beach, crawled and staggered to find cover, or gathered the strength to continue fighting all the way to Germany. On D-Day, the eventual defeat of the evil Nazi regime began and with it the liberation of millions of the oppressed and the preservation of the ideals of our civilization. This weekend, I’m planning to spend some time with my daughters telling them the story of D-Day. Thank you to all who served in World War II, and thank you to all who have served in our country in the years before or since. Our nation will be eternally grateful. Congressman Delaney represents Washington County in the House of Representatives. ##
06.06.2014	WASHINGTON – June 6 marks the 70th anniversary of D-Day, when 160,000 Allied troops landed on the French coastline at Normandy, beginning the liberation of Europe. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “Hours before D-Day, General Eisenhower told the troops that their mission would be a ‘great crusade’ – a truly fitting description. The stakes could not have been higher, the challenge before them, scarcely more daunting. Many Marylanders played a role that day. We cannot comprehend how they felt, shortly before the boat doors opened 70 years ago, or how they struggled to reach the beach, find cover, and continue fighting all the way to Germany. But the world is eternally grateful for what they did. On D-Day, the eventual defeat of Hitler’s armies began and with it the liberation of millions and the preservation of the ideals of our civilization. This anniversary is an important moment to once again thank and commemorate the soldiers who fought in World War II and recommit ourselves to supporting all of the men and women who serve our country.” Additionally, Delaney also authored an op-ed on the anniversary of D-Day and the contributions of local soldiers in the Hagerstown Herald-Mail, which can be read here. ##
06.05.2014	WASHINGTON – Montgomery County resident Warren Weinstein was kidnapped by al-Qaeda in Pakistan in 2011. On December 25, 2013, a video of Weinstein in captivity was released to the media. In January, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) wrote to President Obama and Secretary of State Kerry, urging them to “do everything they can” to bring Warren home. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “The release of Bowe Bergdahl has captured the attention of our country, but he is not the only American being held overseas. Warren Weinstein, my constituent, was captured by al-Qaeda in 2011. I hope that the national conversation on this topic helps to shine a spotlight on Warren. “The Weinstein family has shown incredible strength over the last two years in making sure that Warren’s return home remains a national priority. Warren is not alone and the Weinstein family is not alone. “As a community in Maryland, as a Congress, and as a country, we should stand with the Weinsteins. I know this great country, including those who represent us at the highest levels, will not forget Warren Weinstein. We must be unrelenting in our efforts to bring Warren home.” ##
06.05.2014	WASHINGTON – The National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) has announced a $99,998 Small Business Innovation Research Program grant to Industry Vision Automation Corporation (IVA) of Gaithersburg for development of new strawberry processing technology. According to IVA, the project will deliver more efficient food processing systems that improve worker and food safety and enhance the quality of agricultural products. “Supporting research and development is essential to improving our economic competitiveness and helping our nation’s small businesses grow,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “Technology and research plays a major role in modern agriculture. NIFA’s grant announcement is another example of the federal government working to provide farmers, producers and processors with the tools and resources they need to keep up in today’s global economy. I believe that Maryland has the assets to become a national leader in research and development driven jobs and I applaud this support for a business in my district.” Pursuant to the Small Business Innovation Development Act of 1982, Small Business Innovation Research programs exist within federal agencies with a large research and development (R&D) budget and are designed to increase participation of small innovative companies in federally funded R&D. The grant awarded to IVA would support the development of equipment to sort and remove the calyx from strawberries. Strawberries are the second largest non-citrus fruit crop in the United States, trailing only grapes. The current in-field strawberry de-capping process used by American farmers uses cutting tools that can injure workers and lead to food cross-contamination. NIFA is a division of the United States Department of Agriculture. ##
06.02.2014	WASHINGTON – President Obama has issued a proclamation declaring June to be Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) Pride Month. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement: “I’d like to wish all of my friends celebrating this June a happy LGBT Pride Month. In recent years, we’ve seen a rapid expansion of civil rights in this country, which is something we should all be proud of. In Maryland, we became the first state to pass a marriage equality referendum, after over 30 states had failed. A more just and equal America benefits all of us and brings us closer to achieving the ideals of our great country. But to ensure equality in our public spaces, schools, and workplaces, we still have more work to do. As the march of history continues, I am proud to stand with the LGBT community in support of equality.” Delaney is a cosponsor of the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA), which would prohibit employment discrimination based upon actual or perceived sexual orientation or gender identity. Delaney is also a cosponsor of The Student Non-Discrimination Act, which would prohibit public schools from excluding LGBT students from programs based on their orientation or identity, and is a cosponsor of the Safe Schools Act, which would require schools to adopt policies that ensure LGBT youth are protected from intimidation and violence. Delaney has also cosponsored legislation to expand LGBT rights in the adoption and foster care process, the Every Child Deserves a Family Act. ##
06.02.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) released a new proposed rule to cut carbon pollution from existing power plants. The new carbon standards require power plants to reduce their 2005 greenhouse gas emissions by 30 percent by 2030. Under today’s rule, states can meet EPA standards by creating demand-side energy efficiency programs, renewable energy standards, efficiency improvements, energy storage technology, conservation programs, or cap and trade programs. In May, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) released the State’s Choice Act, which would direct the EPA to allow states the additional option of implementing a $20 dollar per metric ton carbon tax for compliance. Delaney outlined his approach in Sunday’s Washington Post, where he argued that a market-based excise tax would produce the best results. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “Today’s announcement of new greenhouse gas pollution standards is good news for the American people. Climate change is real and climate change is very likely to be extremely damaging to our economy, public health, and quality of life, and we have to act. For these reasons, I support the EPA’s efforts to fight pollution. In the long run, proactively attacking pollution is more cost-effective than trying to clean up and rebuild afterwards. “Updating our energy and environmental policies is a competitiveness issue for our economy and a tremendous growth opportunity if done in an intelligent way. We’ve transitioned to new energy sources successful throughout our history and if given a fair opportunity, I have no doubt that our workers and entrepreneurs can take the global lead once again. When you see places like the I-270 corridor, it is clear that we have the national assets – great schools, skilled workers, an unmatched culture of innovation – to compete and thrive in alternative energy production and next generation energy efficiency technology. “Like the original implementation of the Clean Air Act in 1963 or the Clean Water Act in 1972, this is an historic occasion that will benefit generations to come. The President should be congratulated for moving the country forward. “I also believe we can improve these guidelines by expanding the options available to states to comply. I believe that the most effective and efficient way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is by adopting a carbon tax. For this reason, I have put forward the State’s Choice Act, which will provide greater certainty, position the United States to take the global lead on alternative energy jobs, and encourage competition driven innovation in pursuit of our environmental goals.” ##
06.01.2014	WASHINGTON – Sunday’s print edition of the Washington Post featured an op-ed by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) arguing that new Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) guidelines on greenhouse gas emissions should allow states the option of implementing a carbon tax as their means of compliance. The EPA is scheduled to announce new emission standards for power plants on Monday, beginning a process in which each state will be tasked with developing their implementation plan. Delaney has codified this approach with The State’s Choice Act, which would direct the EPA to allow states the option of a $20 per metric ton carbon tax. A discussion draft of The State’s Choice Act was released in May. The Delaney op-ed is available online and copied below: An Excise Tax Would Give States a Role in Fighting Climate Change By John K. Delaney Washington Post, 5/30/14 Next week the Environmental Protection Agency will take an important step in addressing the ever-increasing threat of climate change caused by greenhouse gas emissions when it releases new guidelines under the authority of the Clean Air Act. These guidelines will apply to existing power plants, which produce more than a third of the United States’ greenhouse gases. Climate change is the environmental challenge of this generation, and it is imperative that we act before it’s too late. While some politicians argue over whether to believe scientists’ almost overwhelming consensus on climate change, the business sector is a believer and is wisely planning ahead. This year, Exxon Mobil began incorporating a price on carbon emissions into its long-term business model. Just last month , we learned that Standard & Poor’s is including resiliency to climate change in its most recent modeling for sovereign credit ratings. Addressing climate change and positioning the United States as the leader in advanced energy should be a top priority for our country and our economy, and I applaud the Obama administration for the steps it is taking. For better or worse, however, we can expect a long period of gathering comments and revisions to the EPA’s guidelines, in addition to legal challenges. To guarantee flexibility, Congress should pass legislation to expand the options available to states, helping us achieve our environmental goals in the most effective market-based manner. In May, I put forward the State’s Choice Act, which would give states the option of imposing a state-level excise tax on carbon emissions instead of designing and implementing an emission reduction plan mandated by the EPA. First and foremost, this would give states more flexibility. The option would be entirely theirs; they could take it or leave it. Second, this option would allow states both to avoid regulatory costs and to generate new revenue; the resulting funds could be used for the good of the state, whether it be to lower taxes or invest in infrastructure and education. Lastly, the act would give states an incentive to be laboratories for proving that the ­market-based approach of a carbon tax is the right answer to address climate change, to improve public health and to put all energy sources on the equal footing necessary to spur the technological innovations in clean energy that will prove a boon to U.S. economic competitiveness and growth. For industry, it is also preferable to have a predictable price path rather than regulatory uncertainty. My bill would set the initial rate of the state excise tax at $20 per metric ton of carbon-dioxide-equivalent emissions and increase the fee annually at a rate of 4 percentage points above the rate of inflation. That way, businesses could plan five, 10 or 20 years into the future knowing what their energy costs will be. With the kind of regulations the EPA is proposing, however, the costs of compliance can be volatile, especially if caps are involved and regulations are updated periodically, creating additional rounds of negotiations, comment periods, court cases and general uncertainty — all of which could prevent businesses from investing in our economy. Many have criticized a federal carbon tax, saying that it would increase energy costs. Some continue to oppose it even when that revenue would be used to reduce other taxes in what’s known as a tax swap. I support the concept of a tax swap, especially one in which we tax something we don’t like (greenhouse gas emissions) so that we can reduce taxes on what we do like (businesses and middle-class families), but even that has failed to gather support in Congress. Unfortunately, too many people quickly criticize a carbon tax by using tired old talking points without looking at the details of new proposals and the offsets. A state-level excise tax should bring Republicans to the table because it is market-based, it would reduce burdensome regulation, and it would give control and revenue to the states, not the federal government. It is a pure free-market solution. Until we can agree on such a solution, I strongly support the EPA’s actions to regulate emissions. But we can and should do better. The State’s Choice Act offers a way for states to take the lead in putting us on a path to prevent irreversible climate change in a way that is good for our economy. ##
05.30.2014	WASHINGTON – On May 30, 2014 Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) filed the Social Security Commission Act of 2014 with Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4). The Social Security Commission Act of 2014 is designed to bring both parties and both chambers together, in conjunction with the President, to find a solution that guarantees the long-term health of Social Security. “My Social Security Commission legislation is designed to begin the legislative process that guarantees that the promise of Social Security is kept for decades to come. This is a hugely important issue that should be a national bipartisan conversation,” said Congressman Delaney. “In that vein, I would like to make clear my personal views on how to preserve Social Security, which our outlined in my Statement of Principles.” Delaney Statement of Principles to Preserve and Protect Social Security By any measure, Social Security is one of the most successful government initiatives in our nation’s history and is a vitally important program for millions of Americans. For decades, Social Security has made our country stronger. For most Americans, Social Security’s modest benefits will be the only source of retirement income that is guaranteed to last a lifetime and keep up with inflation. According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, Social Security keeps over 20 million Americans out of poverty. My top priority is protecting and preserving Social Security. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has made clear that due to demographic changes, Social Security will become unable to pay full benefits starting in 2031, the program’s actuaries peg that date at 2033. If we do not any take action in the interim, at that time, it is estimated that we will have to drastically reduce benefits by over 20%. I firmly believe that letting this happen would be immoral. We must be diligent in having the facts guide our policy-making. While the need for changes is irrefutable, many have inflated the threat or exaggerated the nature of the problem. In truth, modest calibrations to the program now can save Social Security for generations to come. Social Security is not broken or insolvent. Social Security is not a pyramid scheme. Social Security does not need to be privatized. But the program does need some calibration to secure benefits long-term. I believe that any adjustments to Social Security must be grounded in a sense of justice and fairness, with special consideration given to our most vulnerable. We have a clear historical precedent for amending Social Security in order to preserve the program in a fair, just and fiscally sound way. The bipartisan commission led by Alan Greenspan in 1983 is a model that we should follow, which is why I have introduced legislation with Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) to start this process again. My desire to create a commission is rooted in my view that we need good process in government. To avoid a massive benefit reduction and keep the promise of Social Security alive, I recommend the following improvements in accordance with progressive values. Other proposals that have been made, including those by the Simpson-Bowles commission, go modestly too far in restricting benefits and not far enough in creating additional funding. Increase the taxable maximum and add a second threshold for very high-incomes so that wealthier Americans pay a little bit more into the system. Right now, a very high income and a middle class earner can contribute the same amount to Social Security. Improve the benefits formula so that recipients with modest incomes receive higher payments through strengthening the special minimum benefit and/or other means. Enhance benefits for the very old, the majority of which are women, so that our neighbors who need the program the most can maintain a decent standard of living. Adjust the inflation calculation to reflect more accurate price changes, including special consideration for the very elderly and those who rely on Social Security for a long period of time. Value caregivers by providing those who care for a dependent relative without monetary compensation credit under Social Security’s benefits computation. Respect all marriages by ensuring legally married same-sex couples have access to spousal benefits. ##
05.30.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) filed today the Social Security Commission Act of 2014. The legislation creates a bicameral and bipartisan commission that is modelled after the 1983 Social Security Commission. The Social Security Commission Act of 2014 is designed to bring both parties and both chambers together, in conjunction with the President, to find a solution that guarantees the long-term health of Social Security. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has found that absent changes, Social Security will be unable to pay full benefits on its own by 2031. The text of the legislation is available here. “By any measure, Social Security is one of the most successful programs in American history and I intend to keep it that way. In my view, this legislation has a simple and straightforward goal: protecting and preserving Social Security,” said Congressman Delaney. “I’m troubled by the irrefutable data before us: that if we don’t adjust the funding and other aspects of Social Security now, we will either need large benefit cuts down the road or risk crowding out other priorities. This is a question of preserving benefits. The Social Security Commission Act of 2014 creates a roadmap for avoiding this dilemma and ensuring benefits for generations of Americans. I’m honored to work with Congressman Cole, a true statesman, on this legislation.” “Beginning with that very first job, usually by high school, every American contributes to Social Security. Throughout the entirety of working life, that deduction shows up on a person’s paycheck with the promise of some sort of future benefit,” said Congressman Cole. “Unfortunately, without immediate changes that modernize the current system, Social Security will not be able to follow through on that promise. I am pleased that this legislation seeks to find solutions that will not only benefit those at or close to retirement but also provide for our children and grandchildren that are currently paying into the system.” The Delaney-Cole legislation would provide for the following: A 13 member commission, with 12 members appointed by leadership from both parties in the House and Senate (three appointees from each party’s leader in each chamber). Two of the Congressional appointees must be non-elected experts. The commission is chaired by the 13th appointee, named by the President. Within one year of their first meeting, the commission must report to Congress on the 75-year health of Social Security and provide recommendations for how to improve the program. The commission’s report must have a minimum of 9 votes, guaranteeing bipartisan consensus. The legislation based on the commission’s plan would then receive expedited consideration in Congress for an up or down vote. ##
05.30.2014	WASHINGTON – Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Eric Shinseki has resigned. Earlier this week, Congressman John K. Delaney told WFMD radio that Shinseki should resign and called the state of affairs “inexcusable.” Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “This is the best course of action for all involved and hopefully is another step towards more comprehensive changes, because what has happened is utterly inexcusable. The most important step now is aggressively attacking the problems at the VA so that they can be resolved as quickly as possible. Congress, the Executive Branch, the VA internally, we all need to be focused on making sure that our veterans receive the care they need.” ##
05.30.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) introduced an amendment to the Commerce-Justice-Science appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2015 (H.R. 4660) to increase funding for Pay For Success. Delaney’s amendment passed by voice vote Thursday. The amendment increased funding in the evidence-based justice programs account by $1 million, and will be used in programs to reduce recidivism. Increased funding for Pay For Success was fully offset, and did not increase the overall funding of the underlying legislation. H.R. 4660 passed by a 321 to 87 vote on Thursday. To view the floor proceedings on the Delaney Amendment and Rep. Delaney’s floor speech, click here. “Pay For Success should be a no-brainer. As a government, we have to start using evidence-based solutions. Instead of simply throwing money at problems, we should measure outcomes and only fund what works,” said Delaney. “Pay For Success accomplishes this by partnering with non-profits and the private-sector, which can fund promising innovative initiatives, getting paid back by the government if, and only if, the program achieves the desired results. The government only pays for success, not failure, and saves money either way. I was proud to see my amendment pass and to see Congress take bipartisan action to reduce recidivism in a way that makes sense for our prison system, our taxpayers and our communities. Investing in evidence-based programs to stop offenders from becoming repeat offenders reduces the burden on law enforcement, decreases spending on prisons and gives some Americans a pathway back into our workforce. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress on a bipartisan basis to expand the use of Pay For Success to other social programs.” Delaney authored an op-ed in The Hill in February explaining how Pay For Success, also known as Social Impact Bonds, can improve public services while lowering taxpayer costs. ##
05.23.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has published an op-ed on how to rebuild America’s infrastructure in the Hartford Courant with Ronald M. DeFeo, President and CEO of the Terex Corporation, a manufacturing company headquartered in Connecticut. Delaney is the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in Congress. Delaney’s Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) is an infrastructure bill that currently has 32 Republican and 31 Democratic cosponsors in the House of Representatives. The legislation has also been introduced in the Senate by Senator Blunt (R-MO) and Senator Bennet (D-CO). The bill creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund that can be leveraged to $750 billion. This fund will be capitalized by the sale of 50-year bonds. To encourage U.S. corporations to purchase these bonds, companies will be allowed to repatriate a certain dollar amount – determined by auction - in overseas earnings tax-free for every $1 they invest in the bonds. The fund will then provide loans or loan guarantees to states and municipalities to finance transportation, energy, education, communications, and water infrastructure projects. The op-ed can be read online here, or below: Crumbling U.S. Infrastructure Needs Money By JOHN K. DELANEY AND RONALD M. DEFEO The Hartford Courant May 23, 2014 Imagine running a business with all your office supplies and building space stuck in 1962. On a busy day your office is abuzz with the sound of typewriters and the rustle of carbon paper. Your staff works incredibly hard to reach every customer on the phone or by letter, but you're falling farther behind. It costs a fortune to maintain all the old equipment and keep the building heated, and your inability to keep up is losing you customers, fast. That's what we've done to the American economy and it's a big problem. We drive to work and distribute goods on highways built by President Dwight D. Eisenhower, crossing over bridges that are an average of 42 years old. We manage our water with dams that, on average, are 52 years old. Our aging infrastructure is creating a drag on our economy, lowering our quality of life and hurting our ability to compete globally. If our airports, ports and broadband can't meet the demands of global commerce, businesses and jobs will leave our shores. If our schools fall apart, our students will fall farther behind our competitors. And if our roads and bridges remain in disrepair, our commutes will grow longer, more costly and more frustrating, our manufacturers will be progressively more hampered in getting their products to market, and our safety will be increasingly threatened. As experienced CEOs of publicly traded companies we understand that the private and public sector have to work together. The old approaches and the old solutions aren't working. The Partnership to Build America Act, which rebuilds our infrastructure in a fiscally responsible way, is a private sector driven solution to our public infrastructure needs. And because of this framework, the bill has strong bipartisan support in Congress. Right now, the bill has 32 Democratic and 32 Republican cosponsors in the House, and seven Republican and six Democratic cosponsors in the Senate. Here's how the bill works: First, we capitalize the American Infrastructure Fund by selling bonds to the private sector. U.S. corporations with overseas income would be encouraged to purchase $50 billion of non-government guaranteed, very low cost, long-term bonds. The money from the sale of the bonds would be used to create a financing entity that can provide over $750 billion of infrastructure financing to address our transportation, energy, communications, water and education needs. In exchange for purchasing these bonds, these U.S. corporations would be allowed to repatriate some of their overseas earnings tax-free. The exact ratio of bonds purchased to earning repatriated will be determined by an auction to ensure taxpayers — not the companies — get the fairest deal. Right now, companies have record levels of cash overseas — more than $2 trillion — but our tax code makes it extremely difficult for them to bring that money back home. Our bill not only encourages more money to return home, it ensures that it will be directly tied to job creation. Once the American Infrastructure Fund is in place, states and municipalities — not the federal government — will apply for support for their projects. For example, Hartford, Litchfield or the state could apply directly for financing to build new schools, repair bridges, expand highways, etc. The legislation is designed to empower local communities, which know their infrastructure needs best. By using money raised by bond sales, we ensure that the American taxpayer is not on the hook for these costs. Despite years of calls for increased infrastructure spending, it is clear that there is no political appetite for doing things the old-fashioned way anymore. So we have to find a new solution. In short, the stars are aligned for us to bring government and business together to help solve our pressing infrastructure needs and move our country forward into the 21st century. The U.S. economy needs large-scale investment in infrastructure to preserve our competitive advantage and our private sector is looking for a cost-effective way to reinvest in our economy. The best economic outcomes are achieved when government and the private sector work well together. Infrastructure investment offers the perfect opportunity to prove this point. ##
05.23.2014	Washington, D.C.—Thursday, the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, & Urban Affairs passed the Johnson-Crapo housing finance reform bill out of committee. The Johnson-Crapo plan uses the Corker-Warner proposal as its base architecture and winds down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Representatives John K. Delaney (MD-6), John Carney (DE- At Large), and Jim Himes (CT-4) have developed a housing finance reform proposal that uses private sector market forces to appropriately price risk while putting the scale and security of a government guarantee behind the program. Under the Delaney-Carney-Himes plan, the holders of mortgage-backed securities would absorb losses of up to 5% of their value, with the remaining 95% covered by insurance, which would be provided jointly by the government and the private sector This legislation will create a housing finance system that is fair for borrowers, lenders, and taxpayers and will be introduced in the next month. Delaney, Carney, and Himes issue the following statement: “Today’s Senate Banking markup of the Johnson-Crapo housing finance reform bill is an important step forward towards greater stability in our housing market. Chairman Johnson and Ranking Member Crapo, along with Senator Warner and Senator Corker, should be commended for addressing GSE reform in a thoughtful and bipartisan way. Today’s markup shows progress on this issue and the commitment from the Senate Banking Committee to advance real GSE reform. The passage of Johnson-Crapo out of the Senate Banking Committee is to be applauded: this is precisely the kind of bipartisan reform-minded legislation we need more of. “We believe that housing reform is essential to the long-term fiscal health of our country, because America needs a housing finance system that is fair for borrowers, lenders, and taxpayers. It is incumbent upon Congress to address GSE reform, however difficult it may be perceived to be. “To that end, we are committed to building a bridge between the House and Senate on housing by leveraging the strengths of both the government and the private sector. By imposing market discipline on government pricing and providing government capacity where the private sector cannot meet the demand for the U.S. mortgage market, we aim to strike a balance and inject private sector pricing into the government’s role in the housing market.” A summary of the bill can also be found in Rep. Delaney’s April 21 op-ed in the Financial Times. Key Components of Delaney, Carney, Himes Housing Reform Proposal This bill establishes a system of government reinsurance for eligible mortgage backed securities, marrying the government’s ability to provide the necessary capacity to accommodate the size of the United States housing market and the private sector’s ability to better price risk. A government guarantee under this system will be explicit, but taxpayer money will be protected through adequate private sector capital and accurate pricing of government reinsurance. The bill will require 5% “first loss” risk to be born entirely by private capital with the government, acting through Ginne Mae and in partnership with private capital, providing reinsurance for up to 95% of the remaining risk. Both the government and the private reinsurance carriers will receive the exact same pricing and bear the exact same risk. Under the plan, Ginnie Mae will manage a newly created mortgage securities insurance program whereby it makes available the full faith and credit guaranty of the Federal Government on qualifying mortgage securities backed by eligible single-family mortgages. Under the terms of the program, Ginnie will be required to quote forward prices (ranging from 3-12 months as determined by Ginnie) for a “Guarantee Fee” that issuers of mortgage securitizations will be charged for the guaranty of 100% of the mortgage securities issued under qualifying mortgage securities. The Guarantee Fee will be based on the pricing Ginnie secures for certain risk sharing re-insurance contracts from the private market – Ginnie will be required to charge Guarantee Fees at least sufficient to recover fully these reinsurance costs, ensuring that the government is not inadvertently charging less than a market price for its guarantee. These reforms will apply only to the flow of new mortgages, not to the existing stock of mortgages outstanding. The proposal will ensure that small lenders have access to the market and that important affordable housing programs, such as the Housing Trust Fund, the Capital Magnet Fund and the Market Access Fund are well funded. ##
05.21.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has released a discussion draft of The State’s Choice Act, which is designed to improve the nation’s response to climate change, empower states to adopt market-based solutions, provide businesses with greater certainty, and spur a faster transition to an alternative energy economy. Congressman Delaney will consult with experts, stakeholder groups, and constituents on the legislation, which will be introduced in coming weeks. To download the draft bill text, click here. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “Climate change is the environmental challenge of our generation and I applaud President Obama for making climate change a priority. The stakes here are incredibly high, when you examine the data, it is clear that nearly every aspect of our existence – national security, our food supply, economic health – is threatened by climate change. It’s imperative that we act. “I fully support the President’s actions to address climate change through EPA’s existing authority. Until Congress acts, these regulations are the only way to begin to respond to climate change before the effects are irreversible. My legislation is designed to give states the option to use an even more efficient method. “Coming from the private sector, I understand that markets work. To tackle a problem this big, we need to unleash the power of the market and encourage the innovation and drive of our inventors and entrepreneurs. In many cases, a carbon tax will allow us to meet our environmental goals in a more efficient and effective way, ultimately accelerating our transition to a clean energy economy, while also providing businesses with greater certainty. “The State’s Choice Act gives states the option of complying with the new EPA standards by implementing a carbon tax. My legislation provides states another path to get to the same location: reduced greenhouse gas emissions. This is a market-friendly and environmentally-friendly approach that I believe can bring both sides together.” The State’s Choice Act will direct the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to offer states the option of imposing a state-level excise tax on the greenhouse gas emissions from regulated sources as a way to comply with the regulations issued to combat climate change under Section 111 (d) of the Clean Air Act. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is scheduled to release a new rule aimed at reducing carbon emissions from existing power plants on June 2. Congressman Delaney is the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in Congress. The State’s Choice Act: The legislation requires the EPA to offer states the option of imposing a state-level excise tax on greenhouse gas emissions (commonly called a “carbon tax”) from regulated sources as a way to comply with section 111 (d) of the Clean Air Act. The state-imposed carbon tax must be no less than $20 per metric ton of carbon dioxide or carbon dioxide equivalent in 2015 and higher each subsequent year by no less than 4% above inflation as measured by the Consumer Price Index. Benefits The environment benefits because a carbon tax ensures that the true cost of carbon, including its health and environmental costs, are accounted for, using market forces to incentivize reduced emissions. States benefit because they receive additional flexibility when developing their State Implementation Plan for EPA compliance. States can also potentially reduce administrative costs and use the revenues from the carbon tax to reduce other taxes or mitigate increased energy costs. Alternative energy producers benefit because they will be placed on a level playing field once the true cost of carbon is accounted for, allowing them to compete on their merits. Traditional energy producers benefit by achieving greater cost certainty with a carbon tax. Consumers benefit from robust market competition, which will facilitate the U.S. taking the lead in advanced energy technology, driving down clean energy costs. ##
05.20.2014	WASHINGTON – Tuesday afternoon the House of Representatives passed a number of bipartisan bills to address sex trafficking. Sex trafficking is a major domestic and international problem. The House passed five bills addressing sex trafficking. These bills included the Stop Exploitation Through Trafficking Act, which was cosponsored by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “Sex trafficking and the abuse and exploitation of young children is a global problem. Sadly, the United States is not immune to this despicable practice,” said Congressman Delaney. “There’s no one solution, but there are a number of commonsense steps we can take to help law enforcement, empower victims, and crack down on the perpetrators of these despicable acts. As the father of four daughters, I’m extremely proud of the actions taken by the House of Representatives today.” According to government estimates, approximately 100,000 children are victims of trafficking within the United States each year. The United Nations estimates that 27% of all trafficking victims globally are children. For more information on sex trafficking from the Congressional Research Service, click here. The House passed the following: The Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act (H.R. 3530): allows the Justice Department to provide grants to state and local agencies to develop or expand efforts to fight sex trafficking. This legislation also updates federal criminal statues to allow wiretapping in trafficking and child pornography investigation. The Stop Exploitation Through Trafficking Act (H.R. 3610): encourages states to enact “safe harbor” laws that would treat minors involved in trafficking and commercial sex as victims, rather than as criminals. This legislation is cosponsored by Congressman Delaney. The Stop Advertising Victims of Exploitation (H.R. 4225): prohibits advertisements containing offers for commercial sex acts with a child or with an adult involved through force or fraud. The Preventing Sex Trafficking and Improving Opportunities for Youth in Foster Care Act (H.R. 4058): requires states to adopt measures to prevent sex trafficking among at-risk youth in foster care. International Megan’s Law to Prevent Demand for Child Sex Trafficking (H.R. 4573): requires federal law enforcement officials to notify other nations of the international travel of registered child-sex offenders in the United States. ##
05.20.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, the House passed the conference version of H.R. 3080, the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA). The initial House version of the bill passed last October by a 417-3 vote. The Senate version of WRRDA passed by an 83-14 vote. The conference version passed today with a 412-4 vote. The bill authorizes the Army Corps of Engineers to initiate 34 water-related infrastructure projects nationwide. “This water resources infrastructure bill makes our country more competitive, reforms and streamlines the project delivery process, and improves our water transportation networks,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “It’s extremely encouraging that a large bipartisan consensus was reached on this important bill, which includes input from both sides of the aisle and is fiscally-responsible. While today’s vote is another step towards maintaining current levels of investment, we have more work to do. Building a truly world-class and twenty-first century infrastructure grid should be our number one economic priority. I’m committed to building more support for more bipartisan solutions, like the Partnership to Build America Act, which is currently the largest new bipartisan jobs bill in Congress.” Earlier this month, Delaney argued in the Washington Post that a bipartisan approach to infrastructure starts with tax reform. Delaney’s op-ed is available here. Delaney’s Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) is an infrastructure bill that currently has 31 Democratic and 32 Republican cosponsors in the House. The legislation has also been introduced in the Senate by Senator Blunt (R-MO) and Senator Bennet (D-CO). The bill creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund that can be leveraged to $750 billion. This fund will be capitalized by the sale of 50-year bonds that are not guaranteed by the Federal government and pay a 1% interest rate. To encourage U.S. corporations to purchase these bonds, companies will be allowed to repatriate a certain dollar amount – determined by auction - in overseas earnings tax-free for every $1 they invest in the bonds. The fund will then provide loans or loan guarantees to states and municipalities to finance transportation, energy, education, communications, and water infrastructure projects. ##
05.15.2014	WASHINGTON – Entrepreneur Theodore Leonsis authored an op-ed today for Bloomberg View on America’s infrastructure deficit, corporate tax reform, and Congressman John K. Delaney’s Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084). Leonsis called for Washington to find common ground on infrastructure and tax reform and called the Delaney infrastructure bill, “a credible opportunity at hand to transform the economy and put in place the physical infrastructure our children need to enjoy the same opportunities our parents gave us.” The column can be read online here and is copied below: Tax Reform is Not a Fantasy By Theodore J. Leonsis Bloomberg View, May 15, 2014 U.S. companies are stockpiling a record amount of foreign earned profits abroad, roughly $2.1 trillion. The amount of cash held overseas by U.S. multinationals is up 93 percent since 2008. And Uncle Sam receives a near-zero return on foreign profits held overseas. This sad state of affairs is the ultimate result of a U.S. tax code so antiquated and perverse that it undermines America’s economic competitiveness. The way the system works, foreign earnings are subject to a 35 percent U.S. tax, but that tax may be deferred indefinitely if a corporation chooses not to repatriate. In effect, corporations are incentivized to keep their money overseas, along with the jobs and operations that come with it. Everyone loses: the government, corporations, U.S. taxpayers and anyone with a 401(k). Republican or Democrat, nobody in Washington denies the problem exists. The disagreement lies in the remedy. On the left, some want to end the deferral and levy an across-the-board tax of 25 or 30 percent on all corporate profits earned overseas. That solution may have worked at the turn of the last century, but it won't today, when globalization has reduced the barriers that prevent a company from relocating. It would lead -- and in too many cases already has led -- to companies reincorporating abroad, a craven but fiduciarily responsible move. On the right, there is general consensus that we should adopt a pure territorial system in which foreign profits are taxed only in the country where they are generated. Yet this would reduce tax revenues and create a race to the bottom, with companies gravitating to the places where tax rates are lowest. Meanwhile, the incentive for U.S.-based multinationals to book profits overseas will only increase, tax revenues will decline and the federal deficit will rise. I’d be lying if I claimed to know an easy way out of this mess. What I do know is that every day the status quo persists, Americans stand to lose, and our competitiveness erodes: A 2013 report card issued by the American Society of Civil Engineers gave U.S. infrastructure a cumulative grade of D+ and pegged the investment needed to bring us up to par at $3.6 trillion. What's more, the longer we wait to deal with our corporate tax system, the harder it also becomes to solve other endemic problems our nation faces, from an income gap to an education gap and a broken immigration system. One short-term fix that routinely gets attention is the idea of a repatriation tax holiday. Under this plan, U.S. companies would be permitted to bring back profits held overseas at a sharply reduced tax rate of about 5 percent. Although proponents argue it would provide a boost to the economy, critics rightly note that we’ve been down that road before -- in 2004 -- and the economic benefits never fully materialized. That’s where a proposal championed by Representative John Delaney and co-sponsored by 32 House Republicans, 31 House Democrats and proportional numbers of a bipartisan Senate working group holds promise. If passed, the Partnership to Build America Act would establish a federally chartered bank that works with local governments and private enterprise to build critically needed infrastructure in transportation, energy, communication and education. Here’s how the PPBA would work: It establishes a bank, the American Infrastructure Fund, and funds it with $50 billion in private capital by incentivizing companies to purchase 50-year, nongovernment guaranteed bonds that pay below-market 1 percent interest. That $50 billion of initial capital would be levered at a ratio of 15 to 1, creating a $750 billion privately funded investment fund that states and cities could use to attack their infrastructure needs. The motivation for companies to purchase these bonds is where the controversy lies: Those that do so would be eligible to repatriate a proportional share of their foreign profits to the U.S. tax-free (ultimately equivalent to a 13 percent tax rate, slightly higher than the average effective tax rate that corporations pay today after credits, exemptions and deductions). This doesn’t sit well with a lot of right-minded folks for reasons that I can certainly understand: It rewards bad behavior on the part of corporate executives who were holding out for a sweet deal. My response to the critics would be this: Executives certainly bear a strong burden to be good corporate citizens and pay their fair share of taxes, but that’s hard to do when current tax laws were designed for a pre-globalized, pre-Internet-age world. Are corporations, many of whom go to absurd extremes to reduce their tax burden, innocent? Hardly. But is the tax structure in which they are forced to operate completely irrational and incongruous to their fiduciary responsibilities? Categorically, yes. Regardless, we are well past the stage of pointing fingers. There’s a credible opportunity at hand to transform the economy and put in place the physical infrastructure our children need to enjoy the same opportunities our parents gave us. As we enter election season and members of Congress fan out across the nation to ask for our votes, I hope they can summon the wisdom to accept compromises where compromise is needed. And if they can’t, I hope we can summon the wisdom to elect leaders who can. (Ted Leonsis is a co-founder of Revolution Growth and the founder and chairman of Monumental Sports & Entertainment.) ##
05.14.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, it was announced that Washington County has been awarded a $1,000,000 Federal Aviation Administration grant to improve the taxiways at the Hagerstown Regional Airport. The grant will be used to fund improvements for two taxiways and the installation of safety lighting. “The Hagerstown Regional Airport is tremendously important to Washington County’s economic profile and has the potential to be a true driver of growth in our region. For this reason, this FAA grant is good news for Washington County,” said Congressman Delaney. “The federal government has a role to play in building and maintaining our transportation infrastructure, and I believe that even more work needs to be done. That’s why I’ve introduced bipartisan legislation that would give state and local governments additional infrastructure financing options. Because when we upgrade our infrastructure, we all win: businesses, workers, commuters and citizens. I thank our Senators, Senator Mikulski and Senator Cardin, for their work in support of the airport.” Delaney’s Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) is currently has 31 Democratic and 32 Republican cosponsors in the House. The bill creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund that can be leveraged to $750 billion. This fund will be capitalized by the sale of 50-year bonds that are not guaranteed by the Federal government and pay a 1% interest rate. To encourage U.S. corporations to purchase these bonds, they will be allowed to repatriate a certain dollar amount – determined by auction - in overseas earnings tax-free for every $1 they invest in the bonds. The fund will then provide loans or loan guarantees to states and municipalities to finance transportation, energy, education, communications, and water infrastructure projects. ##
05.13.2014	WASHINGTON – Since 1992, May has been designated Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement: “I’m very proud to represent a large Asian American and Pacific Islander community in Congress. Maryland’s Sixth District is truly enriched by the contributions of Asian Americans and I stand alongside my colleagues in the House in wishing them a Happy Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month. One of the reasons that the United States is the greatest country on Earth is that people from all around the world have contributed to our society, culture and economy. As we celebrate the heritage of our Asian and Pacific neighbors this month, we should recommit ourselves to our national values of fairness, justice, and equality.” ##
05.12.2014	WASHINGTON - May 12-16 is Infrastructure Week 2014, a week-long initiative designed to highlight America’s infrastructure challenges and underscore the importance of increased infrastructure investment in building a more competitive economy. Infrastructure Week is led by the U.S. Council on Competitiveness, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the AFL-CIO, the Brookings Institution, Building America’s Future, 1776, the Organization for International Investment, the National Association of Manufacturers and other groups. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) will speak Friday at the Brookings Institution panel, “The Future is Now: What’s Next in American Infrastructure.” “Rebuilding our nation’s infrastructure should be our top economic priority. Creating a modern transportation system, energy and water network, and communications grid will make our country more competitive in the global economy, create middle class jobs, and improve our quality of life,” said Congressman Delaney. “Infrastructure Week is an important call to the nation’s policy-makers to act. It’s a powerful statement to see business, labor, and leading policy experts all agree on the need to rebuild and renew America. This week, I look forward to discussing the Partnership to Build America Act and outlining how we can bring both parties together to rebuild America.” Last week, Delaney argued in the Washington Post that a bipartisan approach to infrastructure starts with tax reform. Delaney’s op-ed is available here. Delaney’s Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) is an infrastructure bill that currently has 31 Democratic and 32 Republican cosponsors in the House. The legislation has also been introduced in the Senate by Senator Blunt (R-MO) and Senator Bennet (D-CO). The bill creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund that can be leveraged to $750 billion. This fund will be capitalized by the sale of 50-year bonds that are not guaranteed by the Federal government and pay a 1% interest rate. To encourage U.S. corporations to purchase these bonds, they will be allowed to repatriate a certain dollar amount – determined by auction - in overseas earnings tax-free for every $1 they invest in the bonds. The fund will then provide loans or loan guarantees to states and municipalities to finance transportation, energy, education, communications, and water infrastructure projects. For more information on Infrastructure Week, click here. ##
05.12.2014	WASHINGTON – Six members of the Maryland Congressional delegation have written to Pfizer CEO Ian Read concerning the company’s potential acquisition of AstraZeneca, which employs over 3,000 in Maryland. The letter was led by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) whose district includes the Gaithersburg headquarters of AstraZeneca subsidiary MedImmune. The letter was signed by Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, Senator Ben Cardin, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-2), Congressman Chris Van Hollen (MD-8), Congressman John Sarbanes (MD-3) and Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). The text of the letter is copied below: Dear Mr. Read, We are writing to express our concern about potential job losses in our state that could flow from Pfizer’s potential takeover of AstraZeneca. We understand you are likely to submit another offer before a May 26 deadline. As you review your options moving forward, we request you give serious consideration to the US jobs at stake in this possible acquisition. Particularly, AstraZeneca currently employs over 3,000 people in Maryland. It has been widely reported that if a deal moves forward, Pfizer has committed to keeping at least 20 percent of the combined company’s research and development workforce in the UK for at least five years, as well as retaining substantial manufacturing facilities at AstraZeneca’s site south of Manchester. Given the distribution of AstraZeneca’s current workforce, we worry that jobs in the United States would be eliminated in the takeover. As you evaluate your next steps, we ask you to extend similar assurances to those you gave in the UK to the research and development workforce in Maryland. AstraZeneca and its MedImmune subsidiary have strong presences in the state, and their workforces are highly skilled and extremely effective. In addition, the MedImmune research facility in Maryland has an international reputation for world-class expertise and is located in the heart of our nation's biotech corridor near the National Institutes of Health. If a deal moves forward, Pfizer would benefit greatly from maintaining their Maryland facilities and workforce. Thank you for your attention in the matter, and we look forward to your response. Sincerely, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski Senator Benjamin L. Cardin C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Member of Congress Chris Van Hollen Member of Congress John Sarbanes Member of Congress John K. Delaney Member of Congress ##
05.06.2014	WASHINGTON – The White House announced today that the United States will send a team of military and intelligence personnel and hostage negotiators to Nigeria to help the Nigerian government find nearly 300 abducted girls. The terrorist group Boko Harem has claimed responsibility for the kidnapping and has threatened to sell the girls into slavery. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “The actions taken by the Boko Harem have outraged the entire world and represent a shocking violation of any standard of human values. What is happening in Nigeria is a horrendous attack on nearly every essential human right and is a despicable attempt to intimidate a civilian population. “This is a time for the United States to lead, and I fully support the White House and the State Department decision to deploy resources to Nigeria. It is utterly right for our government to partner with local authorities to respond to the large scale enslavement of young women and girls. I believe that each and every one of us in Congress is horrified by what has happened in Nigeria. “These events are also a reminder that the human rights of women are under assault around the globe and that the blows of terrorism, conflict, and war are often felt most acutely by women. We must continue to support policies that protect and empower women around the world.” ##
05.05.2014	WASHINGTON – This evening marks the beginning of Yom Haatzmaut, Israeli Independence Day. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “Today I join with my colleagues in Congress and my constituents in wishing the people of Israel a happy Independence Day. For 66 years our two countries have been bound together in friendship, respect, and cooperation. For millions of Americans, Israel is more than just an ally, it is their spiritual home. “On this Israeli Independence Day we should recommit ourselves to our partnership with our closest Middle East partner. Although Israel’s very existence has been contested from the very beginning, the American people will always stand with Israel.” ##
05.05.2014	WASHINGTON – Today marks the 152nd anniversary of the 1862 Battle of Puebla, a date commemorated annually by Cinco de Mayo celebrations across the country. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “On Cinco de Mayo, we celebrate the contributions of Mexican-Americans to our history and culture and reflect upon the bonds of friendship between the United States and Mexico. I’m proud to represent a diverse district that has been enriched by Mexican-Americans. The Battle of Puebla, the event which marks this day, reminds us of the shared experience of our two countries. In 1862, outnumbered Mexican forces overcame the odds and defeated French troops fighting for monarchical government and continued European interference in the Americas. I warmly wish each of my constituents celebrating today a Happy Cinco de Mayo.” ##
05.05.2014	WASHINGTON – Sunday’s print edition of the Washington Post featured an op-ed from Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) on using tax reform to address America’s infrastructure deficit. Absent Congressional action, the Highway Trust Fund will become insolvent this summer, threatening thousands of projects around the country. Delaney argues that the bipartisan path forward is to reform the tax code for overseas earnings and use those revenues for infrastructure. Specifically, Delaney argues that we should place a 10% mandatory tax on all existing overseas earnings, with 60% of those funds going to the Highway Trust Fund and 40% capitalizing the American Infrastructure Fund, an entity created by the Partnership to Build America Act, which is currently the largest piece of bipartisan economic legislation in Congress, with over 30 Republican and 30 Democratic cosponsors. You can read the online here or below: Improving U.S. Infrastructure Starts with Tax Reform By Congressman John K. Delaney Washington Post, May 2, 2014 After years of standoffs, Congress faces another dangerous deadline this summer: the looming insolvency of the Highway Trust Fund, which funds roughly 90 percent of federal surface transportation projects in the United States. What’s different this time is that there is increased willingness on both sides of the aisle to adopt a bipartisan solution that would use the vast amount of U.S. cash overseas to finance new infrastructure investment. In the past year, members of both parties in Washington have made significant progress toward a consensus recognizing that our corporate tax code is broken, that we still have a major jobs crisis and that our crumbling national infrastructure is in a state of emergency. What was once a fringe idea — finding a way to use the record levels of overseas capital to finance new projects in the United States — is now mainstream. The support is there; we just have to work out the details. Without a congressional fix, thousands of construction projects across the country will go on hold by mid-summer. Bridge maintenance, highway expansion and road repairs from Maryland to California will cease, precisely at what should be the peak season for construction. The latest estimates from the Transportation Department show that the federal government will be unable to maintain our country’s roads and bridges by late July. The Highway Trust Fund has been underfunded because of an unwillingness to raise the gas tax and has been bled dry by years of congressional inaction; insolvency would endanger hundreds of thousands of middle-class jobs and put a tremendous strain on state and local governments. Sadly, this is just the latest chapter in a decades-long decline in our national infrastructure, which the American Society of Civil Engineers rates a D+. But infrastructure isn’t the only area of governance that has been neglected. For years, comprehensive tax reform has eluded legislators. A lack of reform — particularly in international tax — has hurt our ability to compete in a global economy by keeping U.S. corporate cash overseas and reducing domestic investment, slowing economic growth. In the past year, however, Republicans and Democrats in the House and Senate have rallied around reshaping our tax code in a way that would allow us to rebuild our country. Last year I introduced the Partnership to Build America Act, which addresses the problem of our D+ infrastructure and our failing international tax code in one step: In exchange for buying infrastructure bonds, multinational companies would be able to repatriate a portion of their overseas earnings — which is good for our economy — tax-free. These bonds would capitalize the American Infrastructure Fund, which could finance as much as $750 billion in new infrastructure projects without requiring newly appropriated funds. Importantly, that fund could also finance new school construction, as well as energy, water and communication upgrades — areas not addressed by the Highway Trust Fund. Similarly, this year both the president’s budget and the comprehensive tax reform proposal by House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp (R-Mich.) married tax reform with infrastructure investment. Efforts at serious reform are laudable and have positioned the moderate majority to act. First evidence of this momentum is the Partnership to Build America Act, which has the support of 31 House Republicans and 31 House Democrats. In the Senate, seven Republicans, five Democrats and one independent — led by Sens. Michael F. Bennet (D) of Colorado and Roy Blunt (R) of Missouri — have signed on. The act is the most significant bipartisan economic legislation in Congress and proves that there is broad and deep support for creating paths for overseas earnings to flow back to the United States as part of increasing our investment in infrastructure. Congress should seize this momentum and strike an even larger deal that reforms our international tax system and increases U.S. investment in infrastructure. Specifically, we should do three things. First, place a mandatory tax on all existing overseas earnings at a 10 percent rate, which can be paid over 10 years. Once paid, overseas earnings can flow freely back to the United States. Second, we should allocate 60 percent of the revenue generated from the mandatory tax toward prefunding the Highway Trust Fund shortfall for the next six years and 40 percent toward capitalizing the American Infrastructure Fund as described in the Partnership to Build America Act. Third, for all future earnings, we should adopt a modified territorial tax system with a minimum effective tax and strong enforcement standards for cost accounting. Taken together, these actions would allow the federal government to continue funding transportation projects in the traditional way, without the threat of insolvency or job-killing project cancellations, and dramatically increase our nation’s overall investment in infrastructure. This would create jobs and improve competitiveness, as well as create a path for the nearly $2 trillion in U.S. corporate cash sitting overseas to be reinvested in our economy. We have a bipartisan framework that would make our country more competitive, create jobs and enact much-needed reforms to the tax code. Let’s work together to get this done. ##
05.02.2014	WASHINGTON – The U.S. economy added 288,000 jobs in April, lowering the unemployment rate to 6.3%, the lowest unemployment rate since 2008, according to the latest report from the Department of Labor’s Bureau of Labor Statistics. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “Today’s job report indicates that at the national macro-level we’re still moving in the right direction. Our unemployment rate is now the lowest it has been in over five years. Nearly all of this month’s job growth came from the private sector, with businesses adding 273,000 jobs. More and more Americans are working and that’s a tremendously good thing. “However, I believe we still have major work to do to ensure we have a thriving middle class across the entire country. The national number may be 6.3%, but in Hagerstown unemployment is at 8.4% and each Western Maryland county in my district is still above 7% unemployed. “To build a strong middle class, Washington must respond to globalization and technology. This has been my top priority in Congress and my bipartisan infrastructure bill would create over a million new jobs. Over 30 Republicans have reached across the aisle to support the Partnership to Build America Act, because my legislation is fiscally responsible, helps our businesses compete, and gets more Americans back to work. This month we added 32,000 construction jobs, imagine that number if we were able to upgrade the thousands of crumbling roads and bridges nationwide.” For the latest Maryland unemployment numbers, including county and city data, click here. Delaney’s Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) is a bipartisan infrastructure bill that currently has 31 Democratic and 32 Republican cosponsors in the House. The legislation has also been introduced in the Senate by Senator Blunt (R-MO) and Senator Bennet (D-CO). The bill creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund that can be leveraged to $750 billion. This fund will be capitalized by the sale of 50-year bonds that are not guaranteed by the Federal government and pay a 1% interest rate. To encourage U.S. corporations to purchase these bonds, they will be allowed to repatriate a certain dollar amount – determined by auction - in overseas earnings tax-free for every $1 they invest in the bonds. The fund will then provide loans or loan guarantees to states and municipalities to finance transportation, energy, education, communications, and water infrastructure projects. ##
05.01.2014	WASHINGTON – Today’s Financial Times featured an editorial on the “moribund” state of support for infrastructure in the United States and argued that Congressman John K. Delaney’s Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) should be a part of the solution. The Financial Times concluded, “the Delaney bill deserves to be passed.” Delaney’s Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) is a bipartisan infrastructure bill that currently has 31 Democratic and 32 Republican cosponsors in the House. The legislation has also been introduced in the Senate by Senator Bennet (D-CO) and Senator Blunt (R-MO). The bill creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund that can be leveraged to $750 billion. This fund will be capitalized by the sale of 50-year bonds that are not guaranteed by the Federal government and pay a 1% interest rate. To encourage U.S. corporations to purchase these bonds, they will be allowed to repatriate a certain dollar amount – determined by auction - in overseas earnings tax-free for every $1 they invest in the bonds. The fund will then provide loans or loan guarantees to states and municipalities to finance transportation, energy, education, communications, and water infrastructure projects. The editorial is available online here and can be read below: US infrastructure is crumblingObama must get Congress to meet its funding obligations Editorial Board, Financial Times, April 30, 2014 The US is scouring the land for “every Band-Aid, every piece of duct tape” to keep its infrastructure fund afloat, says Anthony Foxx, secretary of transportation. Mr Foxx is hardly exaggerating. As the FT has reported in its US infrastructure series this week, the highway trust fund could run out of cash as soon as August. President Barack Obama has proposed a bill that would keep it going for another four years – albeit at a lower level than needed. Even if Congress enacts it – by no means a certainty – America’s roads, ports, bridges and railways would lack the funds they need to upgrade. Washington should raise its sights. At a time when the US Treasury can borrow at near zero interest rates, there is a once in a generation chance to modernise. The country as a whole needs to spend $3.6tn by 2020 to maintain the existing quality of infrastructure, according to the American Society of Civil Engineers. Mr Obama’s bill would cover only a fraction of that. He should set out a much bolder agenda. America’s existing transport financing system is moribund. Launched in the 1950s, the federal gas tax was predicated on an ever-increasing flow of road usage. Congress was then far less polarised than it is today and would usually approve increases to replenish the fund. It is more than 20 years since the rate was lifted to 18.4 cents a gallon tax, which means it is languishing at a fraction of where it should be in real terms. Moreover, US road usage is falling. In an ideal world, Congress would simply lift the gas tax and index it to inflation. But that is a political impossibility. As a result, the federal and local governments are increasingly raiding general funds to maintain US roads. This is inadequate on two counts. First, it is rapidly weakening the user-pays model. The taxpayer is subsidising roads to an ever greater tune. Second, it means there is no money left over to upgrade quality. Almost a fifth of US bridges are structurally deficient. It is only a matter of time before another large one collapses, a great risk to life. Meanwhile, US economic growth is increasingly constrained by ever-lengthening commutes, transport delays and glitches. What then should be the new model? Mr Obama has tried and failed to persuade Congress to set up a public-private infrastructure bank that could raise funds on the capital markets. The idea remains a good one. But Republicans object to anything that smacks of bureaucratic control. One solution would be for Washington to crowd in private financing via better tax incentives. Municipal bonds are tax-exempt but private ones are not. Many investors also remain wary of committing to large projects because of regulatory uncertainty. Only 30 of 50 states permit public- private funding. And there are large inconsistencies between those that do. Another is for US states and cities to embrace models used elsewhere in the world. London, Stockholm and other global cities have set up effective congestion pricing schemes. US cities should follow suit. In Oregon, officials have set up an innovative pilot project that switches from taxing fuel usage to charging drivers based on how many miles they drive. If it works, it could be adopted at the federal level. Moreover, John Delaney, a congressman from Maryland, has drafted a bill that would give US companies a tax break on any repatriated foreign earnings invested in US infrastructure bonds. The Delaney bill deserves to be passed. On their own, none of these would transform US infrastructure overnight. But together, they would go a long way towards treating America’s creeping rust. The rust originates in Washington. Mr Obama needs to do a better job of shaming Capitol Hill into meeting its responsibilities. ##
04.30.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, the Senate failed to move forward on legislation to raise the minimum wage. A measure to proceed received 54 votes, but needed 60 votes to end a filibuster blocking the bill. “I’m disappointed that legislation to raise the minimum wage remains stalled in Congress,” said Congressman John K. Delaney. “Raising the minimum wage in a gradual and responsible way would improve the lives of millions of hard-working Americans, while also helping to increase consumer demand for businesses, improve workforce stability, and reduce the number of people who need government assistance. I thank our Maryland Senators, Senator Mikulski and Senator Cardin, for their votes on behalf of working people today. Right now, there are millions of Americans who work full time, but still live in poverty: that doesn’t pass the look yourself in the mirror test. While Maryland has done the right thing and raised the minimum wage, Congress should make sure that no American is left behind just because they happen to live on the other side of the Potomac.” Delaney is cosponsor of H.R. 1010, which raises the federal minimum wage. Delaney has also been a leader in calling for an increased minimum wage in Maryland, with his work highlighted on the House floor by Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer. Delaney is the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in Congress. ##
04.30.2014	WASHINGTON – The Department of Transportation (DOT) has announced that the Hagerstown Regional Airport could lose Essential Air Service support, due to changes enacted in the FAA Modernization Act of 2012. Airport officials have stated that they will apply for a waiver, because the circumstances that led to the DOT’s calculation have changed. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “The end of Essential Air Service support from the Department of Transportation likely means the end of daily commercial air service in Hagerstown, which will limit the options for consumers in Western Maryland and reduce the airport’s job creation potential. “I’m a strong supporter of the Hagerstown Regional Airport, which I believe is a key economic asset for our region and I believe passenger air service should be a part of the airport’s profile. “I fully support the airport’s request for a waiver and I will make that support clear to the Department of Transportation. The data suggests that the airport’s lower number of enplanements is likely temporary and that other extenuating circumstances led to a dip in reported traffic. “When sequestration threatened the airport, we made our voice heard and it made a difference. Airport traffic means jobs for our region and it would be deeply unfortunate if a temporary drop in enplanements, which has already significantly increased since the time period considered by DOT, led to the end of passenger service in Hagerstown. I’m going to make sure the Department of Transportation hears the whole story.” ##
04.30.2014	WASHINGTON – Pepco Holdings, the utility company that provides power to hundreds of thousands of Sixth District residents, has agreed to be purchased by Exelon. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “While we look forward to reviewing the details as to how the merger will benefit our constituents, we believe that the scale created by this business combination can be used to increase investment in the service area, which can drive higher levels of reliability and we are encouraged by Exelon and Pepco’s joint commitment to focus on customer service through the transition.” ##
04.29.2014	For Immediate Release: April 29, 2014 Contact: Will McDonald, 202-225-2721 Delaney Congratulates Poffenberger on Being Named President/CEO of the Maryland Chamber of Commerce WASHINGTON – Today the Maryland Chamber of Commerce announced that Brien Poffenberger has been named their President & CEO. Poffenberger has led the Hagerstown-Washington County Chamber of Commerce for the past decade. Current Maryland Chamber President Kathy Snyder is retiring in June. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “The Maryland Chamber of Commerce is in good hands with Brien Poffenberger, who has been a tireless advocate for a healthy business climate in Washington County. I’ve been pleased to get to know Brien over the last few years and have been impressed with his leadership, commitment, and understanding of the challenges and opportunities before businesses in our state. Making Maryland more competitive should be one of our top priorities and I’m excited to see President Poffenberger take his expertise to the Maryland Chamber. Although I will miss seeing Brien in Hagerstown, I’d like to congratulate him on his new role and look forward to working with him at the Maryland Chamber. A strong private sector is essential to the kind of community we want to achieve, and I believe that we achieve the best results when the public sector and the business community listen to one another.” Congressman Delaney is the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in Congress. ##
04.28.2014	WASHINGTON – Since 1989, The United States has recognized April 28th as Workers’ Memorial Day as a means of remembering and honoring those workers who have been killed, injured, or disabled by their work. Congressman John K. Delaney releases the following statement: “Each day millions of Americans leave for a hard days work, heading out the door to support their loved ones. They work in heat and cold, atop the highest crane and deep underground, in deserts and at sea. And sadly, all too often, America's workers say goodbye to their families and never return home. Today we pause and remember the men and women who have lost their lives on the job. On Workers’ Memorial Day, we recommit ourselves to ensuring the highest standards for our work sites. Every employee has the right to a safe place to work.” ##
04.23.2014	WASHINGTON – Today the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) launched the Veterans Employment Center, an online resource for veterans looking for new career opportunities and for employers interested in hiring veterans and transitioning service members. The Veterans Employment Center includes public and private sector job listings, a skills translator and resume builder, as well as a resume bank for employers. On the day of the site launch, there were over 300 listings for jobs in Maryland. “No veteran should struggle to find work in this country. Period,” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “Veteran employment should be a national priority that we all have a stake in. The VA’s new online Veterans Employment Center connects veterans with employers and provides tools for veterans in the job market and is another step to address the veterans unemployment rate. There’s no one solution, but hopefully this online resource will help put veterans and the private sector in touch with one another. We all have a role to play in helping our veterans thrive. Thankfully, this is an issue that our country is really united behind.” The Veterans Employment Center can be found here. For a tutorial video on how to use the Veterans Employment Center, click here. Last year, Congressman Delaney introduced legislation to improve job training and education programs offered by the VA. The legislation passed the House by a 404-2 vote on October 28, 2013. A Senate version of the Delaney bill has been introduced by Senator Ben Cardin (MD) and Senator James Inhofe (OK). Sixth District veterans looking for assistance should contact Congressman Delaney’s Veterans Coordinator, Diana Modelski: Diana.Modelski@mail.house.gov or 301-733-2900. ##
04.21.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) authored an op-ed in today’s Financial Times calling for pragmatic compromise on housing finance reform. In the piece, Delaney argues for an approach that “combines the government’s financial muscle with the market’s ability to price risk.” This approach is the foundation of the Delaney-Carney-Himes housing finance proposal, outlined earlier this year. In the Financial Times, Delaney describes how Delaney-Carney-Himes represents a middle ground between the Johnson-Crapo package in the Senate and PATH Act, introduced by House Committee on Financial Services Chairman Hensarling. For more information on Delaney-Carney-Himes, click here. Delaney’s op-ed is copied below: A pragmatic plan to free the mortgage market from Washington John Delaney, Financial Times, 4/20/14 Since the collapse of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, American housing finance has essentially become a nationalised industry. The government now backs roughly 90 per cent of all new mortgages in the country, mainly through the failed mortgage finance companies that are in federal “conservatorship”. Washington therefore sets the price of mortgage finance – probably at the wrong level. We have ample evidence of what happens when the government distorts the massive mortgage market. A significant contributor to the financial crisis was the government’s mispricing of risk, and the resulting perception that mortgages were effectively as safe as US Treasuries. To make matters worse, there is little evidence that these government subsidies substantially improved home ownership rates or affordability. A bipartisan proposal to wind down Fannie and Freddie has been introduced in the Senate. It would provide government backing for new mortgages in return for stricter underwriting standards, a requirement that the private sector absorb losses of up to 10 per cent of the value of the loans, and the creation of an industry-funded mortgage guarantee fund to further shield taxpayers from the cost of any bailout. But without support in Congress, this proposal is likely to stall. There are legitimate concerns that it would leave the government with an outsize role in the housing market – and that it could make mortgage finance unaffordable for some households. The sheer size of the mortgage book currently underwritten by taxpayers makes it unlikely that the government could retreat quickly from the housing market without causing widespread disruption. But the harmful distortions that government involvement causes can be removed straight away. The trick is to devise a system that combines the government’s financial muscle with the market’s ability to price risk. That is the cornerstone of a proposal that I have put forward with two Democratic colleagues in the House of Representatives, John Carney and Jim Himes. Under our plan the holders of mortgage-backed securities would absorb losses of up to 5 per cent of their value. The remaining 95 per cent would be covered by insurance, which would be provided jointly by the government and the private sector. Our rules would require at least a 10th of this insurance coverage to be purchased from private sources. The portion supplied by the government would have the same price as the private component, and it would insure against precisely the same risks. Consequently the market – rather than government agencies – would determine the price for insuring mortgage risk, eliminating the damaging distortions that exist today. At the same time, the government would ensure that the market retained enough capacity to provide affordable homes for American households. Over time our plan would give private capital a greater role, pushing down the government’s share of the reinsurance market – since the private market, bearing the same risk and earning the same return, would have no incentive to use the government, save for lack of capacity. Fannie and Freddie could conceivably return to the private sector and insure mortgages under our scheme. But they would receive no special deal from the government. This is essential for effective reform. Our plan would ensure that they do not return to monopoly status. Over time the government needs to get out of the mortgage finance market that it has long dominated. But it must do so with care, to ensure that creditworthy American households have access to the affordable housing loans they need. Ours is a pragmatic plan. It gives the government a smaller role than that advocated in the Senate, but a larger one than has been suggested in the House. It combines a gradual transition to private finance in the housing market with an immediate end to the government’s counterproductive role in setting the price of mortgage finance. We desperately need to reform the mortgage finance system for the good of our economy, our taxpayers and the stability of the global financial system. Until we take important steps on housing reform, we will remain haunted by the ghosts of 2008. ##
04.16.2014	HAGERSTOWN – Today in Hagerstown, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) presented posthumous service medals for Private Otis S. Poole to the Poole family. Private Poole served in the U.S. Army during World War II and was a member of the 531st Anti-Aircraft Artillery Battalion. Poole never received the medals he earned during his service. This year, his son, Chester Poole of Clear Spring, contacted Congressman Delaney’s office for help in receiving the medals for his father. Poole’s family was presented with a Purple Heart, Good Conduct Medal, American Campaign Medal with 3 Bronze Stars, European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal, a World War II Victory Medal, an Honorable Service Lapel Button, and a Sharpshooter Badge with Rifle Bar. “Men like Private Otis S. Poole saved our country and saved the world,” said Congressman Delaney. “Private Poole’s official Army forms list his civilian occupation as a ‘farm hand’ – a farm hand who became a sharpshooter and an anti-aircraft gunner taking on the Nazis in the Normandy, Northern France, and Rhineland campaigns. In the final push to liberate Europe, he was injured in Germany, earning his Purple Heart. Private Poole’s story and his heroism deserve to be celebrated and remembered. I’m deeply honored to present his service medals to his family.” On behalf of the Poole family, Delaney’s office worked with the National Archives and the U.S. Army to secure Private Poole’s medals. ##
04.16.2014	HAGERSTOWN – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) officially opened his new Hagerstown office in a ceremony Wednesday. The office is located at 38 South Potomac Street, Suite 205, in Hagerstown, and is open Monday-Friday. “I’m proud to represent Hagerstown in the House of Representatives and proud to have an office here,” said Congressman Delaney. “Local residents should consider our office a resource. I’m honored to be your voice in Washington and I’ve made constituent service a priority: my staff is ready to assist constituents receive their benefits, work with federal agencies, help with government forms, expedite passports, receive service academy nominations and more. Along with my Washington office, please consider the door to our Hagerstown office always open. This is a fantastic location that is convenient and accessible for constituents.” Hagerstown City Councilman Don Munson presided over the office opening and ribbon cutting ceremony. Delaney also has offices in Gaithersburg and Washington. ##
04.16.2014	WASHINGTON – This week, the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released a new analysis of the effects of the Affordable Care Act. In their latest report, the CBO anticipates a vast expansion of health insurance coverage in the United States due to the Affordable Care Act. “The number of Americans with health care coverage is growing thanks to the Affordable Care Act,” said Congressman Delaney. “In fact, the CBO reports that because of the Affordable Care Act, the net number of insured Americans will increase by more than 12 million this year, more than twice the entire population of Maryland. That number includes the Medicaid expansion, people enrolling through the exchanges, and Americans who have coverage on non-exchange plans thanks to the law, including people with preexisting conditions newly able to access plans and young people remaining on their parent’s plans.” “The Affordable Care Act isn’t perfect, and I’ve voted across party lines on multiple occasions to improve the law. Certainly, the rollout of healthcare.gov prior to the arrival of Jeff Zients was a disaster and the state based exchange here in Maryland failed miserably. But the core goal of the law, that every American has the right to quality and affordable health care, is unassailable. This month’s CBO report is another data point showing that we’re moving in the right direction.” To read the full report, titled “Updated Estimates of the Insurance Coverage Provisions of the Affordable Care Act, April 2014,” click here. Among the CBO’s conclusions: “12 million more non-elderly people will have insurance in 2014 than would have had it in the absence of the ACA” (page 3) “19 million more people will be insured in 2015, 25 million more will be insured in 2016, and 26 million more will be insured each year from 2017 through 2024 than would have been the case without the ACA” (page 3) The overall population of the uninsured will fall from a projected 57 million without the ACA to an estimated 31 million by 2024. (Figure 1, page 5) “coverage through the exchanges will increase substantially over time” (page 6) “Coverage through the exchanges is projected to increase an average of 13 million people in 2015, 24 million in 2016, and 25 million in each year between 2017 and 2024” (page 6) Founded in 1974, the CBO produces independent analyses of budgetary and economic issues to support the Congressional budget process. The agency is strictly non-partisan and all CBO employees are appointed without regard to political affiliation. ##
04.15.2014	FREDERICK – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) hosted a reception Monday in Frederick to honor participants in the 2014 Congressional Art Competition. The event took place at the Delaplaine Arts Center. Over 50 entries from Sixth District students were displayed and the 2014 contest finalists were recognized. “The talent and creativity of our students was on full display at the Delaplaine Arts Center and our entire community should be very proud of the gifted young people among us and the educators and parents who are bringing out the best in them,” said Congressman Delaney. “I’m proud that our office was able to play a small role in giving the next generation a platform to share their work.” The winning entry from the 2014 Congressional Art Competition will be displayed in the United States Capitol. Finalist entries from the Sixth District will be displayed in Delaney’s congressional offices. The Congressional Art Competition was founded in 1982 to provide an opportunity for Members of Congress to encourage and recognize artistic talent in their districts. ##
04.11.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Congressman Mike Fitzpatrick (PA-8) have co-authored a letter to their congressional colleagues to support increased investment in infrastructure. The Delaney-Fitzpatrick letter highlights the potential insolvency of the Highway Trust Fund and possible efforts to use repatriated earnings as a funding fix. The text of the letter is below: Dear Colleague, We write today to call your attention to both the insolvency of the Highway Trust Fund (HTF) and efforts to use one-time revenues from repatriated earnings as a temporary funding mechanism while the debate continues around how to ensure the long-term solvency of the HTF. These efforts have merit, particularly if married with other fiscally prudent ways of increasing infrastructure investment. First and foremost, count us as strong supporters of finding a solution to ensure the solvency of the Highway Trust Fund. The importance of infrastructure investment to our economy and U.S. competitiveness cannot be understated. By now, we are all aware that the American Society of Civil Engineers grades the current state of our infrastructure as a D+. Merely continuing with our current level of infrastructure spending will not be enough to make up for this deficit and place us on a path of growth and prosperity in our economic future. That is why we write to advocate that using repatriated revenue to fund the Highway Trust Fund should be tied to efforts to INCREASE our infrastructure investment. One such way to do that can be found in the Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) which already has the bipartisan support of 31 Democrats and 31 Republicans in the House as well as 6 Democrats and 7 Republicans in the Senate. This kind of true bipartisan support is rare for bills with such huge economic impacts. The legislation would create an infrastructure finance entity, capitalized by $50 billion from the private sector in exchange for a tax break on repatriated earnings, which can be leveraged to provide $750 billion in infrastructure financing in transportation, water, energy, communications, and educational facilities. This will make it cheaper for states and local municipalities to finance their infrastructure projects and help move us towards a grade from the American Society of Civil Engineers that we can be proud of. We urge your support for the Partnership to Build America Act, on its own merits and in combination with funding the Highway Trust Fund. Help us to advance the use of repatriated revenues to fund a net increase in infrastructure investment, not the status quo. Sincerely, John K. Delaney Member of Congress Mike Fitzpatrick Member of Congress
04.10.2014	WASHINGTON – This week it was announced that Standard and Poor’s Rating Services have upgraded Washington County’s bond rating. The “AA+” rating is the highest rating in Washington County history. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement: “Washington County’s fiscal health is a credit to the stewardship of the County Commissioners and the execution of the County Department administrators and employees. This upgrade is very good news for the people of Washington County. This rating means that market experts and investors around the country will view County bonds as a sound investment, making new infrastructure projects in Washington County less expensive and giving the County more flexibility. I commend Washington County on their success. Fiscal responsibility isn’t just a talking point; it’s truly the first responsibility of every governing body.” ##
04.10.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has voted against the fiscal year 2015 Ryan Budget. During debate on the Ryan Budget on Wednesday, Congressman Delaney spoke on the House floor, speaking out against the goals of the Ryan Budget. To view Delaney’s floor speech on the Ryan Budget, click here. Congressman Delaney’s remarks on the floor were as follows: Thank you, Mr. Speaker, and I want to thank the gentle lady from New York for yielding me this time to stand up and rise and speak out against Mr. Ryan’s budget. And while I have many significant policy objections that are embedded in Mr. Ryan’s budget, my main objection is based on the fact that the budget is built upon a fundamentally flawed analytical framework. And I think it’s important to focus on that when we think about budgets, Mr. Speaker. The fundamental driver or the goal of the Ryan budget is to have our deficits at zero in ten years. And I believe Mr. Ryan does this because he thinks it is good political optics and it sounds good. The problem with this goal is it’s fundamentally and economically and fiscally the wrong goal, it’s unnecessary and it’s unrealistic. It’s unrealistic based on the fact of the demographics the country is facing. We are somewhere through the midway of this aging of the population that we like to talk about Mr. Speaker, where the population of people over 65 or our citizens over 65 will double from 1980 to 2020 to 2030. This puts tremendous burdens on the federal government; but it’s also an unnecessary goal – a zero deficit is an unnecessary goal if you think about the basic math of deficits and debt. The reason our debt has grown to such a significant level in this country is because for the last several years our deficits as expressed as a percentage of the economy, have exceeded the economic growth on an annual basis for the economy. And the math of that results in a growing debt, which is problematic and unless we change the direction of our debt, we will have very limited financial flexibility in the future particularly if interest rates go up. But in fact, if we get our deficits to a rate below the rate of growth in the economy, then definitionally, the debt in this country will go down. And most experts agree that we should be targeting deficits of one to two percent and economic growth of at least two to three percent; that will cause our debt to go down to historical levels and give this country the financial flexibility that it needs. So if you seek an unrealistic goal, or if you seek the wrong goal in budgeting and forecasting, you are forced to overcorrect. And there are two ways to overcorrect in budgets, or at least in the federal budget. The first way you can overcorrect is to raise taxes to an excessive level. The second way you can overcorrect is to cut spending to unrealistic levels. Mr. Ryan obviously doesn’t choose to raise taxes, in fact, he cuts taxes. Which is, again, an unusual and puzzling conclusion, particularly based on the fact that our tax revenues as a percentage of economy across the last several years have been lower that the historical 50-year average for this country. So to think that we should be cutting taxes against that backdrop again is a puzzling decision. But since he chooses to cut taxes, he is then forced to over-correct on the spending side. And to put this into perspective, in very, very, simple perspective: the Ryan Budget takes discretionary spending, things like education, infrastructure, investments in basic medical research to 1.7% of our economy, and this in the context of a historical average for these same investments of 3%. So it effectively – and we can’t really talk about growing or shrinking numbers in absolute dollars, we always have to talk about these numbers, if we want any kind of budget integrity, in terms of the percentage of the economy – he effectively cuts in half our investments in infrastructure, education, and basic medical research as a percentage of the economy, as compared to the 50-year average. That’s the over-correction he does because he’s trying to achieve a goal that is both unrealistic and unnecessary. And it’s not clear to me, Mr. Speaker, as someone his whole career in the private sector building companies, how anyone with reasonable cognitive abilities, would think, in light of the challenges this country faces to create jobs, as we’ve discussed, to compete in a global economy, and to transform our economy based on what’s happened with technology, that it is the right answer, that it is the right answer, to cut our investments in research, education, and infrastructure, by half. That is the fundamental flaw in the analytical framework that is embedded behind Mr. Ryan’s budget, which only reinforces my conclusion that this is a political document; this is not a substantive document, this is not a document that was created by looking at the facts, thinking about economics, understanding how deficits and debt interrelate and what we need to actually make this country competitive, create jobs, and put ourselves on a long term fiscally sound trajectory. ##
04.08.2014	WASHINGTON – April 8, 2014 is Equal Pay Day, a date that symbolizes when women’s wages catch up to what men were paid in the previous year, reflecting the fact that women on average earn $0.77 cents for every dollar paid to men. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) is a co-sponsor of the Paycheck Fairness Act (H.R. 377) and has signed a discharge petition to bring the Paycheck Fairness Act to the House Floor for a vote. The Paycheck Fairness Act would update and strengthen the Equal Pay Act, which was signed into law by President Kennedy in 1963. “In the last fifty years our country has made tremendous progress towards greater equality and fairness. Women are now over 50% of college graduates and over 50% of new hires in corporate America, but we still have work to do. The gender gap and the wage gap don’t reflect our values and don’t help our economy. For stronger families, a stronger private sector, and a stronger middle class, we need to empower women.” According to the National Partnership for Women & Families, 312,529 family households in Maryland are headed by women and nationwide, nearly 40% of families have mothers as the primary or sole breadwinners. Delaney is the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in Congress. ##
04.08.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) spoke at Tuesday’s House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure Special Panel on Public-Private Partnerships. The hearing, titled “The International Experience with Public-Private Partnerships” included testimony by Delaney, along with experts on global trends in public-private partnerships in infrastructure. For more information on the P3 Panel, click here. Delaney’s infrastructure bill, the Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) is one of the largest pieces of bipartisan legislation in Congress and encourages the expansion of public-private partnerships in the United States. The bill currently has 31 Republican and 30 Democratic cosponsors in the House. The American Infrastructure Fund, created by Delaney’s bill, is effectively a public-private partnership with private capital providing the initial $50 billion by purchasing infrastructure bonds. Delaney’s bill requires 25% of projects be public private partnerships, for which at least 20% of the financing is private debt or equity. For more information on the Partnership to Build America Act, click here. Congressman Delaney submitted the following statement to the panel: Chairman Duncan, Ranking Member Capuano, and esteemed colleagues on the P3 Panel: Thank you for inviting me today to speak about public-private partnerships, the international experience, and my legislation to create a large-scale infrastructure finance entity to finance infrastructure projects here in the United States. As today’s subsequent panelists will no doubt explain in great detail, other countries have taken the lead in using public-private partnerships to build their infrastructure, and we in the U.S. are just starting to catch up. Public-private partnerships can be used to provide a much needed capital boost to fund our infrastructure projects in certain circumstances. But in looking at the international experience around P3s and private capital held overseas alongside our infrastructure needs here at home, I thought it might be productive to highlight my legislation which uses a public-private model to provide up to $750 billion of infrastructure financing for our infrastructure projects. My bill, H.R. 2084: the Partnership to Build America Act, creates a $50 billion infrastructure financing entity that isn’t capitalized in the traditional way, by the government putting in the money. Instead this entity, called the American Infrastructure Fund, is effectively created as a public private partnership, with the $50 billion of capital being put in by the private sector in exchange for a one-time tax break. Specifically, the American Infrastructure Fund would sell 50-year bonds that pay a fixed interest rate of only one percent. The bonds in and of themselves would be a bad investment, but U.S. based multinational corporations will be incentivized to buy them because for every dollar of bond they purchase, they will be able to repatriate a certain amount of their overseas earnings tax free. That multiplier of how much they repatriate compared to bonds purchased will be determined by auction, but we expect that ratio to be around 4:1. The company can then sell the bonds—which you’ll remember are a bad investment on their own—at a huge loss. If they sell them for around 20 cents on the dollar, then the “effective tax rate” of their loss on the bonds over the tax free repatriation will be in the 10%-15% range. This brings about $200 billion back from overseas into the U.S. economy in addition to the capitalizing the American Infrastructure Fund. The $50 billion of capital in the American Infrastructure Fund can be safely leveraged at a 15:1 ratio to provide $750 billion of infrastructure financing, mostly in terms of low-cost bond insurance for muni-bonds, but also for low-cost loans. Access to low cost capital is important for states and municipalities to build their infrastructure, and expanding this access will pave the way for the increased infrastructure investment we desperately need. Additionally, the Partnership leverages private capital by encouraging public private partnerships by requiring a certain percentage of the projects to be PPPs. The legislation is very bipartisan. In the House, we have 31 Republicans and 31 Democrats on the bill. In the Senate, they have 6 Democrats and 7 Republicans. The bill is also supported by a bipartisan group of think tanks and other stakeholders. As we look for ways to move the Surface Transportation Reauthorization forward and ensure solvency for the Highway Trust Fund, we should do so from the starting point that we need to INCREASE our infrastructure investment, not merely maintain the status quo which has left our infrastructure in its current deficient state. The bipartisan Partnership to Build America Act is teed up to do just that. I know that two cosponsors of the bill are on this panel, Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney and Congressman Scott Perry. I’d like to end by thanking them for their support on this legislation, and thanking the panel for allowing me to testify. ##
04.03.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) will testify at the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure P3 Panel hearing on Tuesday April 8, 2014. The hearing, titled, “The International Experience with Public-Private Partnerships” will be chaired by Rep. John J. Duncan (TN-2). For more information on the P3 Panel, click here. The hearing is scheduled for Tuesday April 8, 2014, at 10:00 AM and will take place in 2167 Rayburn. The hearing will be live streamed here. “I am excited to speak before the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee’s P3 panel and I thank Committee Chairman Shuster, Ranking Member Rahall, and panel Chairman Duncan for the opportunity,” said Congressman Delaney. “Public-private partnerships are essential to rebuilding our nation’s infrastructure in a fiscally-responsible way. I look forward to continued discussion about the Partnership to Build America Act, which is the largest piece of bipartisan economic legislation in the House, with equal support from Republicans and Democrats. If we want to pass meaningful new infrastructure legislation, my bill is ready to go.” Delaney’s infrastructure bill, the Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) currently has 30 Republican and 30 Democratic cosponsors in the House. The American Infrastructure Fund, created by Delaney’s bill, is effectively a public-private partnership with private capital providing the initial $50 billion by purchasing infrastructure bonds. Delaney’s bill requires 25% of projects be public private partnerships, for which at least 20% of the financing is private debt or equity. The Partnership to Build America Act creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund that can be leveraged to $750 billion. This fund will be capitalized by the sale of 50-year bonds that are not guaranteed by the Federal government and pay 1% interest rate. To encourage U.S. corporations to purchase these bonds, they will be allowed to repatriate a certain dollar amount – determined by auction - in overseas earnings tax-free for every $1 they invest in the bonds. The fund will then provide loans or loan guarantees to states and municipalities to finance transportation, energy, education, communications, and water infrastructure projects. ##
04.03.2014	WASHINGTON – Today’s Baltimore Sun includes an op-ed from Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) which calls on the White House to reject the Keystone XL pipeline and increase American natural gas exports. Delaney writes, “The right analytical framework for these decisions has several component questions: what's consistent with our environmental and energy policy objectives, what's in our economic self-interest, and what serves our geopolitical goals. Keystone fails each of these tests, while increasing natural gas exports passes them all.” The full piece can be read below or by clicking here. Natural gas is the right choice for the United StatesBaltimore Sun, April 2, 2014 By John K. Delaney In the context of Russia's invasion of Ukraine and a still stagnant economy, President Barack Obama faces two important questions on energy transmission: a decision on the construction of the Keystone XL oil pipeline and the question of increasing American natural gas exports. These are choices that will resonate from Crimea to Cove Point. In my judgment, the president should reject Keystone and step up natural gas exports. Here's why. The right analytical framework for these decisions has several component questions: what's consistent with our environmental and energy policy objectives, what's in our economic self-interest, and what serves our geopolitical goals. Keystone fails each of these tests, while increasing natural gas exports passes them all. In the United States, Russia's invasion of the Ukraine has sparked another round of calls for approval of the Keystone XL pipeline, a 1,100 mile conduit that effectively connects Canadian oil fields to the Gulf of Mexico. Keystone XL is not the answer. Oil is largely our energy past, and Keystone does little to respond to the actual challenges and opportunities before us. The process to generate energy using the Canadian tar sands is particularly dirty, producing one of the most noxious fossil fuels on the planet and leaving a devastated landscape in its wake. Keystone XL also exposes a huge swath of the continent, including much of the water table, to a persistent contamination threat. We incur this environmental cost at very little economic benefit. According to the State Department, Keystone XL would create 35 permanent jobs. Moreover, there's no evidence that the project will produce any secondary benefits to our economy. The oil is produced in Canada, shipped across the U.S., and then shipped out into the world oil market. Increased natural gas exports, on the other hand, serve the national interest of the country on all three questions: the environment, the economy and geopolitics. Natural gas is a central economic opportunity for the United States, it creates a bridge to the cleaner energy future we envision, and exports will help key strategic allies in Europe. If done properly — with high standards and the approval of local communities — natural gas can be extracted and exported in a safe manner. As we respond to climate change and work to utilize more clean energy sources, it makes sense to emphasize natural gas. Natural gas is the cleanest fossil fuel, producing less carbon than either coal or oil. According to the EPA, natural gas also produces less nitrogen oxide and sulfur dioxide than hydrocarbons, as well as only negligible amounts of mercury compounds. Increasing natural gas exports is also good for the American economy. The United States is now the leading producer of natural gas in the world. However, dominance is not guaranteed, and without engaging the global market, we may soon be overtaken by both Russia and China. In the last decade, a natural gas jobs boom has been essential to our economic recovery. Increased exports will help sustain and expand middle-class energy jobs. We should build on this legitimate momentum: The natural gas export facility at Cove Point in Southern Maryland will produce more permanent jobs than the entire Keystone XL pipeline. Rather than choosing a superficial solution with the Keystone XL pipeline, President Obama should do two things immediately: One, speed up the Department of Energy approval process for new coastal terminals, including Cove Point; and two, expand the list of countries where we can sell natural gas, focusing on Europe. By becoming a true player on the global natural gas market, the United States can restore needed geopolitical balance for our allies in Europe. Russia's regional energy dominance has given the country an outsized influence. Russia's agenda, which is paid for and brandished by Russian natural gas, is not aligned with that our national values or those of our closest allies. The peaceful and prosperous Europe we've long been committed to needs a competitive energy market that includes American natural gas. Smoothing out the distorted energy market in the long-run will weaken Russian hegemony. In 1848, John Stuart Mill wrote that increased international trade is "the principal guarantee of the peace of the world." Mill's view certainly holds today, when, ironically, the ideals of political freedom he championed are now in desperate peril. For our environment, our economy and our allies, we should reject the Keystone Pipeline and move forward on natural gas. Congressman John K. Delaney represents Maryland's Sixth District and is the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in Congress. His email is DelaneyMD6@mail.house.gov. ##
04.02.2014	WASHINGTON – The Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) now has 60 cosponsors in the House of Representatives, with equal support from 30 Republicans and 30 Democrats. The 60th cosponsor is Congresswoman Susan W. Brooks (IN-5). Authored by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6), the legislation also has bipartisan support in the Senate. The Senate companion was filed in January by Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) and Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO) and currently has 5 Democratic, 7 Republican and 1 Independent cosponsors. “The Partnership to Build America Act is the most significant piece of bipartisan economic legislation in Congress,” said Congressman Delaney. “It is clear that large numbers of both parties understand that we have to work together to rebuild America, create jobs, and strengthen our middle class. A year ago, there was no bipartisan framework to increase infrastructure investment. Today, along with 60 of my House colleagues, there’s a large group of us ready to step forward with a solution. Supporting the right policy isn’t always easy in today’s divided Washington, but bipartisan answers are out there. With the right approach we can address our multi-trillion dollar infrastructure deficit in a fiscally-responsible way. It’s time to work together.” The Partnership to Build America Act creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund that can be leveraged to $750 billion. This fund will be capitalized by the sale of 50-year bonds that are not guaranteed by the Federal government and pay 1% interest rate. To encourage U.S. corporations to purchase these bonds, they will be allowed to repatriate a certain dollar amount – determined by auction - in overseas earnings tax-free for every $1 they invest in the bonds. The fund will then provide loans or loan guarantees to states and municipalities to finance transportation, energy, education, communications, and water infrastructure projects. ##
04.01.2014	WASHINGTON – Maryland announced today that the state will replace the Maryland Health Connection with technology from Connecticut’s insurance marketplace. Dating to last year, Rep. John K. Delaney (MD-6) urged the state to abandon the failing Maryland exchange and provide Marylanders with an option that works. Beginning in January Delaney began formally inquiring with the state, urging them to move to a working platform. In Connecticut, private coverage enrollment reached over 74,000, 164% of the state’s original goal. According to the White House, more than 7,041,000 million Americans enrolled in coverage plans by March 31, with additional signups from states running their own exchanges still to be reported. Maryland’s original enrollment goal for private coverage was 150,000. According to the latest figures, roughly 60,000 Marylanders have signed up for private coverage through the exchange. Both the Connecticut and the federal exchanges ended up exceeding their goals. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement: “Dropping the failed Maryland Health Connection and moving to a platform that works is the right thing to do for the people of our state. As I assessed the situation in December, it was clear that a move like this was the best long-term option. The state did the right thing for the citizens in finally making this change. It has been apparent for a very long time that the Maryland Health Connection was not fixable or patchable and that the best option was to start over. “The shame is that this move didn’t happen earlier, because Maryland has fallen well short of its original goals. While Maryland has done well to enroll large numbers into Medicaid – which is laudable – the problems with the exchange have been a major drag on private coverage enrollment in our state. When you compare our enrollment statistics to the likely numbers we would have seen had we used the federal exchange at Healthcare.Gov or a working state-exchange like Connecticut’s, it is likely that 100,000 more Marylanders would have private coverage today. Moreover, a healthy private sector market is essential to the Affordable Care Act delivering affordability. “The failure of the Maryland Health Exchange isn’t just about numbers; it’s about extending affordable health care coverage Marylanders, including my constituents. And make no mistake, there’s been a human cost to this failure. So while today’s announcement is likely a positive development for the future, there has been a real impact to the months of delay behind this move. “The Affordable Care Act has the potential to greatly improve the lives of millions of Americans, but federally and locally, we have to get the details right so people can get the coverage they need.” ##
03.29.2014	WASHINGTON - Late Friday it was reported that Maryland will announce soon that the state is replacing the Maryland Health Connection with technology from Connecticut’s exchange. For months, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has urged the state to abandon the troubled exchange. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “I applaud the Administration's decision to use the Connecticut exchange while Maryland's website is being repaired. I want to thank the State of Connecticut for bailing out the Maryland Health Connection. This was what I had long hoped the state would do: move to a functioning exchange so that all the Marylanders who need health care coverage can get it. It is unfortunate that this move did not happen sooner and I believe that the delay and the rejection of other options had a tangible impact in leading to low enrollment numbers. But we did not have an open and transparent discussion of the options, including the viability of switching to the federal exchange months ago. “The overall impact of the failure of the Maryland Health Connection over the last year is unavoidable: tens of thousands of Marylanders that should have coverage remain uninsured and millions of dollars in taxpayer dollars have been wasted. This experience should remind us that approving progressive polices in a Democratic state like Maryland is not the hard part, executing them well is. “I remain a strong supporter of the Affordable Care Act, including the individual mandate, because this law is designed to expand health care coverage and lower overall costs. We have to get the execution right, however, to garner the benefits. All the state can do now is move forward, operate to a high standard of transparency, restore the public trust in their ability to execute, and make sure that the people of our state are able to benefit from the Affordable Care Act.” ##
03.27.2014	WASHINGTON – On Thursday, House Committee on Financial Services Ranking Member Congresswoman Maxine Waters introduced the Housing Opportunities Move the Economy Forward Act of 2014. For more information on the legislation, click here. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “I applaud Ranking Member Waters for introducing legislation on this most crucial topic. Home ownership is a major component of the American Dream, housing is a huge sector of our economy that must be stabilized, and housing finance reform should be at the top of our legislative agenda. As Congress works towards a bipartisan and bicameral solution on housing finance reform, we are better off having Ranking Member Waters legislation on the table and in the discussion. No one has been a stronger advocate for fairness, affordability, and equal access to housing than Ranking Member Waters. Along with Chairman Hensarling and his focus on protecting taxpayers, the Financial Services Committee is in good hands as we work towards comprehensive housing finance reform.” ##
03.25.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement on National Agriculture Day: “National Agriculture Day is a time to thank our nation’s farmers and agricultural workers: they put food on our table, boost our economy, and serve as stewards of our land. Their work deserves our gratitude and support. As Thomas Jefferson said, agriculture is the ‘first and most precious of all the arts.’ Farming employs 350,000 Marylanders and I’m very proud to represent one of the primary agricultural regions of our state. The range and quality of products our farmers grow, from the Montgomery County Agricultural Reserve to Frederick’s fields to Western Maryland, is truly remarkable. I encourage all my constituents to thank a farmer today.” In January, Congressman Delaney voted for the Farm Bill, which passed by a 251-166 vote in the House. He was one of only two members of the Maryland House Delegation to vote for the bill. ##
03.24.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement on the efforts to bring the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) headquarters to Maryland: “I stand alongside my Maryland colleagues in saying ‘we’re all in’ on bringing the new FBI headquarters to Maryland. With immediate access to national and regional transportation networks, a world-class workforce, and proximity to Maryland’s strong educational and research infrastructure, Prince George’s County is the right place for the FBI. Maryland is already a home to the FBI – more FBI employees live in Maryland than in any other state – and the Prince George’s County site would be surrounded by key law enforcement, cybersecurity, and military installations, including a secure airfield at Joint Base Andrews. Team Maryland is united on bringing the FBI to Prince George’s County and I thank our statewide and local elected officials for their work to bring the FBI to Maryland. Relocating to Prince George’s County isn’t just good for Maryland; it’s good for the country, as this is the most appropriate location for the new headquarters." Last year, Delaney joined his Maryland colleagues in writing to Robert S. Mueller III, the Director of the FBI and Daniel M. Tangherlini, the Acting Administrator of the General Services Administration, encouraging them to locate the new headquarters in Maryland. ##
03.19.2014	WASHINGTON – Livability.com has ranked Frederick, MD, the 6th best downtown in America. The Livability rankings looked at population growth, the job market, affordability, and other factors. To read the full list, click here. For the Frederick entry, click here. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement: “Frederick is a lovely place to live, work, and raise a family. With Frederick’s tremendous assets, it isn’t surprising that the rest of the nation is starting to notice what we’ve known in Maryland for years: Frederick is a jewel. I’d like to congratulate Frederick on being named one of the best downtowns in America. The revitalization of downtown Frederick is one of the great economic development success stories in our region. The beautiful and thriving Frederick of today didn’t happen overnight, it has been the product of the hard work of the people of Frederick, including elected officials, business owners, and dedicated citizens working together to build a better city. I’m proud to represent Frederick and believe that the city sets an example for other communities around the country to follow.” ##
03.19.2014	WASHINGTON – Last week, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) joined 31 of his congressional colleagues in an open letter of support to the women of Afghanistan. The letter, organized by Rep. Betty McCollum (MN-4) will be translated into Dari and Pashtu and distributed across Afghanistan by civil organizations that work with women. On April 5, Afghanistan will hold provincial and presidential elections. “Around the globe, women are empowering themselves and demanding that they have control over their lives and an equal voice in their community and their country,” said Congressman Delaney. “As a Congress and as a country, we should do everything we can to support the women of the world, including amplifying their voice. I thank Congresswoman McCollum for organizing this letter at this critical time ahead of the elections in Afghanistan. As we celebrate Women’s History Month, we should keep the values of equality, justice, and dignity and the forefront of our discussion.” The letter states, “as you continue to fight for equal opportunity, equal participation, and equal protection under the law, we are committed to standing with you. We firmly believe that expanding women and girls’ access to education, economic enrichment, and social mobility will benefit not only the individual girl, but her whole community.” The full text of the letter is provided below: To the Women of Afghanistan: Over the past 12 years, Afghan women have made enormous strides in political empowerment and participation, education, and health. While this progress has not been without setbacks, you should take pride in what has been accomplished thus far. These achievements will be the foundation of developing a sustainable peace in Afghanistan. In October 2004, women were able to exercise their right to vote for the first time in decades. There was also significant progress in Afghan law, with the 2007 release of the National Action plan for women and the 2009 enactment of the Elimination of Violence Against Women Act. Twenty-eight percent of the seats in parliament were held by women in 2011. Just last year, women played a major role in representing Afghan civil society at the Tokyo Conference with international donors. While your progress has been inspiring, we are aware of the tremendous challenges women and girls continue to face. A 2010 study by the Afghan Ministry of Public Health found that twenty-one percent of Afghan girls are married before the age of fifteen. Child marriage significantly raises the risks of girls developing health problems and ends their education far too young. Only twenty percent of young women between the ages of fifteen and twenty-four can read and write. Afghanistan ranks 158th in maternal mortality with less than a quarter of women have skilled attendants present when giving birth. As you continue to fight for equal opportunity, equal participation, and equal protection under the law, we are committed to standing with you. We firmly believe that expanding women and girls’ access to education, economic enrichment, and social mobility will benefit not only the individual girl, but her whole community. As the international community and the government of Afghanistan move towards the post-2014 era, we pledge to continue to support policies and programs that empower women and girls. Sincerely, ##
03.14.2014	WASHINGTON – In an editorial published in today, the Washington Post highlighted the Delaney-Carney-Himes proposal as a potential solution to the question of housing finance reform. In January, Delaney-Carney-Himes outlined a platform that marries private sector pricing with the government’s ability to provide capacity, protecting taxpayers and the fixed-rate thirty-year mortgage. For information on the plan, click here. The text of the editorial is as follows: Bid to Replace Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac Gets a Needed Push By Washington Post Editorial Board, March 13, 2014 HOUSING FINANCE reform, the great unfinished business of the financial crisis, got a push forward Tuesday from the top Democrat and top Republican on the Senate banking committee. Chairman Tim Johnson (D-S.D.) and ranking member Mike Crapo (R-Idaho) put forward a proposal to replace Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which currently back three-fifths of all new home loans. Instead of those two government-sponsored mortgage guarantors, which have been under direct federal control since their collapse in 2008, a new federal entity would, in return for a fee, insure private-sector mortgage securitizers against catastrophic losses. The private companies would put up 10 cents of their own money for every dollar of risk, and the federal insurance would cover losses above that stake, using accumulated insurance fees. This is roughly the approach outlined last year by banking committee members Mark Warner (D-Va.) and Bob Corker (R-Tenn.); the Obama administration has signaled its support. Ideally government would get out of the mortgage securitization business, limiting its intervention to a program targeted transparently at low-income, first-time home buyers. Political realities being what they are — chiefly, the housing sector’s dependence on the 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage — such an approach is not in the cards, at least for now. The Johnson-Crapo approach, modeled on Corker-Warner, aims to create a second-best solution. In contrast with the Fannie-Freddie model, in which government implicitly guaranteed the liabilities of two non-transparent, highly politicized entities, the proposed alternative would expressly guarantee not firms but assets — mortgages — whose risks can be more readily analyzed. As with all federal insurance programs, a major concern about the proposed entity is that interest-group lobbyists would pressure it to charge too little for the federal guarantee, thus replicating Fannie and Freddie’s distorting effect on capital allocation. Rep. John Delaney (D-Md.), a former financier, has suggested a solution: Private-sector entities should be allowed to bid on the security-guarantee business as well, assuming a share of the government’s risk in return for a share of the profits. Under Mr. Delaney’s proposal, the private-sector bids would set the price of the federal guarantee, thus ensuring that it reflects market considerations over political ones. Ultimately, the quality of the underlying mortgages will determine how much exposure the government — and, by extension, the taxpayer — takes on. Poorly underwritten loans brought down both the “private-label” mortgage securities industry and the Fannie-Freddie duopoly. Yet a wide array of interest groups, from the housing lobby to low-income advocates, can be counted on to insist that standards be relaxed, bit by bit, in the name of homeownership. The Johnson-Crapo proposal adopts federal “qualified mortgage” standards that basically rule out “no-doc” loans and the like — but it would also make mortgages with down payments as low as 3.5 percent eligible for government-backed securitization. Congress must resist any temptation to debase credit standards. If recent history teaches anything, it’s this: A mortgage securitization system is only as strong as its weakest borrower. ##
03.14.2014	WASHINGTON – Reports emerged Friday that Maryland is expected to abandon its own state health insurance exchange and will adopt Connecticut’s system. Since December, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has recommended that Maryland switch to the federal exchange at healthcare.gov on either a permanent or temporary basis. Since October, Maryland has had one of the worst performing exchanges in the country, and through March 1, the state had only enrolled 38,070 individuals in private insurance plans through their exchange, the Maryland Health Connection. The state’s original goal was 150,000 private insurance enrollments by March 31, 2014. In Connecticut, through March 11, 60,534 individuals had signed up for private insurance, 59% more than in Maryland, despite the fact that Connecticut’s population is 39% smaller than Maryland’s. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “Moving to the Connecticut website appears to be an appropriate step in improving access to health care for all Marylanders. I would have loved to have had a more robust and transparent discussion about options but the administration did not facilitate that approach. Moving to Connecticut ends the saga of the Maryland Health Connection where at least $150 million of hard-earned taxpayers’ money was wasted. In the fullness of time and with the benefit of appropriate review, it is my view that the management of the Maryland exchange by the Governor's administration will be considered one of the most significant failures of the implementation of progressive policies in the country.” According to Congressional Research Report R43066, by 2013 Maryland had already received $157,462,123 from the federal government to implement their exchange. Maryland has stated that it plans to spend $261 million on their state exchange by 2015. ##
03.14.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, the House Committee on Financial Services considered and passed legislation by Rep. Stephen Fincher (TN-8) and Rep. John K. Delaney (MD-6) designed to make it easier for businesses to enter into an Initial Public Offering. Rep. Delaney and Rep. Fincher introduced the Improving Access to Capital for Emerging Growth Companies Act (H.R. 3623) in November. Friday, the legislation passed the Financial Services Committee by a 56-0 vote. View Delaney’s remarks before the committee here. The Fincher-Delaney legislation simplifies the Initial Public Offering registration process for Emerging Growth Companies, as defined by the 2012 JOBS Act. “As a former entrepreneur who took two companies public, I’m proud to sponsor this bipartisan legislation that will streamline the IPO on-ramp for the next generation of job creators,” said Congressman Delaney. “When more companies go public our economy grows and employers hire more people. According to a study published in Forbes, after going public, the average company adds 822 employees. Those are new jobs that our country desperately needs. In recent decades the IPO process has become increasingly complex and burdensome. This legislation builds on the progress made by the JOBS Act. I thank Chairman Hensarling for bringing this legislation to the committee and my colleague Congressman Fincher for his work in drafting and introducing this important bill. I look forward to working with my colleagues in both parties to make sure that this bill becomes law.” The Improving Access to Capital for Emerging Growth Companies Act: Allows an Emerging Growth Company (EGC) to conduct a road show more quickly. The legislation reduces from 21 days to 15 days the length of time an Emerging Growth Company must have a confidential registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) before they may conduct a road show. Clarifies the definition of an EGC to prevent the unintended consequence of eligible companies being excluded. H.R. 3623 clarifies that an issuer that was an EGC at the time it filed a confidential registration statement but grows outside the bounds of a defined EGC during the registration process will continue to be treated as an EGC through the date of the IPO. Simplifies the financial statement disclosure requirements for EGCs. Currently, an EGC must submit their previous two years of audited financials when it files for registration. During the review process, however, a new financial year could begin. Under H.R. 3623, the EGC would not have to submit additional financials effective 30 days after first submission. The legislation also allows EGCs to submit a draft registration statement confidentially to the SEC for any follow-on securities offerings after its IPO. ##
03.13.2014	WASHINGTON – The Wall Street Journal reported Wednesday that “the U.S. could suffer a coast-to-coast blackout if saboteurs knocked out just nine of the country’s 55,000 electric-transmission substations.” The Journal report was based on internal data produced by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), in models conducted last year. A.P. Meliopoulus, a professor at Georgia Tech, told the Journal that “other models come to the same conclusion” and estimated that it would take perhaps only a “slightly larger number” of downed power substations to cause a nationwide blackout. The Journal reported that a memo prepared for former FERC Chairman Jon Wellinghoff concluded that, “destroy nine interconnected substations and a transformer manufacturer and the entire United States grid would be down for at least 18 months.” Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement: “The recent report by the Wall Street Journal, which was grounded in extensive documentation from a variety of sources, establishes that our national power grid is extraordinarily vulnerable. An attack on a very small number of substations could lead to a prolonged national blackout. This is truly alarming and we must take prompt action to address this situation while there is still time. “In the case of a national blackout, commerce would grind to a halt. Even a two-day national blackout would be astronomically damaging to our economy, draining at least $90 billion from our Gross Domestic Product. Whatever the cost to mitigate this threat – including new energy infrastructure, additional transformers, and additional security – this cost is a mere fraction of the economic damage done and the additional costs required to fully or even partially restore a large portion of the grid after an attack. Beyond the calculated cost, an extended blackout of a large size would be extremely harmful to the health, security, and well-being of the American people. “It is extremely important that every Member of Congress, every Congressional committee of jurisdiction, and every relevant federal agency understand the grave implications of this report. The sniper attack on a California power station last year underscores that attacks upon our electrical system need not be sophisticated to be successful. I have no doubt that the Federal Energy Regulatory Agency has been taking steps to fully understand and prepare for this problem. However, on an issue of such extreme importance, we should make sure that every relevant agency has full and adequate funding, and we use every appropriate venue, including FERC, to address the problem. “It is essential that we continue the discussion on this topic, just as we do on any other serious national security threat, in a measured and responsible way. My predecessor in Maryland’s Sixth District, Congressman Roscoe Bartlett, has been outspoken on this issue for many years. Now is certainly an appropriate time to thank Mr. Bartlett for his efforts to highlight power grid security concerns throughout his career. I plan to work with my colleagues in both parties to make sure that this issue receives proper attention in the days and weeks to come.” ##
03.13.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, the House Committee on Financial Services considered legislation by Rep. Stephen Fincher (TN-8) and Rep. John K. Delaney (MD-6) designed to make it easier for businesses to enter into an Initial Public Offering. The committee will vote on the legislation Friday morning. Rep. Delaney and Rep. Fincher introduced the Improving Access to Capital for Emerging Growth Companies Act (H.R. 3623) in November. The Fincher-Delaney legislation simplifies the Initial Public Offering registration process for Emerging Growth Companies, as defined by the 2012 JOBS Act. Congressman Delaney made the following comments to the committee: (video available here) “Thank you Mr. Chairman. I want that thank my colleague Mr. Fincher for giving me the opportunity to work on this piece of legislation with him. I want to thank also the Chairman for bringing this up today and for his comments about working in a bipartisan way to reduce regulations. I actually thought they were pitch perfect during your introduction. And I want to thank the Ranking Member for her unwavering support to do things to help small businesses grow and create jobs in this country. “So I do have, as Mr. Fincher said, some personal experience having started two companies and taking them public with the IPO process. And for an emerging growth company, the IPO process is a very, very, difficult moment – it’s a hard moment – but it’s a good moment because the company’s raising public, raising capital, and it’s a validation of its success – but it’s a hard moment because it’s cumbersome , it’s timely, it’s costly, and there’s significant risk associated with doing it. But at the same time, it is the moment when investor protections are actually the highest, and they’re their highest for four reasons. First, the SEC does a full review of all the filings, which doesn’t always happen once a company is public because the SEC is not required to review all company filings after that, so you have full SEC review. The audit firms that audit the company know that the IPO process is the time when they establish all of the important policies, accounting policies, for that company so they review it very carefully. The underwriters have risk associated with the offering and they do significant due diligence on behalf of investors, and finally, most public offerings are sold to institutional investors (not to retail investors) and those institutional investors do significant diligence. “So this is the moment of greatest investor protection and it’s also a very hard moment for the company. So doing things that don’t lower investor protection but create a more streamlined, easier process that accelerate the process, make it less costly, and take away market risk is really important to do for these companies and I think this legislation, which I am working with my colleague on, does that very well and I think as my colleague said this is really important because the data overwhelmingly suggests that if more companies go public, more jobs get created in this country. “Most emerging growth companies are faced with a choice; they either go public and continue to grow their business, which creates jobs, or they decide to sell themselves, which is typically a process while they, there may be growth that is associated with that on an ongoing basis, it’s typically doesn’t create nearly as many jobs. So doing things, having this Congress do things, as the Chairman said to lower regulations so that the private sector can create jobs is really important and I believe this bill does that.” The Improving Access to Capital for Emerging Growth Companies Act: Allows an Emerging Growth Company (EGC) to conduct a road show more quickly. The legislation reduces from 21 days to 15 days the length of time an Emerging Growth Company must have a confidential registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) before they may conduct a road show. Clarifies the definition of an EGC to prevent the unintended consequence of eligible companies being excluded. H.R. 3623 clarifies that an issuer that was an EGC at the time it filed a confidential registration statement but grows outside the bounds of a defined EGC during the registration process will continue to be treated as an EGC through the date of the IPO. Simplifies the financial statement disclosure requirements for EGCs. Currently, an EGC must submit their previous two years of audited financials when it files for registration. During the review process, however, a new financial year could begin. Under H.R. 3623, the EGC would not have to submit additional financials effective 30 days after first submission. The legislation also allows EGCs to submit a draft registration statement confidentially to the SEC for any follow-on securities offerings after its IPO. ##
03.11.2014	Washington, D.C.—Tuesday, Senate Banking Chairman Tim Johnson and Senator Mike Crapo, the committee’s ranking Republican, unveiled a bipartisan agreement on housing finance reform. The Johnson-Crapo plan would use Corker-Warner as its base architecture and wind down Fannie and Freddie. Representatives John K. Delaney (MD-6), John Carney (DE-AL), and Jim Himes (CT-4) have developed housing finance reform legislation that uses private sector market forces to appropriately price risk while putting the scale and security of a government guarantee behind the program. They plan to introduce legislation to create a housing finance system that is fair for borrowers, lenders, and taxpayers. Delaney, Carney, and Himes issue the following statement: “We thank Senate Banking Chairman Johnson and Ranking Member Crapo for prioritizing housing finance reform, an issue of vital importance to the long-term health of our economy and financial system. We applaud their bipartisan approach and see their proposal as a positive development that shows significant momentum behind smart GSE reform. We also thank Senator Warner and Senator Corker for their enormous contribution to this process, their work has been instrumental in developing an initial bipartisan framework to build upon in the Senate. “We share their core goals of both protecting taxpayers and ensuring the continued availability of the 30-year, fixed-rate, mortgage. America needs a housing finance system that is fair for borrowers, lenders, and taxpayers. We believe that the best course of action moving forward is a bipartisan, bicameral approach. We have introduced an innovative model that marries private sector pricing with the government’s ability to provide capacity. We are eager to work with our Senate colleagues as Johnson-Crapo goes through the legislative process.” Key elements of Delaney-Carney-Himes Housing Finance Proposal Housing reform legislation allows the government to expand the capacity of housing finance while allowing the private sector to price the risk Creates incentives for private capital’s market share in housing to grow over time; Creates a path for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to be sold as independent companies without any government support or monopoly status Creates additional funds for low income housing The Delaney-Carney-Himes housing finance proposal creates a structure that enables the government to significantly expand the availability of capital in the insurance market, while ensuring the mortgage market is open and efficient – with private capital participating in the market and pricing the risk. The plan adds discipline to the mortgage market, creates meaningful paths and incentives for private capital to flow into the mortgage market, and ensures that the mortgage market benefits from the liquidity provided by government participation. ###
03.11.2014	WASHINGTON – Rep. John K. Delaney (MD-6), Rep. John Carney (DE-At Large), and Rep. Jim Himes (CT-4) argued against a renegotiated agreement between the federal government and GSE shareholders in Monday’s Wall Street Journal. In January, Delaney, Carney, and Himes outlined a housing finance reform proposal that uses private sector market forces to appropriately price risk while putting the scale and security of a government guarantee behind the program. For more information on the Delaney-Carney-Himes plan, click here. The text of the letter is as follows: David Skeel's “Now Uncle Sam Is Ripping Off Fannie and Freddie” (op-ed, Feb. 28) argues for a renegotiated agreement between the government and the companies' shareholders. We have outlined a housing reform package that creates a new housing finance system including a path for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to be sold. But under no circumstances should the government modify its current deal with Fannie and Freddie until Congress passes comprehensive housing-reform legislation. To do so would be turning the clock back on reform and an injustice to the American people. Fannie and Freddie failed in 2008, and the government stepped in and explicitly guaranteed $4 trillion of debt and obligations and injected $187 billion of equity. Taxpayers assumed a staggering obligation equal to 48 times all annual Social Security payments. In exchange for this unprecedented level of support, the government negotiated a deal that allowed it to ultimately take all of the profits of the companies. Given the extraordinary level of government support, this deal seems fair to us. Now that the companies are profitable and have paid significant sums back to the Treasury, Fannie and Freddie shareholders want to change the deal. We believe Fannie and Freddie could have a future once we agree on comprehensive reform that creates a stable system and safeguards against abuse, mispricing of risk and financial calamity. But until that future is agreed to by Congress, or unless the Supreme Court were to rule otherwise, those of us in government should stand firmly with the American taxpayer rather than renegotiate the agreement. Rep. John K. Delaney (D., Md.)Rep. John Carney (D., Del.)Rep. Jim Himes (D., Conn.) ##
03.10.2014	WASHINGTON – A new report by Gallup shows that the U.S. uninsured rate among adults has fallen to 15.9%, the lowest level since 2008. According to Gallup, “the uninsured rate for almost every major demographic group has dropped in 2014 so far.” Gallup also concludes, “With the open enrollment period scheduled to close on March 31, the uninsured rate in the U.S. will likely continue to fall.” For more information on the Gallup report, click here. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “As a former CEO, I believe that our evaluation of policies should be data-driven, and the latest date on health insurance in America is extremely encouraging. The bottom line is that, according to an independent and non-partisan source, millions of people have the health care coverage that they lacked last year. The Gallup study should be welcome news for all of us, on whichever side of the aisle we sit. I don’t think you can read a report that says more Americans have health care and have anything other than a positive reaction. “When Healthcare.gov launched and didn’t work, the President took swift action to address the problem. He swallowed his pride and put the right people in place with a singular goal in mind: fix it. I wish that a similar approach was taken in my home state of Maryland, where we continue to lag behind, saddled with one of the worst exchanges in the country. “The Affordable Care Act has two core goals: expanding health care coverage and lowering overall health care cost inflation. There’s mounting evidence that we’re making substantial progress towards both goals. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services reported in January that public spending on health care grew at just 1.1% over the last two years, the lowest increase in the last 53 years. “The law isn’t perfect and I’ve supported Republican and Democratic efforts to improve the Affordable Care Act, but on balance, we’re moving in the right direction. The important thing is to ground every evaluation and action in facts, not ideology. Congress should work together on real reforms and adjustments and cease grandstanding on such an important issue.” Last year, Congressman John K. Delaney encouraged President Obama to tackle the botched rollout of healthcare.gov like a CEO. Additionally, Delaney voted to repeal the Medical Device Tax component of the Affordable Care Act and voted to delay the employer mandate. This month, Delaney was an original cosponsor of two bills to reduce Affordable Care Act costs for small businesses. ##
03.07.2014	WASHINGTON - On Friday, March 7, the Maryland House Health and Government Operations Committee considered HB 1229, legislation by Delegate Michael Hough (District 3B). The legislation transfers state exchange user accounts to the federal exchange at Healthcare.gov. Since December, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has been critical of the state’s troubled website and has suggested the state switch to the federal exchange. Congressman Delaney submitted the following letter to the Health and Government Operations Committee: Delegate Peter Hammen, Chair Health and Government Operations Committee House Office Building 6 Bladen St. Annapolis, MD 21401 Delegate Shane Pendergrass, Vice Chair Health and Government Operations Committee House Office Building 6 Bladen St. Annapolis, MD 21401 March 7, 2014 Dear Chairman Hammen and Vice Chair Pendergrass, The proper implementation of the Affordable Care Act (the “ACA”) is one of the most important public policy initiatives that Maryland – and our country - will undertake in our generation. In my judgment, the ACA is good public policy but its complexity demands a high level of management skill to successfully implement the law. In fact, the ACA roll out may be singular in terms of testing the management mettle for elected officials across the country. On both an absolute basis, and relative to almost every other state in the country, Maryland’s execution of the ACA roll out was terrible. For this reason, I am writing today on Delegate Hough’s proposed bill HB 1229, the Maryland Health Benefit Exchange – Repeal – Transfer of Enrollee to Federal Health Insurance Marketplace. As of February 1, only 29,059 Marylanders had enrolled in private health plans through Maryland Health Connection. That represented only 19.37% of the state’s original goal of 150,000, as compared to enrollment in the Federal Exchange, which was 48.54% for the same period, and 43.27% for the other states that elected to build their own exchange. Recently, Maryland announced it was reducing its goal from 150,000 to 70,000. Unlike Maryland's original number which was statistically similar to the national goals in terms enrollment goals as a percentage of the population, this new goal is significantly lower than national goals and represents, in my opinion, and attempt to simply move the goalpost and avoid political fallout. In early December two things were clear. First, Maryland’s website was failing badly. Second, the federal website was operating to a high standard after a heroic fix from its own poor rollout. I suggested that Maryland consider either switching to the federal website on a temporary or simultaneous basis so that Maryland could enjoy the same access to healthcare as every other American. This idea was largely ignored by state officials that outright refused to answer specific questions I posed on the topic. I cannot recall ever being dismissed so thoroughly over a set of legitimate questions. Without feedback from the State, I was forced to do my own research and concluded that my proposal was imminently doable; a fact that was later confirmed when the Washington Post reported that the federal government made a similar offer. I continue to receive calls and correspondence on a daily basis from my constituents in Maryland’s Sixth District on this matter. The people I represent are frustrated and anxious about the security and reliability of the system they are struggling to use. Given both the importance of health care coverage generally and the implementation of the Affordable Care Act in particular, I feel that I have a responsibility to speak up for them. My constituents have not had a good user experience with the Maryland Exchange and I am worried that that perspective is being lost. The question at hand is regarding HB 1229. While I directionally like the intent of the bill – to allow Marylanders to have enhanced healthcare access using healthcare.gov, I do not support the bill as currently written. Permanent repeal at this point in time may be a premature step as we have not analyzed (because of lack of cooperation from the state) the scenarios of running the federal site on a temporary basis or simultaneous basis while we fix the Maryland Connection. For what it’s worth, and these opinions are based on my own research and not from feedback from the state (who has refused to answer my questions), the situation is as follows: The federal site – healthcare.gov – was designed properly in that its underlying architecture is sound. Its early problems where significant, but largely superficial in nature and could be fixed by identifying hundreds of small problems and ticking then off one at a time. Maryland’s situation is different. Its underlying architecture is flawed and what we are in fact doing is creating superficial fixes to compensate for bad architecture. As a result, it probably will not be viewed as a long term fix and the federal site – in whole or in part, or on a temporary or permit basis, will be part of the solution. I applaud Delegate Hough’s initiative and dedication to finding a workable solution for Marylanders. And I thank the Committee members for their hard work on this important issue and for receiving this letter, With my deepest respect and appreciation, John K. Delaney Member of Congress
03.05.2014	WASHINGTON – The 2015 Budget released by the White House Tuesday includes strong support for the Pay for Success model. The President’s Budget encouraged the use of Pay for Success in the Department of Justice and the Corporation for National and Community Service and included a new $300 million dollar Pay for Success fund. Last week, Rep. John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Rep. Jared Polis (CO-2) led a Congressional letter to the White House recommending Pay for Success. Also known as Social Impact Bonds, Pay for Success can be used to reduce costs and improve the quality of services. “I commend the President for including Pay for Success in the 2015 Budget. The President has declared 2014 to be a year of action and bipartisan solutions like Social Impact Bonds are out there,” said Congressman Delaney. “Pay for Success programs marshal private sector expertise and capital to improve government services to our constituents and reduce taxpayer costs: a true double-bottom line. The White House’s support for Pay for Success within the Department of Justice and the Social Innovation Fund is an important step. Moreover, the Pay for Success Incentive Fund at the Treasury would be a tremendous resource for state and local governments that are interested in using Social Impact Bonds.” Regarding Pay for Success, the President’s 2015 FY Budget includes the following: Within The Department of Justice Budget, the White House “expands the Pay for Success initiative, which leverages philanthropic and private dollars to fund services up front, with the Government paying after they generate results.” The Budget also “adopts a more evidence-based, data-driven use of competitive grant funds.” (page 104) For the Corporation for National and Community Service’s Social Innovation Fund, “The Budget continues to allow the use of up to 20 percent of SIF funds to support Pay for Success projects. […] This funding level also includes $4 million for a pilot to improve grantee access to State and Federal administrative data. This investment has the potential to make it easier and less costly for grantees to track performance, conduct rigorous evaluation, and demonstrate measurable impact.” (page 152) Within The Department of the Treasury, “the Budget will create a new $300 million Pay for Success Incentive Fund that will encourage State and local governments to support evidence-based programs that will yield Federal savings through improved outcomes in areas such as juvenile justice, workforce development, and homelessness.” (page 126) ##
03.04.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, the President released his FY 2015 Budget, which included strong support for infrastructure investment. The President’s Budget included a $302 billion dollar surface transportation reauthorization proposal, a modernization and streamlining of the permitting process for new projects, and support for a National Infrastructure Bank. While the President’s National Infrastructure Bank proposal would use appropriated funds, the White House also expressed openness to alternative structures, including a “similar financing entity with bipartisan support in the Congress.” Congressman John K. Delaney’s Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) capitalizes a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund, which can finance up to $750 billion in new projects, by selling bonds to U.S. companies. In exchange for purchasing bonds, companies will be able to repatriate a portion of their overseas earnings tax-free. Delaney’s bill currently has 29 Democratic and 26 Republican cosponsors in the House, and 7 Republican, 5 Democratic, and 1 Independent cosponsors in the Senate. “The President should be applauded for being open to a bipartisan approach to an infrastructure financing entity in his FY 2015 Budget. Neither party has a monopoly on good ideas, and if we want to really get things done, we have to work together. That’s precisely the philosophy behind the Partnership to Build America Act, which currently has over 30 cosponsors from each party in Congress,” said Congressman Delaney. “Rebuilding our nation’s infrastructure will create jobs, make our country more competitive, and improve our quality of life. These are goals that both parties share. The bipartisan momentum behind my bill shows that this is an issue where we can work together if we act in a fiscally responsible and pro-growth manner. The 2015 White House budget should be lauded for prioritizing infrastructure investment and expressing an openness to bipartisan solutions in Congress.” From page 21 of the President’s FY 2015 Budget: “Creating a National Infrastructure Bank. The President continues to call for the creation of an independent, wholly-owned Government entity to support increased investment in our Nation’s infrastructure. A National Infrastructure Bank or similar financing entity with bipartisan support in the Congress will have the ability to leverage private and public capital to support infrastructure projects of national and regional significance. In addition, such an entity will be able to invest through loans and loan guarantees in a broad range of infrastructure, including transportation, energy, and water projects.” ##
03.02.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6), Congressman Jared Polis (CO-2) and thirteen House colleagues have written to President Obama, recommending that the White House include Pay for Success funding in the fiscal year 2015 budget. The letter was sent to the President on Friday. Pay for Success, also known as Social Impact Bonds, is being used in Republican and Democratic led states to improve public services, increase efficiency, and reduce costs to the taxpayer. Last week, Delaney authored an op-ed in The Hill calling for increased use of Pay for Success. In addition to Rep. Delaney and Rep. Polis, the letter was signed by the following: Rep. Cardenas (CA-29), Rep. Carney (DE- at large), Rep. Foster (IL-11), Rep. Huffman (CA-2), Rep. Kennedy (MA-4), Rep. Meeks (NY-5), Rep. McGovern (MA-2), Rep. Meng (NY-6), Rep. Murphy (FL-18), Rep. Shea-Porter (NH-1), Rep. Sinema (AZ-9), Rep. Titus (NV-1), and Rep. Vargas (CA-51). The full text of the letter is below: February 28, 2014 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama, We write to recommend that you include Pay For Success funding in your budget for fiscal year 2015. As you know, the Pay For Success financing model, sometimes known as Social Impact Bonds, is an innovative way for the government to maximize return on investment. Pay For Success models allow the government to be more outcome focused, creating financial arrangements such that the government only has to pay if the desired outcome is achieved and certified by an independent third-party evaluator. This minimizes risk to the taxpayer, and maximizes incentives for effective interventions and outcomes that will both serve the common good and ultimately save the government money, creating a true double-bottom line for both the government and private investors. As you know, more and more private capital has been set aside by philanthropic organizations and social investment funds to fund these initiatives and we should work with them to accomplish our shared objectives. The Pay For Success model can be used to accomplish a diverse set of policy objectives such as reducing recidivism, providing work-force training, reducing unemployment, and maximizing the effectiveness of early childhood education, and improving health care outcomes. Up to this point, states have taken the lead, but federal involvement is needed in order to ensure incentives are aligned. Without federal involvement, states only have the incentive to fund projects that will save the state money, but they don’t have an incentive to use Pay For Success financing for initiatives that will save the federal government money. That is why is so important to include this funding in your FY15 budget and why we support creating a Pay For Success Incentive Fund within the Treasury Department that can help align cost-saving incentives and provide outcome payments, credit enhancement, and technical assistance to agencies on specific projects. This is especially true with our difficult fiscal situation where an opportunity to improve outcomes while saving money is a goal that our colleagues on both sides of the aisle can agree on. Please do not hesitate to contact our offices with any questions. We look forward to hearing your thoughts on how we can increase the use of Pay For Success programs in this coming fiscal year and in future years. Sincerely, ##
02.28.2014	WASHINGTON – Since 1987, Congress has recognized March as Women’s History Month. For each day of Women’s History Month, Congressman John K. Delaney’s (MD-6) Facebook page will highlight women leaders from across the Sixth District and around the world. “Women’s history is a story that needs to be told. From current leaders like Senator Barbara Mikulski and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, to trailblazers like Susan B. Anthony and Harriet Tubman, our country has been shaped by brave, bold, and outspoken women,” said Congressman Delaney. “I believe Women’s History Month is an opportunity to celebrate the amazing contributions of women around the globe who have not waited to be asked but instead rolled up their sleeves to do the hard work of making our world a better place. While one month cannot truly represent the work of over half the population, it is an excellent opportunity to highlight some of the achievements that make up the fabric of our society. Having been blessed with four daughters and a brilliant wife I know how important women are and we should all celebrate the women in our lives. Each day this month we’ll be highlighting women who have made a difference on our Facebook page and inviting constituents to suggest individuals who inspire them.” Constituents are invited to nominate women who have inspired them in their life by clicking here or emailing John Taylor Donoghue at JohnTaylor.Donoghue@mail.house.gov . ##
02.28.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has authored an op-ed supporting the bipartisan Pay For Success model in The Hill. Also known as Social Impact Bonds, Pay For Success can improve public services, save taxpayer dollars, and encourage data-driven decision making in government. The model has been used successfully in Utah, New York, Colorado, and other states. Delaney is the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in Congress and a Democratic Freshman Class President. The full text of the op-ed can be read here: Pay for Success: How Social Impact Bonds Can Improve Public Services While Lowering Taxpayer Costs By Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) Quietly, after bottoming out with a damaging and wholly unnecessary government shutdown last fall, Congress is starting to function again. Republicans and Democrats came together to avoid default earlier this month, we passed a bipartisan Farm Bill, and most importantly, agreed on a two year budget framework. For the first time since 2010, we don’t have any looming crises on the calendar. Early next month the White House will release their initial budget recommendations for 2015. I strongly encourage the White House to build on recent bipartisan momentum and include robust support for the Pay For Success model, also known as Social Impact Bonds. With stronger federal support for Social Impact Bonds, we can save taxpayer dollars, ensure policy decisions are evidence-based and accountable, and achieve better outcomes for the public in important areas like education, health care, and social services. Pay For Success is already working in the states and has garnered praise from both Republican and Democratic governors, including Nikki Haley (SC), John Kasich (OH), John Hickenlooper (CO), and Andrew Cuomo (NY). Often, policy makers are presented with a choice between cutting spending or implementing policies to improve public services. Pay For Success marshals private sector expertise to do both. Here’s how it works. We start with identifying a social policy goal which, if achieved, reduces costs to the government. Better government is a goal that both parties share and a number of programs are already under way nationwide. At Riker’s Island Correctional Facility in New York City, the project involves providing targeted education, counseling and training to incarcerated adolescents to reduce recidivism rates. In Fresno, the project implements an in-home management program for low-income children with asthma to reduce the numbers of emergency room visits. In Utah, a school district is expanding a preschool program targeted towards at risk children to decrease the risk of them being placed in costly special education programs. Innovative approaches like these help us meet our original policy goals of reduced crime, healthier families, or better educational opportunities, in a way that also reduces costs to the taxpayer. This is truly a double bottom-line benefit. With Pay for Success, initial financing for the project comes from private investors, not the government, with the stipulation that if the project is not successful, the government doesn’t pay anything. After all, it’s called Pay For Success, not Pay For Failure. If the project is successful, as measured by a mutually agreed upon third party evaluator, the government pays back the private sector investor plus a modest rate of return. Since success means future savings from the government, the taxpayer wins in both circumstances. Since the private sector is taking the financial risk, they will use private market principles to ensure that interventions are well designed, further increasing chances for success. A number of financial institutions are participating in Social Impact Bonds, which also offer investment opportunities for investors who want both a return on investment as well as the knowledge that their investment is being used for a worthy cause. We should be doing everything we can on the local, state, and federal level to leverage the increasing amount of private capital available from impact investors, non-profits, and philanthropies to fund Pay For Success initiatives. One of the most attractive aspects of the Pay For Success model is that it relies upon evidence-based policy making. Coming to Congress after two decades as the CEO of two publicly-traded companies, I believe this approach is essential to good government. How can we improve government services if we haven’t even measured the degree to which those services are working? A key component of these initiatives is that they identify metrics that can be tracked and the evaluation is done by an independent third party, so there is no conflict of interest between the investors and the governmental agency. Proving success is important, not just for the project financing itself, but also as a model going forward. While not all outcomes are measurable and it can be hard to isolate variables, it is crucial that when we can measure outcomes, we do so and learn from the results. The President has declared 2014 to be a year of action. Despite reports to the contrary, I know firsthand that a number of my colleagues, in both parties, want to get things done. Over the next year, I’m going to work to build support for Pay for Success in Congress and I hope that the Administration does their part as well. I firmly believe that both parties have good ideas and that many more ideas and solutions aren’t partisan at all. In a time of divided government, we should look to bipartisan solutions. If Pay for Success can work in red states like Utah and South Carolina and blue and purple states like New York and Colorado, they can work anywhere. When it comes to policies that help people and save money at the same time, there shouldn’t be a partisan divide. ##
02.26.2014	WASHINGTON – Last night, British Foreign Secretary William Hague received the 2014 Hillary Clinton Prize for Women, Peace and Security. In his speech at Georgetown University, Mr. Hague called for action to end sexual violence as a weapon of war, stating that, “we know that the world is capable of agreeing that even during war, certain actions are unacceptable. We must remove rape and sexual violence from the world’s arsenal of cruelty.” Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “I congratulate Foreign Secretary Hague on receiving this award and applaud his tireless efforts to end the widespread and horrific use of sexual violence as a weapon in conflict. It is unacceptable that as we work to end discrimination and violence against women during peacetime, sexual violence in conflict continues with relative impunity. The statistics are staggering. UN agencies estimate that between 1991-2002 more than 60,000 women were raped during the civil war in Sierra Leone. In Liberia, from 1989-2003 more than 40,000 women were raped. Since 1998, at least 200,000 in the Democratic Republic of the Congo have been raped. Even after these conflicts end, the long term human costs to survivors and their families persist. We must work tirelessly to improve the status of women around the globe, punish the criminal entities and individuals who commit these inhumane crimes, and provide care for the survivors. Over the past two decades, great strides have been taken globally to reduce the use of sexual violence as a weapon of war. But we must do more. I intend to put a great deal of effort into raising awareness of and pursuing legislative solutions to end these crimes against humanity. Just as we focus on bad state and group actors for their use of chemical weapons, so too should we treat rapists as war criminals. As Mr. Hague said in his speech last night, ‘A society that believes in human rights for all human beings and opportunities for all its citizens cannot know about the way rape is used as a weapon of war and then simply ignore it.’” ##
02.26.2014	WASHINGTON – Today House Committee on Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp (MI-4) announced his tax reform package. The Chairman’s proposal includes taxing corporate profits held overseas at a reduced rate of 8.75%, payable over eight years, to provide a one-time supplement to the Highway Trust Fund of approximately $126.5 billion. Congressman John K. Delaney’s (MD-6) Partnership to Build America Act capitalizes a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund, which can finance up to $750 billion in new projects, by selling bonds to U.S. companies. In exchange for purchasing bonds, companies will be able to repatriate a portion of their overseas earnings tax-free. Delaney’s bill currently has 27 Democratic and 26 Republican cosponsors in the House, and 6 Republican, 5 Democratic, and 1 Independent cosponsors in the Senate. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “Chairman Camp should be commended for his extraordinary diligence to reform our tax code, which is one of the most critical issues affecting our global competitiveness. Chairman Camp has spent years working on this problem and has been committed to keeping tax reform front and center. That dedication has been a tremendous benefit to the House. I applaud Chairman Camp for adopting the framework of using the record levels of overseas capital to fund much needed investments in our nation’s infrastructure. There’s growing agreement among Republicans, Democrats, and Independents, that this is the right approach. That’s why over thirty members of each party, Republicans and Democrats, liberals and conservatives, have endorsed my Partnership to Build America Act. It is now clear that a consensus is forming around this core concept that we pioneered and I’m going to continue my efforts to galvanize support around this straightforward solution. As Washington works on comprehensive measures, my legislation is a down payment towards our shared goals. If we want to be competitive in a global economy we need to increase our infrastructure investment and reform our tax code so that more overseas capital returns back to the United States. This will create jobs, improve our quality of life, and position our country to compete in the 21st century.” ##
02.24.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, Maryland officials announced that the state has terminated ties with Noridian Healthcare Solutions, the primary contractor responsible for creating the troubled Maryland Health Connection. Noridian will be replaced by QSSI/Optum. On Sunday it was reported that Maryland’s new goal for new private health insurance enrollments through March 1, 2014 has been revised to 70,000. The existing, long-standing goal for private coverage signups was 150,000. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “The state made the right decision to end its contract with Noridian Healthcare Solutions, a contractor who clearly did a substandard job in delivering a quality product to taxpayers. While I am hopeful that QSSI/Optum will do a better job, the real question is why it took months to make this move. Our focus should be on doing everything we can to provide Marylanders with access to affordable and quality health care. To date, it is unmistakable that we have not met that standard in Maryland, which is why I’ve been such a consistent advocate for alternative solutions, like using the federal exchange. Rather than moving the goalposts with new enrollment goals or trying to explain away the past failures, the state should be doing everything it can to connect constituents with providers. Every option should be on the table and the process should be wholly transparent.” ##
02.23.2014	WASHINGTON – On Sunday it was reported that Maryland’s new goal for new private health insurance enrollments through March 1, 2014 has been revised to 70,000. The existing, long-standing goal for private coverage signups was 150,000. Since December, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has advocated that the state consider switching to the federal exchange at Healthcare.gov on either a temporary or permanent basis. As of February 15, only 33,251 Marylanders have enrolled in private coverage plans through Maryland’s exchange. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “In the private sector, I was always suspicious of people generating new numbers to mask otherwise bad performance, and those instincts remain. Maryland's original goal of 150,000 is consistent, on a national basis, with other state goals. For example, the national goal of 7 million new enrollees is 2.2% of the nation’s population, in line with Maryland's original goal of 150,000 or 2.5% of the state’s population. Maryland's ‘new’ goal would only be 1.2% of the population. That's not leading on health care, that's lagging on health care. Further, if you look at Virginia, a state with similar characteristics to Maryland that is using the federal exchange, they have already enrolled almost 1% of their population in private health insurance as of February 1st, compared to Maryland's performance of 0.5%. Virginia has enrolled 58.4% of their original goal, while Maryland has enrolled only 22% of their original goal. This is another example of the problem being substantive, not optical, along with the lack of any real surge in enrollments or consensus evidence that the site is fully operable. I would rather state officials fix the problem, as opposed to trying to move the goal posts closer.” ##
02.21.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) joined members of the Maryland and District of Columbia congressional delegations today in writing to Postmaster General Patrick R. Donahue concerning mail delays in the region. This month Congressman Delaney’s office has received numerous complaints from constituents about unusually slow mail service. The letter was coordinated by Rep. Chris Van Hollen (MD-8). The full text of the letter is below: The Honorable Patrick R. Donahue Postmaster General & CEO United States Postal Service 475 L’Enfant Plaza Southwest Washington, DC 20260-0004 February 21, 2014 Dear Mr. Donahue: We are writing to express our deep concern over service disruptions over the past week. We have heard from constituents who have not received mail delivery since Wednesday, February 12, 2014. This is unacceptable. As you know, your customers depend on timely service to receive urgent mailings, including bills and prescriptions. We fully agree that it is necessary to protect worker safety in inclement weather and the evenings, particularly in light of the tragic death of Tyson Barnette, a US Postal Service letter carrier who was killed while delivering mail after dark in Landover, MD. A plan must be in place to protect worker safety and ensure that no homes or businesses experience multiple-day delays. These service disruptions require explanation and, more importantly, an immediate resolution. Please let us know what you are doing to immediately restore regular and reliable mail delivery to our constituents. Thank you for your prompt attention to this issue. Sincerely, Congressman Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC) Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD) Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Congressman John Delaney (D-MD) ##
02.21.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) announces two skills competitions open to Sixth District students this spring: the 2014 Congressional Art Competition and the 2014 House App Challenge. “One of the greatest privileges of serving in Congress is the ability to meet so many gifted students and dedicated educators from our area. The annual Congressional Art Competition and the first ever House App Challenge are two opportunities for local students to show the country just how talented they are,” said Congressman Delaney. “We should shine a spotlight on the skills and vision of the next generation and continue to encourage Maryland students to pursue their dreams. I’m proud to coordinate the House App Challenge and the Congressional Art Competition in my district and invite any interested students, teachers, or parents to contact my office for more information.” 2014 Congressional Art Competition The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to encourage and recognize artistic talent. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated in the nationwide competition. The contest is open to Sixth District students and the winning entry will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol. Haley Johnson of Poolesville was the 2013 winner for her photo, “Ugandan Child.” For information on the Congressional Art Contest, click here. Interested students and educators can also email Chris.Mackenzie@mail.house.gov. Entries are due March 15, 2014. The House App Challenge The House App Challenge is a nation-wide high school challenge that recognizes and promotes science, technology, engineering, math, and computer science education. The challenge was created by House Resolution 77, which passed the House last February. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) was one of 18 cosponsors of the app challenge legislation. The House App Challenge is open to all high school students 13 and older in the Sixth District. Students may submit an app design which can be used on any generally available platform; such as mobile phone, tablet, or computer. The overall winner of the Sixth District's competition will be formally honored by Congress, and winning projects will be featured in the Capitol. If you would like more information on the App Challenge, please visit https://studentappchallenge.house.gov or click here. Interested students and teachers can also contact Congressman Delaney’s office at (202) 225-2721 or email JohnTaylor.Donoghue@mail.house.gov. Entries are due April 30, 2014. ##
02.20.2014	WASHINGTON – A column in today’s Wall Street Journal called for increased infrastructure investment in the United States and highlighted Congressman John K. Delaney’s (MD-6) Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) as a bipartisan proposal that “merits careful consideration.” The piece, titled “Private Capital for Public Works” was authored by Rodney Slater, United States Secretary of Transportation under President Clinton, and Felix Rohatyn, a former chairman of New York’s Municipal Assistance Corporation. Delaney’s legislation currently has 27 Democratic and 26 Republican cosponsors in the House. The Senate companion, introduced in January, is cosponsored by 5 Democrats, 6 Republicans, and 1 Independent. The legislation creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund that can be leveraged to $750 billion. This fund will be capitalized by the sale of 50-year bonds that are not guaranteed by the Federal government and pay 1% interest rate. To encourage U.S. corporations to purchase these bonds, they will be allowed to repatriate a certain dollar amount – determined by auction - in overseas earnings tax-free for every $1 they invest in the bonds. The fund will then provide loans or loan guarantees to states and municipalities to finance transportation, energy, education, communications, and water infrastructure projects. The text of Slater and Rohatyn’s column is below: Private Capital for Public Works By Felix Rohatyn and Rodney Slater Wall Street Journal, 2/20/14 The budget deal and $1.1 trillion spending bill agreed to by Congress and the White House should help our country climb out of recession. We also hope the compromise and common sense displayed by these agreements mean Washington can next tackle what's really needed to assure robust economic growth and full employment—the rebuilding of public infrastructure. In his State of the Union message, President Obama proposed that money saved by enacting tax reform be used to rebuild ports and roads, pointing out that "first-class jobs gravitate to first-class infrastructure." Promising ideas are also emerging on Capitol Hill, among them the Bridge Act, introduced by Sens. Mark Warner (D., Va.), Roy Blunt (R., Mo.) and eight others—four Democrats and four Republicans. The Bridge Act would set up an independent, nonpartisan financing authority that would provide loans and loan guarantees to states and localities, helping them fill gaps in infrastructure funding by attracting private investment for transportation, ports, water, sewer and other projects. The authority would finance 49% or less of a project's cost. Sen. Lindsey Graham (R., S.C.), a co-sponsor, notes that this incentivizes private investment "with the federal government as a junior partner." The bill's sponsors estimate that the funding authority could attract up to $300 billion with government funding $10 billion. The Bridge Act revives House and Senate efforts of the past decade to create a national infrastructure bank, based on the idea that the federal budget should be a tool to encourage investment, as it was when Jefferson purchased Louisiana and Eisenhower built our interstate highways. There also is encouraging movement in the House, where Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R., Pa.) called for a transportation funding bill by August. This would leave time to negotiate a final bill with the Senate before authorization of the current transportation bill, MAP-21 (the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act), expires this fall. Mr. Shuster also aims to end contentious, short-term extensions of highway and transit funding by establishing a national transportation plan. He will need cooperation and resolve from fellow lawmakers. The Congressional Budget Office projects that a six-year transportation bill will need to add $100 billion to fund transportation at current levels, and U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx warns that the Highway Trust Fund—the source of most transportation funding—could start "bouncing checks" this year. Last year, Rep. Rosa DeLauro (D., Conn.) reintroduced legislation to create a national infrastructure bank structured much like the funding authority proposed by the Bridge Act. This would be a companion to the Senate bill if it gains traction among a majority of House members. In addition, bicameral bipartisan legislation has been introduced—by Reps. John Delaney (D., Md.) and Jeff Denham (R., Calif.), and Sens. Michael Bennet (D., Colo.) and Mr. Blunt—that would allow corporations to repatriate a portion of their overseas earnings tax-free if they invest in bonds that would finance a $50 billion national infrastructure fund. The House bill is co-sponsored by 25 Democrats and 25 Republicans. The proposal merits careful consideration. An improved climate for cooperation also could hasten passage of bipartisan legislation introduced in both houses of Congress—by Sens. John Hoeven (R., N.D.) and Ron Wyden (D., Ore.), and Reps. Ed Whitfield (R., Ky.) and Allyson Schwartz (D., Pa.)—that would enable state infrastructure banks to sell Transportation and Regional Infrastructure Project bonds to investors. These bonds would provide buyers with a federal tax credit in lieu of interest. We also hope the time is ripe for Congress to allow Real Estate Investment Trusts and Master Limited Partnerships to invest in public and private infrastructure projects that produce revenue, such as ports, transportation projects, transmission lines and energy retrofits for buildings. REITs are publicly traded entities that qualify for an IRS designation enabling them to cut or eliminate corporate taxes; in return, they distribute 90% of their income to investors who pay income tax on those dividends at regular rates. MLPs also are publicly traded and do not pay federal or state taxes; MLP unit holders receive quarterly distributions on which they pay income tax at their own rates. Pipelines and some other U.S. energy infrastructure are currently MLP-eligible. Allowing REITs and MLPs to invest in infrastructure could dramatically increase financing of crucial projects. Each of these proposals could open a door to states, counties and cities looking to fix or replace their degraded transportation facilities. Each would use the federal government as a catalyst or tool to help localities structure projects that can be financed with private partners—benefiting both. Ironically, global sovereign-wealth funds and non-U.S. pension funds are the largest investors in crucial infrastructure—while American mutual funds, pension funds and retail investors allocate a minuscule portion of their trillions of capital to these facilities. In its latest report on global competitiveness, the World Economic Forum ranked America's infrastructure 25th among nations. The country needs to do much better. ##
02.11.2014	WASHINGTON – Today the House of Representatives voted 326-90 to fully restore benefits to working age veterans. The December budget agreement included a 1 percent cut to cost of living adjustments for veterans below the age of 62. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted for the measure. “The House did the right thing today by voting to restore full benefits to our veterans,” said Congressman Delaney. “I’m proud to represent tens of thousands of veterans and do not believe that singling them out is the ideal way to reduce government spending. I do not believe that is the spirit of the country or the will of the people. I remain deeply concerned about our government’s long-term fiscal trajectory and support a comprehensive and balanced approach to deficit reduction along the lines of Simpson-Bowles. “I am encouraged that we’re continuing to work in a bipartisan manner since the end of the government shutdown. The choice before us in December was to keep our government open for the next two years or to continue to lurch from crisis to crisis. With that baseline established, it’s appropriate to make adjustments, especially in the stewardship of our veterans’ benefits programs.” ##
02.11.2014	WASHINGTON – Last week the Washington County Delegation wrote to Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Senators Barbara Mikulski and Ben Cardin requesting federal support for expanding the number of lanes on Interstate 81 in Maryland. Rep. Delaney’s response was sent Tuesday to all eight members of the Washington County Annapolis delegation, which is chaired by Delegate Andrew Serafini. The letter is as follows: February 11, 2014 The Honorable Andrew A. Serafini Chair Washington County Delegation Delegate, District 2A House Office Building, Room 215 6 Bladen Street, Annapolis MD 21401 Dear Chairman Serafini and the Washington County Legislative Delegation, Thank you for your letter regarding federal support for expanding I-81 in Washington County. I sincerely appreciate your effort to shine a spotlight on this issue. I share your concerns regarding the importance of I-81 to Washington County’s economy and quality of life and your feedback echoes the message I have also heard from our shared constituents. I’m going to be a strong voice in the House of Representatives for federal support for expanding I-81 in Washington County. Expanding I-81 will create good local jobs in the short-term and improve the quality of life for Washington County residents in the long-term. Washington County is well positioned to emerge as a strong transportation and logistical hub in the region, and expanding I-81 is vital to the area’s long-term economic health. The twelve miles of I-81 in Maryland sees some of the highest traffic in the region and the current four-lane structure is inadequate. As we both understand, I-81 is the primary north-south corridor in Washington County, and according to the Maryland State Highway Administration, the average daily traffic is over 60,000 vehicles through the central section of the highway. It is essential that the Maryland section has the same amount of lanes as the West Virginia and Pennsylvania sections. In the coming weeks, I am meeting with top officials at the Department of Transportation and I will make sure that I-81 in Maryland is brought to their attention. As the House considers the Surface Transportation Reauthorization bill this year, I will make sure my colleagues are aware of the situation in Washington County. I will also continue to be a strong advocate for increased support for infrastructure in the House through new legislation, including my Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084). My bill currently has 27 Democratic and 26 Republican cosponsors and has also been introduced in the Senate. When you examine the state of our national infrastructure, you find that situations like the one in Washington County are alarmingly common. That’s why I’ve introduced bipartisan legislation that will create a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund that can finance up to $750 billion in new infrastructure projects. Congress has to act, and I will continue to work to build support amongst Republicans and Democrats for this legislation. A unique feature of my legislation is that it empowers state and local governments to build the 21st century infrastructure that they believe would best serve their communities by allowing them to apply directly for financing. I firmly believe that our government works best when local, state, and federal representatives work in concert. Please consider me a staunch ally on this matter and do not hesitate to contact me regarding the federal government’s role on this or any other topic impacting Washington County. Sincerely, John K. Delaney Member of Congress ##
02.04.2014	WASHINGTON – The Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) has announced today that Allegany College of Maryland has been awarded a $93,000 grant for workforce training programs. The funding will go to the Allegany College of Maryland Advanced Manufacturing Workforce Development Training program. The grant will be matched by local funds. “It is a great honor of mine to congratulate Allegany College of Maryland on receiving this Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) grant,” said Congressman Delaney. “I firmly believe that our federal government has a role to play in putting America’s workers in a position to succeed, which includes supporting education and job training programs. In today’s global economy, our local workers are competing with laborers around the world and they need world-class skills. Skills training in advanced manufacturing is an essential part of the equation in building a strong middle class. “The training programs at Allegany College will help local workers, help local businesses, and expand economic opportunity. Last week, I met with local elected officials from Garrett and Allegany County and they stressed to me the importance of ARC to Western Maryland. This grant is another example of how ARC funding helps Western Maryland, a region that historically has been overlooked, by bringing together federal, state, and local programs.” According to ARC, Allegany College will use the combined funds to provide the supplies necessary for specific courses such as blueprint reading, operating manual lathes and mills, Computer-Numeric-Controlled (CNC) Operations, CNC programming, geometric dimensioning and welding courses. All of these courses would help lead participants to advanced certifications in their field. Last year, Delaney voted to protect ARC. In July 2013, Rep. Chabot (OH-1) introduced an amendment to the 2014 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill (H.R. 2609) that would have eliminated funding for ARC. Delaney voted against the amendment, which failed by a 147-198 vote. The Appalachian Regional Commission is an independent agency founded in 1965. Dedicated to closing the economic gap between Appalachia and the rest of the nation, ARC is a federal-state partnership providing economic development resources, including infrastructure investment, technology support, health care, and education and job training. ##
02.04.2014	WASHINGTON – Today the Senate passed a five-year Farm Bill. Last week, the House passed the same measure 251 to 166. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted for the measure in the House, one of two members of the Maryland House delegation to do so. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “America needs a Farm Bill and, with over 12,000 farms in our state, Maryland needs a Farm Bill as well. I met with Western Maryland farmers last week in Cumberland and heard first-hand how important the Farm Bill is to them. A five-year bill also provides our farmers with certainty and an ability to make long-term plans. A stable and affordable food supply is essential to the health of our people, the health of our communities, and the health of our economy. I applaud the Senate for passing the Farm Bill today and I thank Senator Mikulski and Senator Cardin for their votes on this measure. “This new Farm Bill is less partisan than earlier House versions and shows that we can come together and find common ground. This bill isn’t perfect, but it represents a sound, bipartisan compromise that adheres to our country’s values. In previous versions of the Farm Bill, I was very concerned about the handling of the Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program (SNAP), but this version removed the most egregious cuts. Instead, this bill includes drastically smaller cuts than the original House version, and in fact, funding for many nutritional programs was increased. The primary piece of nutrition reform was an adjustment to the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, which was not being used in Maryland. No Maryland residents will have a benefit cut in this bill.” ##
02.03.2014	WASHINGTON – Tonight the House passed the G.I. Bill Tuition Fairness Act (H.R. 357), which allows veterans to attend the state-run higher education institution of their choice at the in-state tuition rate. The legislation would require public schools to apply in-state tuition rates to veterans in order to receive G.I. Bill education payments. This change would take effect August 1, 2014. Delaney voted for the legislation. “Today the House did the right thing for our veterans and for our country,” said Congressman Delaney. “America’s veterans deserve a smooth transition to civilian life, including access to affordable higher education. When our heroes were serving our country, their state of residence didn’t matter, and it shouldn’t matter when they come home. This legislation allows my constituents in Maryland to receive in-state tuition at public institutions in Virginia, Pennsylvania, or West Virginia. In many cases, a school in another state may be more convenient, affordable, or attractive, to a veteran, especially given the complexity of establishing state residency at certain institutions. This is certainly the case in my district, which straddles a line between a number of states. The G.I. Bill Tuition Fairness Act is a commonsense way of improving our veterans’ education programs and helping more veterans enter the civilian workforce when their service is done.” In October, the House passed Delaney’s Veterans Advisory Committee on Education Improvement Act (H.R. 2011) which was designed to improve educational and job training programs and benefits administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). ##
01.30.2014	For Immediate Release: January 30, 2014 Contact: Will McDonald, 202-225-2721 Delaney Statement on Gansler call for healthcare.gov option WASHINGTON – Today, Attorney General Doug Gansler called for allowing Marylanders the option to purchase health insurance using the Federal health exchange website in addition to the Maryland Health Exchange website. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: "I compliment Attorney General Gansler for suggesting a sensible solution on the Maryland Exchange which is the same solution we have been proposing for months" ##
01.29.2014	WASHINGTON – Today the House passed a five year farm bill by a 251 to 166 vote. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted for the measure. Delaney releases the following statement: “America needs a farm bill and Maryland needs a farm bill. Over 350,000 Marylanders are employed in the agricultural sector, including many in my district. This farm bill isn’t perfect, but it’s a vast improvement over previous versions. For decades, previous farm bills have ensured that America can produce an affordable food supply and that we can compete globally. A five year farm bill will bring certainty and stability to our farmers and agricultural entrepreneurs. Combined with recent budget agreements, I’m encouraged that we’re starting to work in a bipartisan and bicameral way again. “When you compare this legislation to the two versions I voted against last year, there is no comparison: this is a sound bipartisan compromise in accordance with our values. I was very concerned about the handling of the Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program (SNAP) in previous versions of the bill, but this version removed the most egregious cuts. The good news is that this bill includes much smaller cuts than original House versions, and in fact, funding for many nutritional programs is increased, including support for food banks and Community Food Projects. Instead, this bill primarily reforms the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, which was not being used in Maryland. No Maryland residents will have a benefit cut in this bill.” ##
01.28.2014	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday, January 28, President Obama delivered the State of the Union address. President Obama’s remarks touched on the theme of economic opportunity and called for an increase in the minimum wage and rebuilding America’s infrastructure to create jobs. Congressman John K. Delaney’s (MD-6) Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) currently has 26 Republican and 25 Democratic cosponsors in the House. The President highlighted the need for comprehensive tax reform and argued that we should use that temporary revenue generated from transitioning to that new system to finance infrastructure investments. Using a similar framework as described by the President, the bill creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund, which is capitalized by selling bonds to the private sector. In exchange for purchasing bonds, companies will be able to repatriate a portion of their overseas earnings tax-free. The bill was introduced in the Senate this month by Senator Bennet (D-CO) and Senator Blunt (R-MO). Delaney is cosponsor of H.R. 1010, which raises the federal minimum wage. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “America has always been a land of opportunity, a country with a strong middle class, and a place where parents had a chance to leave a better life for their children. For many Americans, especially after the last recession, a middle class life has become harder to attain. I applaud the President for using the State of the Union to shine a spotlight on this issue. “Over the last three decades, we have been slow to adapt our policies to the trends of globalization and technology, which has hurt certain sectors and regions hard. This is why it is so important that we take steps to improve our global competitiveness and invest in the future by supporting education, research and innovation, and passing immigration reform, so the best and the brightest from around the world can work and start businesses here. “One of the missing pieces of the economic puzzle is infrastructure, which is why I’ve introduced bipartisan legislation that will finance up to $750 billion in new infrastructure projects without using appropriated funds. There is strong bipartisan momentum behind this legislation in Congress and the President’s remarks underscore the possibility of finding an innovative solution that addresses both our tax code and our multi-trillion dollar infrastructure deficit. “Rebuilding our nation’s roads and bridges will create millions of jobs in the short term and improve our competitiveness and long-term economic health for decades to come. We can’t compete in a 21st century economy with a 1960s infrastructure. “Finally, I thank the President for calling attention to opportunity in his speech tonight and I echo his convictions on this issue. It’s too common for minimum wage workers to work full time, yet still remain below the poverty line. As a lawmaker, that doesn’t pass the look yourself in the mirror test, and we need to take sensible steps towards raising the minimum wage in a responsible way.” ##
01.28.2014	WASHINGTON – Tuesday, January 28th, President Obama will deliver the State of the Union address. The three 2014 Freshman Class Presidents, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6), Congresswoman Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-1), and Congressman Luke Messer (IN-6) will sit together during the President’s speech. In past addresses, President Obama has highlighted the need to rebuild America’s infrastructure. Congressman Delaney has introduced bipartisan infrastructure legislation that currently has 25 Republican and 25 Democratic cosponsors in the House. Earlier this month, Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO) and Roy Blunt (R-MO) introduced a companion bill in the Senate, which is sponsored by six Republicans, four Democrats, and an Independent. The bill creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund. This fund will be capitalized by the sale of infrastructure bonds to the private sector. To encourage U.S. corporations to purchase these bonds, they will be allowed to repatriate a certain dollar amount – determined by auction – in overseas earnings tax-free. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “The State of the Union is an opportunity for the entire country to come together, listen to the President, and discuss the best way forward for our great nation. “Tonight’s speech is a reminder that whatever our political party, as President Jefferson said in 1801, we are ‘brethren of the same principle’. In that spirit, I’m excited to join my fellow class presidents tonight during the speech and look forward to working with both Congressman Messer and Congresswoman Lujan Grisham this year. I firmly believe, especially on economic policy, that we can find common ground at the intersection of principle and compromise. “One important area of common ground and perhaps the single most critical economic investment we can make is to rebuild our nation’s infrastructure. My infrastructure bill is the largest jobs bill with bipartisan support in the House and can help rebuild our crumbling roads and bridges in a fiscally responsible way. This approach is attractive to both Republicans and Democrats, will create jobs, make our country more competitive, and improve our quality of life. I look forward to the President shining a spotlight on the importance of infrastructure this evening. “Members of both parties believe passionately that America must remain a country of opportunity, a place with a strong middle class and where every generation has a chance at the American Dream. I believe that raising the minimum wage is an important ingredient in keeping the American Dream alive and I hope the President makes a strong case to Congress tonight.” ##
02.03.2014	WASHINGTON – Tonight the House passed the G.I. Bill Tuition Fairness Act (H.R. 357), which allows veterans to attend the state-run higher education institution of their choice at the in-state tuition rate. The legislation would require public schools to apply in-state tuition rates to veterans in order to receive G.I. Bill education payments. This change would take effect August 1, 2014. Delaney voted for the legislation. “Today the House did the right thing for our veterans and for our country,” said Congressman Delaney. “America’s veterans deserve a smooth transition to civilian life, including access to affordable higher education. When our heroes were serving our country, their state of residence didn’t matter, and it shouldn’t matter when they come home. This legislation allows my constituents in Maryland to receive in-state tuition at public institutions in Virginia, Pennsylvania, or West Virginia. In many cases, a school in another state may be more convenient, affordable, or attractive, to a veteran, especially given the complexity of establishing state residency at certain institutions. This is certainly the case in my district, which straddles a line between a number of states. The G.I. Bill Tuition Fairness Act is a commonsense way of improving our veterans’ education programs and helping more veterans enter the civilian workforce when their service is done.” In October, the House passed Delaney’s Veterans Advisory Committee on Education Improvement Act (H.R. 2011) which was designed to improve educational and job training programs and benefits administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). ##
01.30.2014	For Immediate Release: January 30, 2014 Contact: Will McDonald, 202-225-2721 Delaney Statement on Gansler call for healthcare.gov option WASHINGTON – Today, Attorney General Doug Gansler called for allowing Marylanders the option to purchase health insurance using the Federal health exchange website in addition to the Maryland Health Exchange website. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: "I compliment Attorney General Gansler for suggesting a sensible solution on the Maryland Exchange which is the same solution we have been proposing for months" ##
01.29.2014	WASHINGTON – Today the House passed a five year farm bill by a 251 to 166 vote. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted for the measure. Delaney releases the following statement: “America needs a farm bill and Maryland needs a farm bill. Over 350,000 Marylanders are employed in the agricultural sector, including many in my district. This farm bill isn’t perfect, but it’s a vast improvement over previous versions. For decades, previous farm bills have ensured that America can produce an affordable food supply and that we can compete globally. A five year farm bill will bring certainty and stability to our farmers and agricultural entrepreneurs. Combined with recent budget agreements, I’m encouraged that we’re starting to work in a bipartisan and bicameral way again. “When you compare this legislation to the two versions I voted against last year, there is no comparison: this is a sound bipartisan compromise in accordance with our values. I was very concerned about the handling of the Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program (SNAP) in previous versions of the bill, but this version removed the most egregious cuts. The good news is that this bill includes much smaller cuts than original House versions, and in fact, funding for many nutritional programs is increased, including support for food banks and Community Food Projects. Instead, this bill primarily reforms the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, which was not being used in Maryland. No Maryland residents will have a benefit cut in this bill.” ##
01.28.2014	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday, January 28, President Obama delivered the State of the Union address. President Obama’s remarks touched on the theme of economic opportunity and called for an increase in the minimum wage and rebuilding America’s infrastructure to create jobs. Congressman John K. Delaney’s (MD-6) Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) currently has 26 Republican and 25 Democratic cosponsors in the House. The President highlighted the need for comprehensive tax reform and argued that we should use that temporary revenue generated from transitioning to that new system to finance infrastructure investments. Using a similar framework as described by the President, the bill creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund, which is capitalized by selling bonds to the private sector. In exchange for purchasing bonds, companies will be able to repatriate a portion of their overseas earnings tax-free. The bill was introduced in the Senate this month by Senator Bennet (D-CO) and Senator Blunt (R-MO). Delaney is cosponsor of H.R. 1010, which raises the federal minimum wage. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “America has always been a land of opportunity, a country with a strong middle class, and a place where parents had a chance to leave a better life for their children. For many Americans, especially after the last recession, a middle class life has become harder to attain. I applaud the President for using the State of the Union to shine a spotlight on this issue. “Over the last three decades, we have been slow to adapt our policies to the trends of globalization and technology, which has hurt certain sectors and regions hard. This is why it is so important that we take steps to improve our global competitiveness and invest in the future by supporting education, research and innovation, and passing immigration reform, so the best and the brightest from around the world can work and start businesses here. “One of the missing pieces of the economic puzzle is infrastructure, which is why I’ve introduced bipartisan legislation that will finance up to $750 billion in new infrastructure projects without using appropriated funds. There is strong bipartisan momentum behind this legislation in Congress and the President’s remarks underscore the possibility of finding an innovative solution that addresses both our tax code and our multi-trillion dollar infrastructure deficit. “Rebuilding our nation’s roads and bridges will create millions of jobs in the short term and improve our competitiveness and long-term economic health for decades to come. We can’t compete in a 21st century economy with a 1960s infrastructure. “Finally, I thank the President for calling attention to opportunity in his speech tonight and I echo his convictions on this issue. It’s too common for minimum wage workers to work full time, yet still remain below the poverty line. As a lawmaker, that doesn’t pass the look yourself in the mirror test, and we need to take sensible steps towards raising the minimum wage in a responsible way.” ##
01.28.2014	WASHINGTON – Tuesday, January 28th, President Obama will deliver the State of the Union address. The three 2014 Freshman Class Presidents, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6), Congresswoman Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-1), and Congressman Luke Messer (IN-6) will sit together during the President’s speech. In past addresses, President Obama has highlighted the need to rebuild America’s infrastructure. Congressman Delaney has introduced bipartisan infrastructure legislation that currently has 25 Republican and 25 Democratic cosponsors in the House. Earlier this month, Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO) and Roy Blunt (R-MO) introduced a companion bill in the Senate, which is sponsored by six Republicans, four Democrats, and an Independent. The bill creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund. This fund will be capitalized by the sale of infrastructure bonds to the private sector. To encourage U.S. corporations to purchase these bonds, they will be allowed to repatriate a certain dollar amount – determined by auction – in overseas earnings tax-free. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “The State of the Union is an opportunity for the entire country to come together, listen to the President, and discuss the best way forward for our great nation. “Tonight’s speech is a reminder that whatever our political party, as President Jefferson said in 1801, we are ‘brethren of the same principle’. In that spirit, I’m excited to join my fellow class presidents tonight during the speech and look forward to working with both Congressman Messer and Congresswoman Lujan Grisham this year. I firmly believe, especially on economic policy, that we can find common ground at the intersection of principle and compromise. “One important area of common ground and perhaps the single most critical economic investment we can make is to rebuild our nation’s infrastructure. My infrastructure bill is the largest jobs bill with bipartisan support in the House and can help rebuild our crumbling roads and bridges in a fiscally responsible way. This approach is attractive to both Republicans and Democrats, will create jobs, make our country more competitive, and improve our quality of life. I look forward to the President shining a spotlight on the importance of infrastructure this evening. “Members of both parties believe passionately that America must remain a country of opportunity, a place with a strong middle class and where every generation has a chance at the American Dream. I believe that raising the minimum wage is an important ingredient in keeping the American Dream alive and I hope the President makes a strong case to Congress tonight.” ##
01.28.2014	WASHINGTON – In Tuesday’s edition of the Tampa Tribune, the paper’s editorial board called upon President Obama to endorse Rep. John K. Delaney’s (MD-6) Partnership to Build America Act. Delaney’s infrastructure bill currently has 25 Democratic and 25 Republican cosponsors in the House. Earlier this month, Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO) and Roy Blunt (R-MO) introduced a companion bill in the Senate. The Tribune cited the Delaney bill as part of a platform that could “change Washington dynamics and the morale of the nation,” by finding common ground. The bipartisan legislation creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund that can be leveraged to $750 billion. This fund will be capitalized by the sale of 50-year bonds that are not guaranteed by the Federal government and pay 1% interest rate. To encourage U.S. corporations to purchase these bonds, they will be allowed to repatriate a certain dollar amount – determined by auction - in overseas earnings tax-free for every $1 they invest in the bonds. The fund will then provide loans or loan guarantees to states and municipalities to finance transportation, energy, education, communications, and water infrastructure projects. The full text of the Tribune’s editorial is as follows: Editorial: How to unlock the State of the Union Tampa Tribune, 1/28/14 It is a safe bet that in his State of the Union address tonight President Barack Obama will hit his familiar themes of more opportunity for the poor and more taxes for the wealthy. He’ll likely talk about reducing income inequality, extending jobless benefits and raising the minimum wage, and he’ll almost surely lecture citizens about the importance of staying the course with his complicated and unpopular Affordable Care Act. The result of all this, as he well knows, will be further Washington gridlock, the reason he has hinted that he may look to enact some policy changes through administrative fiat as he continues his second term. But if the president genuinely wanted to change Washington dynamics and the morale of the nation, he would try to find common ground with opponents, instead of denigrating them. Imagine how Americans would react should the president tonight frankly acknowledge the Affordable Care Act is not — to put it kindly — working as planned. Imagine him inviting Republicans to collaborate on an overhaul. The president could still stress the importance of health care access but seek a less sweeping and cumbersome solution, one that might include at least some Republican proposals, such as allowing Americans to purchase health insurance across state lines and permitting small businesses to pool together to obtain insurance purchasing power. Of course, it’s a virtual certainty he won’t do that, but such bold honesty might revive his standing with Americans and transform Obamacare into something other than political poison. Or consider how the president could bolster confidence in his energy policies were he to announce his support of the Keystone XL Pipeline, which will deliver Canadian oil to ports on the Gulf of Mexico and create thousands of jobs. Its construction has become a major cause for congressional Republicans, but it also is supported by many Democrats. The president has delayed the decision for more than a year because the pipeline is vehemently opposed by some environmental groups. But the pipeline’s route has been changed to address concerns about Nebraska’s grasslands and aquifer. It will not notably affect carbon emissions since the oil simply would be used elsewhere if the pipeline isn’t built. And it is a far safer means of transporting oil than rail. The Keystone pipeline is more symbol than threat. Its approval would demonstrate the president is going to be discerning in his justified pursuit of clean energy. Obama, to be sure, can rightly chide Republicans for denying even the possibility of climate change, despite mounting evidence, and ignoring the benefits, environmental and economic, of developing diverse energy sources. Nevertheless, the nation cannot abruptly end its oil dependence without roiling the economy. Approving the pipeline would signal the president understands the importance of attending both environmental and economic consequences. The president also could quickly win bipartisan support for his goal to increase funding for roads, bridges, transit and other infrastructure by embracing an existing plan that offers a cost-efficient “stimulus.” Maryland Democrat Rep. John Delaney has proposed such a sensible way to fund road construction and other infrastructure projects that its co-sponsors include Florida tea party favorite Rep. Ted Yoho and Massachusetts liberal Rep. Joe Kennedy. The Partnership to Build America Act would be funded by the sale of $50 billion worth of bonds, which would generate about $750 billion for infrastructure projects. The $50 billion, as The Washington Post reports, would come from bonds bought by companies with overseas profits that would then receive a tax break if they brought the cash earned abroad back to the United States. So Delaney’s plan offers a way to bring companies’ foreign earnings to the United States, address its massive backlog of infrastructure needs and create millions of jobs. If the president in the State of the Union would concentrate on potential areas of bipartisan agreement, he might find considerable progress is possible on these and other key issues, including immigration and tax reform. We hope he takes this approach for the good of the country — and his legacy. ##
01.27.2014	WASHINGTON – January 27, the anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz-Birkenau, is designated as International Holocaust Remembrance Day. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “On this date in 1945 Auschwitz-Birkenau was liberated, a landmark date in global history that unfortunately came much later than it should have. Sixty nine years later, around the world, we pause to remember the millions who perished in the Holocaust, including over six million Jews. The horror of the Holocaust cannot and should not be forgotten. The suffering and sadness caused by the Holocaust knows no borders and continues to be felt in every nation and territory on the globe. It is our responsibility to make sure that future generations are aware of this profound evil and that the world never sees such genocide again.” ##
01.24.2014	WASHINGTON – In a January 23 letter to President Obama, the Associated General Contractors of America (AGC) have urged the White House to address the nation’s infrastructure deficit in the 2014 State of the Union. The AGC letter calls for bipartisan solutions to the infrastructure gap, including support for Congressman John K. Delaney’s (MD-6) Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084). Delaney’s Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) is a bipartisan infrastructure bill that currently has 25 Democratic and 25 Republican cosponsors in the House. The legislation has also been introduced in the Senate by Senator Bennet (D-CO) and Senator Blunt (R-MO). The bill creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund that can be leveraged to $750 billion. This fund will be capitalized by the sale of 50-year bonds that are not guaranteed by the Federal government and pay a 1% interest rate. To encourage U.S. corporations to purchase these bonds, they will be allowed to repatriate a certain dollar amount – determined by auction - in overseas earnings tax-free for every $1 they invest in the bonds. The fund will then provide loans or loan guarantees to states and municipalities to finance transportation, energy, education, communications, and water infrastructure projects. The text of the letter from AGC CEO Stephen E. Sandherr is as follows: January 23, 2014 The President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: The nearly 30,000 members of the Associated General Contractors of America (AGC) appreciate your continued recognition of the importance of investing in our nation’s infrastructure. As you prepare to deliver your State of the Union address, I want to take this opportunity to urge you to offer bipartisan solutions to addressing our nation’s growing infrastructure gap. The state of our union’s infrastructure is poor. Our nation suffers from an infrastructure deficit of deferred maintenance, deferred modernization, and delayed expansion that fails to accommodate increased population and impedes economic activity. The American Society of Civil Engineers’ 2013 Report Card for America’s Infrastructure graded our nation’s infrastructure with a D+ and estimated that investments of $43.6 trillion would be needed by 2020 to significantly improve that grade. Failure to address these infrastructure needs has a direct impact on the construction industry. Although we experienced a minimal rebound recently, there are still 1.9 million fewer workers in the industry today than there were during the sector’s peak in 2006, while construction spending levels continue to be held back by declining public sector investments. The State of the Union provides you the perfect opportunity to outline to Congressional Republicans and Democrats your plan to work with them to increase public and private investments in our roads, bridges, ports, airports, waterways, and water systems. Specifically, I urge you to provide workable revenue options to avoid the upcoming insolvency of the Highway Trust Fund (HTF). The HTF is a successful funding mechanism that should be strengthened by increasing revenue to meet current and future transportation needs. Without sustained investment in our surface transportation infrastructure, U.S. businesses will pay an added $430 billion in transportation costs, household incomes will fall by more than $7,000 and our exports will fall by $28 billion by 2020. In addition, our aging drinking water and wastewater infrastructure systems have suffered from years of underinvestment. Continuing to underinvest in these systems will reduce our GDP by about $36 billion annually over the next ten years. AGC is working with Republicans and Democrats in Congress to increase funding for federal programs that support water infrastructure systems, as well as to establish a Clean Water Trust Fund to help bridge the gap between current funding shortfalls and investment needs. I encourage you to acknowledge this funding gap and show your support for the creation of a Clean Water Trust Fund. Your State of the Union should also address the importance of continuing to provide federal funding to invest in military housing, veterans hospitals and other federal facilities. Our members recognize that the federal government is not solely capable of solving our nation’s infrastructure funding challenges. The simple fact is that insufficient investment at all levels of government continues to add to our country’s mounting infrastructure needs. Effective, innovative financing programs, such as the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) program have proven to be an effective tool to encourage private sector participation in surface transportation projects. Unfortunately, TIFIA is limited to transportation projects. Innovative financing programs should be expanded to increase private investment in all types of infrastructure projects. Congressional Republicans and Democrats support this concept, as there are several bipartisan bills that establish funds to increase private investment in infrastructure. One such proposal – the Partnership to Build America Act - by Congressman John Delaney (D-MD) and Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO) and Roy Blunt (R-MO) - enjoys broad bipartisan support. Your commitment in the State of the Union address to work in a bipartisan way to increase private sector investment through proposals such as the Partnership to Build America Act would help achieve one of your administration’s main goals and inject much-needed capital into the construction market. As you address Congress and the Nation next week and work to finalize your administration’s budget for 2015, AGC encourages you to offer workable and rational proposals to help provide long-term sustainable funding sources, while encouraging greater private sector investment in our nation’s infrastructure. Most Respectfully, Stephen E. Sandherr ##
01.22.2014	WASHINGTON – According to a new report by Bloomberg, Canada has passed the United States in terms of business friendliness. Bloomberg’s Best Countries for Business Report ranked Hong Kong first, Canada second, the United States third. Last year, Canada was sixth and the United States was second. The Bloomberg rankings used six criteria: economic integration, startup costs, labor and material costs, transportation, inflation and corruption, and the consumer base. To view the rankings, click here. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) is the only former CEO of a publicly traded company in Congress. Delaney releases the following statement: “While the Bloomberg ranking is just one data point, this report should remind us that we have important work to do to maintain and improve our global competitiveness. Canada’s emergence as such a strong competitor should be especially concerning because with our shared border and common values, we are competing head to head in many cases. The Bloomberg ranking comports with other trends that suggest that we are losing our economic edge. As the President prepares for the State of the Union, I hope that he considers the importance of this problem. “As a former CEO and entrepreneur, I entered public office to push for policies which make us more competitive. That starts with corporate tax reform and restoring our long-term fiscal health. We also must rebuild our nation’s infrastructure base, which is essential for a healthy business climate. We must invest in science and research and commit ourselves to training high-skill workers in engineering and technology fields by fully supporting education. Finally, we need comprehensive immigration reform so that the best and the brightest in the world can work and start companies here. “The good news is that we have a strong entrepreneurial culture and the best workers in the world. Congress needs to take action to put our job creators and workers in a position to succeed, compete and win in a global economy.” Delaney is the author of the Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) a bipartisan infrastructure bill that currently has 25 Democratic and 25 Republican cosponsors in the House. The legislation has also been introduced in the Senate and creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund that can be leveraged to $750 billion. This fund will be capitalized by the sale of 50-year bonds that are not guaranteed by the Federal government and pay 1% interest rate. To encourage U.S. corporations to purchase these bonds, they will be allowed to repatriate a certain dollar amount – determined by auction - in overseas earnings tax-free for every $1 they invest in the bonds. The fund will then provide loans or loan guarantees to states and municipalities to finance transportation, energy, education, communications, and water infrastructure projects. ##
01.22.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney’s (MD-6) Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) was praised in today’s Baltimore Sun as an “exceedingly valuable” approach to addressing America’s infrastructure deficit. Delaney’s legislation was introduced in the Senate last week by Senator Bennet (D-CO) and Senator Blunt (R-MO). The bill has 25 Republican and 25 Democratic cosponsors in the House. The American Society of Civil Engineers gave the nation’s infrastructure a D+ grade on their 2013 report card. Delaney’s bipartisan legislation creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund that can be leveraged to $750 billion. This fund will be capitalized by the sale of 50-year bonds to the private sector. To encourage U.S. companies to purchase these bonds, they will be allowed to repatriate a certain dollar amount – determined by auction - in overseas earnings tax-free for every $1 they invest in the bonds. The fund will then provide loans or loan guarantees to states and municipalities to finance transportation, energy, education, communications, and water infrastructure projects. The text of the editorial is as follows: A New Way to Rebuild Last summer, we sang the praises of Maryland Rep. John K. Delaney's proposal to create a $750 billion fund to rebuild and expand America's neglected public infrastructure. Turns out the freshman Democrat's measure continues to build on its bipartisan support — now with a companion bill introduced in the U.S. Senate. What makes the 6th District Democrat's Partnership to Build America Act so appealing is that it hits two birds with one stone. The fund would be financed by borrowing money privately — allowing private companies to repatriate foreign profits by purchasing $50 billion in 50-year bonds that will pay for the badly-needed road, transit, water, sewer, energy and other projects. Mr. Delaney's background in finance has obviously come in handy. Most in Congress understand that the nation has an enormous infrastructure backlog — estimated at $3.6 trillion by the American Society of Civil Engineers — and many probably also recognize that the billions of dollars in profits American-based multinational companies have parked off-shore pose a challenge, too. That's because those foreign profits can accumulate for years without paying a dime in federal taxes, which can be deferred indefinitely. The infrastructure proposal would at least put the money to work. Companies like Apple could participate in a "reverse Dutch auction" in which they'd bid to buy the bonds by offering the lowest "multiplier." For each dollar in bonds the winning bidder purchases, it will be allowed to repatriate a certain amount in foreign profits. Under Mr. Delaney's example, a winning bid of a 1-to-4 would mean that for every dollar of bonds a company purchases, it would be allowed to repatriate $4 to spend as it likes. Thanks to the magic of borrowing, the $50 billion in bonds can then be leveraged into $750 billion of infrastructure loans or guarantees. Obviously, this won't "fix" the nation's enormous infrastructure needs by itself, and some may argue that it would be better for the U.S. to reform the tax code to end unlimited deferrals or perhaps even lower the corporate tax rate. But no proposal involving enormous new spending or tax reform is likely to make it out of a highly partisan Congress, particularly in an election year. The Maryland congressman's proposal is appealing in large part it appears do-able. The House bill has 25 Democrats and 25 Republican backing it while the Senate bill was introduced last week by Republican Sen. Roy Blunt of Missouri and Democratic Sen. Michael Bennet of Colorado and has already attracted a handful of Senate co-sponsors. Meanwhile, suggestions that the federal gasoline tax be raised (after 20 years of stagnation) and indexed to keep up with inflation have fallen on deaf ears on Capitol Hill. The inability of the U.S. to keep up with its transportation needs is, unfortunately, only going to worsen as vehicles become more energy efficient. States are also capable of creative ideas, of course. Last week, the Maryland House travel plaza on Interstate 95 reopened as a P3 — a public-private partnership. Redesigned, rebuilt and operated by a private company, the rest stop is still a money-maker for the state, but its operations and upkeep are the responsibility of Areas USA. And the General Assembly proved willing to raise Maryland's gas tax last year — to finance an estimated $4.4 billion in new transportation spending over the next half-decade. But even that may not prove sufficient given the uncertainty of federal transportation spending and the rising cost of road and transit projects — not to mention the desire of local governments to get a bigger share of the tax revenue pie. Some in Montgomery County, for instance, would like to see tolls on the Intercounty Connector rolled back to encourage greater use of the highway. Others want more of those transportation dollars to go into fixing local roads, restoring what is known as "highway user revenue." And in Baltimore County, officials even want to shrink the state's transportation financing pie by exempting county-owned vehicles from the gas tax. This much is clear. The old days of financing transportation and other forms of public infrastructure are gone. What's left is going to have to be an "all-of-the-above" patchwork of partnerships, tolls, taxes, grants and fees. Given that reality, creative ideas like Mr. Delaney's are exceedingly valuable. ##
01.21.2014	WASHINGTON – Tuesday, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) wrote to Maryland Secretary of Health Joshua Sharfstein urging the state to switch to the federal exchange while problems with the Maryland Health Connection are resolved and requesting an assessment of the pros and cons of such a move. The text of the letter is as follows: Joshua M. Sharfstein, M.D. Secretary of Health & Mental Hygiene Office of the Secretary 201 West Preston St. Baltimore, MD 21201-2399 Dear Secretary Sharfstein, In light of continued problems with the Maryland Health Connection, I write today to follow up on my initial request for a public assessment of the pros and cons of Maryland using the federal exchange at Healthcare.gov and share my views on what our state should do next. Although I have yet to receive a formal response in the six weeks that have passed, given the gravity of the situation, as a representative of my constituents, I feel that I must again request an open explanation of the state’s decision making and continue our dialogue. The proper implementation of health care reform is one of the most important public policy initiatives Maryland will undertake in our generation. I know that making sure that the people of Maryland have access to quality and affordable health care is a goal that we share. This mutual commitment is not just philosophical; at stake is the state’s ability to enact federal law, a project that has consumed significant federal and state taxpayer dollars. Therefore, it is extremely troubling that major problems with the Maryland Health Connection persist. The latest malfunction dates not to 2012 or 2013, but to this month and occurs within an area of the rollout – Medicaid enrollment – that was supposedly functioning well. In Maryland, we’re falling well short of our enrollment goal for private coverage and we’re also sending Medicaid enrollees faulty applications containing the private information of strangers. These are egregious and unacceptable errors that raise serious doubts about the viability of our exchange. Marylanders deserve an exchange that works, an exchange that provides them with choices, and an exchange that handles their personal information correctly. In my view, the federal exchange is doing just that. I have asked the state, repeatedly, to provide a basic assessment of the costs and benefits of switching to the federal exchange. It is deeply frustrating that we continue to operate with so little transparency. This lack of openness is not serving the interest of the people of Maryland. Every state or jurisdiction that borders Maryland (DC, DE, PA, VA, WV) appears to be outperforming us. Each one of these five states has enrolled a higher percentage of their private coverage target than Maryland and four have them have done so using Healthcare.gov. From the beginning, I have tried to be constructive. As you know, not every critic in the arena actually wants the Affordable Care Act to succeed. For the last six weeks, in addition to voicing my concerns and requesting additional disclosure, I have also put forth a solution based on my independent analysis. From the onset of this crisis, my instinct would be to pivot to the federal web site at Healthcare.gov either on a temporary basis or run it simultaneously with the Maryland Health Connection. There are no major problems with the federal site at this point. From a technological perspective moving to the federal site is simple and involves loading the Maryland insurance options and interface into the already operational multi-state federal platform. Then, with this enhanced capability in place to allow for an easy and improved customer experience, I would aggressively deploy marketing resources to funnel Marylanders to the site. With this done, I would feel better about my call center resources, as call centers will work much better if the operators are using a functional site. Finally, I'd overlay the whole process with a dashboard of metrics, including site performance and enrollment data, which I would relentlessly track and disclose publicly on a regular basis to keep stakeholders informed. This approach is better for customers, it doesn't delay fixing the Maryland Connection, it involves no material technology issues, and it is transparent. I once again respectfully ask for a response, Sincerely, John K. Delaney
01.17.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, Catherine Russell was sworn in as Ambassador At Large for Global Women’s Issues. The Ambassador for Global Women’s Issues is one of five at-large ambassadorships in the State Department and was created in 2009. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement: “I’d like to congratulate Catherine Russell on being sworn in as Ambassador At Large for Global Women’s Issues. Ambassador Russell is a lifelong advocate for women who has served in multiple administrations admirably. Recently, she has worked to combat the problem of gender-based violence around the world. The international status and well-being of women is deeply important to April and I and I believe it is one of the most important global issues of the 21st century. It is my firm belief that the United States has a leadership role to play in making sure that we empower women around the world. This Ambassadorship is one of many ways that our government can both shine a light on existing problems and advocate for policies that will improve the lives of women around the world. It was an honor to see Ambassador Russell sworn in and I look forward to her service.” ##
01.17.2014	WASHINGTON – Monday, January 20, is Martin Luther King, Jr. Day. To mark the holiday, Congressman Delaney will participate in the Montgomery County Day of Service. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. summoned from within the soul of the country a better America. This year, there is special poignancy to the holiday. Fifty years ago, with bipartisan support, Congress passed the landmark Civil Rights Act of 1964 a major step towards outlawing discrimination and ending segregation. Dr. King spoke about the long and tortuous road to justice, and he believed that this legislation was part of a process which would, as he put it, widen that road into a superhighway. All of us in Washington should reflect upon this anniversary; it is a reminder that we have the ability to come together and answer the call for a fairer, more equal and more just nation. “Fifty years ago, Dr. King received the Nobel Peace Prize. In his acceptance speech, he discussed how most of the people who make change happen will never be seen in the spotlight or never have their name printed. He spoke about how the progress of history would not have been possible without the courage of the millions who joined him, including those who put their lives in danger, ‘when the blazing light of truth is focused on this marvelous age in which we live – men and women will know and children will be taught that we have a finer land, a better people, a more noble civilization – because these humble children of God were willing to suffer for righteousness’ sake.’ “This holiday is a time to pass his message along to the next generation and to recommit ourselves to his message of hope, community, and justice.” ##
01.17.2014	WASHINGTON – Senator Michael F. Bennet (D-CO) has introduced the Senate version of the Partnership to Build America Act, S. 1957. Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO) is the lead Republican on the bill, which has 10 cosponsors in addition to Bennet. In May, Delaney introduced the Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) in the House of Representatives. Delaney’s bill currently has 25 Democratic and 25 Republican cosponsors in the House. “Rebuilding our nation’s infrastructure should be our top economic priority. Upgrading our nation’s crumbling roads and bridges will create jobs, elevate our competitiveness, and improve our quality of life,” said Congressman Delaney. “These goals are bipartisan, as is fiscal responsibility, which is why I’ve drafted legislation that finances new infrastructure projects by selling bonds to the private sector, rather than using new appropriations. The Partnership to Build America Act has strong support from both parties in the House. Similar support is now building in the Senate. I thank Senator Bennet for introducing this legislation in the Senate and Senator Blunt for reaching across the aisle to join him.” “Our parents and grandparents helped build this country from the ground up, and in the process grew our economy into one of America’s greatest assets. Unfortunately, Washington has failed to fulfill its promise to maintain our infrastructure – from roads and bridges to our energy grid and public schools,” Bennet said. “In Colorado, we do our best with limited resources to keep things in working order and to break ground on critical new projects like the Arkansas Valley Conduit and the ongoing expansion of public transit in the Denver metro area. This bill will help us improve and expand the infrastructure we need to compete in the 21st century, while also providing an opportunity for American companies to bring money back home that is sitting on their balance sheets overseas.” “Washington needs to pass policies to help jump-start private sector job creation. American farmers, ranchers, manufacturers, and workers are greatly reliant on our nation’s infrastructure to move goods and services as quickly as possible,” Blunt said. “I’m proud to support this bipartisan bill, which will help communities in Missouri and across America improve infrastructure and compete in a global economy.” The bipartisan legislation creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund that can be leveraged to $750 billion. This fund will be capitalized by the sale of 50-year bonds that are not guaranteed by the Federal government and pay 1% interest rate. To encourage U.S. corporations to purchase these bonds, they will be allowed to repatriate a certain dollar amount – determined by auction - in overseas earnings tax-free for every $1 they invest in the bonds. The fund will then provide loans or loan guarantees to states and municipalities to finance transportation, energy, education, communications, and water infrastructure projects. In addition to Senators Bennet and Blunt, S. 1957 is cosponsored by Senators Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Mark Begich (D-AK), Daniel Coats (R-IN), Lindsay Graham (R-SC), John Hoeven (R-ND), Angus King (I-ME), Mark Steven Kirk (R-IL), Mary Landrieu (D-LA), and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA). ##
01.16.2014	Washington, D.C.—Representatives John K. Delaney (MD-6), John Carney (DE-AL), and Jim Himes (CT-4) today outlined a housing finance reform proposal that uses private sector market forces to appropriately price risk while putting the scale and security of a government guarantee behind the program. They plan to introduce legislation this spring to create a housing finance system that is fair for borrowers, lenders, and taxpayers. Key elements of Delaney-Carney-Himes Housing Finance Proposal Housing reform legislation allows the government to expand the capacity of housing finance while allowing the private sector to price all of the risk Creates incentives for private capital’s market share in housing to grow over time; Creates a path for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to be sold as independent companies without any government support or monopoly status Creates additional funds for low income housing The Delaney-Carney-Himes housing finance proposal creates a structure that enables the government to significantly expand the availability of capital in the insurance market, while ensuring the mortgage market is open and efficient – with private capital participating in the market and pricing all of the risk. The plan adds discipline to the mortgage market, creates meaningful paths and incentives for private capital to flow into the mortgage market, and ensures that the mortgage market benefits from the liquidity provided by government participation. This structure creates a unique public-private partnership mechanism whereby private “first loss” capital of up to 5% is required in all mortgage securitizations, and the government – acting through Ginne Mae – in partnership with private capital will provide reinsurance of up to 95% of any mortgage securitization. Specifically, Ginnie Mae will provide reinsurance and prospectively contract with private reinsurance companies to share in the government’s reinsurance policy. Both the private reinsurance carrier and the government will receive the exact same pricing and bear the exact same risk. “We are excited to begin the roll out of this idea and believe this legislation will be an important addition to housing finance reform discussion,” said Congressman Delaney. “To ensure a stable housing finance system, we must move past the current state to a new system that engages more private sector capital and private sector pricing of risk in partnership with an explicit government role in the provision of stabilizing liquidity to the market – this bill does that. Chairman Hensarling has shined an important spotlight on housing reform and understands, deeply, how important this debate is to the economy and our fiscal future. For decades, Ranking Member Waters has led on affordable housing issues and I look forward to her forthcoming legislation as well. Senators Warner and Corker have shown similar leadership with their proposed legislation and we look forward to deep collaboration with these truly outstanding Senators as well. We hope our legislation will complement these efforts.” “I’m looking forward to working with Mr. Himes and Mr. Delaney to advance our ideas around housing finance reform,” said Congressman Carney. “My priority in developing this proposal is to preserve the thirty-year fixed rate mortgage while protecting taxpayer dollars. Getting this effort right is critical to the success of our economy. Absent a smart, sensible solution, affording a home will become more expensive for families across the country, and taxpayers will remain on the hook in the event of another downturn in the housing market. There are a lot of good ideas out there -- I think this one strikes the right balance between public and private sector involvement in the housing market.” “I’m excited to join this effort to merge the efficiency of markets with the scale of government to create a safer, more liquid housing market that will help make housing more affordable while reining in the risk to our economy,” Himes said. “I look forward to gathering input from housing experts across the spectrum and am particularly interested in working to improve the availability of multi-family housing.” “I welcome the principles and approach that are included in this proposal,” said Congressman Gregory Meeks. “It preserves a government back stop, which is critical for sustaining the thirty-year fixed rate mortgage, and creates additional funding for low income housing. I look forward to further discussions and clarifications on the specific details that will be included in the legislation.” Attached please find a summary of concept. ### Key Components of Delaney, Carney, Himes Housing Reform Proposal This bill establishes a system of government reinsurance for eligible mortgage backed securities, marrying the government’s ability to provide the necessary capacity to accommodate the size of the United States housing market and the private sector’s ability to better price risk. A government guarantee under this system will be explicit, but taxpayer money will be protected through adequate private sector capital and accurate pricing of government reinsurance. Under this system, issuers will be required to secure 5% private sector capital (standing in a first loss position) provided by adequately capitalized monoline insurance companies. After securing this minimum level of private capital, issuers may securitize their mortgages through Ginnie Mae. Separately, private insurers will prospectively contract with Ginnie Mae and share the reinsurance pricing and risk, with the private insurer assuming a minimum 10 percent on a pari passu basis. By leveraging the government’s capacity and the market’s ability to price risk, you strike the correct balance between public and private participation in the U.S. housing market. Private Capital and Extraordinary Government Guarantee Private monoline insurers would be required to hold a first-loss position on an eligible government security of no less than 5%. A mortgage reinsurance system would be supported by Ginnie Mae and carry the full faith and credit of the United States Government, but with private sector directed pricing. 95% of the senior risk will be shared between Ginnie Mae and private reinsurance companies (on a 90% to 10% split). Private Sector Pricing of Risk Ginnie Mae will prospectively contract with private reinsurers to lock rates based on private sector assessment of market risk. Ginnie Mae and the private reinsurers will receive the same terms and the same price for the risk that they share. Any loss on the remaining 95% will be shared equally between Ginnie Mae and the private reinsurer based on their market share of the security (90% to 10%). Small Lender Access Fannie and Freddie may remain as aggregators of mortgage loans for smaller entities such as credit unions and community banks that do not have the sufficient volume to pool and create these new securities with their mortgage loans alone Issuing Platform Ginnie Mae will securitize and reinsure each mortgage-backed security. Ginnie Mae will stand behind the 5% private capital once it is exhausted. The platform will allow for standardized securities thus creating a single security and creating a deeper and more liquid TBA market which will reduce the cost of mortgage credit for consumers. Standardized Mortgages, Servicing, and Capital Requirements Transition FHA regulation to Ginnie Mae with oversight over the secondary mortgage market The FHFA and the Federal Reserve will collaboratively regulate the new secondary market FHFA will be funded through assessments of the entities it regulates Winding Down Fannie and Freddie The Director of the FHFA will oversee the discontinuance of the Enterprises’ ability to issue, guarantee, or purchase any mortgage-backed securities. After the Ginnie Mae platform is established, the Enterprises will operate as one of the several anticipated monoline insurers and one of the several anticipated private reinsurers for a five year period. By the end of the five year period, the FHFA Director will ensure that the total market share of mortgage-backed securities insured by the Enterprises in either of these capacities will not exceed 30 percent of the total market share. Affordable Housing Ginnie Mae will charge a fee for the insurance that they provide for these securities. The fees charged will range between 5-10 basis points of the total principal balance of these mortgages. The monies acquired will be allocated to strengthening affordable housing programs facilitated by the federal government. The funds received will be allocated to the Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Trust Fund) and the Department of Treasury (Capital Management Fund). Multifamily Housing Create a structure for multi-family housing financing that follows this public-private model and provides the government backing necessary to create a fluid market. Well-functioning TBA Market Investors will receive timely principle and interest payments through Ginnie Mae. This model will also ensure that the one standardized security is delivered to the TBA Market. This will increase liquidity and limit disruptions to the secondary mortgage market, which will ultimately benefit consumers.
01.15.2014	WASHINGTON – Wednesday the House voted 359 to 67 to pass an omnibus appropriations bill to fund the government through September 30, 2014. The bill’s funding level is within the $1.012 trillion cap on discretionary spending set by last month’s Bipartisan Budget Act Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted for the bill. “This budget agreement is not perfect, but it’s better than the alternative, which is another government shutdown,” said Congressman Delaney. “This is a bipartisan agreement, which reflects the fact that we have a divided government. The American people expect Congress to come together, take up good ideas from both sides, and serve the common interest of the country. As we move forward, I hope that we can find more common ground. To leave a better country for our children, we have to invest in our future by building a 21st century infrastructure gird, providing world class support for education and research, and lifting up the most vulnerable.” ##
01.15.2014	WASHINGTON- Tuesday, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2860, the OPM IG Act, which would increase oversight of government activity and facilitate further reduction in government waste. This bill would authorize the Inspector General of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to use existing funds from the OPM’s revolving fund to cover the costs of audits and investigations of the agency. In recent years, OPM has been involved in a number of high-profile scandals. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted for the bill’s passage. “The House of Representatives took an important step towards strengthening oversight, reducing government waste, and fighting fraud,” Congressman Delaney said. “This legislation allows investigators to use existing funds to ensure that OPM is functioning correctly. I will continue to support commonsense, bipartisan solutions to reduce the nation’s debt and cut down on unnecessary government waste, and I applaud my colleagues for taking an important step in doing so.” Currently, a revolving fund exists to perform essential tasks such as background investigations. The Inspector General (IG) is not currently authorized, however, to use those funds to audit or provide oversight of the fund. The OPM IG Act provides additional resources for the IG of the Office of Personnel Management to audit the agency’s revolving fund. As Freshman Class President, Delaney hosted a bipartisan budget briefing for congressional members with former Senator Alan Simpson and former Clinton Chief of Staff Erskine Bowles, former co-chairs of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility last year. Delaney has also discussed the need for a balanced approach to deficit reduction, similar to one supported by both Simpson and Bowles. Delaney also supported H.R. 325, the No Budget No Pay Act, during last year’s appropriations debate, which mandated that congressional pay be withheld unless a budget was passed. ##
01.14.2014	WASHINGTON – The Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2014 includes $140 million to fund 149 federal contract air traffic control towers around the country. This includes the control towers at the Frederick Municipal Airport and the Hagerstown Regional Airport. The bill is likely to be considered by the House of Representatives this week. “Full support for our local airports is good news for Western Maryland,” said Congressman Delaney. “I’d like to thank Senator Mikulski, for her work as Appropriations Chair, in making this happen. The Frederick and Hagerstown airports are key components of our local economy, supporting more than 2500 jobs and $200 million in business revenue. With the chaos of sequestration and the government shutdown behind us, our local control towers now have a measure of budget certainty. Funding the control towers also allows us to fully reap the investments in both airports that we’ve made over the years. When you examine the region, it is clear that the Frederick and Hagerstown airports are assets that have the potential to provide larger benefits in the future.” Congressman Delaney has prioritized infrastructure investment in Congress, introducing the bipartisan Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) in May. The legislation currently has 25 Republican and 25 Democratic cosponsors. For more information on the bill, click here. Last year, as sequestration began, Congressman Delaney worked with the FAA and the Department of Transportation in support of the Frederick and Hagerstown airports. On March 15, 2013 Delaney wrote to FAA Administrator Michael Huerta asking the FAA to keep the airports open. On April 5, Delaney joined Senator Barbara Mikulski, Senator Ben Cardin, and Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger on a letter to U.S. Secretary of Transportation Raymond LaHood to postpone the closure of the Maryland towers so that a solution could be found. On May 3rd, Delaney again wrote to Administrator Huerta urging the FAA to restore funding to the air traffic control towers in Hagerstown and Frederick. ##
01.14.2014	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday, a letter from CareFirst CEO Chet Burrell to the Maryland Governor was released to the media. The letter urged the state not to switch to the federal exchange. On January 6, Congressman Delaney wrote to Maryland Secretary of Health Joshua Sharfstein seeking additional clarification of the feasibility of Maryland using the federal exchange at Healthcare.gov. On January 12, Delaney raised the possibility of simultaneously running the federal exchange alongside the Maryland exchange. As of January 4, only 20,358 Marylanders have enrolled in private coverage plans. This represents only 14% of our state’s initial target of 150,000 private coverage enrollees by March 31. Virginia, which uses the federal exchange, has enrolled 44,676 in private insurance plans. This is 35.18% of their state private enrollment target. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “As a former CEO who spent twenty years in the private sector, I certainly appreciate the point of view from industry voices. Mr. Burrell’s letter is certainly a very valuable data point to consider. “However, basic questions still remain regarding the choice before the state. There is strong evidence that the federal exchange is performing to a very high standard. There is compelling reason to believe that a switch would not be difficult from a technical perspective. Finally, it is unmistakable that Maryland is falling behind. I have asked the state to share a basic cost benefit analysis of switching to the federal exchange, either on a full or temporary basis. In addition, my most recent idea of running the federal and state exchange simultaneously seems to satisfy everyone’s concerns, including creating more options for Marylanders. It is suboptimal that the only response given to the people of Maryland has come from an indirect email from a third party who is supposed to be competing for the health care of Marylanders. “We can’t lose sight of the goal, which is to enroll as many Marylanders in coverage plans as possible. Absent further details, it is not clear that we are doing that in Maryland. Because of the grave importance of this matter, we should have a full and transparent appraisal of the choice facing the state.” ##
01.12.2014	WASHINGTON – Today the Washington Post reported that Maryland is expected to turn down a White House offer to temporarily take over portions of the Maryland health care exchange. As of January 4, only 20,358 Marylanders have enrolled in private coverage plans. This represents only 14% of our state’s initial target of 150,000 private coverage enrollees by March 31. This number is low compared to the attainment rate of 28% for the federal site and 34% for the other fourteen state run exchanges collectively. Because of the technical issues there is also some risk that Marylanders that are enrolling are only signing up for one plan with one insurer without the options embedded in the original design of the Affordable Care Act. In December, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) raised the possibility of Maryland using Healthcare.gov in light of the substantial technical problems on Maryland’s state-based exchange website. On January 6, Delaney wrote to Maryland Secretary of Health Joshua Sharfstein asking for a full assessment of the feasibility of such a move, either on a full-time or part-time basis. Congressman Delaney believes this analysis is now more important than ever. In response to questions today on the subject, Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “As I did first in December and again last week, I urge our state leaders to strongly consider a permanent or temporary switch to the federal exchange. In addition, and at a minimum, Maryland should consider running Healthcare.gov and the Maryland Connection simultaneously to expand options for Marylanders. To my mind, the fact that the White House has offered to take over portions of Maryland’s exchange underscores my own independent analysis that this transition is not difficult from a technical perspective. “First and foremost, we should remember that the end result of the technical challenges of the Maryland exchange is that thousands of Marylanders are still going to be without health care coverage. There is overwhelming evidence that the federal exchange has worked extremely well since early December. On the federal exchange, we are successfully providing a platform for Americans to enroll in private coverage. In Maryland, as of January 12, it appears that we are not able to do that. For the Affordable Care Act to truly work, including keeping costs low for those that already have coverage, we need both the private and public components of coverage expansion. “Our immediate focus should be on making coverage available to Marylanders. The choices Maryland makes in the next few weeks represent some of the most impactful policy decisions we’ve seen in decades. I applaud the Governor for his unwavering commitment to make this work. His decision to accept Medicaid expansion and his leadership on that issue will help hundreds of thousands of Marylanders. It is great news that we are performing well with the Medicaid expansion. My suggestions are designed help with the inherently more complex job of making the private insurance side of the ACA work to the same standard.” ##
01.10.2014	Delaney: Latest Job Numbers Encouraging, Congress Should Prioritize Infrastructure to Encourage Further Job Growth WASHINGTON- Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement after the Department of Labor and Bureau of Labor Statistics revealed Friday that the economy added 74,000 jobs, and the unemployment rating fell to 6.7 percent: “Today’s report by the Department of Labor shows that, while we are making progress, we still need to act to help more Americans get back to work. The good news is that this report shows the 46th consecutive month of private sector job growth, adding a total of 8.2 million jobs,” said Congressman Delaney. “I am encouraged to see the economy adding jobs, and the unemployment rate dropping, but there is still much work to be done. Specifically, our single most important economic priority should be rebuilding our nation’s infrastructure, which can create millions of jobs in the short-term, and make our country more competitive in the long-term. For that reason I have introduced major bipartisan legislation to encourage infrastructure investment. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to find common sense compromises on economic policy that will reduce unemployment.” In May, Delaney introduced the Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) as an additional tool to address America’s infrastructure deficit. Delaney’s bill currently has 25 Democratic and 25 Republican cosponsors. Delaney’s legislation creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund that can be leveraged to $750 billion. This fund will be capitalized by the sale of 50-year bonds that are not guaranteed by the Federal government and pay 1% interest rate. To encourage U.S. corporations to purchase these bonds, they will be allowed to repatriate a certain dollar amount – determined by auction - in overseas earnings tax-free for every $1 they invest in the bonds. The fund will then provide loans or loan guarantees to states and municipalities to finance transportation, energy, communications, water, and education infrastructure projects. ###
01.08.2014	WASHINGTON – Speaking today on the House floor, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) called for an increase to the minimum wage. Delaney’s speech marked the 50th anniversary of the War on Poverty. On January 8, 1964, President Lyndon B. Johnson delivered his first State of the Union address. In his speech Johnson declared “an unconditional war on poverty.” Minutes before Delaney spoke, Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer highlighted Delaney’s leadership on the minimum wage issue on the House floor. To view Delaney’s speech, click here. Delaney’s remarks are as follows: I want to thank the gentle lady for giving me this time this afternoon and for her leadership on this issue. Mr. Speaker, As we all know today marks that historic day, the 50 year anniversary of President Johnson declaring a formal War on Poverty. And on such a day we must take note on the progress we’ve made and remind ourselves of the work that has to be done. Across 50 years, if you take into account the effects of programs this government has put in place to target those in poverty, we have significantly reduced the rate of poverty. We have, in particular, reduced the rate of poverty for our seniors. These facts are first evidence of the notion that the government can make a difference against this problem. But we also know that more has to be done. 50 million Americans live in poverty, including about a quarter of which are our children; our most vulnerable citizens. Children, who have their whole lives in front of them, and are struggling in poverty. We must make a difference against this. And to do that we need to do three things: first, we need to continue to fund the programs that are proven to make a difference in the lives of those living in poverty, like food stamps, like funding head start. Second, we need to raise the minimum wage in this country. Right now, in 2014, in the wealthiest country in the world, in many states, if you work 40 hours a week and earn the minimum wage, you live below the poverty line. That just doesn’t pass the look yourself in the mirror test. The minimum wage has significantly, for decades, trailed the growth in our economy. We need to raise the minimum wage. That will make a meaningful and impactful difference in the lives of those struggling in poverty. And finally, we need to create jobs. Jobs are the most direct way to lift people out of poverty, and through a job people have personal dignity. To make a difference in the jobs crisis in this country, we need to invest in education across the long-term. That will make a disproportionate difference in terms of the number of people living in poverty. But in the short-term, we need to do things to get people to work now, like investing in our infrastructure. This is very important work for us to do Mr. Speaker. I’ll close by reflecting on some of the words of President Johnson. He said this fight would not be short and easy, and he was right. We’ve been at this for 50 years. He also said no single weapon would suffice, and he was right about that as well. We need to be raising the minimum wage. We need to be investing in jobs. We need to be funding critical programs like food stamps, and head start. And then he said, we must not rest until this war is done. And to honor the tens of millions of people who have lived, unfortunately, in poverty over the last 50 years, and the tremendous number of people who have fought this battle, and to live up to the standard of our maker, we must recommit ourselves to this battle. Thank you Mr. Speaker. ##
01.08.2014	WASHINGTON – The 2014 Republican and Democratic Freshman Class Presidents Rep. Luke Messer (R-IN-6), Rep. Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM-1), and Rep. John K. Delaney (D-MD-6) hosted a Welcome Back Reception for freshman members Tuesday evening in Washington. The event featured remarks on innovation and a discussion with entrepreneur Steve Case, founder of AOL, LivingSocial, and Zipcar, and took place after the first legislative day of 2014. The bipartisan event was attended by over 50 freshmen members of Congress. Delaney and Lujan Grisham were elected class presidents in 2013 along with Rep. Matt Cartwright (PA-17) and Rep. Joaquin Castro (TX-20), who served the first half of the 113th Congress. Rep. Messer was elected by his caucus in 2013. Last year, Congressman Messer and the Democratic class presidents hosted a bipartisan meeting with Bill Gates. “I was honored to host a bipartisan freshman member reception with legendary entrepreneur Steve Case and my fellow class presidents Rep. Messer and Rep. Lujan Grisham. I was especially heartened that a bipartisan group of over 50 members came together at the start of a new legislative year. I truly believe that as a group, the freshmen members of the 113th Congress are ready to work together,” said Congressman Delaney. “This event touches on two core beliefs of mine: 1) that Republicans and Democrats need to spend more time listening to each other and finding common ground and 2) that the public and private sectors should work together so that we can create a more competitive economy. On both fronts, we need more dialogue. Steve Case is one of the great entrepreneurs of our generation and has done a tremendous job building bridges and I hope both caucuses listen to what the startup community has to say moving forward. Finally, I’d like to thank the outgoing Democratic class presidents Rep. Cartwright and Rep. Castro for their work in 2013.” “In addition to providing an opportunity to continue building relationships across the aisle, tonight's event focused on goals Democrats and Republicans share – how to foster innovation, grow the economy and create good-paying jobs," said Congresswoman Lujan Grisham. “I hope that the success of this event is indicative of a new spirit of bipartisan cooperation and collaboration in the coming year. There is a lot of important work ahead, and our constituents want and deserve a Congress that works together on behalf of the American people.” “Our goal with these meetings is to get to know each other better in hopes of restoring some civility to the legislative process,” said Congressman Luke Messer. “In the real world, folks have to get along even when they disagree. And, most Americans expect their leaders in Washington to do the same.” ##
01.07.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) wrote Monday to the White House and the State Department urging them to prioritize the release of Montgomery County resident Warren Weinstein, who was kidnapped by al-Qaeda in 2011 in Pakistan. Weinstein, known for his work helping people in the Peace Corps and USAID, was in Pakistan as the director of J.E. Austin Associates at the time of his kidnapping. On December 25, 2013, a video of Weinstein in captivity was released to the media. Congressman Delaney has been in contact with the Weinstein family regarding Warren’s current situation since the release of the video. The text of Congressman Delaney’s letters to President Obama and Secretary Kerry are below: January 6, 2014 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: I write to you in regards to the kidnapping and imprisonment of my constituent, Warren Weinstein. As you know, Warren was kidnapped in 2011 by al-Qaeda while working at a development firm in Pakistan. He is a former Peace Corps and USAID official, and is widely recognized as a scholar and humanitarian who has spent his career working to improve the lives of men, women, and children around the world. Warren has now spent more than two years in captivity. It is far past time for him to come home. I fully understand and respect our government’s longstanding policy to not negotiate with terrorists. I encourage you, in the strongest sense possible, to do everything you can to work with Pakistan and our global partners to secure Warren’s release and bring him home to his family. Doing nothing is simply not an option. I urge you to make Warren’s release a priority matter for your administration. In addition, I ask that you keep me updated as new information arises. We, as Americans, must be relentless in our efforts to bring him home, and we must maintain a sense of outrage and determination. I have sent a similar request to Secretary of State John Kerry. My office stands ready to assist in any way that we can. Thank you for your consideration of this grave matter. Sincerely, John K. Delaney Member of Congress ## January 6, 2014 The Honorable John Kerry Secretary of State United States Department of State 2201 C Street NW Washington, DC 20220 Dear Secretary Kerry, I write to you in regards to the kidnapping and imprisonment of my constituent, Warren Weinstein. As you know, Warren was kidnapped in 2011 by al-Qaeda while working at a development firm in Pakistan. He is a former Peace Corps and USAID official, and is widely recognized as a scholar and humanitarian who has spent his career working to improve the lives of men, women, and children around the world. Warren has now spent more than two years in captivity. It is far past time for him to come home. I fully understand and respect our government’s policy to not negotiate with terrorists. I encourage you, in the strongest sense possible, to do everything you can to work with Pakistan and our global partners to secure Warren’s release and bring him home to his family. Doing nothing is simply not an option. I urge you to make Warren’s release a priority matter for the State Department. In addition, I ask that you keep me updated as new information arises. We, as Americans, must be relentless in our efforts to bring him home, and we must maintain a sense of outrage and determination. My office stands ready to assist in any way that we can. Thank you for your consideration of this grave matter. Sincerely, John K. Delaney Member of Congress
01.06.2014	WASHINGTON – Monday, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) wrote to Maryland Secretary of Health Joshua Sharfstein seeking additional clarification regarding the feasibility of switching to the federal health care exchange. Through December 28, 18,257 Marylanders have enrolled in private coverage via the state’s exchange, representing 12% of the state’s enrollment goal of 150,000. Nationwide, 2.1 million have enrolled in private coverage, 30% of the White House goal of 7 million. In December, Delaney suggested the option of using the federal exchange in light of problems with Maryland’s exchange website. The text of Congressman Delaney’s letter is below: Joshua M. Sharfstein, M.D. Secretary of Health & Mental Hygiene Office of the Secretary 201 West Preston St. Baltimore, MD 21201-2399 Dear Secretary Sharfstein: Perhaps too forward, but I write today to formally request a specific assessment of the idea I first raised almost a month ago of switching in whole, in part, or on a temporary basis to the federal health exchange while the Maryland Health Connection website is being repaired. I write this as an open letter so that you can respond openly as well, because transparency benefits everyone. The White House recently released data that indicates that 2.1 million Americans have signed up for private insurance nationally, including over 1 million via the federal marketplace at Healthcare.gov. Nationwide, this means that we have achieved 30% of the original goal of enrolling 7 million Americans this year. However, only 18,257 Marylanders have been able to enroll thus far, which is only 12% of our state’s goal of 150,000. We have fallen quite far behind the national average and we’re running out of time. As we both know, there are real people behind these numbers. Our “enrollment gap” means that roughly 26,000 Marylanders, including approximately 4,000 that I represent in the Sixth District, are still lacking coverage because of Maryland's troubled health exchange (these numbers are estimates based on the difference between performance at 30% vs. 12%). Frustrated and concerned Marylanders from Montgomery to Garrett County have contacted my office on this issue since October. I continue to press this question out of concern for my constituents. Since I raised the idea of switching to the federal exchange on a temporary basis, your office has responded to say that you are evaluating that option. I understand that my idea of transitioning to the federal website may contain challenges that I am underestimating and it may not, in fact, be feasible. For this reason, I am asking for a specific analysis from you as to the “pros and cons” of switching to the federal exchange for all or part of the Maryland interface. This analysis can be very brief, but should cover a high level overview of the technological feasibility, cost and timing considerations and should be described in comparison to the same considerations with respect to the base case of repairing the Maryland Health Connection. You and I share a commitment to the success of the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The ACA can accomplish two very important things: ensuring all Americans have access to health care and bending the cost curve on health care expenditures. For the ACA to accomplish these objectives, however, it must be implemented correctly. Effective implementation includes a large number of Americans successfully enrolling in private health care coverage. More is at stake than just this mission; ACA implementation goes to the heart of government's ability to execute. At the center of a progressive agenda is the notion that government can and should engage in transformative policies to help the American people. At the center of that center must be the belief that government can successfully manage these initiatives. Otherwise, no one will trust government to attempt to make a difference in people's lives. At some point, we must collectively and critically evaluate the process associated with building the Maryland Health Connection and the original federal site, but our first priority must be ensuring access to health care for all Marylanders. I agree with Maryland's decision to build its own website and I remain open to the view that having our own website is still our best option. I suggested a switch to the federal site - as perhaps even a temporary matter until our site is ready - so that peak volume of enrollees could be handled in advance of looming deadlines. I was hoping the suggestion might have avoided the numbers we saw for the January 1st deadline. With less than three months remaining in the open enrollment period, each day is critical. Given how fundamental health care is to the lives of my constituents, I feel that further discussion of the options available to the State is essential. It is important to understand if we have viable alternatives or if the best course of action remains a reboot of the existing product. I thank you and the Governor for your efforts to make this work, truly. The legislative fixes being proposed by the Governor are very constructive and the personal attention both you and he are giving this issue will lead us in the right direction. Your collective commitment to the well-being of all Marylanders can never be questioned. I look forward to your response. With my deepest respect and appreciation, John K. Delaney ##
01.03.2014	WASHINGTON - This week, the White House announced that 2.1 million Americans have signed up for private health insurance nationally, including over 1 million via the federal marketplace. Friday, Maryland announced that through December 28, 18,257 Marylanders have signed up for private health insurance through the Maryland Health Exchange. This represents an increase of 14,499 in December, given that according to Maryland Health Connection, 3,758 Marylanders had enrolled through the end of November. In addition, according to the state, Medicaid benefits have been expanded to over 100,000 Marylanders. Commenting on this data, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “The federal website and data platform appears to be working to a very high standard based on the surge of enrollment after the website was fixed by Jeff Zients and his team. In December, enrollment through the federal site increased by over 700% from the October and November total. Nationally, the total of 2.1 million private coverage enrollees represents 30% of the first year goal of 7 million. “Maryland's website also had a good December, exceeding combined November and October numbers by 386%. And Maryland's decision to accept expanded Medicaid benefits from the federal government also benefited over 100,000 Marylanders. However, total private coverage enrollment of 18,257 Marylanders is only 12% of the private enrollment goal of 150,000 Marylanders, meaning the national level is outperforming Maryland by 250%. “In the private sector measuring data is important and so it should be as well in the public sector. These numbers indicate that while clear improvement is occurring at the Maryland Health Exchange, we are still lagging behind the national numbers and we need to drive further improvement to benefit all Marylanders.” ##
01.02.2014	WASHINGTON – In 2011, Warren Weinstein of Rockville was taken hostage by al-Qaeda in Pakistan. Weinstein was working in Pakistan as the country director for J.E. Austin Associates, a development firm, when he was kidnapped. On December 25, 2013, video of Weinstein was released to the media. Since the release of the video last week, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has been in contact with the Weinstein family and releases the following statement: “Warren Weinstein is an American being held captive by our enemies and this singular fact cannot be forgotten, overlooked, or marginalized. We must be relentless in our efforts to bring him home and we must maintain a sense of outrage and determination. I spoke with the Weinstein family last week and gave them my personal assurance that my office will continue to make sure that Warren’s voice is heard in Washington.” ##
12.20.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) applauds the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) for its strong recent support for the Mountain Laurel Medical Center in Oakland and thanks the staff and volunteers at Mountain Laurel for their work to provide health care to underserved communities in Garrett County. Recent federal support will help Mountain Laurel open a new facility in Grantsville as well as hire new staff and provide health care to all persons, regardless of insurance status. “Mountain Laurel Medical Center is making a difference for the people of Garrett and Allegany County,” said Congressman Delaney. “Ms. Little Terry and her dedicated staff are working hard to provide care to everyone who walks in the door. I am honored to congratulate the Mountain Laurel Medical Center on the recognition and support they’ve received. Community Health Centers like Mountain Laurel are incredibly important and the impact these grants will have is tangible. By expanding their operations into Grantsville, helping rural and underserved communities, and helping more Marylanders receive coverage, Mountain Laurel is an example of how partnerships can provide positive local outcomes. I’m proud to represent Western Maryland and will make sure Garrett County has a voice in Washington.” In December 2013 Mountain Laurel received approval for continuation funding as a Section 330 Health Center grantee. This was a competitive application that allows Mountain Laurel to continue to provide high quality health care to all persons. In July and December 2013 HRSA provided funds to health centers to be able to hire staff to conduct outreach and enrollment efforts to assist the uninsured to obtain health insurance and to expand existing outreach. These awards build upon the efforts of health centers across the country as uninsured Americans gain health insurance coverage. Mountain Laurel received $68,592 for FY 2013 and recently received $25,000 for FY 2014. Additionally, in October 2013 Mountain Laurel Medical Center received an award of $233,333 for FY 2013 in response to an application for New Access Point funding. The purpose of the HRSA Health Center Program New Access Point (NAP) funding opportunity is to improve the health of the America’s underserved communities. Mountain Laurel submitted the request in May 2013 to open a satellite office in Grantsville, MD. The application submission was in direct response to the overwhelming requests and needs expressed by the Grantsville community. Mountain Laurel is expecting to open the satellite office in the spring of 2014. Beth Little-Terry, Chief Executive Officer of Mountain Laurel issues the following statement: “Mountain Laurel was funded initially as a 330 HRSA health center grantee and a new start up business in 2006 as a Community Health Center. The support to expand our services into the Grantsville community is an opportunity we have been hoping for from a strategic perspective providing an unmet need in the community. We continue to receive overwhelming support from Grantsville and surrounding communities. It is so exciting to be able to continue to promote our mission and our services. The additional funds received for outreach and enrollment support the ongoing efforts Mountain Laurel has already invested in to inform, educate and enroll the uninsured into the Marketplace. We are the experts at assisting consumers with their medical needs, including providing guidance through an often complex pathway to health insurance coverage and benefits. “Mountain Laurel was recently awarded NCQA Level III the highest level recognition as a Patient Centered Medical Home demonstrating our commitment to quality of care and consumer service. All of these efforts and the very hard work of the excellent staff have afforded Mountain Laurel the privilege to support the economy of the communities by adding jobs. From our humble beginnings in 2006 Mountain Laurel has continued to grow to meet the needs of our community. Heading into 2014 Mountain Laurel remains proud and excited to have the opportunity to continue to provide great service. We are poised to rise to meet the demands of the changing healthcare landscape, ensuring consumers are prepared and gain access to affordable health care.” HRSA is an agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ##
12.19.2013	WASHINGTON – A Congressional Statement to the Record was made today by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-06) honoring the Northwest High School Football team and Coach Mike Neubeiser of Germantown, MD for winning the Maryland Class 4A State Football Championship on Friday Dec. 6th. A copy of the Congressional Record and a certificate will also be sent to Coach Neubeiser and the team. Rep. Delaney’s Statement, which was submitted to the Official Congressional Record is below: “Mister Speaker, I rise today to honor Coach Mike Neubeiser and the Northwest High School football team of Germantown, Maryland, who won the Maryland Class 4A State football championship on Friday, December 6th. “With a 33-16 victory over Suitland High School, the Northwest Jaguars capped off a 12-2 season. This is Northwest’s first state football championship since 2004 and the first state championship for a Montgomery County high school since 2008. “Even though Coach Neubeiser’s team started the season with two loses in their first eight games, the Jaguars turned their season around to win the state title. This improbable turnaround proves that even when faced with adversity, Coach Neubeiser and his staff can inspire these young adults to accomplish great things. Thanks to his leadership, Northwest student-athletes have exceled both on the field and in the classroom. I wish the Northwest Jaguars the best of luck next season as they defend their title. “I ask that you and my other distinguished colleagues help me in honoring this significant accomplishment.” ##
12.19.2013	WASHINGTON – A Congressional Statement to the Record was made today by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-06) honoring the Fort Hill High School Football team and Coach Todd Appel of Cumberland, MD for winning the Maryland Class 1A State Football Championship on Saturday December 7th. A certificate and a copy of the Congressional Record will be sent to Coach Appel as well. Delaney’s statement, which was submitted to the Official Congressional Record is below: “Mister Speaker, I rise today to honor Coach Todd Appel and the Fort Hill High School football team of Cumberland, Maryland, who won the Maryland Class 1A State football championship on Saturday, December 7th. “With a 25-0 victory over Douglass High School, the Fort Hill Sentinels capped off a perfect 14-0 season. This is Fort Hill’s third state football championship in their school’s history and the first since 1997. Throughout the 2013 regular season and playoffs, the Sentinels dominated their opponents. In the playoffs, competing against the best teams in the state, the Sentinels outscored their opponents by an impressive 162-13 margin. “In his sixth year as head coach, Coach Appel has compiled a 66-11 record. Throughout this success, Coach Appel has proven to be not just a great coach, but a trusted mentor to many young adults in Allegany County. Thanks to his leadership, Fort Hill student-athletes have exceled both on the field and in the classroom. I wish the Fort Hill Sentinels the best of luck next season as they defend their title. “I ask that you and my other distinguished colleagues help me in honoring this significant accomplishment.” ###
12.19.2013	GAITHERSBURG – Wednesday, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) toured two institutions vital to Gaithersburg and Montgomery County. Delaney visited the Manna Food Center and the Montgomery County Public Schools Gaithersburg Judith P. Hoyer Early Child Care and Family Education Center. The Manna Food Center is the primary food bank for area non-profits and feeds over 3,000 families per month. There are 25 Judy Centers across Maryland. The Judy Centers were established to honor the memory of Judith P. Hoyer, an early childhood advocate and the late wife of Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer. Judy Centers are early childhood and family learning centers which provide comprehensive services for children five and under. “It was a privilege to visit and tour the Manna Food Center and the MCPS Gaithersburg Judy Center at Summit Hall Elementary School. The work done at Manna Food Center and our Judy Centers is truly admirable” said Congressman Delaney. “This visit highlighted two issues that are very important to me: helping the less fortunate and investing in early childhood education. My commitment to these priorities is even stronger after hearing about the good work done here locally and I will take the perspective I gained here back to my colleagues in Washington. I believe that every one of our kids should be given a chance to live the American Dream and food on the table and early education are essential to that goal.” “I’m pleased Congressman Delaney visited the Gaithersburg Judy Center to see firsthand how Judy Centers are making a difference in the lives of the children and families they serve,” stated Congressman Hoyer. “By integrating early childhood education with health and social service delivery, Judy Centers help students become fully ready for kindergarten and help ensure their parents are prepared to support their children’s education and development. Judy Centers play a crucial role in helping to close the achievement gap here in Maryland, and I thank Congressman Delaney for highlighting their important role in our communities.” Delaney is a cosponsor of the Strong Start for America’s Children Act (H.R. 3461) which would provide federal funding for full-day pre-kindergarten for four-year old children from low-income families. At Summit Hall Elementary, Delaney met with Principal Keith Jones, and Judy Center Program Director Jody Burkhardt. At Manna Food Center, Delaney toured the Gaithersburg distribution center and met with Executive Director Jackie DeCarlo, Director of Operations Kevin Trostle, and Director of Development Mark Foraker to discuss the day-to-day operations of the facility. Daily, the food center provides 16,000 lbs. of food daily to families in need. Most of the work is done by volunteers. ###
12.17.2013	WASHINGTON – Today it was announced that former Microsoft executive Kurt DelBene will replace Jeffrey Zients as the manager of the federal health enrollment system. Zients will take over as the White House’s chief economic adviser. According to CNBC and other independent outlets, Healthcare.Gov has seen “dramatic performance improvements under Zients.” Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement: “Jeff was given an exceedingly difficult assignment with a tight deadline. He completed it on time and to a very high standard and he should be applauded and thanked. His work reminds us that government can accomplish complex projects provided the right people are assigned to the task; management skills really matter.” ##
12.13.2013	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, the House of Representatives passed an emergency extension of the farm bill by voice vote. The bill extends the current farm bill through January 31st, as a means to allow further deliberations on a conference version of the House and Senate bills. Sunday, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) authored an op-ed in the Frederick News-Post calling for a full five year farm bill. Delaney issues the following statement: “The farm bill is absolutely fundamental to insuring that we have a stable, sustainable, and affordable food supply for our country. It doesn’t get more important than that. While I support this brief extension, the debate on the farm bill is not over. Over 350,000 Marylanders are employed in the agricultural sector and agriculture is our largest commercial industry. Maryland farmers have made it very clear to me: they need a long-term farm bill so they can make prudent financial decisions that reflect the rules of the road. “As we approach the prospect of doing serious damage to our economy and harming real people, we have to find a solution. We can’t let the pursuit of extreme cuts to our nutritional assistance programs, which provide needed aid to our least fortunate hold up a compromise. Last night, in passing a budget with broad bipartisan support, members of the House showed that they are ready for compromise and cooperation, let’s carry that spirit forward in January and pass a five year farm bill.” ##
12.12.2013	WASHINGTON – On Thursday, December 12, 2013 the House voted to approve the bipartisan, bicameral budget compromise brokered by House Budget Chairman Paul Ryan and Senate Budget Committee Chairman Patty Murray. The agreement authorizes funding for federal agencies through the fall of 2015, avoiding a government shutdown for the next two years. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted for the agreement. Delaney issues the following statement: “This budget agreement and today’s bipartisan vote was a small step forward, a small step towards a better functioning Congress. Coming from the private sector, I am of the fundamental belief that good policy comes at the intersection of principle and compromise. I believe that it is vitally important to encourage further agreements by supporting this deal. “We saw this fall what happens when we fail to find common ground: we shut down the government for sixteen days. This was incredibly damaging to the country and was singularly harmful to my district, which is home to thousands of dedicated federal civil servants. This agreement lets our federal workers and our country know that we’re not going to have another shutdown anytime soon. “This budget doesn’t have everything I believe is in the best interest of the country, including additional job-creating investments in infrastructure, extending unemployment insurance, and providing truly world-class support for science, research, and education so we can stay competitive. We also need comprehensive tax reform, including fixing our broken international corporate tax system. I will continue to fight for these priorities and continue to stand up for our federal workers. However, this deal was better than the alternative, which was more chaos, more uncertainty, and continued inability to focus on the real problems facing the country. “This bipartisan agreement keeps the government open, meets our national security needs, and positions us to better invest in our future. We still have much to do make our country competitive in a twenty-first century economy, so let’s get to work.” ##
12.12.2013	WASHINGTON – At today’s Financial Services Committee hearing with Treasury Secretary Jack Lew, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) discussed the issue of climate change and questioned the Secretary on his views on a revenue-neutral market-driven carbon tax. The Treasury advises the president on financial, monetary, economic, trade, and tax policy. The exchange is below: Rep. Delaney: Thank you Secretary for joining us here today. I was going to frame my question around the issue of asset managers being systemically important which I don't think they should be deemed systemically important, but my good friend and colleague from Kentucky made me think about another question I want to ask you, kind of a follow up to what you were talking about and I’d just be interested in your opinion on this topic. If you were confronted with the following kind of policy question that was being posed to the president which is that we would implement some form of market-driven and market-based carbon tax and if the revenues produced from that form of a carbon tax were used entirely to provide a variety of tax breaks to individuals and businesses, so that it was a revenue neutral proposal but we actually had a true market-based carbon tax, which is something I am in favor of, but that the revenue is generated from something like that were entirely given back to the American population either through individual tax breaks or through corporate tax breaks. How would you advise the president to think about something like that, what would be your directional view on a step like that? Secretary Lew: Congressman, this has obviously been debated over many decades and I was part of an administration that proposed a BTU tax and was unsuccessful because it had such resistance in the 1990s, I think those are questions we have to look at in the right context in terms of comprehensive tax reform, looking overall at our tax system and how to make it more conducive to a growing efficient economy and the administration has not made any proposals yet. Rep. Delaney: I agree with you, obviously, the best way to do tax reform is on a comprehensive manner, both individual and corporate, but and I say this respectfully, I’m not trying to pin you down, if you were just presented with the option that I described, just directionally, I'm trying to get a sense on how you weigh these things because politically, when we think about a market-based carbon tax which allows the private markets to do what we, often times, try to have regulators do too much of, I'd much rather see the private market adjust behavior in a way that I think is in the best interest of us across the long-term, as oppose to try and regulate that behavior. But if we were to have a real market-driven carbon- tax and the only way that can be done politically was by taking tax revenues and giving them back to individuals and corporations through a variety of tax reductions. Do you think directionally that is something you would be supportive of or are you not at a point where you could comment on it. Secretary Lew: Congressman, I’m really not at a point to comment on it. I haven’t looked closely on this matter in recent years. I think that it would be a good thing to get deeply into the debate over broad tax reform in a context that helps deal with our long-term fiscal challenges. It isn’t enough to be revenue-neutral, it has to help solve the federal challenges we face, and we haven't gotten as deeply into that discussion as I would have liked. Rep. Delaney: But if it were just revenue-neutral, do you think its compelling enough to take this step towards behavior, that in my opinion, would change climate change. Secretary Lew: I appreciate you asking me a question for the third time, but I'm just going to have to say that I will have to look at it and get back to you. Rep. Delaney: Do you think climate change is a big economic risk to the United States? Secretary Lew: I do. Rep. Delaney: Do you think corporate tax rates are too high? Secretary Lew: I think that, as we've made clear, we think that it's important that we do business tax reforms, we lower the statutory rate and be more competitive, and flatten out some of the systems so it doesn’t distort economic decision making. Rep. Delaney: Ok, Thank you sir. I yield back. ##
12.11.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has written to House Speaker John Boehner, urging the Speaker to take up legislation that extends federal emergency unemployment insurance. Absent legislative action, 1.3 million Americans will lose all unemployment insurance on December 28. Delaney joined 166 colleagues on the letter. Delaney is a cosponsor of H.R. 3546, the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Extension Act. According to the Department of Labor, 22,900 Marylanders will lose their unemployment insurance on December 28, 2013, and 28,500 will lose their benefits in the first six months of 2014. The text of the letter is below: December 11, 2013 The Honorable John Boehner Speaker, U.S. House of Representatives H232, U.S. Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Boehner: We write to urge you to address the looming expiration of unemployment benefits for millions of Americans before adjourning Congress for the remainder of the year. Without swift Congressional action, 1.3 million jobless workers will have their benefits cut off on December 28th, and nearly another 1.9 million will lose their unemployment benefits over the first half of next year. This would not only be a devastating blow for millions of Americans who are already struggling, but it would also hurt our economy. The Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program is scheduled to immediately and completely stop at the end of 2013, during the holiday season, with the last payable week ending on December 28th. All current EUC beneficiaries will lose their benefits, and individuals exhausting their limited state unemployment benefits will no longer be eligible for EUC benefits in 2014. This cutoff will affect over 3 million Americans over the next six months, and thereby also negatively impact our economic growth. In fact, recent estimates indicate that the expiration of the EUC program would cost our economy 310,000 jobs and drain roughly four-tenths of a percentage point from first-quarter economic growth. While unemployment benefits remain a critical lifeline for dislocated workers and their families, these benefits have recently been significantly scaled back. According to the Congressional Research Service, the total amount of weeks of unemployment benefits has dropped by more than a third across the states, and by more than 50 percent in some states, compared to two years ago. Furthermore, the recipients have seen their weekly benefit payment provided by the EUC program cut under sequestration. Even with the progress our economy has seen since the depths of the recession, there are still 1.3 million fewer jobs today than when the recession started six years ago. Additionally, approximately 4 million Americans are considered long-term unemployed, and have been looking for work for more than six months. Now is certainly not the time to further decimate vital federal assistance to workers who have lost their job through no fault of their own and who must actively seek work in order to be eligible for unemployment benefits. We therefore strongly urge you to immediately bring up a one-year extension of the current EUC program. Thank you for your attention to this critical issue. Sincerely, ##
12.10.2013	WASHINGTON – Today the Senate voted to confirm Congressman Mel Watt as the next head of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). The FHFA oversees our country’s secondary mortgage markets, including Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and the Federal Home Loan Banks. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) a member of the House Financial Services Committee, releases the following statement: “Congressman Watt is a laudable choice to direct FHFA and has the support of policy experts, industry representatives, and a long-list of colleagues in Congress. I thank Congressman Watt for his work on the House Committee on Financial Services, where he has been a valued member. I also thank our Maryland Senators, Senator Mikulski and Senator Cardin, for their votes to confirm him. “Congressman Watt’s confirmation is good news because we need both his leadership at the agency and a return to normal operating procedure regarding FHFA. This agency is especially important because housing and GSE reform is essential to our country’s long-term economic health. To that end, I am working on legislation that reforms our housing market and allows the private sector to create a more competitive, consumer and taxpayer-friendly market.” Congressman Delaney outlined his housing reform legislation in an op-ed in The Hill. Delaney’s framework mortgages would be securitized following their insurance for full principal and interest repayment by well-capitalized, privately funded mortgage insurers. The Delaney plan aims to marry the private sector’s ability to more accurately to price risk with the government’s ability to provide capacity. ##
12.09.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has introduced bipartisan legislation to assist Americans with metabolism disorders. The Medical Foods Equity Act (H.R. 3665) of 2013 guarantees coverage in public programs for medical foods – and pharmacological doses of prescribed vitamins and amino acids for treatment. Each year, an estimated 2,550 children are diagnosed with metabolic disorders such as phenylketonuria (PKU) that require modified foods, vitamins, and amino acids. Without access to these treatments, patients can suffer severe neurological complications and hospitalization. Although medical foods are essential, they are not covered consistently by public programs. The level and availability of coverage greatly varies by state. “There is nothing more fundamental to life than access to nourishing food, that’s why expanding medical foods coverage to Americans with metabolic disorders is so critical,” said Congressman John K. Delaney. “Gaps in coverage and outdated technical definitions mean that thousands of Americans can’t afford the nutritionally modified foods they need to live. I thank my Republican and Democratic cosponsors for joining me on this legislation and look forward to further efforts to help our constituents on this matter.” “Children and adults living with PKU and other allied disorders owe their lives to the success of newborn screening in this country. It is a tragedy that many of them cannot get the coverage they need to maintain a healthy and productive life. Federal coverage to treat these rare disorders is the right and ethical thing to do,” said Christine S. Brown, MS, Executive Director, National PKU Alliance. H.R. 3665 is cosponsored by Rep. Bob Godlatte (VA-6); Chairman of the House Committee on the Judiciary, Rep. Hank Johnson (GA-4), Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-4), and Rep. Jared Polis (CO-2). The legislation provides medical foods coverage under Medicare, Medicaid, CHIP, TRICARE, and FEHBP. ##
12.05.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement on the passing of former South African President Nelson Mandela: “I join my colleagues and the constituents I represent in expressing my sorrow at the passage of Nelson Mandela. He was a hero to the world. Today we celebrate his life, reflect on his legacy, and recommit ourselves to taking another step on road to a brighter, fairer, and better world. “In 1994, Mandela addressed a joint session of Congress, stating: ‘I do firmly believe that the people of this country, who have done so much to write the history of the world, have the vision, the wisdom and the daring to strive so that what is good shines over the cities and the villages of that world, enveloping man and land.’ “May we remember these words tonight and continue to strive to meet Madiba’s ideals of promoting democracy and justice.” ##
12.04.2013	WASHINGTON – Today the House voted on H.R. 1105, the Small Business Capital Access and Job Preservation Act. The bill passed by a 254 to 159 vote. The legislation would ease SEC reporting requirements for private equity implemented under Dodd-Frank. The bill would exempt private equity fund investment advisers from registration and reporting requirements with the SEC, provided that they have not been borrowed and don't have an outstanding principal amount that is more than twice their invested capital commitments. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted against the bill. Delaney founded and led two financial services institutions and is the only former CEO of a publicly traded company serving in Congress. Delaney issues the following statement: “As someone who used private equity capital to build two businesses and create thousands of jobs, I'm a strong supporter of the private equity industry generally. It is my view that private equity has contributed to enhanced U.S. competitiveness and helps drive the all-important entrepreneurial economy. I expect the industry to grow based on the returns they have generated for investors, including pension funds and non-profit endowments, and based on their strong fiduciary practices. “I elected not to support H.R. 1105 because I view this industry as a large, important, and growing part of the U.S. financial markets and that certain information is needed from larger market participants (many of which provided the information prior to Dodd-Frank) so that we can continue to improve investor protection and to monitor macro-trends in our markets. I am supportive of efforts that will ease regulations on smaller firms, such as those with assets under management below $5 billion, and those that will streamline regulations on larger firms. I look forward to supporting reforms on both fronts in the future.” ##
12.03.2013	WASHINGTON – Today the House passed H.R. 3626, extending the Undetectable Firearms Act of 1988 for 10 years. The law prohibits the manufacture or possession of firearms undetectable to X-ray machines and metal detectors. The bill, which passed the House by a voice vote, comes on the heels of reports that lethal plastic weapons, invisible to metal detectors, may be manufactured at home using 3-dimensional printing technologies. “We did the right thing today, acting in a responsible manner to maintain public safety standards. Ensuring that all families have safe access to airports and other public spaces is an obligation we all share,” said Congressman Delaney. “Advancements in technology have created new challenges for law enforcement and serious public safety concerns. This commonsense legislation helps to support the men and women working to keep our communities safe by banning lethal firearms that can slip past metal detectors.” In November of 2013, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) published a study detailing the increasing threat of undetectable firearms. In the study, the ATF created a lethal plastic handgun using a 3-D printer and firearm designs available online. H.R. 3626 would outlaw the manufacture or possession of plastic firearms and other guns made from undetectable materials. This legislation now heads to the Senate. ##
12.03.2013	For Immediate Release: December 3, 2013 Contact: Will McDonald, 202-225-2721 Delaney Attends Vigil for Alan Gross, Calls for Maryland Native’s Release from Cuban Prison WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) attended a vigil for Montgomery County native Alan Gross and called for his release. Gross, sent to Cuba as a contractor for the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), has been captive since 2009. The vigil, held on the fourth anniversary of Gross’s imprisonment, was organized by the Jewish Community Relations Council of Greater Washington and took place at Lafayette Park, adjacent to the White House. The vigil included elected officials and local Jewish community leaders. “Our message today is clear: Alan, you are not forgotten and you are not alone,” said Congressman Delaney. “Alan Gross is an American who was sent by his country overseas and it is our government’s obligation to do everything we can to bring him home. Alan’s imprisonment is unjust and the hardship suffered by Alan and his family is extreme. Each day that Alan spends locked in a Cuban cell is an affront to our values of a free society. It’s time to bring Alan home.” Gross was sent to Cuba in 2009 as a USAID contractor to assist the Jewish community in Cuba. Following his 2009 arrest, Gross was convicted by Cuba of crimes against the state in 2011 and sentenced to 15 years. In November, 66 Senators wrote to President Obama urging the Administration to prioritize Gross’s release as “a matter of grave urgency.” ##
12.03.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has named Lisa Bianco his Chief of Staff. Bianco joined Delaney’s staff as District Director in January 2013, when Delaney took office. “I’m excited to have Lisa lead our office as Chief of Staff,” said Congressman Delaney. “Lisa has done a tremendous job running our district office this year and brings to the position a deep understanding of both the local and the national issues impacting my constituents. I would also like to thank John Monsif for his exceptional service in setting up our office as Chief of Staff and wish him the best of luck.” Previously, Bianco served as Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer’s Maryland Political Director. Recently, John Monsif decided to return to the private sector, after almost seven years working on Capitol Hill. ##
11.22.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen Fincher (R-Tenn.) and Congressman John Delaney (D-Md.) reached across the aisle and joined together to introduce H.R. 3623: Improving Access to Capital for Emerging Growth Companies Act, which focuses on accelerating the ability of companies to enter into Initial Public Offerings (IPOs). Congressman Fincher: “Our country is in dire need of good-paying jobs. Congress needs to be doing all that it can to encourage a healthy, job-creating economy. With this bill, further improvements to the IPO on-ramp will allow small emerging growth companies to continue expanding, leading to more, quality American jobs.” Congressman Delaney: “When startups and small businesses go public we often see explosive job growth. As a former entrepreneur and CEO of two publicly traded companies, I’m proud to partner with Congressman Fincher on this bipartisan legislation. Streamlining the IPO process will help make our economy more competitive, encourage expansion, and give investors more diverse options.” Congressman Stephen Fincher (TN-8) is the original author of Title I of the bipartisan JOBS Act, which created the category of the Emerging Growth Company and was signed into law in 2012. Congressman Fincher is a managing partner in Fincher Farms, a seventh generation West Tennessee based agribusiness. Stephen has been in agribusiness his entire life and knows firsthand the regulations and setbacks America’s businesses face. Fincher services on the Financial Services and Agriculture Committees. Tennessee’s 8th Congressional District includes the cities of Memphis, Jackson and Frog Jump in West Tennessee. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) is the only former CEO of a publicly traded company in Congress. Congressman Delaney founded and led two NYSE-listed financial services companies before the age of forty and is a past winner of the Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year Award. In 2010, Delaney’s company, CapitalSource, received the Bank Enterprise Award from the Treasury Department for lending to disadvantaged communities. Delaney serves on the Financial Services and Joint Economic Committee. Maryland’s Sixth District includes the Washington D.C. suburbs and Western Maryland ###
11.22.2013	WASHINGTON – Friday’s Washington Post features an op-ed by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) calling on the budget conference to focus on rebuilding America’s infrastructure. Delaney is the only former CEO of a publicly traded company serving in Congress. The op-ed can be read below or online here. Driving the economy forward with infrastructure investmentBy John Delaney Washington Post, 11/21/13 John Delaney, a Democrat, represents Maryland’s 6th District in the U.S. House. Washington has gotten so used to political theater that many here have lost the ability to spot real chances to do the right thing. The budget conference is an opportunity for Congress to craft a bipartisan compromise that serves the common good. Despite low expectations, the conference should be taken seriously. The facts before the conferees are clear: Millions of Americans are out of work, growth remains stagnant, our long-term fiscal trajectory is unsustainable and the American people have said, loudly, that Washington is broken. Policy and political needs are aligned: Washington and the country desperately need a bipartisan, pro-growth compromise. The conferees ought to consider a bipartisan solution that would create jobs in the short term, improve long-term economic growth and lower barriers for private-sector investment. The Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) is such a solution. The bill has 25 Republican and 25 Democratic co-sponsors, which may make it the most significant piece of unfinished bipartisan economic-oriented legislation in the House. Right now, the loudest voices in the room are also the most partisan. We need to encourage real compromise. I came to Congress after having started and run large publicly traded companies. In my experience, the best deals in business are achieved when both sides feel like they gave up something. Effective process is about compromise and negotiations and being respectful toward your neighbors. That’s the way to get things done. My bill would create an American Infrastructure Fund (AIF), a large-scale financing capability that could act like a bond insurer or bank for state and local governments to build transportation, energy, water, communication and educational infrastructure. The fund would be capitalized with $50 billion that could be leveraged 15 to 1 to create a $750 billion infrastructure financing capability. Over 50 years, the AIF could finance $2 trillion worth of infrastructure and create more than 3 million jobs. The $50 billion of capital would be funded not by government but by private companies that purchase 50-year bonds at 1 percent interest that are not government-guaranteed. No taxpayer money would support the American Infrastructure Fund. As an incentive to purchase these below-market bonds, buyers would be allowed to repatriate a certain amount of overseas earnings tax-free. The specific ratio would be established by auction, which would encourage interested companies to bid against one another, guaranteeing a fair deal for the government. The winners of the auction would be the companies that bid the lowest exchange ratio. I expect the winning ratio to be in the neighborhood of 4 to 1, based on what companies would be willing to pay as an effective tax. This means that if Company X purchases $1 billion in infrastructure bonds, it would be able to bring back $4 billion in overseas earnings tax-free. If the bonds are worth 20 cents on the dollar to the company, then the cost to Company X is the equivalent of a 13 percent tax. This would help private and public sectors. Almost $2 trillion of corporate cash is sitting overseas. Many large companies would like to bring home some of this money and reinvest it. By tying that repatriation to infrastructure, we guarantee that jobs would be created. Good economic policy is crafted at the intersection of principle and compromise. This legislation addresses tax policy concerns that Republicans have voiced for decades while increasing infrastructure investment, which Democrats have pushed since the 1990s. This measure also would get our economy moving and make our country more competitive. If U.S. ports can’t meet the demands of global commerce, jobs will leave our shores. If U.S. schools fall apart, American students will fall further behind. And if U.S. roads remain in disrepair, commutes will grow longer. Infrastructure is a good investment; for every $1 spent on infrastructure, the economy receives $1.92 in benefit. Pro-growth economic policy helps address our national debt in a politically feasible manner. Under current trajectories, we will face extremely tough choices after 2020, when interest on the debt and unreformed entitlement programs will threaten to crowd out our ability to pay for anything else. Economic growth, coupled with additional reforms, would lead to fiscal stability and ensure that the next generation has a chance to live the American dream. Bipartisan compromise is possible, but it won’t happen simply by wishing that the other side will change its mind and address your party’s agenda. In working on this legislation, I had more than 100 one-on-one meetings with Republicans. Working with my colleagues in good faith, we found a way forward. Both parties have long called for a budget conference. Now that we have one, we should seize the opportunity to strengthen the economy. Congress has staged enough tragedies this year. Let’s come together and give the American people an ending worthy of our audience. ##
11.19.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) spoke at a rally outside the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), urging FTC Chairwoman Edith Ramirez to insure a competitive market and affordable Jewish funerals in Maryland and across the greater Washington area. The rally was organized by the Jewish Community Relations Council of Greater Washington and the Jewish Funeral Practices Committee of Greater Washington. Sixth District residents have expressed worry that the merger would result in a reduction in the diversity of ownership of local funeral homes that offer death-care services in accordance with Jewish traditions, potentially leading to higher prices. On Monday, Congressman Delaney called Chairwoman Ramirez, following up on a September 18 letter, concerning the merger and highlighted the possible impact amongst his constituents. Rep. Delaney asked that Chairwoman Ramirez consider the impact of the merger given the likely impacts on competitive pricing with respect to funeral services. “Every family should be able to observe the funeral practices of their faith in an affordable manner. My constituents and friends in the Jewish community brought this issue to my attention and I share their concerns,” said Congressman Delaney. “This really gets to the heart of our values as a society; namely, the ability of our communities to properly mourn in a dignified and respectful manner. I’m committed to working with them and then Federal Trade Commission to do everything we can to ensure affordable Jewish funerals. Coming from the private sector, I understand that fundamentally, we need to have a competitive free market.” A proposed merger between the two largest funeral services providers in the country, Service Corporation International (SCI) and Stewart Enterprises, has raised concerns about a lack of competition in the death services market. Under the merger, a contract between Hines Rinaldi, a Silver Spring funeral home that has an agreement with 48 local synagogues and is currently owned by Stewart Enterprises, would be in jeopardy. Local Jewish community leaders are calling upon Hines Rinaldi to be divested from the merger. ##
11.15.2013	WASHINGTON – On Friday the House voted on H.R. 3350, Rep. Upton’s Keep Your Plan Act. The bill passed 261 to 157, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted against the bill. Congressman Delaney releases the following statement: “Today I voted No on the Upton legislation because the administrative response announced yesterday by the President is a better solution to the problem of some Americans losing the ability to stay on their old plans. The problem we have currently is that the Affordable Care Act is not working. It’s not working because the technology platform failed and because the President made incorrect representations to the American people, which caused many consumers to be unprepared for the reforms. We need to fix the law on multiple levels so that the goal of the law is achieved: lower costs and more access to health care coverage. Right now, healthcare reform has negative momentum.” ##
11.08.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement on Veterans Day: “On Veterans Day we honor the millions of Americans that have defended our freedoms in times of war and times of peace. We gather in communities across the nation to pay tribute to the men and women in uniform who have courageously served the United States and protected our freedoms. The ceremonies and spirit of Veterans Day are an essential thread in the fabric of our country. “As we mark the holiday, we are reminded of the profound obligation we have to stand with our veterans and their families. While we pause to recognize the many sacrifices made by our men and women in uniform, we must commit to continuing to honor our veterans year round. Although the debt to those who have served our nation, including the over 450,000 Maryland veterans, can never fully be repaid, we can recommit ourselves to serving them as they have served our country. I encourage all of us to celebrate our veterans and offer them our eternal gratitude and everlasting support and admiration. “I would like to personally extend my sincerest thank you to the veterans I am proud to represent. One of the greatest privileges of public office is getting to meet so many veterans and active duty service members and their families and learn about the incredible work they’ve done to protect our country. It is an honor to represent you in Congress. Please consider the door of my office always open to assist you and address your questions and concerns.” On Veterans Day, Delaney will attend the Wreath Laying Ceremony in Hagerstown and tour the VA facility in Martinsburg WV, which serves many of Western Maryland’s veterans. ##
11.06.2013	WASHINGTON – Senators Ben Cardin (MD) and James Inhofe (OK) have introduced a Senate companion to Congressman John K. Delaney’s (MD-6) Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education Improvement Act (H.R. 2011). Filed Monday, S.1643 authorizes the Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education through December 31, 2015, and expands the makeup of the Committee to include post 9/11 veterans. Absent legislative action, the Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education will sunset on December 31, 2013. The Delaney bill passed the House by a 404 to 2 vote on October 28. Congressman Delaney’s floor speech on the bill can be viewed here. “It’s an honor to partner with Senator Cardin and Senator Inhofe on this important legislation. Improving outcomes for our veterans is an obligation we all share,” said Congressman Delaney. “By reauthorizing the Committee, we will ensure that our nation’s brave men and women receive effective and efficient job training programs that befit their service to our nation. I thank both Senators for their support and I look forward to working towards the bill’s passage in the Senate.” “A true marker of our nation’s worth is our willingness to serve those who have served us,” said Senator Cardin. “As we wind down our commitments in Afghanistan after a decade of war, we need to gear up our commitment to our veterans. I’m proud to partner with Congressman Delaney and Senator Inhofe on this legislation that will ensure that the brave men and women who serve our country in the armed services receive the most effective education and training opportunities available. Our veterans deserve every possible tool to help ease their transition to civilian life.” The Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education advises the Secretary of Veterans Affairs on improving education and job training programs for veterans. The Committee is composed of veterans and experts in the fields of education, labor, and management. Since 2003, the VA has implemented 57 recommendations from the Advisory Committee on Education. The Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), Students Veterans Association (SVA), Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA), and Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) have all issued statements in support of H.R. 2011. Their statements of support can be read here. Senator Inhofe is the Ranking Member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. ##
10.29.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement on the anniversary of Hurricane Sandy: “One year ago today Hurricane Sandy made landfall and began her assault upon our Atlantic coast. This huge and historic storm proved truly devastating. Over 100 Americans lost their lives in the storm, thousands of homes and businesses were destroyed, and millions were left without power. The storm produced a historic blizzard in Western Maryland, where thousands of my constituents endured days without power or access to major roads. “Sandy brought great suffering to our country. Today, we remember the victims, both those that we lost and those that still need our assistance. “As a country, we stick together, we help our neighbors, we open our doors to those left in the dark or the cold. We saw that spirit in the days and weeks that followed. I want to personally thank all of those who worked so hard to rebuild and restore our communities. “Sandy has shown that our country will meet any challenge. Scientific data indicates that major storms like Sandy will become more common in the future. Congress must follow the example of the American people and rise to the occasion. We need to adapt our policies to climate change and ensure that disaster relief is fully funded.” ##
10.28.2013	WASHINGTON – The House has passed legislation by Rep. John Delaney (MD-6) designed to improve educational and job training programs and benefits administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education Improvement Act (H.R. 2011) passed by a 404 to 2 vote and now heads to the Senate for approval. The Delaney bill authorizes the Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education through December 31, 2015, and expands the makeup of the Committee to include post 9/11 veterans. Absent legislative action, the Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education will sunset on December 31, 2013. Since 2003, the VA has implemented 57 recommendations from the Advisory Committee on Education. According to most recent Bureau of Labor Statistics report, the unemployment rate for post 9/11 veterans is 10.1%. “Standing with our veterans is one of most essential obligations,” said Congressman Delaney. “I’m honored that my legislation has received the support of numerous veterans’ organizations and enjoyed strong support in the House. As a country, we’re committed to making sure America’s heroes receive the benefits they’ve earned, including the education and job training they need to transition to civilian life. By making sure that post 9/11 veterans have a voice at the VA this legislation encourages more effective and efficient government. It is unacceptable that over 10% of post 9/11 veterans are unemployed and we need to do everything we can to address this problem, that’s why I look forward to working with my colleagues to continue to move this legislation forward.” The Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), Students Veterans Association (SVA), Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA), and Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) have all issued statements in support of H.R. 2011. Their statements of support can be read here. H.R. 2011 was introduced with Rep. Jim Renacci (OH-16) and is currently cosponsored by Rep. Ron Barber (AZ-2), Rep. John Carney (DE), Rep. Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Rep. William Enyart (IL-12), Rep. Jeff Fortenberry (NE-1), Rep. Joe Heck (NV-3), Rep. Walter Jones (NC-3), Rep. Derek Kilmer (WA-6), Rep. Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Rep. Gregory Meeks (NY-5), Rep. Beto O`Rourke (TX-16), and Rep. Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-9). ##
10.23.2013	WASHINGTON - The House has passed H.R. 3080, the Water Resources Reform and Development Act, by a 417 to 3 vote. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted for the bill. H.R. 3080 authorizes Army Corps of Engineers funding for improvements to America’s waterways, ports, dams and levees, and projects tied towards flood protection and safe drinking water. The Senate passed a water resources bill in May (S. 601) and it is expected that the two bills will go to conference soon. “Water is elemental to our nation’s economic life, which is why we must repair, rebuild, and reinvigorate America’s ports, waterways, dams and levees,” said Congressman Delaney. “Infrastructure investment creates jobs, makes our economy more competitive, and improves our quality of life. By de-authorizing inactive projects, ensuring that more funds from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund go towards infrastructure, and encouraging public-private partnerships, The Water Resources Reform and Development Act is the kind of fiscally responsible, pro-growth, pro-jobs, legislation that we need more of in Washington. In addition to strongly supporting this legislation, I have made addressing our $2 trillion dollar infrastructure deficit a priority and have introduced bipartisan legislation that can finance up to $750 billion in new infrastructure projects with zero appropriations.” In May, Delaney introduced the Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) as an additional tool to address America’s infrastructure deficit. Delaney’s bill currently has 22 Democratic and 24 Republican cosponsors. Delaney’s bipartisan legislation creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund that can be leveraged to $750 billion. This fund will be capitalized by the sale of 50-year bonds that are not guaranteed by the Federal government and pay 1% interest rate. To encourage U.S. corporations to purchase these bonds, they will be allowed to repatriate a certain dollar amount – determined by auction - in overseas earnings tax-free for every $1 they invest in the bonds. The fund will then provide loans or loan guarantees to states and municipalities to finance transportation, energy, communications, water, and education infrastructure projects. ##
10.22.2013	WASHINGTON - Today the House passed H.R. 2083, the Protecting Students from Sexual and Violent Predators Act. The law requires schools that receive federal funds to adopt policies and procedures mandating background checks on school employees. It would prohibit employment at a school if an employee has been convicted of homicide, child abuse or neglect, child pornography, spousal abuse, kidnapping, arson or a crime involving rape or sexual assault. The bill passed by voice vote. “Providing a safe and healthy learning environment for our children is an obligation we all must share,” said Congressman Delaney. “There are a startling number of cases where convicted sex offenders working in schools have targeted children. This is simply unacceptable. This legislation helps prevent children from being placed in the care and custody of a criminal at school. By increasing information sharing at the local level and establishing clear background check guidelines for school employees, we can help keep our children out of harm’s way.” In 2010, the GAO found that inconsistent state laws with regard to background checks on adults who have contact with children in schools led to some school districts unknowingly hiring offenders. In other cases, the GAO found that districts knowingly passed a potential predator to another school district, allowing the offender to resign instead of reporting him. H.R. 2083 will bring consistency across states in background check policy. The legislation now heads to the Senate. ##
10.22.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) authored an op-ed today in the Huffington Post. In the op-ed, Delaney urges President Obama to tackle the healthcare website’s technological problems head-on, so that millions of Americans can access much-needed health insurance. Delaney is the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in Congress. The op-ed is available online here. The President Needs to Tackle Healthcare.Gov Like a CEO In my private sector career two of my favorite sayings were "strategy is easy and execution is really hard" and that we should "run at criticism." I was reminded of these sayings this month during the rollout of the Affordable Care Act's new Healthcare.gov website. As an entrepreneur and public company CEO, I've dealt with dozens of rollouts, and when unveiling a new product, the operating approach should be hope for the best but prepare for the worst. It's clear that this approach was not followed, and that major mistakes were made in rolling out the Healthcare.gov website. Importantly, we shouldn't play politics with the glitches associated with the website. Grandstanding and cheering mistakes doesn't solve any problems, but neither does excuse-making. Congress should not use this as yet another attempt to dismantle or defund the Affordable Care Act, which the American people do not support. However, we shouldn't sweep problems under the rug or try to ignore the facts, either. The administration must act promptly to ensure that the central premise of the Affordable Care Act is executable and, rather than dismissing criticism, should examine it in good faith and work to serve the needs of the people. President Obama must approach this problem like a CEO confronting a very bad product launch. In my judgment, the Affordable Care Act is a deeply important piece of legislation that will, over time, serve two important goals for the American people -- 1) lowering health care costs and 2) expanding coverage to millions of Americans. Crucially, the Affordable Care Act isn't just a website -- the law also allows young adults to stay on their parents' plans, prevents coverage denials to Americans with pre-existing conditions, and prohibits women from being charged higher premiums simply because of their gender. At the same time, the long-term success of health care reform depends upon the marketplaces working: more Americans get coverage, while insurers compete for customers and spread risk, which leads to lower costs. Unfortunately, the data now clearly suggests that the initial rollout has been flawed and the execution challenges underestimated. The site received substantially more traffic than it could handle, leading to frequent crashes and extremely long wait times. More troubling, there have been serious problems with the site's connectivity, its ability to interface with the private insurers that consumers are supposed to connect with via the site. There are widespread reports that problems with the website's connectivity lingered for months and that proper steps were not taken, or perhaps even worse, ignored. I will leave it up to the administration to deal with responsibility for this failure, which includes members of the President's own team and many private contractors. But I would remind them of my second maxim -- "run at criticism." There are many legitimate critiques of the system from the technology industry (as opposed to misguided repeal faction of the GOP) and the administration should be embracing the full range of these technology critiques to reformulate the system for the good of the American people. It's time to listen and it is time to bring in world-class management. The President's decision to name Jeff Zients, the former acting OMB Director, to oversee repairs to the website is precisely the right thing to do. Zients has the right combination of management and project experience and analytical acuity needed for this complex task. Additionally, the administration announced this week that they will be bringing in additional IT help, implementing a "tech surge" to improve the website, which is an important first step. In addition to using the website, you can now also apply for coverage by phone, by mail, or with an in-person navigator. The huge traffic the website has received is good news: the American people are fundamentally eager to do their part to receive health insurance. Expanding the private sector market and encouraging personal responsibility is bipartisan idea that draws on strong conservative principles. I am of the view that the Affordable Care Act will be a transformative piece of legislation that can lower the cost of health care in the United States -- perhaps our greatest fiscal obstacle - and help all Americans lead healthy and productive lives, free from worry that a single illness could mean ruin for an entire family. But we need to be honest: in terms of making the law work at the onset, it's been a bad month. The time for scoring partisan or ideological points, on either side, should be over. The administration needs to fix the technical and operational issues; the administration should diligently reach out to the best, brightest, and those results-oriented: not to spin, but to solve. Millions of Americans need the health care marketplaces to work so that they can receive coverage. Period. Similarly, Congress would work in a bipartisan manner to improve issues that may arise on a piece of legislation that literally affects one-sixth of the U.S. economy. Any legislation of this size and scope will have imperfections as it goes from concept to reality. Again, working together we can improve this law for the benefit of all Americans. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) is a Democratic Freshman Class President and a Democratic Senior Whip. Delaney, an entrepreneur, is the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company serving in Congress. ##
10.16.2013	WASHINGTON – On Wednesday a bipartisan agreement was reached in the Senate to end the government shutdown and lift the debt ceiling. The compromise (S. Amendments to H.R. 2775) will open the government through Jan. 15, lift the debt ceiling through Feb. 7, and ensure back pay for furloughed federal workers. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “Thankfully, this shameful episode is over. There aren’t any winners or losers today; we simply found a way to do the bare minimum: reopen the government and pay our bills. The shutdown has been bad for our economy and a debt limit crisis would have been even worse. I’m very pleased that the tens of thousands of federal workers in my district will be able to return to their important work serving the country and that we were able to secure their back-pay. “The American people sent us here to work together and find solutions. We’ve got real work to do to reduce our deficit, help businesses grow and create jobs, and make our economy more competitive. “My constituents have made it clear that Congress has fallen short of that standard in the last month. I’ve heard from Oakland, Hagerstown, Gaithersburg and points in between that this entire episode has been beneath the dignity of our country, and I agree. Hopefully, we haven’t just resolved this crisis; we’ve come to a new understanding that we simply can’t operate this way forever. It’s time to put ideological grandstanding behind us and start working together.” ##
10.14.2013	WASHINGTON – With the government shutdown entering a third week and the debt ceiling deadline looming, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement: “The House, Senate, and White House should reach an accord to open government and raise the debt ceiling no later than Tuesday morning and anything other than continuous and uninterrupted discussions by the parties towards that goal is inexcusable behavior. Three hundred million Americans deserve that our leaders spend every minute of every day in a room together between now and Tuesday working towards that goal. “The ongoing government shutdown is deeply harmful to the economic health of our country and a breach of the debt ceiling would likely raise interest rates for millions of Americans. The stakes are too high to let ideology drive our decision making. We need to reopen the government, agree to pay our bills, and begin working towards a bipartisan framework that addresses the real drivers of our debt with an eye towards a solution that includes corporate tax reform, entitlement reform, additional revenues and replacing counter-productive cuts to defense, education, and research.” ##
10.10.2013	WASHINGTON – This week the Fisher House Foundation announced that it would cover the survivor benefits, travel and lodging costs, and other incidental expenses for the families of service members killed in combat. Due to a lapse in appropriations and a legal dispute over the details of the Pay Our Military Act, death gratuities and related survivor benefits had been denied earlier this week. Wednesday the House also took action, passing H.J. Res 91, which restores funding for survivor benefits. In July, Delaney introduced an amendment to the Defense Appropriations Act that increased support for the Fisher House Foundation from $4 million to $20 million dollars. The Delaney amendment passed unanimously on July 25 and was fully offset. “As shown by the events this week, the Fisher House Foundation continues to exemplify the noblest virtues of the American spirit,” said Congressman Delaney. “Fisher House’s generosity is much appreciated, and hopefully, thanks to our vote yesterday, this issue is resolved and survivor benefits are fully restored. This government shutdown has in many respects highlighted some of the uglier aspects of human nature, but the actions of Fisher House also reveal that, in times of need, we stick together. As they have done since 1990, Fisher House has been there for our military families, which is why I took the lead to increase their funding in the House. Now, it’s time to end the shutdown and get back to work.” Since 1990, over 180,000 families have been served by the Fisher House program. In 2012, over 19,000 military families received lodging in Fisher Houses, with an average length of stay of 10 days, saving them over $30 million in lodging, food, and transportation costs. Fisher Homes are typically within walking distance from treatment facilities or have transportation available. The increased funding provided by the Delaney amendment would allow Fisher House to build at least four new homes. ##
10.09.2013	WASHINGTON – Today the House passed H.J. Res 91, which provides continuing appropriations for death gratuities and related survivor benefits for the families of deceased military service members for fiscal year 2014. The law restores benefits that had been halted due to the government shutdown that began October 1. “Restoring survivor benefits to military families is the right thing to do. We’re going to stand with those families that have made the ultimate sacrifice” said Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). “I was proud to join colleagues on both sides of the aisle in correcting this shameful but unintended lapse in appropriations. The bipartisan spirit and the belief in working towards the common good which animates us today should be an impetus we carry forward.” The Pay Our Military Act which passed in September was intended to cover survivors’ benefit programs, but the Department of Defense has stated that additional legislative action is necessary under the law. ##
10.09.2013	WASHINGTON - Congressman Delaney will donate the portions of his Congressional salary received during the shutdown to the Mercy Health Clinic, a not-for-profit, community based primary health care provider in Gaithersburg serving low-income residents of Montgomery County. ##
10.08.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) attended Tuesday an immigration reform rally on the National Mall organized by Camino Americano. The rally featured immigrant speakers, civil rights activist Julian Bond, and elected officials. Delaney is also an original cosponsor of H.R. 15, a comprehensive immigration bill modeled upon the bill that passed the Senate by a 68 to 32 vote and designed to receive bipartisan support in the House. H.R. 15 was introduced on October 2, 2013. Congressman Delaney issues the following statement on Hispanic Heritage Month and the need for immigration reform (to view video of Delaney’s statement, click here): “Hispanic Heritage Month is a time to celebrate the contributions Hispanic Americans have made to our country. Hispanics have made a difference in all sections of American life, and I’m proud to represent a diverse district that has been enriched by a thriving Hispanic community. “Hispanic Heritage Month is also an opportunity to reflect upon our nation’s values. From the beginning, our country has been unique: bound together not by a single ethnic heritage, but by an idea, a belief in freedom, democracy, and opportunity for all. “Hispanics are an integral part of our culture and our economy. Today, twenty-one percent of Maryland business owners are immigrants and nationwide 40% of Fortune 500 companies have been founded by immigrants or the children of immigrants. “Immigration reform is essential to maintaining our global competitiveness. With millions of our neighbors living in the shadows, it’s a moral and economic imperative that we reform our immigration system. “Immigration reform that secures our border and provides a path to citizenship to those who are already here will keep the American Dream alive for the next century. I am proud to honor Hispanic Americans this month and I look forward to their continued contributions to our nation.” Since 1988, September 15 through October 15 has been recognized as Hispanic Heritage Month. ##
10.05.2013	WASHINGTON – In a 407 to 0 vote the House has passed H.R. 3223, the Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) was an original cosponsor of the legislation, which ensures that all furloughed federal employees will receive retroactive pay, regardless of individual furlough status. “Federal workers didn’t cause this shutdown and they shouldn’t be punished for it. That’s why I’m proud to have been an original cosponsor of this important legislation,” said Congressman Delaney. “All too often, the service of federal workers is not valued. As a former CEO I knew that treating my employees with dignity and respect was essential to a thriving company. Federal workers work for America. This shutdown continues to hurt the economy and delay important services, like Small Business Administration loans. Congress needs to do the right thing, fund the government, and get back to work improving our competitiveness.” H.R. 3223 now heads to the Senate. If it passes the Senate and is signed by the President, furloughed federal employees will receive retroactive pay, in the event that a continuing resolution is enacted. ##
10.04.2013	WASHINGTON - Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) joined President Obama and Congressman Chris Van Hollen (MD-8) in Rockville to highlight the federal shutdown’s harsh impact on our country’s economy, including small businesses. Appearing at the M. Luis Construction Company, a Rockville asphalt plant, the President delivered remarks explaining that damage from the government shut down along with a potential failure to raise the debt ceiling could significantly harm the economy. Speaking Thursday, the President urged House leadership to move legislation to fund the government and raise the debt ceiling before the economic impact worsens. “I was honored to join the President in Rockville and I join him in calling for an immediate end to the government shutdown,” said Congressman Delaney. “Shutting down the government is bad for the country, bad for Maryland, and bad for the people I am proud to represent. It’s imperative that those of us in Congress come together, get things done, and continue our work to make our country’s economy stronger.”
10.02.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) authored an op-ed today in the Frederick News-Postcriticizing the partisan actions that led to a government shutdown and called for Congress to focus on deficit reduction and growing the economy. The op-ed is available online here. Time to end the shutdown and get to work This week, for the first time in 17 years, our government shut down. The illogical and somewhat mean-spirited standoff that led to this shutdown is first evidence of everything that is wrong with Washington. More specifically, it is a prime example of what happens when special or self-interest is valued more than the common good of the country. I’m not interested in the blame game, because this shutdown is bad for everyone. This shutdown is bad for the United States and bad for Frederick County. Each day that we’re shut down, valuable services will be denied and hundreds of thousands of Americans will be furloughed. Social Security processing will likely be delayed, essential aid via the WIC program will quickly run out, and people identifying the spread of dangerous influenza will be off the task. Federal loans will not be approved, new clinical trials and new patient care at NIH will stop, and veterans’ disability benefits will be at risk. In addition, government’s shutdown will cost the federal government and the taxpayers; a shutdown does not save money. Shutting down the government is estimated to cost the American taxpayers $2 billion — just think of the good that could have come from those hard earned taxpayer dollars. The American people deserve better than this. As recently reported here in The News-Post,the government shutdown will also affect Frederick County. Local national parks like the Monocacy and Antietam national battlefields will close. The vast majority of activity at Fort Detrick will cease, and federal workers there, and at agencies across the region, will be furloughed. Thousands of my constituents will be kept from working, which will have a tremendous real-world impact on Frederick families and Frederick’s overall economy. With a bipartisan group of co-sponsors, I have introduced legislation that will ensure that furloughed employees will receive back pay. It is important to put this shutdown into context. Remarkably, we’ve already agreed on the core issue: the level of spending on the budget. The president and both chambers of Congress have agreed to continue funding the government at post-sequester levels, well below both President Barack Obama’s and Congressman Paul Ryan’s proposed budgets. I support this approach. I’ll be the first in my party to stand up and say we have to reduce our deficit and improve our fiscal trajectory. Coming from the private sector, I know that you can’t ignore the facts or the math in front of you. Sadly, rather than having a real discussion about our government’s overall finances, the rate of growth of entitlement programs, and needed comprehensive tax reform, leadership in the House of Representatives decided to turn Congress into an infomercial for the next election cycle. So what are we arguing about? A small minority is trying to defeat the president’s health care law and they’re willing to hold our government hostage to do it. This is highly irresponsible and goes against the very core of our constitutional system. The Affordable Care Act was passed and signed into law, upheld by the Supreme Court, and endorsed by the American people in the last election. After over 40 failed attempts to repeal the law, a faction doubled down on their strategy. The Affordable Care Act is certainly imperfect, but rather than trying to improve the law and build on its core value proposition — to expand coverage and lower cost — they’re refusing to fund the government. I’m committed to working across the aisle to end this shutdown and have already developed a positive reputation as a bipartisan leader. I’m equally committed to working on pro-growth policies like investing in America’s infrastructure in a fiscally responsible way and breaking down the barriers to the flow of private capital and job creation. I believe that you sent me to Washington with a single mission: to get things done and to make our country’s economy stronger. Right now, job one on that front is ending this shutdown. Then the real work begins. ##
10.02.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) will donate the portions of his Congressional salary received during the government shutdown to charity. ##
10.01.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (D-MD-6) is an original cosponsor of the Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act, which ensures that all federal employees receive retroactive pay in the event of a federal shutdown. Delaney is joined on the bill by Reps. Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Rob Wittman (R-VA), John Sarbanes (D-MD), Donna Edwards (D-MD), Gerry Connolly (D-VA), Scott Rigell (R-VA). Reps. Jim Moran (D-VA) and Frank Wolf (R-VA) are the lead sponsors. “Hard-working civil servants shouldn’t be collateral damage in an ideological battle. America’s federal workers guard our airports and borders, serve and assist our veterans, perform cutting-edge research, and make sure the food we eat is safe and the air we breathe is clean. I’m proud to join my bipartisan colleagues on this important measure to make sure that America’s federal employees and their families are not punished because of political dysfunction,” said Rep. Delaney. ##
10.01.2013	WASHINGTON – Due to a lapse in appropriations beginning October 1, a government shutdown has begun. Despite the lack of appropriations, continued legislative activity is mandated by the U.S. Constitution. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) announces today that his offices in Washington, Gaithersburg, and Hagerstown will remain open. “Our offices will remain open during a government shutdown,” said Congressman John K. Delaney. “We have a constitutional duty to continue our legislative work and to continue representing the Sixth District. This is a deeply misguided and unfortunate government shutdown and I will continue to call upon my colleagues to do the right thing and re-open the doors of our government. ”
10.01.2013	WASHINGTON – On September 30, 2013, federal appropriations expired. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement on the government shutdown: “Tonight’s failure to reach a compromise is bad news for the country, bad news for Maryland, and bad news for the people I am proud to represent. In the fullness of time this unfortunate standoff will be seen as one of the low points in a long period of dysfunction. Each day that we’re shut down valuable services will be delayed and denied to my constituents and hard-working civil servants will be furloughed. “The American people deserve better than this. The time to appoint a budget conference was months ago. I passionately believe we need to debate our fiscal trajectory, but that has never even been discussed throughout this entire manufactured shutdown crisis. The House and Senate agree on the numbers. But unfortunately a budget debate has been dragged down by an ideological standoff. “We have to come together, find a real compromise, and truly represent our constituents in a manner that reflects their dignity, intelligence, and belief in the common good. Extremists in Congress have fallen short of that standard this week.” ##
09.30.2013	WASHINGTON - On Monday, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) participated in a wide-ranging panel discussion focused on improving our nation’s infrastructure and breaking Congressional gridlock. Sponsored by the American Enterprise Institute (AEI) and Third Way, the panel brought together industry stakeholders and thought leaders. In addition to Congressman Delaney, the panel included Janet Kavinoky from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Ron DeFeo, CEO of the Terex Corporation; and Dr. R. Richard Geddes, of AEI. Panel participants highlighted Congressman Delaney’s Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) as one piece of legislation that could serve as a solution to America’s infrastructure problem. The bill currently has 22 Democratic and 23 Republican cosponsors. “Our crumbling roads and bridges, crowded airports, and stressed water systems send a more powerful message than any political rhetoric: to stay competitive we have to rebuild our infrastructure” said Congressman Delaney. “I was honored to participate in today’s panel, because the Partnership to Build America Act is truly evidence that we’re moving closer to ending the gridlock on infrastructure. Even against our current backdrop, compromise is not impossible in Washington. Investing in infrastructure will create jobs, strengthen the private sector, and improve our quality of life. In a time of tight budgets, it is essential that we finance infrastructure in the most taxpayer-friendly way possible, which is why my bill has attracted such strong bipartisan support.” The bipartisan proposal creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund that can be leveraged to $750 billion. This fund will be capitalized by the sale of 50-year bonds that are not guaranteed by the Federal government and pay 1% interest rate. To encourage U.S. corporations to purchase these bonds, they will be allowed to repatriate a certain dollar amount – determined by auction - in overseas earnings tax-free for every $1 they invest in the bonds. The fund will then provide loans or loan guarantees to states and municipalities to finance transportation, energy, communications, water, and education infrastructure projects. As the only bipartisan infrastructure financing proposal in the House, H.R. 2084 would clear the way for funding necessary infrastructure investments to keep American businesses competitive into the future. ##
09.28.2013	WASHINGTON – On Saturday September 28, Speaker John Boehner announced that the latest version of the House Continuing Appropriations Resolution (H.J. Res 59) will include a one-year delay of the Affordable Care Act. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “I am deeply disappointed in the path chosen by the House. In both the debate over the budget and the debt ceiling, there’s been a lack of perspective and a lack of awareness of the damage wrought by a potential economic shutdown. I am especially concerned about how this will impact the 100,000 federal workers and their families in my district. Hard-working civil servants shouldn’t be collateral damage in an ideological battle. “Along with many of my colleagues in both parties I am truly worried about our fiscal trajectory, but that isn’t the debate we’re having.” ##
09.27.2013	WASHINGTON – Friday, President Obama announced that he spoke with Iranian President Hassan Rouhani, the first contact between the leaders of Iran and the United States since 1979. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement: “Today’s historic announcement, coupled with continued diplomatic progress on Syria, is extremely encouraging. I applaud the President for pursuing a diplomatic approach with Syria and Iran. As the President also noted, while we must be cautious and we must keep all options on the table, negotiations and diplomacy should be the way forward.” ##
09.25.2013	WASHINGTON - This week the U.S. Department of Education recognized 286 public and private schools across the country as National Blue Ribbon Schools for 2013. Boonsboro High School was one of eleven Maryland schools to receive this distinguished and coveted honor. The National Blue Ribbon School Program recognizes public and private schools where students perform at very high levels or where significant improvements are being made in students’ overall academic achievement. “Boonsboro High School is recognized around the state and across the country as one of the best schools in America. It is with great pride that I honor the teachers, students, educators, and families of Boonsboro High School for their outstanding school and their commitment to providing young men and women with the tools to succeed in the 21st century economy,” said Congressman Delaney. “I commend the local officials in Boonsboro and Washington County for their commitment to education. Investments in education are investments in our future, and supporting improved outcomes in education should be one of our top priorities in Congress. America needs more great schools like Boonsboro High School.” On July 31, Delaney voted for H.R. 1911, the Smarter Solutions for Students Act, which retroactively ended the doubling of student loan rates that occurred in July. Delaney is also a cosponsor of the Computer Science Education Act (H.R. 2536) which strengthens support for computer science education. Since 1982, the National Blue Ribbon Schools Program has recognized more than 7,000 American public and non-public elementary, middle and high schools for outstanding academic performance. The first category is "Exemplary High Performing," in which schools are recognized among their state's highest performing schools, as measured by state assessments or nationally-normed tests. Boonsboro was named an “Exemplary High Performing” school. The second category is "Exemplary Improving," in which schools that have at least 40 percent of their students from disadvantaged backgrounds demonstrate the most progress in improving student achievement levels as measured by state assessments or nationally-normed tests. ##
09.24.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) announced today a $3.8 million dollar Department of Transportation grant to the City of Frederick to extend the runway at the Frederick Municipal Airport. The grant will allow the city to purchase additional land and remove existing obstructions. “Locally and nationally, I believe that smart investments in infrastructure equals jobs and a stronger private sector,” said Congressman John K. Delaney. “An expanded runway in Frederick will help the airport compete for additional traffic. The Frederick Airport supports thousands of jobs and millions in business revenue. Combined with the new tower and Frederick’s prime location near Baltimore and Washington, the Frederick Airport is an asset worth further investment, as evidenced by this grant. Local officials and business leaders have made it absolutely clear how important the airport is to Frederick’s long-term growth and fighting for our airport is one of my priorities in Congress.” In May, Delaney introduced significant infrastructure legislation, the Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084). The bill creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund, which can be leveraged to $750 billion, that requires no appropriated funds. H.R. 2084 currently has 23 Republican and 22 Democratic co-sponsors. ##
09.20.2013	WASHINGTON – On Friday, September 20, the House voted on H.J. Res 59, a bill to fund the government by continuing resolution that included provisions to defund the implementation of the Affordable Care Act and prioritize debt payments in the case of default. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement: “Unfortunately, one of my children had surgery, and it required my attendance this morning. I had to leave immediately after the Motion to Recommit and missed the remaining votes of the day. As reflected in the statement I have submitted into the Congressional Record, had I been present for the vote on H.J. Res 59, I would have voted ‘No’ and I strongly oppose this bill.”
09.18.2013	WASHINGTON – The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) has designated the Maryland Women’s Business Center (MWBC) as a host of a SBA Women’s Business Center. The designation includes a $136,514 annual grant for the next five years.“As a former entrepreneur who believes strongly that we should expand opportunities for women in business, I am heartened to see that the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) is offering significant support to the Maryland Women’s Business Center,” said Congressman Delaney. “This is good news for Maryland and good news for the many talented businesswomen in our region, especially because funding from the SBA will help the Maryland Women’s Business Center further expand into Frederick County. I believe strongly in developing the I-270 Corridor as a regional economic engine, and look forward to working with the Maryland Women’s Business Center to help Maryland businesses grow.”On National Startup Day, August 28, Delaney spoke at the Maryland Women’s Business Center Power Conference Lunch in Bethesda and visited the Germantown Innovation Center.Established in 2010, the MWBC is dedicated to assisting women-owned businesses. MWBC offers counseling, training, and resources for entrepreneurs. ##
09.17.2013	WASHINGTON – A new report by the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) and Building America’s Future (BAF) shows the need for new infrastructure legislation, according to Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). In a report by NAM & BAF 70% of manufacturers believe American infrastructure is in fair or poor shape and 65% do not believe that their region’s infrastructure can meet the competitive demands of the U.S. economy.In May, Delaney introduced the Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084), which creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund, which can be leveraged to $750 billion, that requires no appropriated funds. H.R. 2084 currently has 22 Republican and 22 Democratic co-sponsors.“The report by Building America’s Future and National Association of Manufacturers is another signal flare to Washington: our crumbling 20th century infrastructure is limiting our ability to thrive in the 21st century,” said Congressman Delaney. “That’s why I’ve prioritized bipartisan legislation that will empower state and local governments to build the infrastructure our country needs. Coming from the private sector, I believe that our policies should be data driven, which includes input from our manufacturers and workers. Rebuilding our infrastructure is the single most important thing we can do to improve our competitiveness, create jobs, and help our businesses grow.” This fund created by the Partnership to Build America Act will be capitalized by the sale of 50-year bonds that are not guaranteed by the Federal government and pay 1% interest rate. To encourage U.S. corporations to purchase these bonds, they will be allowed to repatriate a certain dollar amount – determined by auction - in overseas earnings tax-free for every $1 they invest in the bonds. The fund will then provide loans or loan guarantees to states and municipalities to finance transportation, energy, communications, water, and education infrastructure projects.To read the survey report, click here.##
09.17.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) celebrated Constitution Day in Frederick County, where he spoke to students at Urbana Middle School about the role of Congress in our government. Delaney spoke to sixth and eighth grade students who have been studying the constitution. At Urbana Middle School, Delaney also met with Principal Michelle Conception and Ellen Georgi, Sixth Grade Social Studies Teacher.“I was honored to spend Constitution Day with the future leaders of our community and country at Urbana Middle School. The students’ passion for their country was truly inspiring. Our discussion was a reminder of the importance in supporting education and the work we must do in Washington to build a better future for the next generation. As we celebrate our Constitution today, let us rededicate ourselves to its letter and spirit: a call to form a more perfect union, establish justice, and insure domestic tranquility.” Constitution Day marks the anniversary of the signing of the Constitution on September 17, 1787.##
09.16.2013	WASHINGTON – On Monday, September 16, at least 12 people were killed at the Navy Yard in Washington.Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement:“Today is a day of profound sadness for our community and for our country. I join my Maryland colleagues in expressing my deep grief at the loss of so many. The men and women who work at the Navy Yard are our neighbors and friends and I’m incredibly proud to represent so many who are dedicated to serving our country. I thank our law enforcement and first responders for their work today to save lives. “Today’s raw suffering will not quickly fade. As a country, we join in prayer for the victims and their families. The words of ‘The Navy Hymn’ are fitting against tonight’s bleak sundown, ‘Eternal Father … Oh, hear us when we cry to Thee!’” ##
09.13.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement on Yom Kippur:“Jewish families across Maryland and around the country will gather today for Yom Kippur, the most sacred day on the Jewish calendar. Yom Kippur is a day of atonement and a time of repentance and reflection. “On Yom Kippur, may all of us, of all faiths, remember that we are not alone in the world, and resolve to treat our neighbors with respect and compassion. “I wish my Jewish constituents an easy fast and a meaningful Yom Kippur. May you and your loved ones be sealed in the Book of Life.” ##
09.11.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement on the 12th anniversary of 9/11:“Today is a day of remembrance, reflection, and resolve. As a country, we mourn the innocent men, women, and children who were taken from us in the worst terrorist attack in U.S. history. The horror of that morning cannot and should not be forgotten. “This is also a day to thank our men and women in uniform. We thank the first responders – the police officers, firefighters, medical workers – who saved so many lives. Their sacrifice represents the best of our country. We thank our service members and veterans for their work to protect us, including all those who volunteered to serve after 9/11. “Twelve years later, our message to the world is clear: our nation will not be defeated.”##
08.29.2013	GERMANTOWN – To mark National Startup Day, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) met with entrepreneurs and economic development officials at the Germantown Innovation Center (GIC) in Montgomery County and attended the Maryland Women’s Business Center Power Conference Lunch in Bethesda.“Startups are a huge driver of job growth and entrepreneurs are economic development heroes,” said Congressman Delaney. “One of our country’s greatest strengths is our strong entrepreneurial culture and Startup Day is a chance to recommit ourselves to business-friendly and startup-friendly legislation. In the 21st century women will play an ever-increasing role in business, and I was honored to attend the Power Conference in Bethesda and meet with committed, intelligent, entrepreneurs in both Bethesda and at the GIC. Here in Maryland we should focus on making our state more business-friendly. The I-270 corridor is a tremendous asset, and we should do everything we can to further leverage our prime geographical position and our high-skill workforce.”The Maryland Women’s Business Center Power Lunch was also attended by Congressman Chris Van Hollen.Located on Montgomery College’s Goldenrod Academic Center campus, the GIC features 32,000 square feet and 11 wet labs, to accommodate 20 to 30 life sciences companies. Joining Delaney in Germantown was Steve Silverman, Director of Montgomery County Department of Economic Development, John Korpela, Director of the Germantown Innovation Center, and Sara Morningstar, Montgomery County Intergovernmental Relations.Delaney is the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in Congress and is a past winner of the Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year Award. ##
08.29.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has authored an op-ed in The Hill on housing reform. In the op-ed, Delaney outlines his proposal to increase private sector participation in the housing market, while protecting social investments in affordable housing. Delaney initially introduced his plan during committee markup of the PATH Act (H.R. 2767). Delaney is the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in Congress.The op-ed is available online and below: The Hill: A Third Path for Housing ReformBy Rep. John K. DelaneyFive years since the financial crisis, housing stands as the most distorted sector of our economy and a major impediment to a full economic recovery.Although the housing market has slowly recovered, thanks in part to the stabilizing role played by the government, government-backed mortgages now account for more than 90 percent of U.S. market. Housing finance has become nationalized without notice. This is bad for taxpayers and consumers. In this context, it is critical that we get housing reform right, which means allowing the private sector to return to the business of financing home loans, while protecting needed social investments in affordable housing and weaning the housing market off of extraordinary levels of government involvement without jeopardizing the nascent housing recovery. Thankfully, there is recent movement in Washington towards much-needed reform. This month, the president voiced his support for winding down the GSEs and a larger role for the private sector. In June, Sens. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) and Mark Warner (D-Va.) introduced legislation (S. 1217) that creates a new housing finance system, which allows Washington to continue to support housing through a government administered insurance program. In July, the PATH Act (H.R. 2767) was introduced in the House by Financial Services Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) and Rep. Scott Garrett (R-N.J.), which removes the government from most areas of housing finance.These are both important pieces of legislation that begin the debate on what to do with a broken system. I applaud Corker-Warner for its focus on issues of affordability and the PATH Act for its focus on returning market discipline to housing. However, I worry that the debate will become ideologically fractious, driven by a false choice between either no role whatsoever for government or continued exceptionally high levels of government involvement. In my judgment, there is a third path - allowing government to expand the capacity of the housing market but only on market terms and with taxpayers protected from further loss. Under my approach, which was discussed during committee markup of the PATH Act, mortgages would be securitized following their insurance for full principal and interest repayment by well-capitalized, privately funded mortgage insurers. These primary insurers could be the originator of the loans or simply a holder of risk – but in either case, they would be obligated to retain the full first loss of no less than 5 percent on each loan, ensuring “skin in the game.” These primary insurers could then, at their option, obtain reinsurance (insurance for their insurance) for their exposure beyond this first loss retention (in this case, up to 95 percent) from the government, perhaps through Ginnie Mae. But this reinsurance would be available if and only if they also a secure a minimum level, say 10%, of pari passu reinsurance from a well-capitalized private market reinsurer. The government would be required by charter to obtain the same pricing, terms and conditions as the private provider of reinsurance. The best attributes of government involvement (its extremely high level of highly rated financial capacity and its ability to increase this quickly in a crisis) are thus combined with the best attributes of the private market (pricing risk).In addition, as the profitability of the government’s reinsurance participation is demonstrated over time, the private market could be incentivized to "dial back" the government’s share of the program in favor of additional private market participation. Profits the government earns on its market priced reinsurance participation can be invested specifically to support affordability programs. This approach accomplishes two important policy goals. First, it ensures that the private market prices every component of housing finance - something the private market is much more capable of doing than the government. Second, it allows the government to materially expand the capacity of the U.S. mortgage market. The U.S. mortgage market is the second largest fixed income market in the world. Leaving it alone without any form of government participation will decrease stability for American families, which is not in our nation's best interest. Housing reform will not be easy, but both Corker-Warner and the PATH Act have materially moved us closer to a solution. Triangulating between too much and too little government involvement in housing is essential. Thus, we can preserve the American innovations in housing that created middle-class home ownership in the wake of the Depression and allow the private sector to create a more competitive, consumer and taxpayer-friendly market. Important and successful economic policy is always done at the intersection of principle and compromise. Reforming housing finance is a top economic priority for our nation and I’m excited that the debate has finally started.##
08.28.2013	WASHINGTON – On August 28, 1963 over 250,000 participated in the historic March on Washington, which culminated with the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s “I Have a Dream” speech. The march was the largest demonstration for civil rights in United States history.Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement:Fifty years ago today, Dr. King challenged the nation to “make real the promises of democracy” and to live up to the ideals of our founding. His words left an indelible mark on the pages of our history. In the years that have followed, despite frustrating setbacks and all too many tragedies, we have continued to march closer to the vision Dr. King described at the end of his speech, his dream of children, black and white, joining hands as sisters and brothers. As Dr. King said fifty years ago today, “1963 is not an end, but a beginning.” Today’s anniversary is no mere historical footnote, for we understand that our work is not done. We must be ever vigilant against injustice, against inequality, against the forces of hatred and the causes of despair. Dr. King understood that our destiny was to become a nation of opportunity for all Americans. Fifty years ago today they marched on Washington. In the halls of Congress, in statehouses around the country, in our hearts and in our homes, may the march continue. ##
08.07.2013	WASHINGTON – A number of national veterans advocacy organizations have expressed support for Congressman John K. Delaney’s (MD-6) Veterans Advisory Committee on Education Improvement Act (H.R. 2011). Last week, the bill passed the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs unanimously.The Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), Students Veterans Association (SVA), Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA), and Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) have all issued statements in support of H.R. 2011.H.R. 2011 authorizes the Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education through December 31, 2015, and expands the makeup of the Committee to include post 9/11 veterans. Absent legislative action, the Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education will sunset on December 31, 2013. You can view Delaney’s testimony before by the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity here.Statements of support for H.R. 2011:Tom Tarantino, Chief Policy Officer of the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA): “IAVA strongly endorses this legislation to authorize the Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education through December 31, 2015, and expand the makeup of the Committee to include post 9/11 veterans. IAVA believes that this committee is vitally important to identify the hurdles that student-veterans face as well as send common-sense solutions to the Secretary directly from those who have served this nation with honor.”VADM Norb Ryan, USN-ret., President of the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA): “With hundreds of thousands of veterans, service members and their families using GI Bill programs, it’s important for VA leaders and Congress to have the perspective and advice of outside experts that a Veterans Advisory Committee on Education would afford. Education is the key to success for readjusting service members and MOAA strongly supports the re-authorization of the VACOE.”Michael Dakduk, Executive Director of the Student Veterans Association (SVA):“The VA Veterans Advisory Committee on Education is an important body made of up key stakeholders in higher education. Having personally served on this committee, I believe in its purpose and SVA fully supports its renewal.”Bob Wallace, Executive Director, Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW):“The VFW believes that this advisory committee plays a critical role in identifying issues within the student veterans' community and ensuring that schools serving our veterans are held to a high standard. As the military draws down, more and more veterans will enter the classroom, meaning this advisory committee will be more important than ever. We are happy to see the committee move on reapproving the committee and we hope that Congress will quickly pass it."The Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education advises the Secretary of Veterans Affairs on improving education and job training programs for veterans. The Committee is composed of veterans and experts in the fields of education, labor, and management, and includes veterans’ representatives from World War II, Korea, Vietnam, post-Vietnam, and the Gulf War. The Assistant Secretary of Education for Postsecondary Education and Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans’ Employment and Training are ex-officio members of the Committee. Versions of the committee have existed since 1972.H.R. 2011 was introduced with Rep. Renacci (OH-16) and is currently cosponsored by Rep. Barber (AZ-2), Rep. Carney (DE), Rep. Cartwright (PA-17), Rep. Enyart (IL-12), Rep. Heck (NV-3), Rep. Jones (NC-3), Rep. Kilmer (WA-6), Rep. Lowenthal (CA-47), Rep. Meeks (NY-5), Rep. O`Rourke (TX-16), and Rep. Sinema (AZ-9).##
08.01.2013	WASHINGTON - Bipartisan veterans’ legislation introduced by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has passed the Full House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs on Thursday, August 1 unanimously by voice vote. H.R. 2011, the Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education Improvement Act was introduced on May 16, 2013. The legislation authorizes the Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education through December 31, 2015, and expands the makeup of the Committee to include post 9/11 veterans. Absent legislative action, the Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education will sunset on December 31, 2013. “Veterans deserve education and job training benefits befitting their extraordinary service to our country. By reauthorizing the Veterans Advisory Committee, we can provide a much needed post-9/11 perspective on matters of education,” said Congressman Delaney. “It is essential that veterans have a voice at the VA, and that we ensure our veterans’ education programs are effective, accountable, and responsive to the needs of veterans and their families. I am pleased that the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs has approved my legislation and I look forward to a vote on the House floor.” The Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) have submitted testimony to the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs in support of Delaney’s legislation. In their testimony, the VFW noted, “the VFW supports Representative John Delaney’s bill calling for the reauthorization of the VA Secretary’s Advisory Committee on Education. The VFW believes that this committee is critical to identifying the challenges facing student-veterans and presenting responsible solutions to the Secretary directly from industry stakeholders.” H.R. 2011 was previously approved by the Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity on July 18, 2013. You can view Delaney’s testimony before the subcommittee here. The Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education advises the Secretary of Veterans Affairs on improving education and job training programs for veterans. The Committee is composed of veterans and experts in the fields of education, labor, and management, and includes veterans’ representatives from World War II, Korea, Vietnam, post-Vietnam, and the Gulf War. The Assistant Secretary of Education for Postsecondary Education and Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans’ Employment and Training are ex-officio members of the Committee. Versions of the committee have existed since 1972. H.R. 2011 was introduced with Rep. Renacci (OH-16) and is currently cosponsored by Rep. Barber (AZ-2), Rep. Carney (DE), Rep. Cartwright (PA-17), Rep. Enyart (IL-12), Rep. Heck (NV-3), Rep. Jones (NC-3), Rep. Kilmer (WA-6), Rep. Lowenthal (CA-47), Rep. Meeks (NY-5), Rep. O`Rourke (TX-16), and Rep. Sinema (AZ-9). ##
07.31.2013	WASHINGTON – On Wednesday July 31, the House voted 392 to 31 to pass the House-Senate compromise student loan bill, a vote to concur in the Senate Amendment to H.R. 1911. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted in favor of the measure. The House-Senate compromise clears the way for the legislation to head to the President for signature.“We should do everything we can to make college affordable to all Americans. Our values demand it and our economic future depends upon it,” said Congressman Delaney. “My dad was an electrician and I grew up in a blue-collar, working class family. However, thanks to scholarships and financial aid, I had the opportunity to attend college and pursue a better life. Today’s bipartisan vote on a truly bipartisan solution is a positive step forward. This is encouraging, because when it comes to expanding educational opportunity, improving job training programs, and generating better educational outcomes, we still have more work to do.”The compromise rescinds the July 1 doubling to 6.8% of interest rates on subsidized Stafford loans, meaning the new rates would retroactively apply to loans dating from July 1 to the present. Under the substitute’s formula, loan rates for all undergraduate Stafford loans, subsidized and unsubsidized, would be 3.86 percent for the 2013-14 academic year.For future years, rates would be tied to the yield on 10-year Treasury notes, an approach endorsed by President Obama. This means that students and parents will have certainty by fixing the rate that borrowers pay at the time they take out their loan. Under the compromise, 82% of borrowers will pay 3% less in interest when they take out undergraduate Stafford loans.Last week, the Senate amended H.R. 1911 and passed the measure by an 81-18 vote. ##
07.29.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has joined 153 Members of Congress on a letter to President Obama regarding the NSA’s collection of bulk metadata. The letter states that, “Congress must examine the various national security collection programs and consider amendments to the law.” “My constituents have made it clear that they are troubled by the scope of our intelligence and counter-terrorism programs. I share their concerns. In the Washington region, we also know that we face an elevated risk of terrorism each day. Congress has a critical oversight role to perform and we should continue to examine the constitutional and national security implications of our policies,” said Congressman Delaney. “There was a heated debate last week on the Amash amendment, but that was not the final chapter. It’s important that we get this right: these programs are at the intersection of our security and protected liberties, the stakes are very high.” Last week, the House voted down the Amash amendment by a 205-217 vote. Delaney’s statement on the Amash amendment can be read here. The text of the letter is as follows: July 26, 2013 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, Northwest Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: Thank you for your leadership in honoring our responsibility to protect and defend the American people. As you know, our challenge as elected officials is to preserve Americans’ liberties while protecting our national security. This week, the House of Representatives considered an amendment offered by Representatives Amash and Conyers to H.R. 2397, the Fiscal Year 2014 Defense Appropriations bill. The Amash-Conyers amendment would have limited NSA's ability to collect bulk telecommunications records pursuant to Section 215 of the Patriot Act as codified in Section 501 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). Although the amendment was defeated 205-217, it is clear that concerns remain about the continued implementation of the program in its current form. Although some of us voted for and others against the amendment, we all agree that there are lingering questions and concerns about the current 215 collection program. These include: Whether the bulk metadata telecommunications collection program sufficiently protects the privacy and civil liberties of Americans. Whether the program could be tailored more narrowly to better ensure the protection of privacy and civil liberties. Whether the law is being implemented in a manner consistent with Congressional intent. How we can ensure greater transparency regarding FISA court operations, decision making, and issuance of orders. Whether changes to the current FISA Court structure are needed. Congress must examine the various national security collection programs and consider amendments to the law. We have been assured that the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board has embarked on a review of the collection programs done pursuant to FISA and the Patriot Act, and has agreed to review various legislative proposals. We look forward to working with you and Administration officials to address the concerns outlined above and to explore options which will preserve Americans' privacy and civil liberties while protecting our national security. Thank you for your leadership and your attention to these concerns. Sincerely, Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn House Democratic Caucus Chairman Xavier Becerra Democratic Caucus Vice Chairman Joseph Crowley C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, Ranking Member, Select Committee on Intelligence (MD-2) John Conyers, Jr., Ranking Member, House Committee on Judiciary (MI-13) Robert E. Andrews (NJ-1) Joyce Beatty (OH-3) Ami Bera (CA-7) Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) Timothy H. Bishop (NY-1) Earl Blumenauer (OR-3) Suzanne Bonamici (OR-2) Madeleine Z. Bordallo (GU-DL) Robert A. Brady (PA-1) Corrine Brown (FL-5) Julia Brownley (CA-26) Cheri Bustos (IL-17) Lois Capps (CA-24) Tony Cardenas (CA-29) John C. Carney, Jr. (DE-AL) Matthew A. Cartwright (PA-17) Kathy Castor (FL-14) Joaquin Castro (TX-20) Judy Chu (CA-27) David N. Cicilline (RI-1) Yvette D. Clarke (NY-9) Steve Cohen (TN-9) Gerald E. Connolly (VA-11) Jim Cooper (TN-5) Joe Courtney (CT-2) Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) Susan A. Davis (CA-53) Diana DeGette (CO-1) John K. Delaney (MD-6) Rosa L. DeLauro (CT-3) Suzan K. DelBene (CO-1) Tammy Duckworth (IL-8) Donna F. Edwards (MD-4) Keith Ellison (MN-5) Eliot L. Engel (NY-16) William L. Enyart (IL-12) Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) Elizabeth H. Esty (CT-5) Eni F.H. Faleomavaega (AS-DL) Chaka Fattah (PA-2) Sam Farr (CA-20) Bill Foster (IL-11) Lois Frankel (FL-22) Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) Tulsi Gabbard (HI-2) Pete P. Gallego (TX-23) John Garamendi (CA-3) Joe Garcia (FL-26) Alan Grayson (FL-9) Gene Green (TX-29) Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-3) Luis V. Gutierrez (IL-4) Janice Hahn (CA-44) Colleen W. Hanabusa (HI-1) Denny Heck (WA-10) Brian Higgins (NY-26) James A. Himes (CT-4) Michael M. Honda (CA-17) Steven A. Horsford (NV-4) Jared Huffman (CA-2) Steve Israel (NY-3) Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) Hakeem S. Jeffries (NY-8) Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (GA-4) Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr. (MA-4) Daniel T. Kildee (MI-5) Derek Kilmer (WA-6) Ron Kind (WI-3) Ann Kirkpatrick (AZ-1) Ann M. Kuster (NH-2) James R. Langevin (RI-2) Rick Larsen (WA-2) John B. Larson (CT-1) Barbara Lee (CA-13) Sander M. Levin (MI-9) John Lewis (GA-5) Alan S. Lowenthal (CA-47) Nita M. Lowey (NY-17) Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-1) Ben Ray Luján (NM-3) Stephen F. Lynch (MA-8) Daniel B. Maffei (NY-24) Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12) Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) Jim Matheson (UT-4) Doris O. Matsui (CA-6) Betty McCollum (MN-4) Jim McDermott (WA-7) James P. McGovern (MA-2) Jerry McNerney (CA-9) Grace Meng (NY-6) Michael H. Michaud (ME-2) George Miller (CA-11) Gwen Moore (WI-4) James P. Moran (VA-8) Patrick Murphy (FL-18) Jerrold Nadler (NY-10) Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) Gloria Negrete McLeod (CA-35) Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-DL) Beto O’Rourke (TX-16) William L. Owens (NY-21) Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-6) Bill Pascrell, Jr. (NJ-9) Donald J. Payne, Jr. (NJ-10) Ed Perlmutter (CO-7) Gary C. Peters (MI-14) Scott H. Peters (CA-52) Collin C. Peterson (MN-7) Pedro R. Piersluisi (PR-DL) Mark Pocan (WI-2) Jared Polis (CO-2) David E. Price (NC-4) Cedric L. Richmond (LA-2) Raul Ruiz (CA-36) Tim Ryan (OH-13) Loretta Sanchez (CA-46) John P. Sarbanes (MD-3) Janice D. Schakowsky (IL-9) Adam B. Schiff (CA-28) Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-3) José E. Serrano (NY-15) Terri A. Sewell (AL-7) Carol Shea-Porter (NH-1) Brad Sherman (CA-30) Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-9) Louise McIntosh Slaughter (NY-25) Adam Smith (WA-9) Jackie Speier (CA-14) Eric Swalwell (CA-15) Mark Takano (CA-41) Bennie G. Thompson (MS-2) Mike Thompson (CA-5) John F. Tierney (MA-6) Dina Titus (NV-1) Niki Tsongas (MA-3) Chris Van Hollen (MD-8) Juan Vargas (CA-51) Marc A. Veasey (TX-33) Peter J. Visclosky (IN-1) Debbie Wasserman-Schultz (FL-23) Henry A. Waxman (CA-33) Timothy J. Walz (MN-1) Peter Welch (VT-AL) Frederica S. Wilson (FL-24) John A. Yarmuth (KY-3) ##
07.26.2013	MCHENRY – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) joined Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) and Garrett County officials in announcing a $250,000 grant to Garrett County. The purpose of the grant is to expand broadband access to un-served and underserved areas of the country. The grant will fund a new wireless system that will beam out broadband to rural businesses and residences. This wireless system will be final link in the chain connecting rural homes and businesses to the existing telecommunications network.“ARC support for broadband expansion is good news for Garrett County residents and businesses. In the early days of Western Maryland, roads, rails, and rivers connected our communities to the rest of the country. Much of today’s commerce and communication takes place online and high-speed, high-capacity, online access is as essential as a navigable river or a paved road once was,” said Congressman Delaney. “This is precisely the kind of communications infrastructure investment that I believe is essential to our region’s future economic health.”The announcement was hosted by Michael Koch, the Director of the Garrett County Department of Economic Development and featured ARC federal co-chair Earl F. Gohl.On July 11, Delaney voted against a measure that would have eliminated funding for ARC. Rep. Chabot (OH-1) introduced an amendment to the 2014 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill (H.R. 2609) that failed by a 147-198 vote.The Appalachian Regional Commission is an independent agency founded in 1965. Dedicated to closing the economic gap between Appalachia and the rest of the nation, ARC is a federal-state partnership providing economic development resources, including infrastructure investment, technology support, health care, and education and job training.Following the ARC announcement in McHenry, Delaney will tour the Luke Paper Mill. ##
07.25.2013	WASHINGTON – On Wednesday, the House voted down the Amash Amendment by a 205-217 vote. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted against the amendment. Delaney releases the following statement: “In considering the Amash amendment, I do not believe that it represents the best approach to this critical national security topic. Oversight and smart reform deserve full deliberation and consideration. Unfortunately, this was a hurried debate on truly sweeping changes, via an amendment to the defense appropriations bill. Such an approach does not do justice to the seriousness of the issue, for either side. The surveillance programs administered by the NSA and other agencies raise serious and troubling constitutional questions that need to be resolved. With new technologies emerging each day, we need to continually revisit our government practices. Our system of government has checks in place and Congress has an important oversight role. We should continue to be vigilant, ensuring that our constitutional rights are protected and I hope we have a serious debate about the future of this program.” ##
07.25.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) successfully introduced an amendment to increase funding for Fisher Houses, which provide free lodging near hospitals for military & veteran families. Delaney’s amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations Act (H.R. 2397) passed by voice vote Tuesday. The Delaney Amendment, which increases funding for the Fisher House Account by $16 million, facilitates the construction of at least new four new Fisher Houses and is offset by a reduction in the Defense-Wide Operation and Maintenance Account. H.R. 2397 passed by a 315 to 109 vote on Wednesday. “Fisher Houses represent the very best of our country: our nation standing alongside our military families in a time of need. I offered this amendment to the Defense budget because Fisher Homes make a huge difference to our servicemen and women, veterans, and military families. This is a concrete way we can really help, financially and emotionally,” said Delaney. “I am pleased that this amendment passed and I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues to support military families.” “The need is great for our nation’s military and veterans, at a time when most Americans think that supporting our troops is no longer needed, now is the time it’s needed more than ever. This amendment will allow Fisher House Foundation to greatly expand our networks of homes, helping even more military, veterans and their families.” Ken Fisher, CEO, Fisher House Foundation. The Delaney Amendment increases funding from $4 to $20 million. These funds will be used to build at least four new homes. These new homes will provide roughly 2,000 military families with lodging per year. To view video of the floor proceedings concerning the Delaney Amendment, click here. Since 1990, over 180,000 families have been served by the Fisher House program. In 2012, over 19,000 military families received lodging in Fisher Houses, with an average length of stay of 10 days, saving them over $30 million in lodging, food, and transportation costs. Fisher Homes are typically within walking distance from treatment facilities or have transportation available. The increased funding is offset by a $25 million reduction in the Defense-wide Operation and Maintenance Account, which is slated to receive $32.3 billion under H.R. 2397. ##
07.24.2013	WASHINGTON – On Wednesday the Joint Economic Committee (JEC) held a hearing titled “America’s Crumbling Infrastructure and How to Fix It.” During the hearing, Congressman John K. Delaney’s (MD-6) Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084) was one of the pieces of legislation highlighted by policy experts as a potential solution to America’s infrastructure deficit. H.R. 2084 was introduced in May with 13 Republican and 13 Democratic cosponsors, and currently has 18 Republican and 18 Democratic cosponsors. “Rebuilding America’s infrastructure will create jobs, improve our quality of life, and make our economy more competitive. To get Americans back to work and allow our businesses to expand I’ve introduced infrastructure legislation that will finance up to $750 billion in new infrastructure projects at no cost to the taxpayer,” said Congressman Delaney. “Today’s Joint Economic Committee hearing on America’s infrastructure made it clear: our roads and bridges are crumbling, our ports and airports are falling behind, and our highways are inadequate. Let’s work together and address this central problem.” To view video of Congressman Delaney’s opening remarks at the hearing, click here. During the hearing, Robert Poole, the Director of Transportation Policy and the Searle Freedom Trust Transportation Fellow at the Reason Foundation, noted: “I have been critical of most of the infrastructure banks that have come along, because I fear that they don’t have the protections that are built into TIFIA, to ensure, to make it likely that these will be sound investments that have dedicated revenue streams and investment grade bond ratings and things like that. That’s why I draw a distinction between those and Congressman Delaney’s new proposal that would not put the federal taxpayers at risk by creating debts that might not be repaid.” The Partnership to Build America Act creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund that can be leveraged to $750 billion. This fund will be capitalized by the sale of 50-year bonds that are not guaranteed by the Federal government and pay 1% interest rate. To encourage U.S. corporations to purchase these bonds, they will be allowed to repatriate a certain dollar amount – determined by auction - in overseas earnings tax-free for every $1 they invest in the bonds. The fund will then provide loans or loan guarantees to states and municipalities to finance transportation, energy, communications, water, and education infrastructure projects. In addition to Poole, the hearing featured former Pennsylvania Governor Edward Rendell, Robert Puentes of the Brookings Institution, and Chris Edwards of the Cato Institute. ##
07.19.2013	WASHINGTON - Bipartisan veterans’ legislation introduced by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has been approved by the House Committee on Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity. H.R. 2011, the Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education Improvement Act, passed through subcommittee markup on Thursday, July 18, and has now been referred to the full House Committee on Veterans Affairs. Introduced on May 16, 2013, the legislation authorizes the Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education through December 31, 2015, and expands the makeup of the Committee to include post 9/11 veterans. Absent legislative action, the Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education will sunset on December 31, 2013. “Veterans deserve the dignity of a good job and are entitled to a standard of living befitting their service to our country. In return for their service, our nation owes them no less,” said Congressman Delaney. “It is essential that our educational and job training programs are effective, efficient, and respond adequately to the needs of veterans and their families. I am pleased that the Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity has approved my legislation and I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure that veterans have a voice at the VA.” Delaney testified before the Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity on June, 26, 2013, to view his testimony, click here. The Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education advises the Secretary of Veterans Affairs on improving education and job training programs for veterans. The Committee is composed of veterans and experts in the fields of education, labor, and management, and includes veterans’ representatives from World War II, Korea, Vietnam, post-Vietnam, and the Gulf War. The Assistant Secretary of Education for Postsecondary Education and Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans’ Employment and Training are ex-officio members of the Committee. Versions of the committee have existed since 1972. H.R. 2011 was introduced with Rep. Renacci (OH-16) and is currently cosponsored by Rep. Barber (AZ-2), Rep. Enyart (IL-12), Rep. Heck (NV-3), Rep. Kilmer (WA-6), Rep. Meeks (NY-5), Rep. O`Rourke (TX-16), and Rep. Sinema (AZ-9). ##
07.18.2013	WASHINGTON – The United States Senate has confirmed Thomas Perez as Secretary of Labor. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) issues the following statement:I congratulate Marylander Tom Perez for his confirmation as our nation’s next Secretary of Labor. As a former President of the Montgomery County Council, Special Counsel to Senator Kennedy, Assistant U.S. Attorney General at the Department of Justice and throughout his career, Tom Perez has been a dedicated public servant working for the common good. As Secretary of the Maryland Department of Labor, Licensing, and Regulation, he was a strong advocate for working people in Maryland. Since 1913, the Department of Labor has promoted the welfare of America’s workers, job seekers, and retirees. Tom Perez is the right choice to continue that mission.##
07.18.2013	WASHINGTON – Robert Poole, the Director of Transportation Policy and the Searle Freedom Trust Transportation Fellow at the Reason Foundation, highlighted H.R. 2084, The Partnership to Build America Act in this month’s Reason Foundation transportation newsletter. Evaluating The Partnership to Build America Act, Poole called the legislation a “step in the right direction.” The Partnership to Build America Act creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund that can be leveraged to $750 billion. This fund will be capitalized by the sale of 50-year bonds that are not guaranteed by the Federal government and pay 1% interest rate. To encourage U.S. corporations to purchase these bonds, they will be allowed to repatriate a certain dollar amount – determined by auction - in overseas earnings tax-free for every $1 they invest in the bonds. The fund will then provide loans or loan guarantees to states and municipalities to finance transportation, energy, communications, water, and education infrastructure projects. H.R. 2084 was introduced in May with 13 Republican and 13 Democratic cosponsors, and currently has 17 Republican and 17 Democratic cosponsors. To conclude his analysis of H.R. 2084, Poole writes: I have been skeptical of all proposals for a "national infrastructure bank," primarily concerned about their likely evolution into entities like those FDR created during the Depression, which funded projects primarily on political criteria. With the federal government already vastly over-indebted, adding more questionable debt is the last thing we need. Delaney has proposed a different approach, which would involve no federal budget allocations and issue no debt that puts federal taxpayers at risk. I do think its PPP provisions need further work, but I welcome this new proposal as a step in the right direction. To read Poole’s full analysis, click here. For Poole’s biography, click here. ##
07.17.2013	WASHINGTON – This week the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) announced major grants to the Frederick and Hagerstown airports. The Frederick Municipal Airport received a $910,828 grant to support runway extension. Hagerstown Regional Airport received $1,000,000 grant to support general upkeep and safety improvement.“Infrastructure means jobs and a more competitive economy. That’s why I’m working so hard to pass legislation to rebuild our infrastructure and that’s why these FAA grants are such good news,” said Congressman Delaney. “The Hagerstown and Frederick airports are important economic drivers for our region. Together, they support more than 2,500 jobs and over $200 million in business revenue. The federal government has a role in supporting our transportation infrastructure, and these grants will help maintain our regional assets.”Congressman Delaney has worked with the FAA and the Department of Transportation throughout the spring in support of the Frederick and Hagerstown airports. On March 15, 2013 Delaney wrote to FAA Administrator Michael Huerta asking the FAA to keep the airports open. On April 5, Delaney joined Senator Barbara Mikulski, Senator Ben Cardin, and Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger on a letter to U.S. Secretary of Transportation Raymond LaHood to postpone the closure of the Maryland towers so that a solution could be found. On May 3rd, Delaney again wrote to Administrator Huerta urging the FAA to restore funding to the air traffic control towers in Hagerstown and Frederick.##
07.12.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6), U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin (both D-MD), Representative Steny H. Hoyer (MD-5) Representatives Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7), Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-2), Chris Van Hollen (MD-8), John Sarbanes (MD-3) and Donna F. Edwards (MD-4), released the following statement urging Congress to replace the sequester with a balanced alternative to deficit reduction after civilian defense employee furloughs began this week: “Beginning this week, hundreds of thousands of civilian defense employees in Maryland and across the country will experience furloughs as a result of Congress’s inability to compromise on a balanced, responsible agreement to reduce the deficit. In addition to the non-defense federal employees in Maryland who have already taken furlough days, over 41,000 of our constituents who work at defense installations will begin furloughs this week, and we once again urge the House to take action to replace the sequester in its entirety with a balanced alternative and end these unnecessary furloughs.“Our civilian defense employees are talented, dedicated men and women who work alongside uniformed personnel and ensure our war-fighters have the resources and support they need while serving in Afghanistan and fulfilling their missions elsewhere in the world. Unfortunately, civilian employees at our seventeen defense installations in Maryland will see their ability to support our uniformed personnel significantly eroded as they are forced to take unpaid leave for one day each week over the next eleven weeks. Many of these hardworking civil servants expect significant financial hardship due to this unfair 20% pay cut, which will cost our state over $137 million and will impact local businesses outside of the gates of these facilities, as well. We are deeply concerned about the harm these furloughs will have on Maryland’s economy and on our nation’s military readiness.“Congress ought to be working toward a balanced agreement to replace the sequester, end furloughs for all federal employees, and put our nation back on a fiscally sustainable path. We continue to urge our colleagues to reach such an agreement as soon as possible. For the sake of working families in Maryland, our uniformed military personnel, and the mission of our defense installations and other federal facilities, we cannot delay.”###
07.09.2013	WASHINGTON- Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) hosted a bipartisan freshman class meeting Tuesday on fiscal responsibility and deficit reduction with Erskine Bowles and Senator Alan Simpson. The meeting was co-hosted by freshman class presidents Delaney and Republican Luke Messer (IN-6). Simpson and Bowles, co-chaired the 2010 National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform and currently serve as co-chairs of the Fix the Debt campaign.“I was honored to host today’s briefing with Senator Simpson and Mr. Bowles for freshmen members,” said Delaney. “Simpson and Bowles have been a model of bipartisanship and represent what we need more of in Washington: looking at the facts, putting aside ideology, finding pragmatic and bipartisan solutions. It is imperative that we work together to find a balanced solution to debt reduction. A grand bargain deficit deal will unleash the private sector to reinvest, which will create jobs, grow the economy, and leave a better future for the next generation. I look forward to building on today’s meeting with my colleagues to work on both sides of the aisle to do the right thing for our country.”Delaney is the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in Congress. In a May 6 op-ed in the Washington Post, Delaney advocated a balanced approach to deficit reduction, writing:“We should do the hard work required to reach a long-term grand bargain. This means three things: (1) reforming entitlements by adopting a form of “chained CPI” to lower the long-term costs of these programs, adjusting the retirement age for those not engaged in manual labor and raising the cap on Social Security taxes; (2) generating more revenue through a “Buffett rule” approach that makes sure high-earners pay a similar rate to that of the middle class and by closing certain corporate tax loopholes while lowering corporate tax rates; and (3) adjusting discretionary and defense spending to better reflect our country’s priorities, which are vastly different than the indiscriminate cuts imposed by the sequester. With this framework, we can manage our fiscal trajectory in the next 10 years, and beyond, while also investing in our children, caring for the less fortunate and protecting our nation.”##
07.03.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement on Independence Day:“On Independence Day we come together as a country to celebrate our freedom, our democracy, and our heritage as a land of opportunity. On July 4, 1776, a nation was born and the principles that continue to guide us were broadcast to an astonished world. For 237 years our country has risen to meet every challenge. In good times and bad, we have worked together, cared for our neighbors, and marched towards greater equality. The ties that bind us are stronger than the winds of disagreement that sometimes push us apart. As Thomas Jefferson said in his 1801 Inauguration Address, in reference to the two political parties of his day, ‘we are all Republicans, we are all Federalists.’We are all Americans, united in liberty. In Congress, I will continue to work in that spirit.My family and I wish everyone a happy and healthy Independence Day. May God bless you and may God bless America.” ##
07.02.2013	WASHINGTON – Haley Johnson of Poolesville has won the Congressional Art Competition for Maryland’s Sixth District. Johnson was honored in a ceremony at the U.S. Capitol and met Congressman John K. Delaney. Johnson’s photo, titled “Ugandan Child”, was selected as the 2013 Congressional Art Competition winner. Johnson is a student at Poolesville High School. (see attached photos) “We received a number of tremendous entries for this year’s art competition, but Haley’s work stood out,” said Congressman Delaney. “Haley’s photograph is alive with color, dramatic and touching, and captivating to the viewer. Haley is a fantastic representative of the young artistic talent in our district and I look forward to seeing more of her work in the future.” The Congressional Art Competition was founded in 1982 to provide an opportunity for Members of Congress to encourage and recognize artistic talent in their districts. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated in the nationwide competition. This summer, your art will be displayed along with that of students from other congressional districts in the nation’s capital. ##
07.02.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has sponsored bipartisan legislation designed to prevent political targeting by the IRS. Introduced by Republican Congressman Jim Renacci (OH-16) H.R. 2565 calls for the termination of IRS employees that perform, delay, or fail to perform any official action for a political purpose.“As public servants, the IRS should be held to the highest possible standard, and that includes performing their duties in a 100% unbiased manner,” said Congressman Delaney. “This legislation ensures that any IRS employees who act in a politically motivated way will be terminated. Sixth District residents have made it very clear that they are concerned about the possibility of political targeting. While the vast majority of IRS employees work responsibly, it is incumbent upon Congress to make sure that political targeting is not tolerated. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass this commonsense bipartisan legislation.” As of Tuesday, H.R. 2565 is cosponsored by 30 Republicans and 2 Democrats. H.R. 2565 would update Section 1203 of the IRS Restructuring and Reform Act of 1998, which outlines actions for which IRS employees shall be terminated.##
06.27.2013	WASHINGTON – On June 27, the Senate passed S. 744, the Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act, by a 68-32 vote.Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement:“Today’s Senate vote is an encouraging sign that members of both parties can work together on the big issues facing our country. Now that comprehensive immigration reform has passed in the Senate by a large, bipartisan, vote, I look forward to seeing this bill brought to the floor of the House. Immigration reform is a moral and economic imperative. I am a strong supporter of comprehensive immigration reform that secures our border and creates a path to citizenship for those who are already here, pursuing the American Dream. In a global economy, immigration reform is vital to making our economy more competitive.”##
06.27.2013	WASHINGTON – In a 5-4 decision release on June 25, 2013 the Supreme Court invalidated Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965.Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement:“The right to vote, for all Americans, is the very foundation of our democracy. The Voting Rights Act of 1965 is one of the most successful, most important, pieces of legislation in our nation’s history. The Voting Rights Act was reauthorized by Congress in 2006 with strong bipartisan support and under a Republican president. Voting rights should not be a partisan issue. Congress has a mandate and a responsibility under the Fifteenth Amendment to secure and protect the right to vote and I call upon my colleagues to work together to ensure that for everyone – no matter who they are or where they live – those fundamental rights are protected.” ##
06.27.2013	WASHINGTON – In a sign of growing bipartisan momentum, Republican Freshman Class President Luke Messer (IN-6) and Democratic Freshman Class Co-President John K. Delaney (MD-6) have co-authored a “Dear Colleague” letter on H.R. 2084, The Partnership to Build America Act. Congressman Delaney introduced the Partnership to Build America Act in May. As of Thursday morning, the legislation currently has 30 cosponsors – 15 Republicans and 15 Democrats.The Partnership to Build America Act creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund that can be leveraged to $750 billion. This fund will be capitalized by the sale of 50-year bonds that are not guaranteed by the Federal government and pay 1% interest rate. To encourage U.S. corporations to purchase these bonds, they will be allowed to repatriate a certain dollar amount – determined by auction - in overseas earnings tax-free for every $1 they invest in the bonds. The fund will then provide loans or loan guarantees to states and municipalities to finance transportation, energy, communications, water, and education infrastructure projects.The text of the Dear Colleague reads:Support Bipartisan Investment in Infrastructure with Zero Taxpayer ExpenseCurrent Bipartisan Cosponsors (30):DEMOCRATS (15): Barber, Bera, Carney, Connolly, Gabbard, Garcia, Kennedy, Kind, Kuster, Moran, Murphy, Peters (CA), Polis, Ruppersberger, Sinema. REPUBLICANS (15): Barr, Cole, Davis, Fitzpatrick, Gibson, Johnson (OH), Joyce, Kinzinger, Messer, Pittenger, Rigell, Stivers, Turner, Whitfield, Yoho Dear Colleague:Join us in helping to rebuild and expand our nation’s infrastructure by cosponsoring H.R. 2084. This bipartisan legislation will generate millions of jobs and grow our economy by creating a $750 billion privately-financed mechanism to rebuild our country’s infrastructure at zero cost to the taxpayer.The American Society of Civil Engineers gives our country a grade of “D+” in overall quality of infrastructure stock, with an estimated $3.6 trillion in needed investments by 2020. H.R. 2084 will tackle our nation’s infrastructure needs in an innovative way with no burden to the taxpayer and no appropriated funds. In addition, the legislation will provide support to states and cities without allowing the federal government to pick winners or losers or through the creation of new bureaucracy.The Partnership to Build America Act will create a $50 billion American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) and leverage this sum to provide low-cost loans and loan guarantees totaling $750 billion to state and local infrastructure projects and public-private partnerships. The AIF will sell Infrastructure Bonds at a 50-year maturity that pay 1 percent interest to capitalize the $50 billion fund. These Infrastructure Bonds are not guaranteed by the U.S. government. Corporations are incentivized to purchase these relatively unattractive bonds through repatriating approximately $4.00 of their overseas earnings tax-free for every $1.00 they invest in the bonds. The AIF will lend to states and municipalities to help finance qualified transportation, energy, communications, water, and education infrastructure projects.Please contact Xan Fishman (6-3610, xan.fishman@mail.house.gov) with Representative Delaney or Josh Owens (5-3021, josh.owens@mail.house.gov) with Representative Messer if you have any questions or to join us as a cosponsor of this bill. Sincerely,John Delaney & Luke Messer ##
06.27.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) testified Tuesday before the House Committee on Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity on H.R. 2011, the Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education Improvement Act. Introduced on May 16, 2013, the legislation authorizes the Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education through December 31, 2015, and expands the makeup of the Committee to include post 9/11 veterans. H.R. 2011 was introduced with Rep. Renacci (OH-16) and is currently cosponsored by Rep. Barber (AZ-2), Rep. Heck (NV-3), Rep. Kilmer (WA-6), and Rep. O`Rourke (TX-16). The Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education advises the Secretary of Veterans Affairs on improving education and job training programs for veterans. The Committee is composed of veterans and experts in the fields of education, labor, and management, and includes veterans’ representatives from World War II, Korea, Vietnam, post-Vietnam, and the Gulf War. The Assistant Secretary of Education for Postsecondary Education and Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans’ Employment and Training are ex-officio members of the Committee. Versions of the committee have existed since 1972. Below is Rep. Delaney’s official testimony submitted on June 26: STATEMENT OF REPRESENTATIVE JOHN K. DELANEY (MD-6) DISCUSSING H.R. 2011, THE VETERANS ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2013 Chairman Flores and Ranking Member Takano, thank you for the opportunity to address the Subcommittee this afternoon. As I begin my remarks I would also like to thank my colleague Congressman Jim Renacci for his strong support of this bill and our veterans. I am proud to be here to discuss the Veterans Advisory Committee on Education Improvement Act of 2013. This important piece of legislation will help amplify the voices of our veterans on issues of job training and education and help improve existing benefit programs. By increasing collaboration and communication between the Department of Veterans Affairs and our veterans on issues of education and training, we can ensure that the brave men and women of our armed services are equipped to compete in the 21st century economy. The Veterans Advisory Committee on Education helps advise the Secretary of Veterans Affairs on how best to improve and coordinate our veterans education and job training programs. The Committee is composed of veterans and experts in the fields of education, labor, and management, and includes veterans’ representatives from World War II, Korea, Vietnam, the Gulf War, and the post-911 conflicts. Versions of the committee have existed since 1972, and without Congressional action, the Committee will sunset at the end of this year. Since 1944, the VA has been providing critical veterans educational assistance benefits through the GI bills and associated programs, such as the Transition Assistance Program, the Reserves Educational Assistance Program, and the Veterans Retraining Assistance Program. These are critical programs, but clearly, no program is perfect, and therefore, we should make sure that the VA adapts to changing times and new trends. In past years, the Veterans Advisory Committee has provided invaluable aid to the VA's efforts in administering the education programs, including significant input on the post-9/11 GI Bill and the Principles of Excellence Program, which provides guidelines for educational institutions receiving federal funding. Of the 57 recommendations submitted by the committee between FY2003 and FY2012 over 40% have been or will be implemented. Still there is much work to be done. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the unemployment rate for veterans who served in the Iraq War is 10.2%, which of course, is much higher than the unemployment rate for nonveterans during the same time period. This is simply unacceptable. We must do more for our veterans who are returning from recent conflicts so that they can compete and thrive in the 21st century economy. By reauthorizing the Veterans Advisory Committee, we can provide a much needed post-9/11 perspective on matters of education with a renewed energy and focus, so that we can ensure our veterans’ education programs are responsive, accountable, and effective. We have an obligation to stand with our veterans and help ease their transition to civilian life. This is not just a matter of economics; it is a matter of dignity. Veterans deserve the dignity of gainful employment that provides a standard of living befitting their service to our country. One simple way to do this is by ensuring that they receive the education and job training they need. I thank the Committee members for their time this afternoon. I look forward to collaborating with you on this bipartisan legislation that will provide for smarter government and better educational outcomes for our veterans. ##
06.26.2013	WASHINGTON – In a 5-4 decision the Supreme Court ruled that the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) was unconstitutional. The Court did not rule on the constitutionality of California’s Proposition 8, but ruled in a 5-4 decision that a lower court’s overturning of the measure would stand, effectively establishing the legality of marriage equality and same-sex benefits in California. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement:“Today’s Supreme Court rulings are truly historic. Our nation’s march towards greater equality under the law has been frustratingly slow at times, but it has also been inexorable. Today we took another step in the journey that began in Philadelphia in 1776 and was fought for in places like Seneca Falls and Selma. Getting married was the best thing that ever happened to me, and I’m heartened to see that right extended to more Americans.”##
06.25.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) attended President Obama’s Tuesday speech on climate change at Georgetown University. “In the face of irrefutable evidence, we have a moral obligation to act on climate change. We cannot willingly leave our children and grandchildren a damaged and instable world,” said Congressman John K. Delaney. “Climate change is already here and changes are expected to accelerate. As a former entrepreneur, I understand that alternative energy production is an unmatched economic opportunity for our American innovators. Hundreds of thousands of jobs will be created in the energy sectors of the future; the only question is whether they will be on our own soil or abroad. I applaud the President’s plan to implement commonsense solutions to reduce carbon emissions, encourage increased energy efficiency, and further green energy production. In Congress, we have more work to do, and I encourage my colleagues to work with the President and the private sector to initiate the comprehensive changes we need to protect our future health and create new jobs.” The only former CEO of a publicly traded company in Congress, Delaney is a member of the House Sustainable Energy & Environment Coalition. ##
06.24.2013	WASHINGTON – In an editorial published on Saturday, the Frederick News-Post lauded Congressman John K. Delaney’s (MD-6) Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084). Delaney’s legislation currently has 30 cosponsors, 15 Republicans and 15 Democrats. The Partnership to Build America Act finances $750 billion dollar in infrastructure investment using no appropriated funds. The Partnership to Build America Act has been endorsed by the American Society of Civil Engineers. For more information on the bill, click here. The editorial, titled “Rebuilding a deteriorating America” can be read here: “U.S. Rep. John Delaney deserves major credit for two things: for proposing financial legislation that has bipartisan support, and for crafting a bill that would help pay for a fast-deteriorating national transportation infrastructure without increasing the nation’s debt or raising taxes. In a Congress that’s riven by partisanship and can’t seem to agree on even the simplest policy, both are respectable achievements — made all the more significant because Delaney isn’t even out of his freshman term yet. Delaney has 14 Republicans and 14 Democrats sponsoring his Partnership to Rebuild America Act. The legislation would finance $750 billion worth of repairs to our national infrastructure, rebuilding and renovating transportation, energy, communications, water and education brick-and-mortar projects, according to information from the congressman’s office. “We can’t compete in the global economy of the 21st century without a significant investment in our infrastructure,” Delaney said in a statement. “At no cost to the taxpayer, this legislation will finance a massive investment in U.S. infrastructure, get Americans back to work now, and position our businesses to grow for decades to come.” At its core is a fund to which local and state governments could apply for loans or guarantees for qualified capital projects. That nonprofit fund — the American Infrastructure Fund — would be financed by selling $50 billion in bonds to American companies wishing to return some of their overseas earnings to the U.S. In return, a certain amount of those returned earnings would be tax-free. That $50 billion would be leveraged to $750 billion. When you consider, for example, that Apple’s CEO recently testified before a Senate committee that the company avoided U.S. taxes on about $74 billion over four years by placing its intellectual property rights overseas in Irish subsidiaries, it’s clear some mechanism needs to be created to encourage reinvestment in the U.S. economy. As things stand, those companies rely on federally supported American infrastructure for their success without having to pay for it. And that infrastructure is in dire need of an investment of $3.6 trillion by 2020, according to the American Society of Civil Engineers. “Our infrastructure systems are failing to keep pace with the current and expanding needs, and investment in infrastructure is faltering,” the society noted in its 2013 report card. Delaney’s legislation, if enacted, would create an auction in which U.S. companies could bid for favorable rates to bring their money back into the U.S., based on a multiplier for every dollar they spend on infrastructure bonds. The example his office gives, assuming the auction results in a 1:4 ratio, is that a company that spends $1 would be able to repatriate $4 tax-free. Another requirement of the legislation is that 25 percent of projects funded must be public-private partnerships. Edward Luce, a columnist for the Financial Times, described Delaney’s proposal as “economically useful and politically sellable.” We’d agree, although we don’t doubt this bill will bog down at some point — this just seems to be the state of U.S. politics at this moment in history. However, credit where credit is due: Delaney, a financier before becoming a politician, was sent to Washington promising some out-of-the-box thinking, and that’s what he’d delivered with this bill. It’s so sensible, both House Republicans and Democrats can get behind it. And we’re behind this, too.” ##
06.18.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has joined the House of Representatives Sustainable Energy & Environment Coalition (SEEC). The SEEC is dedicated to advancing policies that promote domestic development of clean energy technology, address climate change, and protect our nation’s natural environment. “Increasing sustainable energy production isn’t just good for the environment, it’s good for the economy,” said Congressman John K. Delaney. “Alternative energy growth is a major competitiveness issue. Just as the development of a global petroleum industry in the 20th century reshaped our global economy, the nations that provide new energy solutions to adapt to the reality of climate change will thrive in the 21st century. With a skilled workforce and a growing green energy sector along the I-270 corridor, Maryland and the Sixth District are well-positioned to be part of our national alternative energy sector. I am proud to join the Sustainable Energy & Environment Coalition and look forward to making America an alternative energy leader.” Delaney joins 50 House colleagues in the SEEC, including Rep. Chris Van Hollen (MD-8), Rep. John Sarbanes (MD-3), and Rep. Donna Edwards (MD-4) from the Maryland Delegation. The SEEC is co-chaired by Rep. Steve Israel (NY-3), Rep. Gerald Connolly (VA-11), Rep. Paul Tonko (NY-20). For more information on the Sustainable Energy & Environment Coalition, click here. In addition to the Sustainable Energy & Environment Coalition, Delaney (MD-6) is a Democratic Freshman Class President, Senior Whip, and is the only former CEO of a publicly traded company in Congress. ##
06.12.2013	WASHINGTON – Wednesday the House Committee on Financial Services held a full committee hearing titled, “Beyond the GSEs: Examples of Successful Housing Finance Models without Explicit Government Guarantees.” During the hearing, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) stressed that when evaluating the GSEs our analysis should include a full assessment of both the economic costs and benefits associated with our current housing model.Addressing the panel, Delaney asked:Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you for your testimony here today. Let’s assume for a second that the 30 year fixed-rate mortgage, as its structured, is a good deal for the borrower and a not a good deal for the lender. Which seems to me to be a reasonable assumption because no lender would ever make a 30 year fixed rate pre-payable mortgage unless they knew rates would stay high or unless they had a way of hedging the interest rate risk and the pre-payment risk. Which they can do now better than probably ever can, but still it’s a better economic proposition for the borrower than the lender. And let’s assume for a second that GSEs were poorly-crafted and poorly-designed institutions and I think Mr. Pollack you said it quite well, you can be government, you can be private, but you can’t be both, because you get, from their perspective a heads they win, tails we lose kind of business. And let’s assume for a second that government is crowding out the private market, which I think to some extent they are. So let’s assume all these things for a second. I’m curious, first Mr. Pollock and then Dr. Lea, two questions. First, Mr. Pollock, have you done any analysis in your evaluation of the housing market to indicate the cost of the various subsides and operating model that we’ve deployed across the last call it 30 or 40 years to the taxpayer and compared that or contrasted that to the economic benefit that was created in the country broadly for this kind of housing finance system. Because it seems to me we can’t look at what is wrong with our housing finance system in isolation without doing deep serious research as to the economic benefits that were transferred to the economy to the tax base and to consumers broadly. […]In a follow-up question, Delaney asked: Don’t you think it’s somewhat intellectually dishonest to propose that the housing finance system we’ve deployed – which in my introductory comments acknowledged had deep structural flaws in it – but isn’t it somewhat intellectual dishonest to say that is not an appropriate system, absent an analysis of what benefits its created in the economy? To view the video, click here.##
06.06.2013	WASHINGTON – Legislative action by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has restored funding to the agency that funds the National Emergency Training Center (NETC) in Emmitsburg to pre-sequester levels.During Wednesday floor debate on H.R. 2217, the appropriations bill for the Department of Homeland Security, Congressman Delaney joined Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) in offering an amendment that restored fiscal year 2014 funding to the United States Fire Administration (USFA) to pre-sequester levels. Under the amendment, funds are moved from the Department of Homeland Security’s management account to the USFA, which oversees the NETC. There is no additional cost to the taxpayer.The Reichert/Delaney amendment passed by voice vote. The full DHS appropriations bill, H.R. 2217, passed on Wednesday.“In Western Maryland, we train America’s heroes. Firefighters from around the country are trained in Frederick County. Fully maintaining the facilities in Emmitsburg is in the nation’s best interest,” said Congressman John Delaney. “The NETC training facility in Emmitsburg is an essential part of our public safety infrastructure. Our amendment restores full funding to the United States Fire Administration so that we can continue to provide world-class training to firefighters in Emmitsburg. I’m pleased that this amendment passed and I thank Rep. Reichert for his work on this legislation.”The 107 acre campus in Emmitsburg is the only facility of its kind in the United States. In Emmitsburg, firefighters receive on-site training on fire safety methods, hazardous materials management, first-response techniques to fires, natural disasters, and terrorism.To view video of Delaney’s floor speech on the amendment, click here.##
06.05.2013	WASHINGTON – The American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) announced Tuesday their support for the Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084). In May, Congressman Delaney introduced the bipartisan Partnership to Build America Act, with 13 Republican and 13 Democratic co-sponsors. At zero cost to the taxpayer, provides financing for up to $750 billion to states and local governments for infrastructure investment. “The support of the American Society of Civil Engineers for the Partnership to Build America Act is important, because their expertise carries weight in Washington,” said Congressman Delaney. “When we want a sound bridge, we hire a civil engineer, and if we want sound infrastructure policy, we should listen to the American Society of Civil Engineers. The ASCE is widely recognized as an expert, non-biased, non-partisan, voice on infrastructure. Along with my 26 co-sponsors on both sides of the aisle, I thank the ASCE for their support. Our infrastructure needs are immense and it’s time for us to work together in Congress to find a solution.” In a letter of support released Tuesday, ASCE President Gregory E. DiLoreto, P.E., P.L.S., D.WRE, wrote: “The Partnership to Build America Act allows for additional funding for the nation’s critical transportation, energy, communications, water, and education infrastructure. By creating an infrastructure fund using repatriated corporate earnings, as well as through the use of public-private partnerships, the legislation is creating another innovative financing source for our nation’s infrastructure. It will take innovative financing, to work in partnership with more traditional funding mechanisms in order to raise the grades for our nation’s infrastructure. ASCE strongly supports The Partnership to Build America Act and looks forward to working with Congress to see the bill through to final passage.” In March, the ASCE released their 2013 Report Card for America’s Infrastructure, which gave the U.S. a D+ infrastructure grade. Maryland received a C+ grade. On Thursday, Delaney will participate in a conference call with ASCE members. The Partnership to Build America Act is co-sponsored by the following members: Andy Barr (KY-6), Ami Bera (CA-7), John Carney (DE-AL), Tom Cole (OK-4), Gerry Connolly (VA-11), Rodney Davis (IL-13), Mike Fitzpatrick (PA-8), Tulsi Gabbard (HI-2), Joe Garcia (FL-26), Chris Gibson (NY-19), Bill Johnson (OH-6), Dave Joyce (OH-14), Joe Kennedy (MA-4), Ron Kind (WI-3), Adam Kinzinger (IL-16), Luke Messer (IN-6), Jim Moran (VA-8), Patrick Murphy (FL-18), Scott Peters (CA-52), Robert Pittenger (NC-9), Jared Polis (CO-2), Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-2), Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-9), Steve Stivers (OH-15), Mike Turner (OH-10), and Ted Yoho (FL-3). ##
06.04.2013	WASHINGTON – The National Science Foundation (NSF) has announced a $629,192 award to Hagerstown Community College (HCC). The NSF grant will fund scholarships for STEM students at HCC and is designed to boost STEM enrollment rates and improve completion rates for full-time STEM students who are members of minority groups or female. “This NSF award is good news for Hagerstown and good news for students in Western Maryland,” said Congressman Delaney. “Improving STEM education and expanding educational opportunities in high-tech fields should be a national and local priority, because it is clear that’s where the jobs of the future will be. I’m a firm believer that we can’t compete in a global economy unless we are firmly committed to investing in education and scientific research. The federal government has an important role to play and in Congress I’ll fight to protect grant programs like this one at NSF.”In April, Congressman Delaney met with HCC President Guy Altieri and discussed STEM education at HCC and the school’s plans to expand their STEM program into a regional resource.The NSF award begins on June 1, 2013 and continues through 2018. ##
06.03.2013	WASHINGTON – One school district and two schools in the 6th district have received the Department of Education’s Green Ribbon Award. Cedar Grove Elementary School of Germantown and Summit Hall Elementary School of Gaithersburg were two of just 64 schools nationwide that received a Green Ribbon award. Amongst districts, Montgomery County Public Schools was one of 14 school districts to receive a Green Ribbon. Cedar Grove Elementary School and Summit Hall Elementary School were the only schools in Maryland to receive the award.“Our community should be very proud of Cedar Grove Elementary, Summit Hall Elementary, and Montgomery County Public Schools for winning the Green Ribbon,” said Congressman Delaney. “Their initiatives are educating our students on environmental topics, preparing them for the green jobs economy of the future, saving tax-payer money, and protecting our environment at the same time. I congratulate the faculty, administrators, and students for this achievement.” On Monday, June 3, Congressman Delaney attended a Department of Education awards reception honoring the Green Ribbon winners. Congressman Delaney met with Summit Hall Principal Keith Jones, Cedar Grove Principal Lee Derby, and Cedar Grove Faculty Claire Gardner and Karina Hirschhorn.Winning schools were honored by U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan, Chair of the White House Council on Environmental Quality Nancy Sutley, Acting Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency Bob Persiacepe, and Deputy Under Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture Janey Thornton.The ED-Green Ribbon Schools and District Sustainability Awardees are recognized for reducing their environmental impact, including energy use, waste and water; creating healthy learning environments and fostering wellness practices; and providing effective environmental education that prepares students to succeed in the 21st century, including STEM, green careers, and civics. For more information on the Department of Education’s Green Ribbon Schools, click here.##
05.24.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement on Memorial Day: “As a nation, we pause this weekend to remember that our freedoms are protected by the brave men and women in our military, far too many of whom never returned home. I personally extend my deepest gratitude and appreciation to the thousands of Maryland veterans and their families. It is with grateful hearts that we honor the sacrifice of those who gave their lives so that ours could be better. We also remember and thank the families of those who have fallen. May they understand that our nation will always stand with them: they do not shoulder the burden of grief alone. This Memorial Day let us remember and thank those who made the ultimate sacrifice for the United States of America, and all those who served to protect this nation.” Last week, Delaney introduced H.R. 2011, the Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education Improvement Act, which is designed to improve the educational and job-training benefits and programs our veterans receive. Earlier this month Delaney joined the rest of the Maryland House delegation in meeting with VA Secretary Shinseki to address the backlog of cases at the Baltimore VA office. ##
05.23.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney’s office will hold regular office hours twice per month in Frederick. Congressional staff will be available to provide constituent services for Frederick residents, work on casework, and answer questions.“I’m committed to serving the people of Frederick and being a strong voice for my constituents in Congress,” said Congressman Delaney. “In addition to our permanent offices in Gaithersburg and Hagerstown, we understand that holding additional office hours in Frederick is very important to the community. My district staff is on hand to help constituents receive military academy nominations and passports, navigate federal agencies, and secure their benefits. We are here to serve.” Constituents can make an appointment to speak with district staff by calling 301-926-0300. In cases of extreme weather, constituents are encouraged to call ahead.Frederick office hours will take place on the second and fourth Thursday of each month, from 10:30 AM to 6:00 PM at the C. Burr Artz Public Library (110 East Patrick Street, Frederick MD 21701). The first office hours will take place on May 30, 2013.In addition to Frederick office hours, Delaney’s office also holds office hours in Cumberland and McHenry:Allegany County office hours will take place the 1st, 2nd, and 4th Wednesday of every month, from 10:00 AM- 5:00 PM at the Allegany County Library, 31 Washington Street, Cumberland, MD, 21502.Garrett County office hours will take place the 3rd Friday of every month, from 10:00 AM to 4:30 PM at Garrett College, Room 930 of the CARC Aquatics Building, 687 Mosser Road, McHenry, MD, 21541.Frederick County residents can also contact Rep. Delaney’s Hagerstown, Gaithersburg, or Washington offices. For more information on constituent services, visit: https://delaney.house.gov##
05.22.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) today introduced The Partnership to Build America Act (H.R. 2084). Featuring a bipartisan group of 13 Republican and 13 Democratic co-sponsors, the Partnership to Build America Act upgrades America’s aging infrastructure with no additional burden to taxpayers. “We can’t compete in the global economy of the 21st century without a significant investment in our infrastructure. At no cost to the taxpayer, this legislation will finance a massive investment in U. S. infrastructure, get Americans back to work now, and position our businesses to grow for decades to come,” said Delaney. “I’m proud to introduce this legislation with such strong bipartisan support and feedback from my co-sponsors made this a better bill. The American people sent us here to work together, find solutions, and work towards the common good.” The Partnership to Build America Act creates a $50 billion dollar infrastructure fund that can be leveraged to $750 billion. This fund will be capitalized by the sale of 50-year bonds that are not guaranteed by the Federal government and pay 1% interest rate. To encourage U.S. corporations to purchase these bonds, they will be allowed to repatriate a certain dollar amount – determined by auction - in overseas earnings tax-free for every $1 they invest in the bonds. The fund will then provide loans or loan guarantees to states and municipalities to finance transportation, energy, communications, water, and education infrastructure projects. The Partnership to Build America Act is co-sponsored by the following members: Andy Barr (KY-6), Ami Bera (CA-7), John Carney (DE-AL), Tom Cole (OK-4), Gerry Connolly (VA-11), Rodney Davis (IL-13), Mike Fitzpatrick (PA-8), Tulsi Gabbard (HI-2), Joe Garcia (FL-26), Chris Gibson (NY-19), Bill Johnson (OH-6), Dave Joyce (OH-14), Joe Kennedy (MA-4), Ron Kind (WI-3), Adam Kinzinger (IL-16), Luke Messer (IN-6), Jim Moran (VA-8), Patrick Murphy (FL-18), Scott Peters (CA-52), Robert Pittenger (NC-9), Jared Polis (CO-2), Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-2), Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-9), Steve Stivers (OH-15), Mike Turner (OH-10), and Ted Yoho (FL-3). Prior to taking elected office, Delaney worked for two decades in the financial services sector, having founded and led two successful public companies. Delaney is the only former CEO of a publicly traded company in Congress. For more information on The Partnership to Build America Act, click here. ##
05.16.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Congressman Jim Renacci (OH-16) have introduced H.R. 2011 The Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education Improvement Act. Designed to improve education and career training benefits for veterans, the legislation authorizes the Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education through December 31, 2015, and expands the makeup of the Committee to include post 9/11 veterans.“We have an obligation to stand with our veterans and make sure they receive the benefits they’ve earned,” said Delaney. “We also need to help ease their transition to civilian life and help them receive the education and job training they need. The Veterans’ Advisory Committee Act of 2013 continues a program that gives veterans a voice in the Department of Veterans Affairs and helps improve existing benefit programs. I’m proud to work with Congressman Renacci on this legislation.”“America’s veterans have served their country honorably,” said Rep. Renacci. “They deserve our thanks and praise. However, they can also often use a helping hand in their transition back to civilian life. Congressman Delaney and I are proud to lead this bipartisan effort to provide them with crucial services that will help them with the next steps of their careers.”The Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education advises the Secretary of Veterans Affairs on improving veterans education and job training programs. The Committee is composed of veterans and experts in the fields of education, labor, and management, and includes veterans’ representatives from World War II, Korea, Vietnam, post-Vietnam, and the Gulf War. The Assistant Secretary of Education for Postsecondary Education and Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans’ Employment and Training are ex-officio members of the Committee. Versions of the committee have existed since 1972.##
05.13.2013	WASHINGTON – Financial Times columnist Edward Luce argues in today’s edition that Congressman John K. Delaney’s (MD-6) infrastructure bill – set to be introduced next week – is a test of whether Washington can work together.Luce writes:Keynesians want bigger deficits. The Tea Party wants smaller government. The more dominant these battle lines, the harder it is to craft ways out. New federal investment may be off the menu. But US companies are sitting on almost $2tn in cash reserves and have almost the same again parked offshore – a multiple of any possible federal investment. Public action could crowd-in private investments without troubling the taxpayer. And the resultant boost to productivity would reduce the burden of future obligations. “What we need is not bigger or smaller government for growth, but narrower and stronger government,” says Paul Romer, the growth economist.Might there still be ways in Washington around these entrenched positions? Next week, John Delaney, a freshman Democratic congressman, will test that proposition when he launches a bill designed with an eye both on what is economically useful and politically sellable. The Rebuild America Act would give companies that repatriate foreign earnings a tax break on whatever they invest in a new infrastructure fund. Unlike a public bank, the fund would underwrite bonds to fund state, local and municipal projects – there would be no new federal bureaucracy.It is hard to see how Republicans could object on substance to a bill that gave tax breaks to companies to improve US infrastructure. We shall see if they treat it on merit or politics. It will also be interesting to see how many other Democrats, and Keynesians, embrace its logic. Mr Delaney, who had a long career in private equity, has an accurate diagnosis of US politics. “Intransigent partisanship is getting in the way of our country having a proactive, pro-growth government,” he says. “Our tired fiscal impasse is not only a daily headache in Washington, it’s become a real competitiveness issue for our economy.”##
05.09.2013	Delaney Votes Against Debt Prioritization Bill, Calls Approach MisguidedWASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted today against H.R. 807, which would prioritize the nation’s debt.“Debt prioritization is a deeply misguided way of dealing with our debt ceiling that is not grounded in financial reality,” said Congressman Delaney. “As a former CEO who has experience working within the markets, debt prioritization takes us down a troublesome path that risks changing the way our credit is viewed globally. No company that operates on a non-prioritized basis would ever voluntarily borrow on a prioritized model. It’s an implicit message of weakness. What we really need to focus on is coming together and crafting a serious bipartisan grand budget deal so that we can avoid continual crisis.”On Tuesday, Delaney authored an op-ed in the Washington Post explaining why debt prioritization is the wrong approach. Prior to taking office, Delaney founded and led two financial services companies. Delaney is the only former CEO of a publicly traded company in Congress.##
05.08.2013	Delaney Votes Against the Pay Working Families Less ActWASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) today voted against H.R. 1406, the Pay Working Families Less Act.“This reheated legislation from years past does not help working families. Overtime pay is a hard-earned and well-deserved right and this bill undermines the notion that workers be fully compensated for their labor,” said Congressman Delaney. “I am a strong supporter of accommodating working moms and dads, which is why we should focus on real solutions that help employees, not measures that make their overtime pay negotiable.”##
05.07.2013	Delaney Op-Ed in Washington Post: Debt Prioritization Not Rooted in Financial Reality, Bad for Nation’s StandingWASHINGTON – In today’s Washington Post Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) argues that we must avoid playing politics with the debt ceiling. Drawing from his experience as the former CEO of two publicly-traded financial services companies, Delaney writes that the Full Faith and Credit Act (H.R. 807) which seeks to prioritize the nation’s payments, “would undermine the nation’s credit standing and make matters worse in the short term and potentially much worse in the long term.” Delaney continues, “An institution that borrows on a non-prioritized basis would never contemplate borrowing on a prioritized basis. Doing so would undermine its standing in the bond market and suggest that it is not worthy of its strong credit rating. This type of self-imposed downgrade would materially affect its financial prospects. Yet this is precisely what the Full Faith and Credit Act would do to the United States. It would immediately signal to the market that our country is not a good credit risk.”H.R. 807 has passed through committee and is scheduled for a vote on the House floor later this week. To read the full op-ed, click here or see below:Congress must shun a self-imposed downgradeJohn Delaney, a Democrat, represents Maryland’s 6th District in the U.S. House. With the United States fast approaching its debt limit, Congress has again begun to grapple with complex questions about whether and how to raise the cap on borrowing. There is no perfect answer, but proposals such as the Full Faith and Credit Act (H.R. 807) won’t fix the problem. The legislation has 105 co-sponsors in the House, which is likely to vote on it this week. This bill purports to prevent the federal government from defaulting, but it would undermine the nation’s credit standing and make matters worse in the short term and potentially much worse in the long term.The reason is simple: It’s not rooted in the reality of how finance works. Rather than raising the federal debt ceiling, the bill would “prioritize” the payment of debt. The federal government would rank its various obligations — monies owed to the owners of Treasury bills, benefits to veterans, payments to contractors, etc. — and pay them accordingly. Debts that ranked lowest would be paid last and would have the highest likelihood of not being paid at all.This seemingly technical matter would have stark implications that anyone with even a basic background in finance should understand.As the founder and former chief executive of two publicly traded companies, I have had a great deal of exposure to how debt markets work. The best companies with the strongest credit ratings borrow like the United States: on a non-prioritized basis. This means that in the event of a default, all of their debts are of equal priority because lenders and creditors believe default is highly unlikely. And they spend considerable effort maintaining this status. Weaker companies borrow on a prioritized basis, with debts ranked to reflect a higher risk of default, and as part of the process, they often pledge specific assets to the lenders in first priority.An institution that borrows on a non-prioritized basis would never contemplate borrowing on a prioritized basis. Doing so would undermine its standing in the bond market and suggest that it is not worthy of its strong credit rating. This type of self-imposed downgrade would materially affect its financial prospects. Yet this is precisely what the Full Faith and Credit Act would do to the United States. It would immediately signal to the market that our country is not a good credit risk. Many of my congressional colleagues believe this legislation may solve some of the problems posed by our inability to strike a “grand bargain” on the deficit. They suggest that we should run our government like a household or a business. Yet no chief executive or chief financial officer would voluntarily propose this course of action. What would come next? Pledging Yellowstone National Park to our creditors?The last time Congress played politics with the debt ceiling, in the summer of 2011, we wounded our economy. We sent a message to the markets that we were considering destructive actions, and they listened. The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 2,000 points, and August 2011 was the worst month for private-sector job creation in the past three years. For the first time ever, Standard & Poor’s downgraded the nation’s credit rating. Instead of making the same mistake, we should do the hard work required to reach a long-term grand bargain. This means three things: (1) reforming entitlements by adopting a form of “chained CPI” to lower the long-term costs of these programs, adjusting the retirement age for those not engaged in manual labor and raising the cap on Social Security taxes; (2) generating more revenue through a “Buffett rule” approach that makes sure high-earners pay a similar rate to that of the middle class and by closing certain corporate tax loopholes while lowering corporate tax rates; and (3) adjusting discretionary and defense spending to better reflect our country’s priorities, which are vastly different than the indiscriminate cuts imposed by the sequester. With this framework, we can manage our fiscal trajectory in the next 10 years, and beyond, while also investing in our children, caring for the less fortunate and protecting our nation. The United States has the world’s largest and most innovative economy, an unmatched rule of law and a free market that is the envy of the international community. For investors, we are the reserve currency. Despite S&P’s misguided downgrade, we remain the most creditworthy nation and, for many, the only place to invest. Members of Congress have an obligation never to jeopardize that. U.S. debt has reached an unsustainable level. Left unchecked, it will crowd out all other priorities and put the republic at risk. Rather than make things worse, let’s tackle the structural problems driving our debt without undermining the full faith and credit of the United States.##
05.06.2013	Delaney to FAA: Keep Hagerstown, Frederick Air Traffic Control Towers OpenWASHINGTON – On Friday May 3, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) wrote to Michael Huerta, Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, urging the FAA to restore funding to the air traffic control towers in Hagerstown and Frederick. On April 26, Delaney voted in favor of H.R. 1765, the Reducing Flight Delays Act of 2013, which gave the FAA the flexibility to avoid furloughs and to fund the contract towers.This is Congressman Delaney’s third action on the traffic control towers in the Sixth District. On March 15, 2013 Delaney wrote to FAA Administrator Michael Huerta asking the FAA to keep the Hagerstown and Frederick airports open. On April 5, Delaney joined Senator Barbara Mikulski, Senator Ben Cardin, and Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger on a letter to U.S. Secretary of Transportation Raymond LaHood to postpone the closure of the Maryland towers so that a solution could be found. This position was adopted by the FAA.To view the letter, click here. The text of the letter is copied below:Michael HuertaAdministratorFederal Aviation Administration800 Independence Avenue, SWWashington, DC 20591Dear Administrator Huerta:I am pleased President Barack Obama recently signed legislation into law that gives the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) flexibility to move money between accounts and ameliorate the sequestration’s effects on air travel. In my March 15, 2013 correspondence, I outlined the national and local economic importance of continued operation of the Federal Control Towers at Frederick Municipal Airport (FDK) and Hagerstown Regional Airport (HGR) whose funding was scheduled to be cut on June 15th. It is with this in mind that I urge you to use the new flexibility granted to you to restore funding for the Federal Control Towers and ensure the safe continuation of flights at these airports. These airports represent more than $200 million of business revenue and more than 2500 jobs. Their closure would result in planes being diverted to already overcrowded Baltimore-Washington International (BWI), would adversely affect the controlled airspace around Camp David and reduce landing options for Air Force One.Our job in Congress is not yet done. Sequestration still affects many important programs like Head Start and components of our social safety net. Our federal workers face furloughs and our economy is suffering due to Congress’s inability to come together and compromise on a solution. I voted for this bill because I think sequestration is the wrong approach to solving our budget problems, and will continue to advocate replacing the rest of sequestration. In the meantime, I look forward to seeing air traffic, and the economic benefits it brings, return to a state of normalcy.I appreciate your attention to this important matter and look forward to your response on the continued operations of the Federal Control Towers.Sincerely,John K Delaney##
05.03.2013	WASHINGTON – On Friday, the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that U.S. employers added 165,000 jobs in April, lowering the unemployment rate to a four year low of 7.5 percent.Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement:“Today’s job report makes clear that we’re moving in the right direction. Slowly, more and more Americans are finding work, and continuing and accelerating that trend should be our number one goal in Washington. If we want a healthy job market for years to come, we need to position our workers and entrepreneurs to compete in the global economy. That means working out a long-term grand bargain budget deal, investing in our future by rebuilding our infrastructure and improving education, passing immigration reform and implementing a national energy policy for the 21st century.”The April jobs report can be read here. To view Congressman Delaney’s comments on long-term unemployment at last week’s Joint Economic Hearing, click here. ##
04.25.2013	WASHINGTON – During Wednesday’s Joint Economic Committee Hearing on long-term unemployment, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) argued that the federal government must take action to address the jobs crisis and the problems facing the long-term unemployed.“Millions of Americans are continuing to have difficulty finding work, leading to suffering and hardship for their families. Fundamentally, I believe that government has a role to play in helping those left behind and in Congress we have a responsibility to act,” said Congressman Delaney. “The economic trends indicate that both overall unemployment and the challenges facing the long-term unemployed are multi-dimensional: we need to improve overall competitiveness by investing in education, research, alternative energy and infrastructure; and we also need to re-integrate those left behind into the economy through both job-training and cooperation with the private sector. We need to act in the short term and improve our competitiveness long-term, so that this doesn’t become a continuing problem.”To view the video of Congressman Delaney’s remarks at the Joint Economic Committee Hearing, click here.The hearing, “Long-Term Unemployment: Consequences and Solutions” featured testimony from Mr. Randy Johnson, Executive Director, Workforce Development, Inc., Rochester, MN; the Honorable Keith Hall, Ph.D, Senior Research Fellow, George Washington University; Dr. Harry J. Holzer, Professor, Georgetown Public Policy Institute; Dr. Kevin Hassett, Director of Economic Policy Studies, American Enterprise Institute.Prior to taking office, Congressman Delaney founded and led two successful companies and is the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in Congress.##
04.16.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement on Yom Haatzmaut, Israeli Independence Day:“Along with my colleagues in Congress and the many celebrating across Maryland, I wish the people of Israel a happy Independence Day. This year we mark the 65th anniversary of the State of Israel. The United States has stood with Israel from the beginning. The relationship remains strong to this day. Israel is a strong voice in the Middle East for free elections, women’s rights, and freedom of speech. These are values we share. Last summer, while visiting Israel I was fortunate enough to meet with a number of Israeli entrepreneurs and economic officials. I was deeply impressed by the entrepreneurial spirit I saw on display in Israel. The ingenuity and innovation that is driving new technologies – new industries – new solutions to the age old problem of life in a desert climate was truly inspiring. Many of these technologies, from water purification to electric cars, present examples we can learn from here in the United States. Like many in this body, I’ve seen firsthand the security challenges the nation of Israel faces on a daily basis. For 65 years our two nations have stood together. We will continue to do so.Israel is one of our closest allies and millions of Americans feel a close spiritual and emotional bond with Israel. May that bond continue for the next 65 years and centuries to come.”##
04.16.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney has called for an up or down vote on the Paycheck Fairness Act (H.R. 377). Last week, Delaney spoke on the House Floor in support of the legislation, to view the video, click here. The Paycheck Fairness Act updates and strengthens the Equal Pay Act, which was passed in 1963. Delaney is a co-sponsor of the legislation.“It’s time that we brought this bill to a vote,” said Congressman Delaney. “Making sure we have equal pay for equal work and that our daughters have a chance to advance is vitally important. This is a very significant problem for this country and for every American. It’s a problem if you care about our economy, because to have a productive and growth-oriented economy, we need diversity. We need diversity of ideas, and we cannot have that unless women are represented in policy-making positions of corporations. This is a problem if we care about competitiveness because we cannot have a competitive economy if we make decisions based on gender and not based on merit. Finally, unfairness in the workplace is a problem if you care about working families, because working women support millions of households.”“So let’s do the right thing by our constituents and vote on the Paycheck Fairness Act,” said Delaney.This discharge petition (No. 0001) is designed to force action on this broadly-supported legislation. The Paycheck Fairness Act was introduced by Rep. Rosa DeLauro on January 23, 2013, and has 192 cosponsors, but Republicans have failed to schedule a hearing or a mark-up on the bill. A discharge petition requires the House to consider the legislation once a majority of Members of Congress (218) have signed it. ##
04.12.2013	WASHINGTON - Congressman John Delaney (MD-6) was among the guests honoring the U.S. Naval Academy football team on winning the Commander-In-Chief Trophy today at the White House. The Navy Midshipmen beat both the U.S. Air Force Academy and the U.S. Military Academy during the 2012 season to secure the trophy. President Obama presented the trophy to the team today.“The Naval Academy team is a group of hard-working, dedicated young men who do Maryland and the United States proud both on the field and in their commitment to protect and serve our country,” said Congressman Delaney. “This achievement is yet another way that they represent our state well to the rest of the country and the world.”The Commander-in-Chief Trophy is presented to the service academy that has the best record amongst the three teams each football season. Navy reclaims the title from the Air Force team, which won back-to-back titles in 2010 and 2011. Prior to 2010, Navy won seven straight years.##
04.12.2013	Delaney Votes Against Partisan Attack on NLRBWASHINGTON – Today Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted against H.R. 1120, which would prevent the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) from functioning. Formed in 1935, the NLRB is tasked with resolving disputes between business and labor and with preventing and remedying unfair labor practices.“This bill interferes with the normal judicial process and is neither necessary nor needed,” said Congressman Delaney. “Rather than allowing the issue of recess appointments to follow normal course and be handled by the courts, this legislation would effectively shut down the NLRB and prevent enforcement of labor law. Avoiding regulatory chaos is good for business and good for workers. Rather than superseding the courts, we should focus on restoring our fiscal health, creating jobs, and working to grow the middle class.”##
04.10.2013	Delaney Statement on Newtown Families Visiting Capitol Hill, Possible Gun Safety VoteWASHINGTON –A number of Newtown families have traveled to Washington this week to lobby Congress on gun safety.Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement:“I hope all of us in Washington listen to the Newtown families this week. It’s incredibly important that we not lose sight of how necessary it is that we address the problem of gun violence in our communities. It is unthinkable that in the face of so many repeated tragedies we would not only not pass meaningful legislation; we wouldn’t even hold a vote. When our schools, our churches, our public spaces become sites of large-scale violence, we need to look to our values, examine policies that are clearly not working, and find solutions.”Congressman Delaney supports closing loopholes and improving the background check system used by law enforcement, limiting access to military-grade weapons and high-capacity ammunition magazines, strengthening penalties for illegal gun trafficking, and expanding access to mental illness care.##
04.09.2013	Delaney Calls for Paycheck Fairness on Equal Pay DayWASHINGTON – Speaking on the House floor on Equal Pay Day, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) called for addressing the gender gap in businesses and voiced his support for the Paycheck Fairness Act. Delaney is a co-sponsor of the Paycheck Fairness Act (H.R. 377) and a co-sponsor of the Equal Pay Resolution.“Equal pay for equal work is a core American value. The gender gap and the wage gap is not reflective of the kind of society we want to live in. Gender parity in the workplace is good for women, good for families, and good for business,” said Congressman Delaney. “We have made progress, but when we look at the troubling statistics on advancement and wages for women, there is a clear evidence of a talent drain taking place in our workforce. The gender gap is hurting U.S. competitiveness as well as the millions of families that depend upon female breadwinners. The Paycheck Fairness Act is an important step in the right direction.” To view video of Congressman Delaney’s floor speech, click here.April 9 marks Equal Pay Day, because for average 2012 wages for men and women to be equal, women would have to work through April 9 of the next year. According to the National Partnership on Women & Families, women earn 77 cents for every dollar paid to men. ##
03.29.2013	WASHINGTON – Throughout March, Congressman John Delaney’s (MD-6) Facebook page and Twitter account highlighted remarkable Maryland woman in celebration of Women’s History Month. The month-long, national celebration coincides each year with International Women’s Day on March 8th.“Each Maryland woman profiled throughout the month contributed in a unique and significant way to her community,” said Congressman Delaney. “As a father of four daughters, I believe that highlighting the impact of women on our world is crucial to inspiring the next generation. The stories shared showcase intelligence, courage, and hard work, which is at the heart of Women’s History Month.”The profiles began with Senator Barbara Mikulski, who co-authored the original Women’s History Week legislation when she was a Congresswoman serving Maryland’s Third District. In 1987, Congress passed legislation that expanded the event to an annual, month-long celebration. Other honorees included Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Congresswoman Donna Edwards, humanitarian Clara Barton, colonial leader Margaret Brent, Congresswoman Beverly Byron, Dr. Jane Avery Fiscus, and others.On Congressman John Delaney’s official Facebook page, a Maryland woman was profiled each week day during March. To read about each woman featured, click here.##
03.29.2013	Delaney Applauds President’s Infrastructure Push, Calls for Congress to Act Delaney infrastructure plan announced in February, requires no appropriated funds, leverages private capital for infrastructure projects to create jobs WASHINGTON – Today in Florida President Obama will discuss the importance of infrastructure investment during his visit to PortMiami. Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) applauds the President’s infrastructure push and calls for Congress to take action to pass bipartisan legislation that will rebuild our infrastructure and get Americans back to work. Delaney first announced his infrastructure plan in February. “Rebuilding our infrastructure is incredibly important to our economic health and our ability to compete in the global marketplace,” said Congressman Delaney. “In an era of tight budgets, we need to look at new funding mechanisms. The President’s leadership on this issue is valuable, now it is time for members of Congress to come together and find a bipartisan solution. My infrastructure plan will create jobs requires zero tax dollars, and will provide local governments with the financing they desperately need to invest in our economic future. Our roads and bridges are crumbling. It’s time to get to work.” The Partnership to Build America Act will provide up to $750 billion in infrastructure financing, without requiring tax dollars. The Partnership to Build America Act The legislation would finance the rebuilding of our country’s transportation, energy, communications, water, and education infrastructure through the creation of an infrastructure fund using repatriated corporate earnings. Office of Infrastructure Partnerships The legislation would create the Office of Infrastructure Partnerships (OIP) in the U.S. Department of Treasury which would be a resource to local and state governments and private companies. It would be responsible for overseeing the criteria for qualified projects, standardizing processes and managing the overall infrastructure portfolio. American Infrastructure Fund The OIP would create the American Infrastructure Fund (AIF) which would provide loans or guarantees to state or local governments to finance qualified infrastructure projects. The states or local governments would be required to pay back the loan at a market rate determined by the OIP to ensure they have “skin in the game.” AIF will be funded by the sale of $50 billion worth of Infrastructure Bonds which would have a 50 year term, pay a fixed interest rate of 1 percent, and would not be guaranteed by the U.S. government. U.S. corporations would be incentivized to purchase these new Infrastructure Bonds by allowing them to repatriate a certain amount of their overseas earnings tax free for every $1.00 they invest in the bonds. This multiplier will be set by a “reverse Dutch auction” so the market sets the rate. Assuming a 1:4 ratio, meaning a company repatriates $4.00 tax-free for every $1.00 in Infrastructure Bonds purchased, a company’s effective tax rate to repatriate these earnings would be approximately 8 percent and the $4.00 could then be used by the companies to invest in the U.S. economy. AIF would leverage the $50 billion of Infrastructure Bonds at a 15:1 ratio to provide up to $750 billion in loans or guarantees. Qualified Infrastructure Projects Infrastructure projects financed by the AIF must meet a positive economic requirement threshold that is developed by the OIP. OIP would implement a competitive procurement process using standardized procedures and documentation. For more information on Delaney’s infrastructure plan, click here. ##
03.29.2013	ICYMI: Delaney Op-Ed - Closing Airport Towers Highlight Faults of Sequestration, Need for Long-Term Budget SolutionWASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) writes in the Hagerstown Herald-Mail that sequestration is proving to be the wrong approach to deficit reduction. Delaney argues that now that much of sequestration is becoming a reality, Maryland and the country must adapt.Delaney writes:I’ve urged the FAA to find a solution and will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress toward a better outcome. We are fortunate to have Sen. Barbara Mikulski, the chairwoman of the Appropriations Committee on our side, fighting for the Hagerstown airport. Now that sequestration is a reality, we should focus on three steps we can take to avoid this scenario again, strengthen our fiscal health and help create jobs in Western Maryland. First, until we reach a long-term grand bargain to reduce our debt, we will continue to lurch from crisis to crisis. Inevitably, bad outcomes like sequestration will continue. Coming from the private sector, I believe we would be best served by a grand bargain that reduces the deficit in a balanced way. This should include additional revenues through measures like the Buffett Rule, appropriate entitlement reforms and smarter spending cuts. This will lead to an increase in private sector confidence and investment. Capital will start flowing again, businesses will grow and more Americans will have good jobs.Second, depending on federal spending can no longer be Maryland’s economic plan. We must prepare for lower future outlays. Government spending was cut by $1.5 trillion in 2011 and another $1.1 trillion in 2013 with sequestration. Undoubtedly, more cuts are coming.Maryland has become overly dependent on federal spending, while the business climate has suffered. In 2011, my Blueprint Maryland study found that Maryland was fifth in federal spending per capita, but just 44th in private-sector job growth. Western Maryland has seen this discrepancy first-hand. Instead, we need to leverage our strengths to make our state more attractive to businesses and develop a strategy to connect Western Maryland to the thriving Washington to Boston corridor. Finally, we have to invest in our future so that our workers, job creators and businesses can thrive in a global marketplace. Unfortunately, sequestration will cut many of the areas that we should be investing in, including research, education and infrastructure. Delaney’s op-ed read in the March 28 edition of the Herald-Mail. To read the op-ed, click here.##
03.28.2013	Office of Congressman Delaney Announces Western Maryland Office Hours ScheduleDistrict staff will hold regular office hours in Cumberland and McHenry WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney’s office will hold regular office hours each month in Allegany and Garrett County. District staff will be available to provide constituent services.“I’m committed to serving Western Maryland and being a strong voice for my constituents in Congress,” said Congressman Delaney. “In addition to our permanent office in Hagerstown, we understood that additional office hours would be helpful to residents of Allegany and Garrett County. My district staff is on hand to help constituents secure their benefits, receive military academy nominations, receive passports, and navigate federal agencies. Across the district, we are here to serve.” Constituents can make an appointment to speak with district staff by calling 301-733-2900. In cases of extreme weather, constituents are encouraged to call ahead.Allegany County office hours will take place the 1st, 2nd, and 4th Wednesday of every month, from 10:00 AM- 5:00 PM at the Allegany County Library, 31 Washington Street, Cumberland MD 21502Garrett County office hours will take place the 3rd Friday of every month, from 10:00 AM to 4:30 PM at Garrett College, Room 930 of the CARC Aquatics Building, 687 Mosser Road, McHenry MD 21541Allegany and Garrett County residents can also contact Rep. Delaney’s Hagerstown, Gaithersburg, or Washington offices. For more information on constituent services, visit: https://delaney.house.gov##
03.25.2013	Delaney Applauds Creation of Harriet Tubman National Monument WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney applauds the creation of the Harriet Tubman National Monument, which will be signed into law today by President Obama.“Harriet Tubman was an American hero of the highest order and Maryland is proud to call her one of our own,” said Delaney. “The Harriet Tubman National Monument in Maryland will help future generations learn her story and remember the hard-fought struggle for freedom that is such a defining part of our history.”Tubman was born in Dorchester County, Maryland, in 1822. An escaped slave, Tubman was a pivotal figure in the Underground Railroad. March 10, 2013 was the one hundredth anniversary of Tubman’s death. ###
03.21.2013	Citing Impact on Competitiveness, Delaney Votes Against Ryan Budget WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney voted against the Ryan Budget (H. Con. Res. 25) today.“As an actual job creator, not a career politician, it is clear to me that the Ryan Budget will hurt the private sector it purports to champion. Reducing our investments in education, science and research, infrastructure, and alternative energy, will make our workers, entrepreneurs, and businesses less competitive in the global economy,” said Congressman Delaney. “The fiscally unsound Ryan Budget is grounded in questionable assumptions and reflects a disconnect with the real needs of the private sector.” “We have to fundamentally change our fiscal trajectory, reduce our debt, and reform entitlements. However, these reforms should be made in concert with continued investments in the future and maintaining our social safety net for the most vulnerable,” added Delaney. “Let’s reach across the aisle, do the people’s work, and reach a grand bargain.”During House debate on the Ryan Budget, Delaney outlined his support for an approach that includes additional revenues, entitlement reform, and investments in the future. Delaney is the only former CEO of a publicly traded company in Congress. On Thursday the House also voted H.R. 933, the Senate-passed Continuing Resolution, which keeps the government open.“This Continuing Resolution is an imperfect way to fund and operate the government and I am especially disappointed that this C.R. continues to single-out federal workers with a punitive pay freeze,” said Delaney. “However, a government shutdown is worse, and that is the choice we face today.”##
03.20.2013	Delaney Votes for Van Hollen Budget Alternative, Calls for Grand BargainWASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) voted yes today in favor of the Van Hollen Budget Substitute.Congressman Delaney releases the following statement:“We should have two priorities when it comes to our budget: 1) fundamentally changing our fiscal trajectory and reducing our debt and 2) making increased investments in our future so our economy and children can thrive. Overall, I believe Democrats should lead on deficit reduction and entitlement reform and we should continue to reach across the aisle and push for a grand bargain budget deal along the lines of Simpson-Bowles. The Ryan Budget will make it more difficult for our workers and businesses to compete in the global marketplace. It hurts the most vulnerable in our society and is the wrong approach to deficit reduction. The Democratic alternative offered by Congressman Van Hollen is superior in that it advances critical investments in education and infrastructure, and I look forward to it being improved with appropriate entitlement reform and deficit reduction.” Delaney outlined his budget position during floor debate on the Ryan Budget Tuesday evening. To view video, click here.##
03.19.2013	Delaney: D+ Infrastructure Grade by American Society of Civil Engineers Should Be a Wakeup CallCongressman Delaney finalizing infrastructure funding legislation that utilizes public-private partnership model, requires zero in appropriations WASHINGTON – Today the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) released their 2013 Infrastructure Report Card, grading America’s infrastructure a D+. According to ASCE, the nation faces a $3.6 trillion dollar infrastructure shortfall. “The ASCE report highlights the dire status of our nation’s infrastructure and the impact our aging roads, bridges, ports, energy and water systems are having on our ability to compete,” said Congressman Delaney. “The facts are clear: we desperately need to rebuild our infrastructure. That’s why I’ve made infrastructure funding legislation a priority. Investing in our infrastructure will create jobs, help our businesses expand, and make our nation safer, stronger, and more competitive.”Delaney is in the final stages of drafting the Partnership to Build America Act, which will create a large scale funding capability for infrastructure investment. Funded by repatriated private sector earnings, the infrastructure fund produced by Delaney’s legislation will require zero appropriated revenues from the federal government. For more information on Delaney’s legislation, click here. The ASCE assessed the nation’s infrastructure as follows: Overall grade: D+, Aviation: D, Bridges: C+, Dams: D, Drinking Water: D, Energy: D+, Hazardous Waste: D, Inland Waterways: D-, Levees: D-, Ports: C, Parks: C-, Rail: C+, Roads: D, Schools: D, Solid Waste: B-, Transit: D, Wastewater: D. The report card also includes individual assessments of all fifty states.The ASCE Report Card can be read at https://www.infrastructurereportcard.org.##
03.18.2013	For Immediate Release: March 18, 2013Contact: Will McDonald, 202-225-2721Delaney Offers Amendment to Ryan Budget to Encourage Infrastructure InvestmentDelaney calls for allowing repatriation of overseas profits at reduced rates as long as a portion of the repatriated profits is invested in infrastructure WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) introduced an amendment to H.C.R. 25, the 2014 fiscal year budget. This amendment would amend the Policy on Tax Reform, Section 702, to state that Congress should pass legislation that allows reduced or eliminated tax rates for repatriated profits from overseas so long as a portion of the repatriated profits is directly or indirectly invested in infrastructure. Delaney’s amendment is being considered tonight by the House Committee on Rules.Delaney submitted the following statement to the committee:We all like to envision a future where our transportation systems are improved, where our ability to efficiently move transformative natural gas discoveries is enhanced, where our communication networks are more reliable, where water systems and storm protections are more robust and where school facilities are modernized. We continue to envision this future because we know such a future would make our country more competitive and improve the lives of our children.Because of legitimate fiscal constraints and economic uncertainty, we continue to lag in our ability to make the investments we need to do to create this future. That shortfall is estimated to be $2.2 trillion.Switching gears, to another $2 trillion number, it is estimated there is $1.8 trillion of corporate earnings parked overseas. It stays there because we don't have a path to repatriation that makes economic sense for these companies. Americans would be better served if that money was in our country creating jobs.Our amendment is a statement of principle whereby we believe we should create a path towards tax advantaged repatriation provided some portion of the repatriated dollars are invested in US infrastructure - directly or indirectly.The language of our amendment creates the road map for creative infrastructure financing approaches that won't burden taxpayers with appropriations. We do this by linking smart and fair paths to repatriation with investment in our national infrastructure. In doing so we create the ultimate public private partnership by encouraging corporations to make investments to build America and to make investments that will truly create jobs like building infrastructure.Soon I will be introducing legislation that encourages U.S. corporations to provide cheap capital to a large scale municipal bond and infrastructure debt insurance company. The entity will be uniquely capitalized with $50 billion of non-guaranteed, 50 year, 1% bonds that companies buy. For each dollar of these bonds they buy, they can repatriate approximately $4 tax free. By organizing the vehicle as an insurance company, we believe $50 billion can guaranty $750 billion of projects. Put another way, by allowing corporations to repatriate $200 billion tax free - only 10% of the amount overseas - the country benefits by having these companies make a $50 billion that has some economic value but one that they would not make otherwise. That $50 billion creates up to $750 billion of projects and thereby handle one-third of our infrastructure needs.Our amendment simply acknowledges that marrying forms of limited repatriation to infrastructure investment is good policy. This is good policy because it’s a taxpayer friendly way of creating jobs, building a stronger revenue producing future economy and improving the lives of every American. Future legislation will craft specific road maps for achieving the stated policy objective.##
03.18.2013	Delaney Co-Sponsors Immigration Reform LegislationSTAPLE Act would make it easier for US companies to hire STEM Ph.D.’sWASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney is an original co-sponsor of the STAPLE Act (H.R. 1227) which has been introduced with bipartisan support. In addition to Delaney, the legislation is sponsored by two Republicans, Rep. Erik Paulsen (MN-3) and Rep. James Renacci (OH-16), as well as Democrat Mike Quigley (IL-5). The STAPLE Act would exempt aliens who have earned a Ph.D. in science, technology, engineering, or mathematics from a U.S. university and have a job offer from a U.S. employer from the direct numerical limitations on H-1B Visas. “Making it easier for the scientists and engineers trained in our universities to continue to work here is essential to making our businesses more competitive,” said Congressman Delaney. “To strengthen the middle class and grow our economy we must implement a broad-based competitiveness agenda that helps our workers, entrepreneurs, and businesses thrive in the high-tech global economy. The STAPLE Act is the kind of common sense, bipartisan, legislation that we need more of in Washington and I am proud to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to introduce this bill.”##
03.15.2013	Delaney Cheers Department of Education Funding for MarylandDepartment of Education announces $6.8 million in School Improvement Grants to MarylandWASHINGTON – The U.S. Department of Education announced this week that Maryland will receive $6.8 million in School Improvement Grants (SIG). These SIG funds are awarded to State Educational Agencies that then make competitive sub-grants to local authorities that demonstrate the greatest need.“Investing in education is essential to becoming more competitive as a nation,” said Congressman Delaney. “Investing in our kids and making sure they have a chance to live the American Dream should be our first priority. The federal government has a role to play in improving education and in ensuring that all students have a chance to succeed.“We are blessed with the best schools in the country in Maryland, but that doesn’t mean that we don’t have more work to do. Many students in the Sixth District would benefit from these grants and my office will work hard to provide any assistance we can to local authorities in Western Maryland and across the district in navigating the application process and securing aid.”Tuesday evening, Congressman Delaney spoke on the House floor about the importance of investing in education in rebuilding the nation’s competitiveness.##
03.13.2013	Delaney Leads Maryland Delegation Letter to Speaker Boehner on Impacts of SequestrationLetter calls for balanced approach that reaches same debt reduction target in less harmful wayWASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) led a letter to Speaker John Boehner urging the Speaker to “bring a bill to the House floor that achieves equivalent debt reduction while avoiding unnecessary economic harm to our state and country.” The letter was signed by: Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer, Congressman Elijah Cummings, Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger, Congressman Chris Van Hollen, Congressman John Sarbanes, Congresswoman Donna Edwards, and Congressman Delaney.The letter reads as follows:Dear Speaker Boehner,Congress’ failure to act resulted in a sequestration which could negatively impact the state of Maryland and the nation. As members of the Maryland delegation, we call on you to bring a bill to the House floor that replaces the sequester with a balanced approach that achieves equivalent debt reduction while avoiding unnecessary economic harm to our state and country. Although some have put forward the argument that these cuts will be inconsequential, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that sequestration will cost the economy 750,000 jobs. We will see the impact first-hand in Maryland, where these poorly constructed spending cuts will have a disproportionate impact. We urge you to take a balanced approach to more thoughtfully address our nation’s debt. This is not the right way to cut spending. As Democratic Members of the Maryland Delegation recently stated, “sequestration will have a serious and negative impact on job creation and economic growth in Maryland. The 60 non-military federal facilities and 17 military facilities in Maryland would see their ability to conduct operations significantly erode; nearly 140,000 federal civilian employees who work in Maryland would face furloughs and potential pay cuts; and thousands of jobs in Maryland would be put at risk. Our students, small businesses, families, and first-responders would also be affected by harmful cuts to investments in education, law enforcement, infrastructure, innovation, research, and other areas that are critical to building a strong middle class.”It is imperative that we address our long term deficit but these cuts are the wrong way to approach a very real problem. We must take a balanced approach and make cuts where appropriate, rather than allow these blanket cuts to stifle a still-fragile economic recovery. In the face of difficult choices and a need for a long-term solution, sequestration is an abdication of our duty to govern intelligently and responsibly.There are many ways to address our long term deficit issues but sequestration is not one of them. We ask you to work with us to find a balanced approach and avoid the painful effects the sequester will have on both Maryland and our nation. ##
03.12.2013	Delaney Criticizes Ryan Budget, Cites False AssumptionsDelaney says Ryan Budget isn’t serious, isn’t legitimate intellectually WASHINGTON – Appearing on The Daily Rundown with Chuck Todd on MSNBC today, Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) strongly criticized the Ryan Budget, which was released this morning.Chuck Todd: Do you wish the Democrats had a plan that was out there that did have a target for when there is a balanced budget, not necessarily in ten years but a target date? The White House is not saying that there’s going to be a target.Delaney: So, so listen I do think there should be a target date. I think the ten year window is to some extent artificial because most of the pressures on our budget actually come in years eleven through twenty. One of the issues I have with the Ryan budget, aside from some policy differences which I would consider to be substantial, is the underlying assumption – assumptions that he makes are just flawed. If you’re in the private sector and you came to the table with a set of assumptions in the kind of context that his assumptions are in, people would either laugh at you – Todd: What’s his specific assumptions?Delaney: Well unemployment. Again I haven’t looked at his new proposal today but in his past budgets, he’s assumed unemployment went down to a level that we have never seen in this country. Now, you can make budgets look terrific if you assume completely unrealistic assumptions, and again in the private sector you would never be able to get away with that. So he assumes unemployment goes down to levels it’s never been at, he assumes tax revenues go up, he doesn’t indicate how that happens, yet he’s generally speaking reducing taxes and he assumes government spending gets down to levels that we’ve never seen even for defense by itself. Delaney also discussed the need for a grand bargain budget deal and called for Democrats to lead on entitlement reform.Todd: Congressman Delaney, what does a Grand Bargain look like? What are some things that you think your party is going to come to grips with, if they want to get taxes, some taxes out of Republicans, what do you think that your party’s going to have to redo?Delaney: I think we have to lead on entitlement reform. And I think we have to do – Todd: What does that mean, put out a specific plan?Delaney: A specific plan, and I think what we should do are several things. First thing is we should means test. Second thing is we should raise the cap on social security, thirdly we should increase retirement age, maybe not for those people who do manual labor but for everyone else, and fourth we should change the way we calculate the cost-of-living adjustment. If we do all those – Well that’s not where the President is on some of these things…Delaney: Well, but if you look at the numbers, if you actually engage in a serious analysis with our budget, and that’s the issue I have with Congressman Ryan’s budget, it’s not serious. It’s based on assumptions that are just not realistic, it’s not a legitimate intellectually or financially kind of integrity document if you will. I think what we have to do is first do those things that I said on entitlement. The President is not there but that’s where I think Democrats need to go. I think when we layer in some additional revenues through things like the Buffet rule and then look at spending for both discretionary and defense, I think we can start coming up with the right trajectory for our budget and have a date that it balances in the future. The American people do want the budget to balance, but they also want our – their representatives to be honest with them about the assumptions that are imbedded in the budget, and right now the congressman, Congressman Ryan’s budget, doesn’t have honest assumptions.To view the video, click here.###
03.11.2013	Delaney Meets with Business Leaders and Community Representatives in Frederick and Hagerstown on Economic IssuesMeetings focus on private sector growth and impact of sequestration on Hagerstown Airport, Sixth DistrictFREDERICK – Congressman John K. Delaney met with business and community leaders across Maryland’s Sixth District Friday. In Frederick, Congressman Delaney met with the Human Resources Development Commissions for Allegany County, Frederick County, Garrett County, and Washington County. Later in Frederick, Congressman Delaney hosted a meet and greet with business leaders, entrepreneurs, and local residents. Delaney spoke about economic and fiscal policy and took questions from the audience. Joining Congressman Delaney at the meet and greet in Frederick was former Congresswoman Beverly Byron. In Hagerstown, Delaney met with officials from the Hagerstown Regional Airport and Washington County, to discuss the impact of sequestration on airport operation.“Constant dialogue with the district is essential to providing effective representation in Congress,” said Delaney. “My top priority in office is improving our economic competitiveness. Government has a role to play in improving educational outcomes so that we have well-trained workers, building the infrastructure our businesses need to grow, and implementing sound policy to build a strong alternative energy sector. These are goals that should drive our policies nationally and here in Western Maryland.”##
03.07.2013	ICYMI: Delaney Op-Ed in Huffington Post Argues for Balanced Approach, Calls for Democrats to Lead on Entitlement Reform WASHINGTON – On March 6 Congressman John K. Delaney authored an op-ed in the Huffington Post titled “We Do Have to Make Choices” calling for a balanced approach to deficit reduction that allows us to make investments in the future. Delaney argues that because of demographic changes, entitlement reform must part of a long-term grand bargain.Delaney writes:There is a consensus that we have to tackle the deficit in a "balanced" manner. But what does that mean? To my mind, it means three simple things: (1) create more revenues through a "Buffett rule" style approach for individuals and by closing certain corporate tax loopholes, (2) lower long term costs of entitlement programs by adopting a form of chained CPI, raising the cap on Social Security taxes, and adjusting the retirement age for those not engaged in manual labor and (3) adjust up and down as necessary discretionary and defense spending to reflect our priorities as a country, which is vastly different than the indiscriminate cuts in the sequester. With this framework, we can manage our fiscal trajectory in the short term (years 1-10) and long term (years 11-20) while also investing in children, protecting those left behind, and protecting our nation.To read the full op-ed, click here. ##
02.28.2013	Statement by Congressman John Delaney on SequestrationWASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement on sequestration, which was also submitted to the Congressional Record:The sequester is a bad way to deal with deficit reduction and will likely have a negative effect on our economy, particularly Maryland's economy, which I have been saying for years is unusually vulnerable to reductions in government spending. We are faced with the sequester because our government has failed to act in a bi-partisan way for the good of the country. The cost of doing nothing is not nothing. Because we failed to take the necessary steps to deal with our deficit in a balanced way - and because special interests were uncompromising in the face of any proposals that effected them - we find ourselves facing a mini-doomsday machine in the sequester. Unless Congress acts, sequestration would have a serious and disproportionate impact on job creation and economic growth in Maryland. The 60 non-military federal facilities and 17 military facilities in Maryland would see their ability to conduct operations significantly erode; nearly 140,000 federal civilian employees who work in Maryland would face furloughs and potential pay cuts; and thousands of jobs in Maryland would be put at risk. Our students, small businesses, families, and first-responders would also be affected by devastating cuts to investments in education, law enforcement, infrastructure, innovation, research, and other areas that are critical to building a strong middle class. Our focus should be on avoiding the sequester and passing a grand budget deal along the lines of Simpson-Bowles that reduces the deficit in a balanced way. We should do our job, which is to come together, negotiate in good faith, and find a solution. ##
02.28.2013	Delaney Applauds Reauthorization of Violence Against Women ActWASHINGTON - Today the House voted to pass S. 47, The Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 with bipartisan support.“Violence against women isn’t acceptable and I applaud my colleagues in the House for finally ending the partisan stalemate. For our mothers, daughters, sisters, and loved ones, reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act today was the right thing to do,” said Congressman Delaney. “Sexual assault, domestic violence, and stalking shouldn’t be partisan issues. This is about standing with the women of this country, increasing their safety, and bringing perpetrators to justice. Since 1994, the Violence Against Women Act has strengthened the ability of both out federal government and local law enforcement to combat domestic and dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. This bill both renews successful violence prevention programs and improves efficiency, consolidating thirteen existing programs into four.” In January, Delaney co-sponsored H.R. 11, the Violence Against Women Act of 2013.##
02.27.2013	Delaney Meets with Greater Cumberland Committee, Discusses Economic Development and North-South Highway WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) met with the Greater Cumberland Committee today in his Washington office. Joining Congressman Delaney were Brenda Smith, Executive Director of The Greater Cumberland Committee; Mike Koch, Director of Garrett County Maryland Economic Development; Dave Moe, Coordinator of the North-South Appalachian Highway Coalition; Richard Collins, President of Mel’s Business Systems; and Katherine Getty, Regional President of Susquehanna Bank. “My meeting with the Greater Cumberland Committee was very productive and I look forward to working with the Committee, as well as Mayor Grim and other community leaders to ensure we’re doing everything we can to spur economic development in Allegany County,” said Congressman Delaney. “One key area I’d like to focus on, both locally and at the national level, is infrastructure. Projects like the North-South Highway will create jobs in the short-term and allow our businesses to compete for decades to come. I know how important job growth is to Western Maryland and my door will always be open.” Last month Delaney announced that he would soon unveil infrastructure funding legislation. To read Delaney’s infrastructure framework, click here. ##
02.26.2013	Delaney Hosts African-American Business Roundtable in RockvilleDelaney joined by Montgomery County Executive Ike Leggett and African-American Community LeadersWASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) led a roundtable discussion with prominent members of Montgomery County’s private and public sector in Rockville, Md. Monday. The African-American Business Roundtable, which was organized in recognition of Black History Month, focused on expanding opportunities for African-Americans in business and how to improve the business climate in Maryland.“One of my top priorities in Congress is facilitating greater communication between the public and private sector, so that our state and our country can compete. Our African-American Business Roundtable highlighted the strengths we need to build on locally and brought to my attention further opportunities that need to be addressed,” said Congressman Delaney. “Making the Sixth District a great place to start a business – for all of our residents – is at the top of my agenda. I look forward to making our African-American Business Roundtable an annual February tradition and to continued dialogue with our business community.”Montgomery County Executive Ike Leggett; Janice Freeman, President of the African-American Chamber of Commerce of Montgomery County; and Anita Powell, President of the NAACP Rockville Chapter, also participated in the roundtable, which featured small business owners and African-American businesspeople. ###
02.25.2013	Congressman John Delaney Holds District Events in Gaithersburg and Frederick, Celebrates Opening of Local Office WASHINGTON - Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) was in Gaithersburg and Frederick this past Saturday to meet with constituents and discuss the issues that matter to them, including sequestration, infrastructure, and rebuilding the middle class. Saturday’s event in Gaithersburg also celebrated the opening of the district office in Montgomery County, which opened its doors in January. “Representing Maryland’s Sixth District in Congress is an honor, and I take my responsibilities as your Congressman very seriously,” said Congressman Delaney. “My priority and the priority of my staff is to serve the people of the Sixth District each and every day. I would like to let every resident of the Sixth District know that our doors will always be open. We’re here to help, here to listen, here to work for them.”Mayor Sidney Katz, Maryland State Senators Jennie Forehand and Brian Frosh, Delegates James Gilchrist and Kirill Reznick, and Gaithersburg City Council members also attended the Gaithersburg office opening. Mayor Katz presented Congressman Delaney with a Certificate of Recognition from the Mayor’s office and the City Council of Gaithersburg. The certificate recognized Delaney’s “commitment to community engagement and the delivery of outstanding constituent services.”In Frederick, Mayor Randy McClement, Alderman Karen Young, State Senator Ron Young, Delegate Galen Clagett and Frederick City Council members joined Congressman Delaney.###
02.15.2013	Delaney Sponsors Legislation to Improve Access to Capital for Savings and Loan Holding CompaniesWASHINGTON – The Holding Company Registration Threshold Equalization Act of 2013 was introduced today. Sponsored by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Representatives Steve Womack (AR-3), Jim Himes (CT-4), and Ann Wagner (MO-2), the legislation extends the shareholder registration thresholds as defined in the 2012 Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (JOBS Act) to savings and loan holding companies (SLHCs) and thrifts.Statement from Congressman John K. Delaney: “I am extremely pleased to work with my bipartisan cosponsors on The Holding Company Registration Threshold Equalization Act. Positioning small businesses to succeed is central to my competitiveness agenda. After working with entrepreneurs across the country during my business career, I know that our Main Street businesses need a healthy, diversified, well-regulated financial sector that includes community lenders. Increased thresholds for SLHCs and thrifts will help them avoid expensive and unnecessary reporting requirements associated with SEC registration, which is essential to their ability to provide their clients with capital.”The 2012 JOBS Act raised the shareholder registration threshold from 500 to 2,000 and increased the deregistration threshold from 300 to 1,200 for banks and bank holding companies. The Holding Company Registration Threshold Equalization Act clarifies the JOBS Act by including SLHCs.##
02.15.2013	Delaney: Targeting of Federal Employees Unnecessary Distraction, Wrong Approach to Deficit Reduction WASHINGTON - Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) releases the following statement on HR 273, which extends a federal employee pay freeze through 2013. Federal workers have already faced a two-year pay freeze dating back to 2010, increased pension contribution, and a reduced and delayed cost of living adjustment. Over the last Congress federal employees have contributed more than $103 billion to deficit reduction.“It is extremely disappointing that with the sequester looming, the House is spending time on this bill, which does not address our fiscal situation in a meaningful way,” said Congressman Delaney. “Instead, this bill singles out middle class civil servants who have already been operating under a two-year pay freeze. These are our FBI agents, Border Patrol and DEA agents, FDA food inspectors, scientists in DOE labs, and NASA astronauts, who are being targeted for a political gesture. Let’s come together, get around a table, and come up with a long-term solution that reduces our deficit in a balanced way.”While HR 273 was being considered in the House Committee on Rules, Delaney cosponsored an amendment offered by Congressman Bera which would have maintained the pay freeze for Members of Congress, but not federal workers. The Rules Committee did not allow the Bera Amendment to come to the House floor for a vote. ##
02.15.2013	Delaney Named to Joint Economic CommitteeWASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has been named to the Joint Economic Committee for the 113th Congress by Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and the Democratic Caucus. Established in 1946, the Joint Economic Committee is a bicameral committee composed of ten members from the House and ten from the Senate. The purpose of the committee is a continued study of the economy, including employment trends, small business growth, and the housing market.“Given my focus on improving U.S. competitiveness and economic growth, I am excited to join the Joint Economic Committee,” said Congressman Delaney. “Our policies must be driven by empirical data, and the work of the Joint Economic Committee examines in detail the fundamental challenge of our time: how we can improve our economic health, create jobs, and grow the middle class.”“As an entrepreneur, a CEO, and a product of the private sector, Congressman Delaney is a perfect fit for the Joint Economic Committee,” House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi said. “His broad experience, outside perspective, and distinguished career will make him a valuable, essential voice in the committee’s work to advance the best ideas to create jobs, strengthen the middle class, invest in small businesses, and grow the economy.”Delaney is also a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and is the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company currently serving in Congress. ##
02.13.2013	Delaney Applauds President’s Focus on Economy and Infrastructure in State of the UnionDelaney Announced Monday That He Will Introduce Infrastructure Funding LegislationCongressman John K. Delaney releases the following statement on President Obama’s State of the Union Address:“I applaud the President’s emphasis on jobs and the economy in his State of the Union address. Particularly critical was the President’s call to rebuild our infrastructure. In concert with a grand budget deal we can create economic certainty and make investments in our future.My number one priority is improving our economic competitiveness in the global economy. Infrastructure investment will create jobs and position our businesses and workforce to compete and succeed in the 21st century.This is a discussion that must continue in Washington and must be followed by action.”On Monday Delaney announced that he will introduce infrastructure funding legislation.A summary of key provisions of the bill under consideration:Creates the Office of Infrastructure Investment, a new office within the Treasury Department, designed to be a resource for states and local governments looking to structure cutting edge public-private partnerships;Creates the American Infrastructure Fund managed by the Office of Infrastructure Investment to make loans to states - or to guarantee a state or local bond issuance - provided that the proceeds of the loans or bond issuance are invested in qualifying infrastructure projects;Provides that the loans or guaranties be supported by credit obligations of the state but be structured to have minimal impact on an individual state’s credit rating by making them subordinate to other general obligations of the state, exceptionally long dated obligations, or be made to a local authority with a state guaranty;Requires that as a condition to receiving a loan or guaranties from the American Infrastructure Fund that a state require the underlying infrastructure project be built pursuant to requirements for prevailing wages;Requires projects be partially funded with private capital procured through a competitive procurement process using standardized procedures and documentation developed by the Office of Infrastructure Investment;Provides that the American Infrastructure Fund be funded by selling both Junior Infrastructure Bonds not guaranteed by the U.S. government and Senior Infrastructure Bonds that will include a guaranty of the U.S. government; The Junior Infrastructure Bonds will pay a rate less than the Senior Infrastructure Bonds and be freely tradable. The Junior Infrastructure Bonds will be the “first loss” and represent a minimum of 5% of the assets of the American Infrastructure Fund (or more depending upon activities). Assets of the American Infrastructure Fund include the total of loans or outstanding guaranties;Provides that Congress approves the amount of Junior Infrastructure Bonds that may be offered from time-to-time and thereby control the size of the American Infrastructure Fund; andFor every $1 dollar of Junior Infrastructure Bonds purchased, the purchaser may repatriate $4 dollars of overseas corporate earnings tax-free. ##
02.11.2013	For Immediate Release: February 11, 2013Contact: Will McDonald 202-225-2721 Delaney to Introduce Infrastructure Funding LegislationHighlights:Creates a large scale funding capability for rebuilding transportation, energy, communication, water and educational infrastructure using a disciplined public-private partnership model;Helps working families by putting Americans to work and improving overall U.S. competitiveness; Creates a path for repatriation of overseas corporate earnings in a manner that ensures American job creation; andTiming of legislation inspired by President Bill Clinton’s comments at the Democratic Issues Conference.WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) announced today that he will introduce legislation creating the Office of Infrastructure Investment and the American Infrastructure Fund.“Within the next month, I intend to introduce a bill that will create a large scale infrastructure funding capability that can rebuild our aging infrastructure, position the United States to compete globally in the 21st century, and create jobs,” Delaney said. “We started drafting legislation last week and are in the process of gathering support for the bill among members of Congress, labor, the private sector, and state and local governments. We expect our legislation will benefit from the ideas of other members of Congress committed to this concept and that it will continue to be shaped by our outreach.”“Our proposal will be rooted in the notion that the federal government should be partnering with local governments and the private sector in tackling this important challenge,” Delaney added. “In that regard, our bill will combine investments by U.S. corporations, for which they obtain a tax-credit for overseas earnings repatriation, with low-cost funding and project specific private investment to help build the backbone of our country for the future.” Speaking at the House Democratic Issues Conference last week, President Bill Clinton put forth the idea of using overseas corporate earnings to rebuild our infrastructure. (To view a video excerpt of President Clinton’s remarks on the topic last week, click here.) Delaney was inspired to act now based on these comments.A summary of key provisions of the bill under consideration:Creates the Office of Infrastructure Investment, a new office within the Treasury Department, designed to be a resource for states and local governments looking to structure cutting edge public-private partnerships;Creates the American Infrastructure Fund managed by the Office of Infrastructure Investment to make loans to states - or to guarantee a state or local bond issuance - provided that the proceeds of the loans or bond issuance are invested in qualifying infrastructure projects;Provides that the loans or guaranties be supported by credit obligations of the state but be structured to have minimal impact on an individual state’s credit rating by making them subordinate to other general obligations of the state, exceptionally long dated obligations, or be made to a local authority with a state guaranty;Requires that as a condition to receiving a loan or guaranties from the American Infrastructure Fund that a state require the underlying infrastructure project be built pursuant to requirements for prevailing wages;Requires projects be partially funded with private capital procured through a competitive procurement process using standardized procedures and documentation developed by the Office of Infrastructure Investment;Provides that the American Infrastructure Fund be funded by selling both Junior Infrastructure Bonds not guaranteed by the U.S. government and Senior Infrastructure Bonds that will include a guaranty of the U.S. government; The Junior Infrastructure Bonds will pay a rate less than the Senior Infrastructure Bonds and be freely tradable. The Junior Infrastructure Bonds will be the “first loss” and represent a minimum of 5% of the assets of the American Infrastructure Fund (or more depending upon activities). Assets of the American Infrastructure Fund include the total of loans or outstanding guaranties;Provides that Congress approves the amount of Junior Infrastructure Bonds that may be offered from time-to-time and thereby control the size of the American Infrastructure Fund; andFor every $1 dollar of Junior Infrastructure Bonds purchased, the purchaser may repatriate $4 dollars of overseas corporate earnings tax-free. Benefits of the proposed bill:For every dollar of tax credit produced under the program, the American economy will receive a significant multiple of infrastructure investment;The American economy is estimated to have at least a $2 trillion infrastructure deficit. If only 10% of the estimated cash sitting overseas was repatriated in this manner, the American Infrastructure Fund could finance over $500 billion of this need and thereby help millions of working families by creating jobs;Creates a path for some of the estimated $1.7 trillion of overseas earnings to return to our shores and further stimulate our economy while ensuring high quality American jobs will be created in the process;Limits the risk of allocating funding for anything other than rational economic development reasons since the federal government does not select the projects and states and private investors share risk in the viability of the project;It is taxpayer friendly as it requires no appropriations and involves structuring the American Infrastructure Fund in a safe and sound manner with significant risk based capital and limited lending parameters;Creates a framework for public-private partnerships at the project level that can create investment opportunities for pension funds looking for investment opportunities; andHelps working families by creating jobs and positions the United States to compete in the 21st century. ##
02.05.2013	Congressman Delaney to Open District Offices in Gaithersburg and HagerstownWASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney will maintain district offices in Gaithersburg and Hagerstown during the 113th Congress. District staff will also hold regular office hours in Frederick and Cumberland to accommodate constituents.“Constituent service is job one for my office and my staff,” said Congressman Delaney. “Since I was sworn in, we’ve been working to assist constituents. Our district offices allow us to be closer to the community and save constituents a long trip into Washington. Whether Sixth District residents need help working with a federal agency, securing their benefits, passport processing, a military academy nomination, or any other issue, our door will always be open.”In the last month Delaney’s congressional office has hired district staff and began on day one processing existing casework previously handled by Congressman Bartlett as well as new cases. Official office openings in both Gaithersburg and Hagerstown will take place in coming weeks.The Gaithersburg office is located at 9801 Washingtonian Boulevard, Suite 330. The Hagerstown office is at 6 W. Washington Street, Suite 210. Delaney’s Washington office is located at 1632 Longworth House Office Building.For more information on constituent service, visit: delaney.house.gov.##
02.01.2013	Delaney Meets with Fort Detrick Alliance, Discusses Local Economic Development FREDERICK – Congressman John K. Delaney met with representatives of the Fort Detrick Alliance yesterday in Frederick. A non-profit dedicated to strengthening relationships between Fort Detrick and local governments, businesses, and residents; the Fort Detrick Alliance facilitates communication between stakeholders and aids in regional economic development. Congressman Delaney met with Richard Griffin, President, and Caroline Cash, Executive Director.“Economic development is my number one priority. Groups such as the Fort Detrick Alliance can help bring federal and local resources together and foster cooperation,” said Congressman Delaney. “In Frederick County we have a tremendous asset in Fort Detrick. Moving forward, I am confident that we can continue to work together. When it comes to local economic development and job growth in the district, I will make sure that my door is always open.”In addition to meeting with the Fort Detrick Alliance, Delaney also met with Gaithersburg Mayor Sidney Katz on Thursday, to discuss issues facing Gaithersburg and the city’s needs. ##
01.28.2013	American Banker: Delaney Positioned to be Leader on House Financial Services Committee WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) is described in the latest edition of American Banker as a legislator who will take “an outsized role” on the House Committee on Financial Services and could be instrumental in bipartisan compromise in Congress. Delaney is the only former CEO of a publicly traded company currently serving in the House of Representatives.The American Banker profile discussed Delaney’s experience as an entrepreneur and his priorities in Congress, including housing reform. Highlights:Delaney may be listened to on the committee more than a first-term congressman otherwise would, because of both his financial and political background. In a divided Congress, a Democrat and fan of private markets, who has banking experience to boot, could emerge as an important player in committee negotiations. […]"Delaney immediately takes an outsized role given his experience in the industry," said Isaac Boltansky, a policy analyst at Compass Point Research & Trading. "[Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb] Hensarling has a much more free-market view of what the future of housing finance market should look like, but I believe that he's willing to step towards the center, and in order to get a bill out of the House they're going to need more moderate Democrats."Delaney has the capacity to be more of a dealmaker to define the centrist middle of the committee." […]To read the full story, click here.##
01.24.2013	Delaney Applauds Pentagon Decision to Allow Women to Serve in CombatToday the Pentagon announced that the military is removing the ban on women serving in combat. Statement by Congressman John Delaney:This historic announcement is good for our military and good for our country. The service and sacrifice of hundreds of thousands of servicewomen is being recognized and validated with this decision. As Americans we understand how many women are already among our nation’s true military heroes. Our servicewomen should be allowed the opportunity to be selected to serve in combat. The Pentagon is on the right side of history with this move and the march to further equality is good for us all.##
01.24.2013	Congressman Delaney Urges FEMA to Reconsider Garrett County for Emergency AssistanceDelaney co-authors letter with Maryland Senators Mikulski and Cardin to FEMA Administrator FugateCongressman John K. Delaney has co-authored a letter to Federal Emergency Management (FEMA) Administrator W. Craig Fugate urging that Individual Assistance for Garrett County be added to the major disaster declaration FEMA-4091-DR for the State of Maryland. The letter to Administrator Fugate was co-signed by Maryland Senators Barbara Mikulski and Ben Cardin and submitted on January 23, 2013. “Garrett County was hit extremely hard by Hurricane Sandy and the people of Western Maryland will remember this storm and the damage it did for a long time,” said Congressman Delaney. “Of specific concern to me is that at least 23 homes were damaged by the storm and without the Individual Assistance designation from FEMA, these residents and homeowners will not be able to receive federal assistance. I encourage Administrator Fugate to reconsider Maryland’s request for Individual Assistance.”“Super-Storm Sandy’s wrath had a measurable impact on residents of Maryland, and especially on the residents of Garrett County,” said Senator Mikulski, Chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee. “More than two months after Sandy, it’s important for these residents to know they have a federal government on their side. Maryland suffered a double whammy. Our coastal areas along the beloved Chesapeake Bay and the Atlantic Ocean were hit by the hurricane. In Garrett County, called the Switzerland of Maryland, we were hit by a blizzard. The TV cameras have left, but the compelling human need has not.”“Residents of Garrett County were seriously impacted by Hurricane Sandy and Individual Assistance would significantly help businesses and individuals recover from the property damage they sustained,” said Senator Cardin in joining Rep. Delaney and Senator Mikulski in requesting FEMA reconsider a designation of Individual Assistance for the County. “There are not many individuals who can financially bear the burden of major weather-related events that impact their communities.”Maryland Governor Martin O`Malley requested Individual Assistance for Garrett County on December 12. However that request was denied on December 14.Should the county receive an Individual Assistance designation, residents or business owners in Garrett County would be eligible to apply for federal assistance if they have incurred significant property damage or loss and if they do not have the insurance or other resources to meet their needs. FEMA has designated Garrett County as eligible for Public Assistance, which provides supplemental grant assistance for the repair and restoration of publicly-owned facilities and designated non-profit properties. Public Assistance has also been designated for Allegany, Frederick, Montgomery, and Washington Counties in the Sixth District. ##
01.23.2013	Congressman Delaney Co-Sponsors Violence Against Women Act Congressman John K. Delaney is an original co-sponsor of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act, which was introduced this week.Statement from Congressman Delaney:“I am proud to sponsor the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act. For nearly two decades this legislation has helped reduce violence against women, which is why it has been reauthorized with bipartisan support twice before. The updated Violence Against Women Act strengthens the ability of the federal government and of local law enforcement to combat domestic and dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. This bill both renews successful violence prevention programs and improves efficiency, consolidating thirteen existing programs into four. I look forward to working to ensure this bill becomes a law.”##
01.18.2013	Statement by Congressman John Delaney on White House Proposals to Reduce Gun Violence Congressman Delaney releases the following statement on the White House proposals to reduce gun violence:I support the President’s proposals to address gun violence. When tragedy strikes and horrifying, unimaginable suffering is wrought upon our nation, as Members of Congress we have a deep obligation to respond. There is a consensus that the status quo isn’t acceptable, not when our children and loved ones no longer feel safe at school, or at the movie theater, or in places of worship, or in their homes. This is not about taking guns away from law-abiding citizens and I believe that it is important to protect the Second Amendment. The President is proposing practical actions that will help law enforcement administer our existing laws, allow further research into the causes of violence, and provide grants to local authorities to help make our schools and streets safer. We also need to find ways to expand access to mental health care to ensure those who are suffering from mental illness receive proper care and treatment.Congress should take action to close the huge loopholes in our current background check system, a measure that the American people overwhelmingly support. We also must examine the prevalence of assault weapons and high-capacity magazines in mass shootings and look to legislation that can help prevent further tragedies. ##
01.16.2013	For Immediate Release: January 16, 2013 Contact: Will McDonald 202-225-2721Congressman John Delaney Named to House Subcommittees on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, Oversight and InvestigationsCongressman John Delaney, a member of the House Committee on Financial Services, has been named to the subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit and the subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations by the Democratic Caucus Steering and Policy Committee.“I’m excited to have been named to the Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit subcommittee and the Oversight and Investigations subcommittee and am ready to get to work,” said Congressman Delaney. “Sound policy that encourages a healthy and responsible private financial sector is vital to our economic competitiveness, which is my number one priority in Congress. On the committee I look forward to working with Ranking Member Waters, and the Ranking Members on my subcommittees, Congressman Meeks and Congressman Green. I also look forward to working across the aisle with Chairman Hensarling to find solutions and serve the common good.” The founder of two New York Stock Exchange listed financial services companies, Delaney is the only former CEO of a publicly traded company currently serving in the House of Representatives. ##
01.15.2013	For Immediate Release: January 15, 2013 Contact: Will McDonald 202-225-2721 Congressman John Delaney Tells Bloomberg Debt Ceiling Default Would be “Catastrophic” for EconomyDelaney argues debt ceiling should not be part of spending negotiations In an interview with Bloomberg’s Peter Cook on this week’s “Capitol Gains” Congressman John Delaney (MD-6) argued that triggering a default by failing to raise the debt ceiling would be “catastrophic” for the economy.PETER COOK: Right now you’ve got some lawmakers on the Republican side, even on the Democratic side, worried about the prospect of default. Some saying that would be the better choice to force the kind of spending cuts. As a businessperson, how worried are you about where things stand on the debt ceiling and the possibility that the two sides will not be able to reach compromise? CONGRESSMAN DELANEY: Tripping the debt ceiling would be a catastrophic mistake for the country. The consequences of it are uncertain, what it could do to the country's credit rating, what it could do to investors who own securities in this country and the consequences of that are almost unimaginable and catastrophic. And it should not be used as a bargaining tool. If people have never spent any time in the private sector they don’t understand these things to a certain extent. But from some who has spent time in the private sector, toying around with the debt ceiling is a very, very, significant mistake. Delaney also addressed the need for Congress to take further action on deficit reduction and outlined his focus on housing reform as a member of the House Committee on Financial Services. Delaney is only former CEO of a publicly traded company currently serving in the House of Representatives.To view the full video of Congressman Delaney’s interview, click here. ##
01.08.2013	For Immediate Release: January 8, 2013 Contact: Will McDonald 202-225-2721 Congressman John Delaney Named to Democratic Whip Team Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer (MD-5) has named Congressman John Delaney (MD-6) to the Democratic Whip Team for the 113th Congress. As a Senior Whip, Delaney will participate in weekly strategy meetings with Democratic leadership on upcoming legislation and will be responsible for speaking to fellow Democrats about key legislation.“I am pleased to announce that I have appointed Rep. John Delaney to serve as a Senior Whip in the 113th Congress. As a new Member of Congress, Rep. Delaney will bring an important perspective to the table. I look forward to working with him on behalf of working families in Maryland and across the country as we advance Democrats’ agenda of job creation and building a strong middle class.”“I am proud to have been named to the Whip Team,” said Congressman Delaney. “I look forward to working with Whip Hoyer and our leadership to advance our principles of fairness and fiscal responsibility and find solutions to the problems facing our country.”Last week, Delaney was elected one of the Freshman Class Presidents for the Democratic Caucus. ##
01.04.2013	For Immediate Release: January 4, 2013Contact: Will McDonald 202-225-2721 Congressman John Delaney Statement on Hurricane Sandy Aid BillToday the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 41, a bill replenishing the National Flood Insurance Fund, allowing those home and business owners impacted by Superstorm Sandy to soon receive flood insurance payments. FEMA has announced that without Congressional action to replenish the National Flood Insurance Fund, funds to respond to insurance claims, which include 115,000 related to Sandy, will be exhausted by next week. The measure passed with a bipartisan vote of 354-67.Congressman John Delaney voted in favor of the bill and releases the following statement:“Millions of Americans were impacted by Superstorm Sandy and thousands of homeowners, families, and businesses along the Atlantic coast are still, literally, picking up the pieces, including many in Maryland.H.R. 41 takes a necessary first step by allowing more Americans to receive National Flood Insurance payments.As we move forward, I will continue to work with the Maryland Delegation and our Governor to make sure that our impacted communities, including Garrett County, receive the assistance they need.” ##
01.04.2013	For Immediate Release: January 4, 2013Contact: Will McDonald 202-225-2721 Congressman John Delaney Elected Democratic Freshman Class President Congressman John Delaney (MD-6) has been elected by his peers as one of four Democratic Freshman Class Presidents for the 113th Congress. Along with Delaney, Congressman Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-1), Congressman Matt Cartwright (PA-17), and Congressman Joaquin Castro (TX-20) were elected. There are 38 freshman Democrats in the 113th Congress.“I am honored to be selected by my freshman colleagues as one of our presidents. I look forward to working with Congressman Cartwright, Congressman Castro, and Congresswoman Lujan Grisham, to make sure that our freshman class and the constituents we represent are heard in Congress. In our time together, I have observed our class to be deeply committed to moving our country forward, advancing our nation’s ascending diversity, and working in a constructive manner for the common good.” ##
01.03.2013	For Immediate Release: January 3, 2013 Contact: Will McDonald 202-225-2721 Statement by Congressman John Delaney on Being Sworn-In to House of Representatives Congressman John K. Delaney releases the following statement on being sworn-in as a member of the House of Representatives:It is truly an honor to be sworn in, take office, and to represent the people of the Sixth District. I view serving in public office as a privilege and will take my responsibilities as a representative very seriously. I will work extremely hard to serve the people of the Maryland’s Sixth District, from Gaithersburg to Garrett County, and will always put the good of the district and the country first. In the House and as a member of the House Committee on Financial Services, my top priority will be restoring U.S. competitiveness, so that we can grow the middle class, strengthen our economy, and create more good jobs here at home.The challenges we face are great, but my constituents elected me to work with both sides, find solutions, and look to the common good, and that will be my aim.###
