02.26.2019	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) provided the following statement regarding the House vote on the President’s National Emergency Declaration: “This is a national security issue, a humanitarian issue, and a drug enforcement issue,” Fortenberry said. “President Bush and President Obama both committed troops to the border and to border barriers. After listening to our military leaders, I am assured that the current situation is urgent,” Fortenberry added. Congressman Jeff Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. ###
02.19.2019	(Lincoln, NE) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) announced today that, due to severe weather conditions, the Farm Bill review session scheduled for tomorrow, Wednesday, February 20, at the Elkhorn Natural Resources District Conference Room in Norfolk has been postponed. Congressman Fortenberry is hoping to reschedule the Farm Bill review session shortly. If you have any questions or concerns, please contact Congressman Fortenberry’s office at (402) 438-1598. Congressman Jeff Fortenberry is the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies and is sponsor of the Rural Health Insurance Act, among other ag-related initiatives.
02.15.2019	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) released this statement today: “The border needs to be secure. That is the basis of a lawful, just, and compassionate immigration system. The intensity of the problem has reached emergency status. The legal questions will hopefully engender the right kind of debate in Congress. The fullness of the strategy should now involve mandatory e-verify, stopping visa overstays, and appropriately accommodating the DACA children.” Congressman Jeff Fortenberry is a Member of the House Appropriations Committee and is the Ranking Member of its Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies
02.15.2019	(Lincoln, NE) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) announced today that he will be hosting a Farm Bill review session this coming Wednesday, February 20, 12:30 pm to 2:00 pm, in Norfolk with USDA Under Secretary Bill Northey. The Farm Bill review will be held at the Lower Elkhorn Natural Resources District Conference Room, 1508 Square Turn Boulevard, Norfolk, Nebraska. “In Nebraska, agriculture is central to our economic well-being, our way of life, our culture,” Fortenberry said. “The Farm Bill is a once-every-five-year piece of legislation. It ensures that America continues to lead the world in agricultural innovation, food safety, and renewable fuels, while enhancing opportunity for beginning farmers and local growers,” Fortenberry said. “The birth of such legislation is neither easy nor smooth. I look forward to discussing its essential components with the community,” Fortenberry concluded. If you have any questions about the upcoming Farm Bill review session, please contact Congressman Fortenberry’s office at (402) 438-1598. Congressman Jeff Fortenberry is the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies and is sponsor of the Rural Health Insurance Act among other ag-related initiatives. ###
02.06.2019	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) spoke this morning about President Trump’s State of the Union Address. “I thought the overall tone of the State of the Union was conciliatory,” Fortenberry said. “I thought the President was inviting Congress to some consensus—and on many issues, we should have consensus, such as lowered drug prices, infrastructure, and trade deals. “There was one large exception. Clearly the President wanted to make a strong case for border security in order to set the new preconditions for better outcomes in the next road of budget negotiations. “My favorite line in the speech was when the President called on the bonds of ‘love and loyalty.' What leader around the world can say that? It captures the heart of America.” Congressman Fortenberry’s State of the Union special guest was Nobel Peace Prize winner Nadia Murad. Congressman Jeff Fortenberry is a Member of the House Appropriations Committee and is the Ranking Member of its Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies ###
02.01.2019	(Lincoln, NE) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) announced today that Nobel Peace Prize winner Nadia Murad will be his guest of honor at the State of the Union this Tuesday, February 5. “Nadia Murad’s heartbreaking story of enslavement by ISIS, her courageous escape, and her ongoing fight for basic human rights for her Yazidi people is a story the world needs to hear,” Fortenberry said. “I am so honored that she will be my guest at this year’s State of the Union,” he added. Congressman Jeff Fortenberry is Co-Chair of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus and is the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies.
01.15.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) made the following statement today on being named the Republican Leader of the House Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee: “Our land has been the source of America’s vitality,” Fortenberry said. "This is true more than ever, even in our modern age. I am grateful to lead in this innovative space of agriculture production, specialty foods, rural development, as well related authorities covering the Food and Drug Administration. "As I was considered for this leadership position,” Fortenberry added, "I recalled a time when I was a boy. My grandfather, who was a county agent, asked me what I wanted to do with my life: “I said, ‘Papa, I want to be a farmer.'” Congressman Jeff Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
01.03.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) made the following statement today on taking the Oath of Office: "Today a new Congress begins. It is an extraordinary privilege to be entrusted with the responsibility to govern. As President Kennedy once said, ‘To govern is to choose.' Our challenge will be to choose wisely,” Fortenberry said. “With a new Congress comes new options to build consensus, find real solutions, and recreate the imaginative possibilities of our great country,” Fortenberry added. Congressman Jeff Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
12.22.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) made the following statement today on the ongoing budget negotiations: “Our goal is to quickly resolve the current budget problem and keep the entire government operational. It should be noted that 75% of the government is funded due to earlier congressional action, with the remaining 25% in negotiation. The decisive issue of border security funding, which used to have bipartisan support, has become the flashpoint of philosophical divide. No one wins in a shutdown; no one wins if the border is not safe.” Fortenberry added: “I expect negotiations to proceed quickly and there to be minimal disruption to basic government services and employees.” Congressman Jeff Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and Chairman of its Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch. ###
12.13.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) made the following statement yesterday on the passage of the Farm Bill: “The just-passed Farm Bill is important for Nebraska and America. It is one of the most significant pieces of legislation that we work on in Congress. It provides risk-management tools for Nebraska’s farmers and ranchers and food security to millions of Americans through its nutrition programs,” Fortenberry said. “The new Farm Bill also fosters conservation practices that enhance soil protection and wildlife habitat. And it ensures that America continues to lead the world in agricultural innovation, food safety, and renewable fuels, while enhancing opportunity for beginning farmers and local growers,” Fortenberry said. Congressman Jeff Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and is sponsor of the Rural Health Insurance Act. ### ​
12.01.2018	President George H.W. Bush showed us the virtues of honor in office, dignity and formality. Hearing of his death, I reflected on the story of his dramatic rescue at sea after being shot down over the Pacific during WWII. His passing reminds us again of the Greatest Generation's dedication to our country's noblest ideals.
10.17.2018	(Lincoln, NE) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today provided the following statement after introducing a resolution in the House of Representatives for the development of a security plan for religious minorities in Northern Iraq: “The United States Government is accelerating, expanding, and focusing humanitarian support for Christians, Yazidis, and other religious minorities who have suffered genocide at the hands of ISIS,” Fortenberry said. “At the same time, facts on the ground require a proper security settlement. Financial assistance must be combined with a clear plan that ensures sustainable security in the Nineveh Plain and Sinjar. At least three million Iraqis have been displaced from northern Iraq, and many are urgently seeking stability and safety in their ancestral homelands. “Much is at stake. Iraq and the region risk losing entire minority communities and, with them, the centuries-old healthy pluralism that played the quiet but essential role of holding people of diverse faiths together,” Fortenberry added. “More immediately, Iran continues to expand its influence in the area, and the regeneration of ISIS remains a potential threat. “This is why I introduced a resolution in the House of Representatives that calls on our government to develop a coordinated and implementable plan for a stabilization and security mission in the region. The proper approach incorporates regularized national military structures, indigenous police units, and local Christian, Yazidi, and other minorities into the security forces. Re-securitization is necessary to ensure the success of our humanitarian support for restoring the once-rich tapestry of ethnic and religious diversity that existed in the region.” Christians in Iraq used to total 1.5 million. Now, in the wake of ISIS, only a few hundred thousand remain. Approximately 400,000 Yazidis are now internally displaced persons living in tent structures. To this day, 3500 Yazidi women remain as ISIS sex slaves. Congressman Jeff Fortenberry is a member of House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations and is co-chair of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus. He represents America’s largest Yazidi community. ###
10.15.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Last week, Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (NE-1) and Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-17) introduced the Palestinian Partnership Fund Act of 2018. This legislation builds bridges between Israelis and Palestinians, laying the groundwork for peace and prosperity between the parties. The bill promotes economic development, helps finance joint ventures between Palestinian entrepreneurs and companies in the United States, Israel, and other countries in the Middle East, and scales people-to-people cooperation. “We often hear about the ‘the road map for peace in the Middle East,’” Fortenberry said. “The challenge is laying the proper foundation for the road. Building on previous U.S. efforts at reconciliation, this bipartisan bill is a genuine attempt by the United States to regenerate our historic role in finding creative and imaginative pathways to secure a sustainable peace. This starts by recreating new and better economic and interpersonal linkages for prosperity and interconnectedness between the region’s peoples.” “I have always believed that a two-state solution is the only framework that would lead to two states for two peoples,” Lowey said. “But this dream will only be realized through efforts on the ground to stimulate economic development and community ties between Israelis and Palestinians. This legislation would be a critical step in the reconciliation process necessary for there to one day be a democratic, Jewish State of Israel and a democratic, Palestinian State living side-by-side in peace, security, and mutual recognition.” Several organizations support the Palestinian Partnership Fund, including the Alliance for Middle East Peace, the American Jewish Committee, and the Jewish Council for Public Affairs. Congressman Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. Congresswoman Lowey is a Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations and the Full Committee on Appropriations. The full text of the bill is available here. Congressman Jeff Fortenberry is a Member of the House Appropriations Committee and Chairman of its Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch. ### ​
10.03.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement on the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA): “This reformed and renegotiated trade deal with Canada and Mexico appears to move us in the right direction,” Fortenberry said. “Trade has to be fair or it will not be entirely free.” “The agreed-upon deal will help strengthen our domestic automobile production and improve wages and working conditions in automobile factories, while improving the export outlook for Nebraska farmers, among other important changes,” Fortenberry added. “I look forward to ratifying this bill into legislation.” Congressman Jeff Fortenberry is a Member of the House Appropriations Committee and Chairman of its Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch. ###
09.18.2018	(Bellevue, NE, September 18, 2018)— Today, in a ceremony at the Bellevue Public Schools Welcome Center, Congressman Jeff Fortenberry presented several outstanding Nebraska students with the prestigious Congressional Award. “I have great respect for the hard work, discipline, and dedication of these exemplary young Nebraskans, “ Fortenberry said. “I am also proud that two of this year’s recipients, Pranav Rajan and Aurora Kenworthy, are interns in my Lincoln office,” Fortenberry added. Created in 1979, the Congressional Award honors achievement in the areas of voluntary public service, personal development, physical fitness, and expedition or exploration. A full list of this year’s first district award winners can be found here. Congressman Jeff Fortenberry is a Member of the House Appropriations Committee and Chairman of its Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch. He is also co-chair of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus. ###
09.10.2018	(Washington, DC, September 10, 2018)— Members of the Nebraska Congressional delegation have urged leadership of the House and Senate Appropriations Committee on Defense to adopt the Senate’s language to fully fund the OC-135B Aircraft Replacement Program as part of their reconciliation of House and Senate versions of the 2019 Defense Appropriations Act. “The OC-135B aircraft fly in critical support of the Open Skies Treaty, a 34-member global agreement that enables observation of signatory compliance with nuclear arms agreements, particularly that of the Russian Federation, in the interest of international stability,” Fortenberry said. "The replacement of these aircraft is vital to our national defense strategy. Their advanced age and condition thwarts the Air Force’s ability to fully execute the mission of the Open Skies Treaty, while keeping our airmen safe,” Fortenberry added. Please find attached the full letter to the Appropriations Committee. Congressman Jeff Fortenberry is a Member of the House Appropriations Committee and Chairman of its Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch. He is also co-chair of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus. ###
09.10.2018	(Washington, DC, September 10, 2018)— “I am pleased to report that as part of the fiscal 2019 Energy-Water, Military Construction-VA and Legislative Branch spending package, Congressional interns will now be paid in both the Senate and the House,” Congressman Fortenberry said. “My colleagues on both sides of the aisle arrived at a package that would pay $8.8 million to House interns and $5 million to Senate interns. House funds will reside in a new account created for just this purpose,” Fortenberry added. “The high cost of living in Washington, DC has made it difficult to attract the nation’s best and brightest young people to a summer or semester of public service. This now changes. By leveling the playing field, we can attract a diverse range of interns with a deep love of country who may have had difficulty affording this opportunity in the past,” Fortenberry added. Funding to pay interns serving in House member offices will be apportioned at $20,000 per office. Congressman Jeff Fortenberry is a Member of the House Appropriations Committee and Chairman of its Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch. He is also co-chair of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus. ###
08.20.2018	(Lincoln, NE, August 20, 2018) - On Saturday, August 18, at 7:30 PM, Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) spoke to an audience of over 300 about the plight of religious minorities in Northern Iraq at the 24th annual Go Big Red Night in the social hall of St. John the Baptist Parish Knights of Columbus Council 10305 in Fort Calhoun, Nebraska. Fortenberry recently returned from Northern Iraq, where, at the request of Vice President Mike Pence, he assessed the situation on the ground for Christians and other religious minorities and evaluated America’s initial aid package to the region. Fortenberry was joined by Administrator Mark Green of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom Sam Brownback. Their trip included intense discussions with Iraqi religious leaders, international aid workers, displaced children, U.N. personnel, and U.S. military leadership. Fortenberry and his colleagues were responding to reports in June that existing support efforts did not have their intended effect. Christians in Iraq used to total 1.5 million. Now, in the wake of ISIS, only a few hundred thousand remain. Approximately 400,000 Yazidis are now internally displaced persons living in tent structures. 3500 Yazidi women remain as ISIS sex slaves. “At this point, America has given so much, lost so much in Iraq, it is hard to understand why engagement is ongoing and necessary,” Fortenberry said. “Yet, much is still at stake, especially for beleaguered minorities hanging on for their very survival,” he added. At the end of his remarks, Fortenberry presented the Knights of Columbus with an altar stone from the Chaldean Catholic Church, Mart Adda, in Karamless, Iraq. The church was attacked and desecrated by ISIS. The nationally recognized Fort Calhoun Knights have been active in the region, having raised over $150,000 to help with the reconstruction of several homes in Karamdes, a mostly Christian town in the Nineveh Plain of northern Iraq. Also in attendance Saturday was Rula Jabbour, daughter of Syrian refugee Gabriel Jabbour, who fled his ancestral homeland before he was to be executed by ISIS for being a Christian. Congressman Jeff Fortenberry is a Member of the House Appropriations Committee and is Chairman of its Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch. He is also the co-chair of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus. ###
08.03.2018	(Lincoln, NE) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry spent the evening with the Yazidi community of Lincoln, America’s largest, to commemorate the fourth anniversary of the Yazidi Genocide. The Yazidis are an ancient ethno-religious people who primarily live in the Nineveh and Sinjar areas of Iraq. Their community was targeted by ISIS for extermination. Today 400,000 Yazidis remain in tent camps as displaced persons. Over 3500 Yazidi women remain prisoners of ISIS. “I am honored to represent the brave people of this community, and humbled that they have invited me to commemorate this somber occasion with them,” Fortenberry said. “The Yazidis of Nebraska profoundly contribute to the diversity and well-being of the Lincoln community by celebrating their tradition while proudly embracing their new home,” Fortenberry added. At the request of Vice President Mike Pence, Fortenberry recently traveled with a delegation to Iraq on a mission to investigate the effectiveness of US aid to help the religious minority communities, who are barely hanging on in their ancestral homeland of the Nineveh Plain. “At this point, America has given so much, lost so much in Iraq, it is hard to understand why engagement is ongoing and necessary,” Fortenberry added. “Getting this right means justice for the oppressed, stability for Iraq, and the preservation of principles necessary for civilization itself.” Congressman Jeff Fortenberry is a Member of the House Appropriations Committee and is Chairman of its Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch. He is also the co-chair of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus. ###
07.24.2018	(Lincoln, NE) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today issued the following information on upcoming town halls he will be holding in Nebraska’s first district: Friday, July 27: Bellevue Town Hall: 12:00pm Bellevue Volunteer Firefighters Hall 2108 Franklin St, Bellevue, NE Lincoln Town Hall: 5:00pm Schoo Middle School 700 Penrose Drive, Lincoln, NE Monday, July 30: Blair Town Hall: 10:00am Blair Public Library 2233 Civic Drive, Blair, NE Fremont Town Hall: 12:30pm Fremont City Council Chambers 400 E. Military Avenue, Fremont, NE David City Town Hall 3:30pm Roman L. and Victoria E. Hruska Memorial Public Library 399 N. 5th St, David City, NE Tuesday, July 31: Columbus Town Hall: 12:00pm Columbus City Council Chambers 1369 25th Avenue, Columbus, NE Norfolk Town Hall: 5:00pm Norfolk City Council Chambers 309 N 5th St, Norfolk, NE Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee and is Chairman of the Legislative Branch Subcommittee. ###
07.18.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry provided the following statement on the passage of the DELTA Act to protect the Okavango River Basin of Southern Africa: “The Defending Economic Livelihoods and Threatened Animals Act, or DELTA Act, is a transnational conservation initiative designed to help protect the economic livelihood of the threatened Okavango River Basin of Southern Africa," said Fortenberry. "Mirroring the complexity of nature beyond human-defined borders, the bill represents a new imaginative, multinational, multi-sectoral strategy to protecting majestic species such as the African elephant and rhinoceros, while creating dynamic new benefits for the surrounding countries and indigenous people. Through innovation, creativity, and sustainable resource management, we can save and enhance one of the most beautiful and delicate ecosystems in the world.” The greater Okavango River Basin is the largest freshwater wetland in Southern Africa, and is the main source of water and livelihood for over a million people in the countries of Angola, Namibia, and Botswana that exist along this pivotal waterway. It is also home to the largest remaining elephant population in the world. Poaching and trafficking of threatened wildlife species in this greater river basin has increased in recent years, potentially undermining regional stability. Fortenberry is Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch and is Co-Chairman of the International Conservation Caucus. ###
06.27.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today announced the winner of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition: “I am pleased to announce Anna Currier as this year’s winner of the Congressional Art Competition for the First District,” said Fortenberry. “I am proud of Anna’s piece 4 ½ Years, a determined reflection of herself at that age. Her graphite drawing will now hang in a place of honor in the Capitol for one year.” Anna recently finished her senior year at Bancroft–Rosalie High School and will be starting her first year of college at the University of Iowa, where she plans to double major in Creative Writing/English and Theatre with a minor in Art. For more information on the Congressional Art Competition, please visit my website. ###
06.25.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today announced that he has been selected to serve as the new Chairman of the United States House Appropriations Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch: “I am grateful for the trust my colleagues have placed in me to lead this important subcommittee,” said Fortenberry. “The House Appropriations Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch oversees Capitol security and the operations of Congress. I am also grateful to Nebraskans for giving me the opportunity to assume these new duties for the benefit of our nation. The Appropriations Committee has frontline responsibility for making some of the hardest decisions that face our country.” Chairman of the Appropriations Committee Rodney Frelinghuysen offered the following quote in support of Congressman Fortenberry’s chairmanship: “Representative Fortenberry is a valued member of the Appropriations Committee and has worked diligently over the years to make certain that each and every tax dollar under our care is used responsibly. His leadership and insight in his new role as Subcommittee Chairman will be essential to craft legislation that funds the Legislative Branch of our government, ensuring the proper functioning of our democratic process and the safety of those that work in and visit the Capitol complex every day.” Congressman Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and Chairman of the United States House Appropriations Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch. ###
06.21.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement on the passage of the House 2018 Farm Bill: “The Farm Bill is good for Nebraska, good for America. It delivers certainty to Nebraska’s ranchers and farmers. It mitigates risk and provides stability to our food production process, while also preserving the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) for those in vulnerable circumstances,” said Fortenberry. “Although the first attempt in the House failed, I am gratified that we came together to pass this critical legislation. The bill, which includes my amendments to the Farmer to Farmer Program, as well as authorizes The Rural Health Insurance Act, now resides in the Senate.” Congressman Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
06.12.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement on the meeting between President Donald Trump and the North Korean leader Kim Jong-Un in Singapore: “President Trump’s move towards engagement with North Korea is historic, bold, and would have been unimaginable – just months ago – given the heightened threat environment from North Korea,” Fortenberry said. “Today’s joint Trump-Kim statement, if fully realized, lays the foundation for a denuclearized Korean Peninsula, a dramatically new and constructive era in U.S.-North Korea relations, and a peaceful and prosperous future for the North and South Korean people.” Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. ###
06.08.2018	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Don Bacon (NE-02) and Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (NE-01) released a statement following their ‘yea’ vote and successful advocacy to remove Ebola funding cuts from the rescissions package: “I worked to ensure life-saving Ebola funding was not cut as part of this rescissions package, enabling me to now vote to rescind nearly $15 billion in wasteful spending. These are necessary cuts to ensure we do not burden our children and grandchildren with massive national debt,” said Rep. Bacon. “Originally, $252 million of emergency Ebola response funding was slated to be defunded, which would have jeopardized the lives of those who so desperately need access to Ebola treatment. The University of Nebraska Medical Center, located in Omaha, is a global leader in Ebola treatment, research, and development and these proposed cuts would have hindered the ability for our nation to adequately treat and respond to an Ebola outbreak here or abroad. Funding cuts to treatment for patients with Ebola, especially in Africa, would eventually impact the work of our men and women at UNMC, with Ebola victims traveling to Omaha to receive assistance and treatment from our medical facility." “Our university does essential health and national security work,” said Rep. Fortenberry. “I wanted to make sure that the hard decisions to reduce spending didn’t inadvertently hit this important program.” “We thank Congressmen Bacon and Fortenberry for their ongoing support of our federal partnership to combat Ebola and other highly infectious diseases,” said UNMC Chancellor Jeffrey P. Gold, M.D. “They recognize the importance of UNMC’s work and understand why this federal investment to fight Ebola is so crucial. The recent outbreak of Ebola in the Democratic Republic of the Congo demonstrates that this threat is still quite real. UNMC continues to take the lead in fighting these deadly diseases and remains completely committed to the education and training of health professionals as well as the prevention and treatment of those who are exposed to these diseases.” During House Floor debate, House Majority Whip Steve Scalise spoke in favor of the rescissions package and thanked Reps. Bacon and Fortenberry for their work to preserve Ebola funding. You can watch the floor speech here. ###
05.28.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement on Memorial Day: “On Memorial Day, we stop the busyness and pause: to observe, to reflect, to remember,” said Fortenberry. “The formal remembrance of our nation’s war dead is more than a nostalgic tradition.” “That a person would lay down his life for his friends—for another— turns our thoughts to the noblest of human ideals; and when we gather to say thank you, we affirm our common bonds as a people. Nations that are strong and secure do not look only toward the future. They also remember the past.” Congressman Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
05.25.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Jimmy Panetta (D-CA), Pete Visclosky (D-IN), Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE), Chuck Fleischmann (R-TN), and Jim Banks (R-IN) successfully included an amendment in the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), to speed the elimination of cesium chloride, which can be used to make “dirty bombs,” or radiological dispersal devices. This amendment reduces the risk of a catastrophic radiological attack while upgrading medical technology used across the country. “Cesium chloride, one of the most dangerous and accessible radiological materials capable of making a dirty bomb, is currently found in medical facilities across the United States. Our amendment directs the National Nuclear Security Administration to use existing voluntary programs to incentivize the replacement of cesium chloride blood irradiation devices by 2027. This amendment was the product of a bipartisan process involving members of the House Nuclear Security Working Group, a caucus dedicated to addressing critical nuclear and radiological security issues, that allowed us to engage across the aisle and find common ground to reduce the risk of a radiological attack and strengthen our national security. As members of the Congressional Nuclear Security Working Group, we will continue to work to ensure this provision’s successful enactment into law and implementation nation-wide.” The text of the amendment can be found here. # # #
05.24.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement on the cancellation of the historic summit between North Korea and the United States: “It was so close,” said Fortenberry. “But we have to accept the hard realities of a gravely broken situation and keep the possibility of continuing dialogue open.” Congressman Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and its Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. ###
05.18.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today made the following statement on the Farm Bill: “The Farm Bill is important for Nebraska, important for America,” said Fortenberry. “The Farm Bill provides essential policies that mitigate risk for farmers and helps provide stability in our food production process. Through the nutrition title, the legislation also gives food security for those in vulnerable circumstances. “The Farm Bill is usually a unifying effort in Washington. Although the first attempt in the House failed, I am proud of a new provision, the Rural Health Insurance Act, which will help qualified agricultural associations offer insurance at much lower cost for those who have been devastated by lack of access to affordable health care. As this effort moves forward, I am hopeful that we can also make improvements in areas such as conservation, beginning farmers, and local foods.” Congressman Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and is the sponsor of the Rural Health Insurance Act, among other ag-related initiatives. ###
05.17.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement on his Farmer to Farmer Program amendment to the Farm Bill: “I am pleased that the House of Representatives voted to include my Farmer to Farmer Program amendment in the Farm Bill,” said Fortenberry. “This initiative is about three things: the richness of America’s farm experience, an engine of economic regeneration for the poor, and enhancing emerging diplomatic relations. It renews, innovates, and modernizes the program’s goals. “For over thirty years, Farmer to Farmer has connected volunteer American farmers, agriculture extension experts, and others with deep knowledge of agriculture production to farmers abroad, governments, and agricultural universities around the globe. The sharing of America’s ag expertise dramatically enhances the capacity of peoples elsewhere to grow their own food, put money in their pockets, and contribute to worldwide food security, elevating community wellbeing and human flourishing.” Initially authorized in 1985, and re-authorized via subsequent Farm Bills, the John Ogonowski and Doug Bereuter Farmer to Farmer Program has deployed more than 17,000 volunteers from United States farms, agribusinesses, cooperatives, and universities since its founding. All fifty states have been represented in its volunteer trips to assist farmers in nations close to home and overseas. Congressman Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and is the sponsor of the Rural Health Insurance Act, among other ag-related initiatives. ###
05.16.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement on his meeting with Marcel Pika: “I had the great privilege today of meeting Marcel Pika,” said Fortenberry. “After years of unjust imprisonment in the Republic of the Congo, including suffering abhorrent treatment, Mr. Pika is now reunited with his family in Lincoln. He made this trip to Washington to show his appreciation for those who worked toward his release, but, more important, to ask for help in securing the release of other political prisoners who remain detained in his home country. The love and selfless dedication of the Pika family is an inspiration to our community.” Marcel Pika, a retired colonel in the Republic of the Congo army, immigrated to the U.S. in 1999 and became a citizen in 2005. He returned to live in the Republic of the Congo in 2007 and was arrested in March of 2016. His detention, initial solitary confinement, and long imprisonment are believed to be due to his support of political opponents of the current president. Congressman Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and its Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. ###
05.08.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement on the Iran Nuclear Deal: “Although Iran has complied with the structural components of the nuclear deal, the behavior of the Iranian regime is destroying the political preconditions for the agreement’s viability,” said Fortenberry. “From Yemen to Lebanon, Iran’s emboldened and aggressive posture undermined the intended consequence of the deal. Since the deal came into effect, Iran has continued supporting militant groups, ramped up ballistic missile testing, and threatened the region and partners. “Despite these hard realities, we should continue to look for alternative pathways for rapprochement. As we navigate a path forward, one area I believe is a priority is significant support and an expanded role for the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to strengthen verification.” Fortenberry voted against the original Iran Nuclear Agreement in 2015. Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee and the Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. ###
05.04.2018	(Washington D.C.) – Congressman Fortenberry issued the following statement on the introduction of the Rural Health Insurance Act of 2018 and its inclusion in the new Farm Bill: “Farmers and ranchers are hurting,” said Fortenberry. “The Rural Health Insurance Act plows back into the health care debate with an innovative idea in the Farm Bill to support new agricultural health associations.” “Many individuals in rural communities face unsustainable insurance hikes simply because they can't join with others in a larger risk pool. It's unjust, it's wrong, and it’s contributing to rural decline.” “Creating new group policies for rural communities will help stem the trend of ag families leaving their operation in order to find work elsewhere solely to gain health care coverage. The bill creates a new loan and grant program to start health care insurance risk pools for qualified ag associations.” “I am pleased that the idea is getting national attention and policy traction as a new health care solution.” Congressman Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
04.11.2018	(Washington D.C.) –Today, Congressman Fortenberry issued the following statement on Speaker Paul Ryan’s retirement: “I didn’t see it coming,” said Fortenberry. “He’s young, vibrant, and well respected. He has been a thoughtful leader on highly important issues, such as tax reform, conscience protection rights, and creating meaningful work opportunities. It’s not an easy task to manage 434 other egos. We will miss his leadership in Congress as he moves to spend more time with his family.” “I think the Speaker’s best line today was: ‘I just want to be a dad again.’” Congressman Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
03.22.2018	(Washington D.C.) –Today, Congressman Fortenberry issued the following statement on the omnibus bill: “The new budget for 2018 is done. This has been a difficult, messy process, but it is now settled,” said Fortenberry. “It does some important things. It gives our troops a pay raise, rebuilds our military, and supports expanded mental health and school security programs.” “Completing this bill stabilizes the federal budget, while also providing economic assurance and predictability for the things that matter to Nebraskans.” Congressman Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
03.11.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Fortenberry today provided the following statement on the passing of Nebraska Governor Charlie Thone: "I'm saddened by the loss of my good friend Charlie Thone. He was truly a great Nebraskan. Solid, honest, and down to earth, and a generous mentor to me. May God grant him eternal rest." ###
03.09.2018	(Washington D.C.) –Today, Congressman Jeff Fortenberry issued the following statement on President Trump’s proposed new tariffs on steel and aluminum. “There is legitimate concern that tariff implementation may hurt Nebraska’s strong agricultural exports,” Fortenberry said. “The reality is that we are already in a trade war--and losing. A thoughtful reset of NAFTA and other trade negotiations should help America. “The issue is not some academic notion of free trade. It is fair and enforceable trade that does not adversely disadvantage our agricultural producers and is mutually beneficial to all countries.” Congressman Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
02.20.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today provided the following statement on the horrific shooting tragedy in Florida: "The anguish, heartbreak--and anger--of the families and the Florida community so violently ripped apart by this catastrophe is made even more real for those of us with high school children. Perhaps with the initial call by President Trump, a necessary review of the background check system can achieve consensus, along with a multi-dimensional national response to mental health issues." "Congress should robustly address the issues at stake, but also resist politicizing responsible gun ownership as part of a serious national discussion on the root causes of violence. Children should be safe. I also say, 'no more." Congressman Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
02.16.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) and Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) today provided the following statements after Congressman Fortenberry spoke at a Committee on Natural Resources hearing on the Recovering America’s Wildlife Act: “The Recovering America’s Wildlife Act is a creative bipartisan initiative to conserve at-risk wildlife species in every state,” said Fortenberry. “The bill empowers state wildlife protection agencies to proactively protect species and habitat without the costly 'emergency room' interventions of the Endangered Species Act. From hikers to hunters, boaters to birders, anglers to archers, as well as farmers, ranchers, and the growing cohort of businesses engaged in eco-tourism, a broad coalition supports this effort to leverage revenues from federal lands to support state wildlife plans. Successful past efforts have saved species on the brink, including striped bass, white-tailed deer, elk, turkey, and our national symbol, the bald eagle. These are all amazing conservation success stories on which we can continue to build through the federal-state collaboration enabled by this legislation." “Our nation’s fish and wildlife are some of our most valuable resources, supporting jobs, our economy and providing countless hours of outdoor enjoyment,” said Dingell. “I am proud to work with Congressman Fortenberry on the Recovering America’s Wildlife Act, which compliments landmark conservation programs already in place to help protect at-risk species before it is too late. The approaches in this bill are proven and some of the best ways to restore and create new habitat, and ensure future generations can enjoy our rich outdoor heritage. I am pleased to see the Natural Resources Committee move this important legislation forward today and will continue working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to get it across the finish line.” Click here to view my testimony before the Federal Lands Subcommittee. Congressman Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee, and is co-chair of the International Conservation Caucus (ICC). ###
02.13.2018	
01.31.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today provided the following statement on the President’s State of the Union address: “The President spoke directly and clearly. He was reflective, almost somber in his tone. I thought the speech was probing, purposeful, and personal. While our country continues to face challenges, including deepening philosophical divides, the President made a clear case for historic accomplishments during this first year. “He highlighted economic regeneration, offering one of his strongest lines when he said, ‘The era of economic surrender is over.’ He also outlined new measures to support our veterans, a four-pillar approach to immigration reform, and the important accomplishment of crushing ISIS. I was particularly encouraged by the President’s calls for bipartisan solutions, especially regarding strengthening our nation’s infrastructure. “At the same time, much more work remains ahead. In the coming year, I hope to work with the President and my colleagues in the House and Senate to build an even more resilient economy that works for all, along with health care repair that lowers costs and improves outcomes while protecting the most vulnerable.” Congressman Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
01.25.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today announced the selection of students from eastern Nebraska to receive nominations to America's top military academies. "A military academy appointment is a tremendous honor and a great responsibility," Fortenberry said. "Nominees must demonstrate capacity for leadership, personal integrity, and rigorous scholarship. I am pleased to nominate several young Nebraskans who meet these qualifications." Following are the 2017 nominees: Sebastian Baillie of Lincoln East High School. Sebastian is the son of Boyd and Laurie Baillie and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Jack Buglewicz of Bellevue East High School. Jack is the son of Francis and Sherri Buglewicz and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Montana Cottle of Fort Calhoun High School. Montana is the daughter of Larry and Nova Cottle and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Joseph Dodson of Lincoln Pius X High School. Joseph is the son of Kent and Lois Dodson and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Bryan Fitch of Lincoln East High School. Bryan is the son of Richard and Cammi Fitch and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Matthew Guevara of Lincoln East High School. Matthew is the son of Jose and Amy Guevara and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Shanna Hoven of Wahoo Bishop Neumann High School. Shanna is the daughter of Arthur and Linda Hoven and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Samuel Hupp of Lincoln High School. Samuel is the son of Kevin and Candace Hupp and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Megan LeClere of Bellevue West High School. Megan is the daughter of Bart and Lisa LeClere and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Ireland Murphy of Bellevue West High School. Ireland is the daughter of Sean and Audrey Murphy and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Luke Nolley of Lincoln Southwest High School. Luke is the son of Mark and Holly Nolley and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Grace Protzman of Norfolk High School. Grace is the daughter of Roger and Tricia Protzman and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Nolan Siemonsma of Plattsmouth High School. Nolan is the son of Keith Siemonsma and Jennifer Stander and has been nominated to the United States Military Academy. Jacob Wicker of Norfolk High School. Jacob is the son of Edward and Kerry-Lea Wicker and has been nominated to the United States Military Academy. Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee and its Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Subcommittee. ###
01.24.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today provided the following statement on Deferred Action Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and immigration: "It’s time to fix a number of serious immigration problems facing our country. While immigration is complex and multi-layered, any policy initiative must be guided by the principles of security, fairness, and generosity. "Many Americans recognize the dilemma faced by Deferred Action Childhood Arrivals. An appropriate accommodation of their needs should be coupled with addressing the conditions that created this problem, so it does not happen again. "To this end, I am sponsoring The Securing America’s Future Act. This bill addresses our illegal immigration crisis in four ways. First, it secures the borders. Second, it changes immigration programs—such as ending the Visa Lottery Program and reforming chain migration—that are unjust, unworkable, or in need of significant repair. Third, it requires E-Verify for employment. Finally, it provides legal status for Deferred Action Childhood Arrivals, if they have not committed a crime. “In addition, we continue to re-orient our foreign aid around creating safer, more prosperous conditions in dangerous, impoverished regions, including parts of Central America, Central Africa, and the Middle East. Such regeneration will empower persons to remain in their homelands. Integrating this shift with this type of immigration repair will fix our broken system for all our citizens and future immigrant Americans.” Congressman Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and its Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. ###
01.22.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today provided the following statement on the end of the government shutdown: “The Senate has agreed to the basic House budget extension. Further disturbance has been averted. The government is open again with full funding for the Children's Health Insurance Program. “Regardless of the responsible political party, nobody wins in a government shutdown. It is unfair to our military, disruptive to government personnel, and offensive to the American people.” Congressman Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
01.04.2018	(Lincoln, N.E.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry and Senator Deb Fischer today issued the following statements on the return of Marcel Pika to his family in Lincoln, Nebraska: “I am so happy for the Pika family,” said Fortenberry. “They have been through so much. The love and dedication of this family is an inspiration to our community. I want to especially commend our United States Ambassador to the Republic of Congo, Todd Haskell, and his team in Brazzaville who worked tirelessly to secure Mr. Pika’s release. We are grateful to know the Pika family is now reunited in Lincoln.” “After being unjustly detained since March of 2016, Marcel Pika has safely returned to U.S. soil,” said Fischer. “I would like to thank both the State Department and Congressman Fortenberry for working alongside my office to secure Mr. Pika’s release. When I met with the Pika family, I was touched by their incredible strength throughout this difficult time. I join all Nebraskans in welcoming Marcel and his wife, Josephine, home and wishing their family well as they reunite in the days ahead.” "We are very thankful for Governor Ricketts, Congressman Fortenberry, Senator Fischer, the International Monetary Fund, the State Department officials and the many other people who have played a vital role in the liberation of our father,” said Percy Pika, a son of Marcel Pika. “We would like to give a special thank you to the President of the United States of America, President Donald Trump, for his involvement and support. We also thank all the international and Nebraskan organizations that sustained us during this time. We continue to urge our government officials to fight on behalf of the many other political prisoners still being held captive without a voice and someone to speak on their behalf. We are grateful our parents are home, but it is important to remember that nearly 300 prisoners unjustly remain in the Brazzaville jail.” “I am really convinced that the U.S., the voice standing for all oppressed in this world, will take priority on this situation and to see the Congo to the freedom that it deserves from these tyrants,” said Marcel Pika. Marcel Pika, a retired colonel in the Republic of Congo army, immigrated to the U.S. in 1999 and became a citizen in 2005. He returned to live in Congo in 2007 and was arrested in March of 2016. His detention, initial solitary confinement, and long imprisonment are believed to be due to his support of political opponents of the current president, who has ruled Congo for 33 of the last 38 years. Attached please find Percy and Marcel Pika’s letters of appreciation, which provide the full agonizing tenor and excruciating context to the emotionally wrenching ordeal Marcel and his family have had to endure. Congressman Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee. ###
12.19.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today released the following statement on Congress passing tax reform: “It is clear many Americans are attempting to understand what tax reform means for them and the country. The bill makes reasoned progress to resolve a complex and convoluted code that has overburdened persons, families, and small businesses across our nation. The measure moves money back into the pockets of hardworking Americans, seeks to reignite Main Street entrepreneurial momentum, and revives the Made in America label. “Some important points to note are the doubling of the child tax credit, enhancing the deductibility of medical expenses—of great concern to a number of seniors who contacted me—and a preservation of the tuition waiver benefit for students. While some have expressed concern about corporations receiving a substantial tax cut, it is important to note that President Obama also argued for reducing the corporate rate to restore America’s competitiveness around the world. “A new economic vision has to reorient around the family, restore vibrancy in local communities, and re-empower working men and women to best provide for themselves and their families. While this legislation will not solve all of America’s problems, it is a policy reset that is important for our wellbeing.” Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ###
12.15.2017	(Lincoln, NE) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) and Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) yesterday introduced the bipartisan Recovering America’s Wildlife Act (RAWA) in the United States House of Representatives. “This is an important and creative legislative initiative to protect ecosystems across our nation through constructive partnerships in states,” said Fortenberry. “The bill provides smart upstream policy to avoid triggering the ‘emergency room procedures’ of the Endangered Species Act. By effectively putting preventative measures in place, we can now better protect habitat and wildlife from becoming lost or endangered in the first place. This will benefit farmers, hunters, anglers, boaters, birders, hikers and other wildlife enthusiasts, as well as the burgeoning field of eco-tourism. The Recovering America's Wildlife Act will also prove to be a powerful new tool to connect resource extraction policy with prudent resource recovery.” Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee, and is co-chair of the International Conservation Caucus (ICC). ###
11.27.2017	(Lincoln, NE) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement about the terrorist attack on an Egyptian mosque: “In the aftermath of this horrific terrorist attack, I extend my heartfelt sympathies to our Egyptian friends. As we mourn with all those who lost their loved ones, especially the families and neighbors of the hundreds of peaceful Sufi worshipers that ISIS massacred, we together can know that dark forces will not conquer our common humanity and desire for peaceful relations among all peoples. The United States stands in solidarity with the Egyptian people in their shock and sorrow." Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. He is Co-Chair of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus, and Co-Chair of the Congressional Friends of Egypt Caucus. # # #
11.16.2017	(Lincoln, NE) – Last week, Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) and Congressman Tim Walz (D-MN) introduced the bipartisan Beginning Farmer and Rancher Opportunity Act in the U.S. House of Representatives. “I am pleased to offer exciting new legislation that will empower our next generation of farmers and ranchers,” said Fortenberry. “This bill builds upon the Beginning Farmer and Rancher Opportunity Act of 2013 by improving access to affordable farmland, federal crop insurance, and educational programs. It further supports dynamic opportunities for young Americans who want to lead transformational initiatives from agricultural urbanism to farm-to-table movements, as well as partnerships between retiring farmers and ranchers and the rising generation.” Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee. Debate on the next Farm Bill is anticipated for 2018. ###
11.16.2017	(Lincoln, NE) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement after the United States House of Representatives passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. “This is a constructive attempt at broad tax reform to help hardworking American families, revive our small business sector, and empower the Made in America label. It will help address the disruption of globalism, the stagnation of entrepreneurial energy on Main Street, and put money in the pockets of men and women striving to build a better future for their children. “While input will continue over certain points in the bill, the overall movement toward simplification—with an eye toward fairness for all—is a substantive improvement on a tax system that has favored large, complex interests. “This debate has not rehashed previous sterile, ideological battles. For example, the top rate is maintained for the ultra-wealthy—while for the vast majority of other groups it has gone down. The legislation is a serious effort to support the wellbeing of persons and our nation.” Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee. # # #
11.02.2017	<p>(Lincoln, NE) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement on tax reform.</p> <p>“This is a first step at a massive, historic, and necessary overhaul of our antiquated, harsh, and complicated tax system. The disruptive effects of globalization, the slowing of Main Street entrepreneurial momentum, and the inability of families to get ahead make the conditions right for substantive change. Fortunately, there is widespread unity around the goals of putting money in the pockets of hardworking American families, empowering small businesses to thrive, and reviving Made in America—while maintaining the higher rate for the ultra-wealthy.”</p> <p>Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee.</p>
10.13.2017	(Lincoln, NE) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement on the Iran Nuclear Deal. “Iran’s aggressive posturing throughout the Middle East has made it harder to trust a fragile nuclear agreement. Iran’s proxy military actions, support for violence, and ongoing ballistic missile taunting do not help during this tender period of testing a new relationship with the West. Broadly considered, Iran has generally complied with the structural components of the nuclear deal, but the aggression sadly undercuts the broader opportunity for even the mildest rapprochement.” Fortenberry voted against the original Iran Nuclear Agreement in 2015. Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee and the Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. ###
09.08.2017	(Lincoln, NE) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) this week introduced the bipartisan Farm to School Act to enhance the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Farm to School Grant program. “Linking America’s farms to schools to provide local nutritious options for children is an exciting policy goal,” said Fortenberry. “The Farm to School program adds fresh, healthy meal choices for students and teachers, brings ag education to the classroom for the next generation of farmers and ranchers, and prioritizes food to tribal schools from tribal agricultural producers. Building upon previous efforts to connect local farmers and students, it expands market opportunities for our beginning farmers and veteran agricultural producers.” The bill covers a range of dynamic new options for schools and expands participation of the program to include preschools, after-school programs, and summer food service sites. ###
08.17.2017	(Lincoln, NE) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement on the tragedy in Charlottesville. "As our nation continues to struggle with the terrible tragedy of Charlottesville, it offers us a chance to reflect on where we are as a country and where we go as a people. "Nearby my office in Washington, there is a sign in a yard, which I see occasionally. For many months, it has caught my attention and now speaks to this moment. So, on Monday, I posted its words: "I have decided to stick with love. Hate is too great a burden to bear" –- Martin Luther King, Jr. "As we seek to gently knit our country back together, we must also remain vigilant, and unequivocal, in decrying hate. I condemn in the strongest possible terms the violence in #Charlottesville, particularly the vile, racist protests and murder perpetrated by the despicable KKK, Nazis, and other white nationalist groups. While the most heinous forms of speech and assembly are protected by the first amendment, these rights must always be balanced with obligations. Violence is never acceptable. As we reflect on Dr. King’s words, perhaps it offers a moment for healing, not further division. A moment for contemplation, not further violence." Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ####
08.15.2017	(Lincoln, NE) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement on the Secretary of State’s declaration that ISIS is unequivocally responsible for “genocide” against Christians, Yazidis, and Shiite Muslims: “Today, in a very important statement, the State Department reaffirmed the horrific reality of ISIS genocide against Christians, Yazidis, and Shiite Muslims in Iraq and Syria. This designation is a critical reaffirmation of the dire circumstances faced by persecuted minority communities in the Middle East. “As ISIS is driven from its strongholds in Iraq and Syria, the United States, in partnership with the international community, has the opportunity to help Christians, Yazidis, and others return to their ancestral homelands, restoring the once-rich tapestry of ethnic and religious diversity that existed in the region. I look forward to continuing to work with the Administration on implementing policy options to establish zones of security for the beleaguered minority communities, many of whom face unsustainable conditions as refugees after surviving the ISIS attack. The restoration and revitalization of their historic communities is not only just but critical to the long-term stability of the Middle East.” Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. Along with Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA), he is co-chair of the Religious Minorities of the Middle East Caucus. He represents America’s largest Yazidi community. ###
07.28.2017	(Lincoln, NE) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) yesterday signed the Commitment to Civility statement. This declaration comes at a time of increasing tension and rising political violence in the United States. Members of the United States of Representatives have signed a commitment to be cooperative and considerate to their colleagues, while remaining dedicated to encouraging productive dialogue. Respect and statesmanship are essential principles of good governance amidst increasing division and discord. Congressman Fortenberry also cosponsored legislation to support the designation of a National Day of Civility, where people are encouraged to be respectful and mindful of others in daily life. At this time, the statement has been signed by over 130 Members of Congress with bipartisan support. Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ###
07.27.2017	(Lincoln, NE) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today is issuing the following information on upcoming town halls he will be holding in Nebraska’s first district. Monday, July 31 Bellevue: 12:00pm Bellevue Public Schools Welcome Center Boardroom 2600 Arboretum Dr., Bellevue, NE Lincoln: 5:00pm Schoo Middle School 700 Penrose Drive, Lincoln, NE Lincoln: 7:00pm Lux Middle School 7800 High Street, Lincoln, NE Tuesday, August 1 Fremont: 12:00pm City Council Chambers400 E. Military Avenue, Fremont, NE West Point: 4:00pm Nielsen Community Center Citizens State Room 200 Anna Stalp Ave, West Point, NE Wednesday, August 2 Columbus: 12:00pm City Council Chambers 1369 25th Ave, Columbus, NE Norfolk: 5:30pm - Madison Norfolk City Council Chambers 309 N 5th St, Norfolk, NE Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ###
07.18.2017	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today issued the following statement on developments regarding the Senate health care bill: "We must repair our broken health care system. Doing nothing is reckless. Given that the Senate could not find a way forward, we must continue working to solve the issue of maintaining protections for those who benefit from the Affordable Care Act while radically rethinking how to bring down costs for those who can no longer afford insurance. Repeal with no replacement would be disastrous. Now is the time to slog through the hard issues—not at some mythical future date.” Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ###
05.26.2017	(Lincoln, NE) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry will speak on Memorial Day at Elmwood Cemetery. The Memorial Day Services at Elmwood Cemetery begin at 10:15 AM Monday, May 29. Address: Elmwood Cemetery Highway 1 Elmwood, NE 68349 Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee. He sits on the subcommittees on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and State and Foreign Operations. ###
05.24.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement on President Trump's meeting with Pope Francis: "The meeting appeared to be very fruitful. I am very pleased that President Trump and Pope Francis found multiple points of alignment on fundamental issues affecting all of humanity, especially the protection of Christians and religious minorities in the Middle East." Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ###
05.18.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement on the U.S. Department of Justice's appointment of Special Counsel Robert Mueller: "I believe this is an important development by the Justice Department to appoint former FBI Director Robert Mueller as Special Counsel to investigate Russia's involvement in the 2016 presidential election. In addition, Former FBI Director James Comey should come to Congress, testify, and share the contents of pertinent memos. This is a first step to cut through the various competing interpretations. All of this movement should enhance one goal: restoring trust." Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ###
05.11.2017	(Lincoln, NE) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today made the following statement on Aetna leaving the Nebraska insurance exchange: “I am deeply concerned about Aetna leaving the Nebraska insurance exchange. This means that people who purchase their own insurance only have one insurer to cover them and fewer plans to choose from. The healthcare exchange is broken and needs repair.” The state's two largest insurers, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Nebraska and UnitedHealthcare, both dropped out in 2016. Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ###
05.05.2017	You can read H.R. 1628, the American Health Care Act HERE. TOPLINE: The AHCA as amended delivers relief from Obamacare’s taxes and mandates that have hurt job creators, increased premiums, and limited options for patients and health care providers. It returns control of health care from Washington back to the states and restores the free market so Americans can access quality, affordable health care options that are tailored to their needs. Obamacare was based on a one-size-fits-all approach that put bureaucrats in Washington in charge of your health care. The law led to higher costs, fewer choices, and less access to the care people need. The AHCA will deliver the control and choice individuals and families need to access health care that’s right for them. And provide the freedom and flexibility states, job creators, and health care providers need to deliver quality, affordable health care options. Question: The AHCA as amended will do away with protections for those with pre-existing conditions. Response: The AHCA as amended by the MacArthur amendment explicitly maintains protections for pre-existing conditions. Guaranteed issue of coverage, guaranteed renewability of coverage, or the prohibition on insurance companies denying coverage due to pre-existing conditions are all maintained. The AHCA as amended specifically clarifies that its provisions cannot be construed as allowing insurers to limit coverage for those with pre-existing conditions. All of these protections will remain the law. Question: But AHCA as amended will allow those to with pre-existing conditions to be priced out of the market- effectively rendering those protections useless. Response: The MacArthur amendment to AHCA does allow states to seek a limited waiver to allow the insurance companies to charge higher premiums for a person in the individual health insurance market with a health condition only if they do not maintain continuous coverage. The MacArthur amendment only applies to the individual insurance market. Most Americans with employer-provided coverage or government coverage (Medicare, Medicaid, Tricare, VA benefits, etc.) would not be affected. Importantly, these higher premiums could only be charged for a period of one year to an individual who did not maintain continuous coverage. After an individual has maintained continuous coverage for twelve months they would then return to standard rates. This means that the protections against being charged higher premiums for a health condition are preserved for every individual market plan holder who maintains continuous coverage. These protections would also be in place for new enrollees (so long as they maintain continuous coverage going forward). Furthermore, a state can only obtain a waiver for the federal regulations on community rating if it establishes a "high-risk pool" or participates in an "invisible high-risk pool" program (these programs help cover the costs of covering expensive patients). Under the Upton-Long amendment, $8 billion would be set aside to help lower premiums and other out-of-pocket costs for patients in the individual market with pre-existing conditions who do not maintain continuous coverage and live in states that request and receive a waiver. Our plan already ensures that insurance companies are prohibited from denying coverage on the basis of a pre-existing condition, banned from rescinding coverage based on a pre-existing condition, and prevented from raising premiums on individuals with pre-existing conditions who maintain continuous coverage. Question: Republicans are just using high-risk pools as their solution to address pre-existing conditions and those haven’t worked in the past. Response: Before Obamacare, many states used high-risk pools to help individuals with pre-existing conditions. While some state pools worked, and were well-funded, other states did not focus resources on the program and achieved mixed results. Under AHCA, states would have access to a new Patient and State Stability Fund to help finance risk-sharing programs like high-risk pools, as well as a new Federal Invisible Risk-Sharing program. All told, $130 billion dollars would be made available to states to finance innovative programs to address their unique patient populations. This new stability fund ensures these programs have the necessary funding to protect patients while also giving states the ability to design insurance markets that will lower costs and increase choice. Additionally, there will be a separate fund of $8 billion dedicated solely to reduce premiums and other out-of-pocket costs patients in the individual market with pre-existing conditions who do not maintain continuous coverage and live in states that request and receive a waiver. Question: The AHCA does away with critical Essential Health Benefits, such as coverage for maternity care. Response: Under our plan, the 10 Essential Health Benefit Categories would remain the federal standard. States could seek a waiver to establish new benefit standards, but subject to certain conditions: the state must publicly attest its purpose for doing so (to reduce the cost of healthcare coverage, increase the number of people with healthcare coverage, etc.) and it must specify the benefits it will require instead of the federal standard. Question: Republicans would have us return to the days where simply being a woman was considered a pre-existing condition, and would cut off coverage for vital women’s services such as birth control and mammograms. Response: This is false. Our plan does not eliminate the standard that women and men are treated equally when it comes to cost. And we do not remove access to preventative and screening services, like mammograms, gestational diabetes, breastfeeding support and counseling, and well-woman visits, to name a few. Question: The CBO says AHCA increases the number of uninsured by 24 million people.Response: The CBO has a spotty track record when it comes to projecting health insurance coverage. When CBO originally scored Obamacare, they projected that 21 million Americans would have coverage in 2016. The reality was half that number, about 10.4 million gained coverage. Our plan provides every American with access to affordable coverage. Low-income individuals not on Medicaid will receive a refundable tax credit to purchase insurance (meaning they get assistance even if they do not pay income tax). States can also further help low-income Americans through a new Patient and State Stability Fund. The majority of the coverage gains from Obamacare come from the law’s individual mandate – a fine from the federal government for failing to buy government approved coverage. But evidence shows that the CBO greatly overestimated the effectiveness of the individual mandate and the numbers of Americans who would receive coverage through the exchange. In fact, more than 19 million taxpayers either paid the penalty or claimed an exemption from the individual mandate. More people are paying or avoiding the penalty than gained coverage through Obamacare’s exchanges. Question: The AHCA’s continuous coverage provision is just a more harmful, less effective mandate. Response: Unlike Obamacare, our plan does not allow the IRS to fine Americans for choosing not to buy government-approved care. The IRS should not be policing your health care. In order to prevent gaming of the system and help keep premiums lower for everyone, our plan would allow carriers to charge a flat, one-time, 30% surcharge on top of a premium if an individual has not maintained continuous coverage. The continuous coverage provision is important to ensure individuals cannot unfairly game the system and pay for coverage only when they have medical bills. Individuals can go without coverage for sixty-three days and still maintain continuous coverage status. The vast majority of Americans who get health care from their employers already receive continuous coverage protections. Medicare Parts B and D also use a form of continuous coverage protections. We are extending a similar provision to the individual and small group markets in order to prevent gaming of the system and incentivize people to get - and stay - enrolled. Question: Does that mean the AHCA as amended allows insurance companies to charge penalties for not maintaining continuous coverage and charge patients more just for having a pre-existing condition. Response: No. In states that seek and receive a waiver to allow insurers to charge higher premiums for a person with a health condition that did not maintain continuous coverage it would be in lieu of the underlying bills continuous coverage penalty. It’s either or. Regardless, protections against being charged higher premiums for pre-existing conditions are preserved for every individual who maintains continuous coverage. Period. Question: Republicans want to kick millions of people off of Medicaid. Response: The Medicaid program today is a critical lifeline for some of our nation’s most vulnerable patients. But the program now has three times as many people and costs three times as much as it did under former President Clinton. By expanding Medicaid, Obamacare prioritized able-bodied adults above those the Medicaid program was originally designed to help. We will not pull the rug out from anyone as we work to give states the flexibility they need to take care of those most in need. Our plan responsibly unwinds Obamacare’s Medicaid expansion. We freeze enrollment and allow natural turnover in the Medicaid program as beneficiaries see their life circumstances change. This strategy is both fiscally responsible and fair, ensuring we don’t pull the rug out on anyone while also ending the Obamacare expansion that unfairly prioritizes able-bodied working adults over the most vulnerable. Question: You are pulling the rug out from under low income Americans by ending the Medicaid expansion. Response: To responsibly unwind expansion, our plan would freeze new enrollment in Obamacare’s Medicaid expansion and grandfather existing enrollees. Under the expansion freeze, individuals currently enrolled in Obamacare’s Medicaid expansion would remain enrolled in the program if they otherwise remain eligible, and expansion states would continue to receive the enhanced match under current law ONLY for existing beneficiaries. Over time, as the individuals see changes to their income or eligibility, they will naturally cycle off the program. To protect against padding the rolls, the AHCA says that states can no longer enroll individuals onto to Medicaid at the enhanced match. States could continue to enroll Americans on Medicaid at their lower, traditional match rate. This freeze policy would prevent disruption for Medicaid beneficiaries, but also transition individuals to purchasing private coverage in an improved commercial market with the support of a refundable tax credit and through innovative programs established in their state and funded by the AHCA’s Patient and State Stability Fund. Question: Republican health care proposals would cause premiums to spike for Americans across the country. Response: Obamacare has caused premiums to skyrocket across the nation, up about 25 percent on average this year. Ask a middle-class American what’s has happened to their premiums and their deductibles. Enormous increases have left many families paying for insurance that they cannot afford to use. The Obama administration has effectively locked in more expensive plans for both this year and next year, sneaking in the 2018 coverage mandates three days before President Trump took office. Obamacare is in a death spiral and it will take some time to pull out of it. The AHCA will lower premiums over time by an average of 10% - and potentially more as further reforms are made and new and innovative ideas implemented that aim to lower premiums. Question: Repealing Obamacare will increase out-of-pocket costs for American families. Response: Under Obamacare, patient out-of-pocket costs have continued to skyrocket - not only for those on the exchanges, but also for all patients. Obamacare failed to fulfill its own promises to cover every American and reduce health care spending by $2,500 a family, and sick patients are the innocent victims of this lie. Our country was built on the idea of individual liberty and freedom. Being forced to buy a product with government-dictated benefits at a Washington-demanded cost conflicts with the very fabric of our country’s values. This is why our health care solutions start with what is best for health care consumers. We put patients and their providers back in charge and will force insurance companies to compete for your business. Question: Repealing Obamacare will cause chaos in the health care markets. Response: Obamacare has been the definition of chaos from the very beginning. Hard-working American families have fewer choices than ever before, and costs continue to skyrocket as insurers flee the failing Obamacare marketplaces. Five entire states will have only one insurer – Alabama, Alaska, Oklahoma, South Carolina, and Wyoming. Even worse, one third of U.S. counties have only one insurer this year. Only five of the 23 CO-OPs remain in business, wasting billions in hard-earned taxpayer dollars. Obamacare has failed and the middle-class people are stuck paying higher costs. We are here to clean up the mess and rebuild our health care system a Better Way. Question: Repealing Obamacare means people would lose access to preventive health care. Response: Republicans fully support innovation in health care and preventative services that help people maintain healthy lifestyles. This is why we believe that keeping health insurance is just as important as getting health insurance. Today, Obamacare penalizes patients for not having health insurance. But this penalty does not prevent patients from getting sick. Our plan incentivizes and rewards patients for keeping health insurance. To be sure – even if a patient is dealing with a serious medical issue, they will never be charged more than standard rates as long as they maintain coverage. Question: Americans with a mental health condition will be turned away from treatment and lose the newly gained care and support they count on. Response: These kinds of scare tactics are why Democrats have lost the trust of patients and families across our country. We will protect the most vulnerable among us. The AHCA as amended includes $15 billion specifically toward mental health and substance abuse disorders. Furthermore, last Congress we passed the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act. This new and innovative law includes a comprehensive mental health package that is the result of years of conversations with patients fighting mental health conditions, battling substance use disorders, and families supporting their loved ones who just need a little help to get through this difficult – and often very emotional – situation. We will not turn our back on these strong patients and families. And we will continue to fight for those with mental health and substance use disorders. Question: Under the Republican’s health care plan, mental health parity will go away. Response: We do not change mental health parity rules, period. Question: Your bill cuts off funding to Planned Parenthood, who provide critical health care services to women. Response: Our plan imposes a one-year freeze on federal funding for organizations that provide abortion services. Instead our legislation increases funding for Federal Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs), which are community-based, patient-centered organizations that provide health services to medically underserved individuals. Unlike boutique clinics such as Planned Parenthoods that generally only provide reproductive health services and abortions, FQHCs provide comprehensive medical, dental, mental health and other primary care services. These services also include STD testing, cancer screening and family planning and contraceptive management. Per Capita Allotments Question: Per Capita Allotments are draconian cuts that shift costs back to states. Response: Under this plan, the federal government would continue to provide matching funds for State Medicaid programs to cover each person enrolled in a State’s Medicaid program. However, this policy would set limits on the federal government’s spending on Medicaid, calculated by accounting for the number of enrollees overall and the capped per capita amount per eligibility category. The allowable per capita amount per eligibility category would be determined using each State’s actual historical experience of the average cost of an enrollee in each eligibility group. There would be federal matching maximums per State (though a State could spend more), in each of the five main Medicaid eligibility groups: the elderly, people with disabilities, children, nondisabled, nonelderly adults, and Medicaid expansion enrollee groups. Each State’s total allowable federal funding would be calculated as the product of the number of enrollees and the per-enrollee spending cap. It is important to note that a per capita allotment is not an arbitrary limitation on the amount of money that can be spent on a specific individual in need, but creates a fair formula for determining the aggregate amount of funding the federal government will provide to a state. Charge: A per capita allotment advantages expansion states. Response: False. The policy would treat the expansion population as a separate group. This approach provides no advantage or disadvantage to expansion or non-expansion States. A separate eligibility category for the expansion population better tracks the costs of this population. If this population was grouped into the traditional adult population, it would increase complexity and could lead to an increase in improper payments. By creating a fifth category, it will be much more difficult for States to game the system by mislabeling traditional adults as expansion adults. This provides a level of certainty and transparency to payments for expansion enrollees. Additionally, the proposal includes a policy requiring more frequent eligibility determinations for the expansion enrollees and boosting the legal penalties against anyone caught defrauding the system by intentionally mischaracterizing enrollees in the expansion category. As Obamacare expansion enrollees leave the Medicaid program, the federal contribution to states would decrease. Therefore, expansion states will receive no extra advantage. Charge: The reduction in federal Medicaid spending won’t really happen. Response: Many of the reforms and improvements in this bill take place in the near term and will reduce spending immediately. The per capita allotments are designed to be phased in, in a manner that is realistic for states in the short term so it is sustainable over the long run. Taken together, when enacted, the Medicaid policies represent the single largest set of reforms to the Medicaid program since its creation. Most importantly, these reforms will refocus the Medicaid program on those it was designed to help, the most vulnerable.
05.04.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement after voting for the American Health Care Act: “As I prepared to vote today, I asked a Nebraskan visiting my office what he thought about the new health care bill. He said, ‘It’s a start.’ I agree with him. “The bill is a ‘start’ to try and restore the health care system that all Americans deserve. My goal in health care repair remains the same: ensuring lower costs, promoting better health, and protecting vulnerable persons. “In Nebraska, health care costs have risen over the past year between 35-50%. Moreover, our state soon may be left with only one insurance provider. While this bill is highly complex and has created a great deal of controversy, saying no to any change would lock us into a system with significant and worsening problems. This is fundamentally unfair to many Nebraskans. “I fully realize that change causes anxiety for those who benefit from the current system. At the same time, many are facing an awful choice: do I pay for increasingly unaffordable insurance, or pay for my other basic human needs? “At its core, the new health care bill moves from a centralized one-size-fits-all Washington program to more of a state-based system with important federal protections. The legislation protects those with preexisting conditions and maintains insurance coverage for young people up to age 26 on family plans. Persons with preexisting conditions are helped through a new approach to federally-backed insurance. “Overall, I want to thank everyone who has contacted my office. I only have one choice: yes or no. Doing nothing is irresponsible. Today my choice is yes—with a steadfast commitment to improving this legislation for every American.” Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ###
05.01.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement after greeting 650 Nebraska Vietnam veterans at the Iwo Jima Memorial, where they gathered during a tour of other DC memorials, including the Vietnam War Memorial: “It was a privilege to be a small part of the Honor Flights Final Mission to thank these veterans for their courageous service in the United States military during the Vietnam War. The countless stories of bravery and sacrifice continue to inspire generations of Americans. It is with a humble heart that I joined colleagues and friends in recognizing their outstanding contribution to our great nation. I am deeply grateful to everyone involved in planning this Honor Flight, especially Bill and Evonne Williams. Thank you veterans.” Nebraska's Honor Flight Vietnam Veterans will return to Lincoln Airport Monday night, where an estimated 7000 people will be there to greet them. Honor Flights are an altruistic nonprofit initiative to fly veterans to Washington to see their respective memorials. Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. ###
04.24.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement after meeting Malawi’s Ambassador to the United States: “Congratulations to Norfolk and their sister city Blantyre, Malawi! I was honored to welcome the Malawi Ambassador, His Excellency Edward Yakobe Sawerengera, and the Mayor of Blantyre, the Honorable Wild Ndipo, to my office today. We had a good discussion about education, agriculture, and conservation practices. We found that we shared similar thoughts on many of these issues. The Ambassador also told me that everyone in Malawi smiles – I like that! I look forward to continuing our cultural and economic relationship with this smiling African nation.” ###
04.09.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement on the bombings of Coptic Christians in Egypt: “On Palm Sunday, when Christians cry ‘Hosanna to the King’ around the world, we watch with grief as our brothers and sisters in the Coptic community of Egypt suffer senseless violence. Innocent persons must never be subjected to such assaults on account of their faith. We stand in solidarity with the Egyptian people, Christian and Muslim, in their shock and sorrow.” Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. He is Co-Chair of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus. ###
04.07.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement on the confirmation of Neil M. Gorsuch to the Supreme Court: “I congratulate Neil M. Gorsuch on his confirmation as the 113th Justice of the United States Supreme Court. A worthy successor to my friend Justice Scalia, Judge Gorsuch will interpret the Constitution in a fair and objective manner.” Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ###
04.07.2017	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement on the United States strike in Syria: “I support the President's decision. The responsible nations of the world cannot remain idle while children are gassed. The carnage in Syria must end, but there are no easy solutions to resolving this bloody conflict. Foreign policy realism cannot be reduced to quick answers amid longstanding chaos and discord.” Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. ###
03.24.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement on the American Health Care Act: “I wish to thank the thousands of people who have contacted me, many with grave concerns about this legislation. Given the decision not to hold a vote on the American Health Care Act, I want to emphasize that the critical work on health care reform is not finished. “I am not interested in more of the same, not the same poor outcomes in our broken health care system, not the same stagnant Washington debates. The harsh reality is this: our current health care system helps some people, but hurts many others. That is not fair. We have to do better. To do nothing is unsustainable. To do nothing forgoes the opportunity to transform our health care system into something better. To do nothing forgoes an opportunity, perhaps permanently, to re-imagine this. “Among its problems, the American Health Care Act confused health care with tax reform, creating unnecessary tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans. Nevertheless, I remain committed to pursuing a better health care system for everyone in our nation. We must continue work to keep alive the hope of a much deeper, broader, necessary policy realignment to create a vibrant 21st century health care system that lowers costs, improves outcomes, and protects vulnerable persons.” Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. ###
03.14.2017	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement on the one year anniversary of his genocide resolution, which passed the United States House of Representatives by a vote of 393-0: “One year ago today, the House of Representatives spoke with a united voice to name and decry the horrific ISIS violence against Christians, Yezidis, and others as ‘genocide.’ Three days later, on March 17, Secretary of State John Kerry came to the same conclusion on behalf of the United States Government. The United States has spoken with clarity and moral authority to condemn this grave violation of life and order. This week offers an important opportunity to commemorate the occasion and refocus efforts to help those in dire need. “The genocide resolution and subsequent United States Government recognition elevated international consciousness and confronted the scandal of silence and indifference about ISIS’ targeted and systematic destruction of these endangered peoples. The genocide against Christians, Yezidis and minority Muslim communities is not only a grave injustice to theses ancient faith traditions—it is an assault on human dignity and civilization itself. “I will continue working on policy initiatives to help those confronting genocide. Successful efforts to support them will help bring stability to the Middle East, benefiting both persons in need and, ultimately, America’s national security. The rich, religiously diverse tapestry of the Middle East will be restored only if Christians, Yezidis, and others are empowered to once again take their rightful place.” In September 2015, Fortenberry along with Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) introduced H. Con. Res. 75 in the House. Following the unanimous vote behind the resolution, Fortenberry spoke on the floor of the House urging the State Department to include both Christians and Yezidis in a genocide designation. Earlier, Fortenberry made the case for recognizing the genocide in the Middle East during an exchange with Secretary of State John Kerry at a hearing before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. Fortenberry pleaded for a comprehensive genocide designation that encompasses these ethnic and religious communities, which are facing brutal persecution in the region. Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. He represents America’s largest Yezidi community. Along with Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA), he is co-chair of the Religious Minorities of the Middle East Caucus and represents America’s largest Yezidi community. ###
03.13.2017	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today announced that he will hold a Community Town Hall Meeting at Lincoln Southwest High School (7001 South 14th St.) on Monday, March 13, from 5:30 to 7:00 PM. He will discuss the dynamics of the proposed health care legislation, listen to ideas, and take questions. Fortenberry is a Member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
03.09.2017	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement on the 100th anniversary of Boys Town and the release of the newly minted commemorative coin marking the occasion: “Nebraska's Boys Town affects the lives of more than two million Americans each year,” Fortenberry said. “This commemorative coin rightly honors an institution that has saved children and helped heal families for 100 years.” In 2015, President Barack Obama signed Fortenberry’s legislation observing the centennial of the founding of Boys Town by directing the United States Treasury to issue a commemorative coin. The Boys Town Centennial Commemorative Coin Act authorizes the production of a series of commemorative coins—in gold, silver, and clad--with designs emblematic of Boys Town’s 100-year history. “Boys Town offers a remarkable model of academic and spiritual engagement,” Fortenberry continued. “Youths learn more than math and grammar. Their teachers and caregivers provide them with solid formation by recreating a positive, structured, engaged environment. Boys Town is so effective that about 90 percent of its graduates integrate successfully back into their communities.” The U.S. Mint will announce when the coins will be available for purchase by the public. Sales will more than offset the cost of minting by the Treasury. There will be no cost to the taxpayer or Treasury. Fortenberry is a Member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
03.05.2017	Lincoln, Nebraska – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued a statement on the passing of former Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter: “Last night at the Nebraska Statehood Day dinner, I learned that my friend and former Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter died. He was a remarkable man, a steady and gentle leader, with a marked humility in the midst of an extraordinary list of accomplishments in service to America. “Clayton always was respectful and kind, and he had a heart for public service. A little while back, he wrote me a personal note of encouragement, which I treasure. Secretary Yeutter lived up to the noble ideal of what it means to be a statesman. I extend my heartfelt condolences to Cristena and the family.” ###
01.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (NE-01) today made the following statement following the Air Force’s decision not to select Offutt Air Force Base as the preferred location to base a new mission control for the MQ-9 Reaper drone group. "This is obviously disappointing news for Offutt, in light of the many advantages it would have offered for this new mission. Nevertheless, thanks to its military expertise and robust service model, Offutt is well-positioned to compete as new mission opportunities arise," said Fortenberry, whose district includes Offutt Air Force Base. In addition to this action, the Air Force is also considering another location to host an MQ-9 location that includes up to 24 MQ-9s, launch and recovery elements, a mission control element, a maintenance group and support personnel. Last year Fortenberry assembled the Offutt Air Force Base Task Force to provide oversight of the runway replacement process, which resulted in a commitment to provide adequate funding for the runway repairs. This will better position Offutt for future mission opportunities. Congressman Fortenberry is the Vice Chair of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs. ###
01.09.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today announced the selection of students from eastern Nebraska to receive nominations to America's top military academies. "A military academy appointment is a tremendous honor and a great responsibility," Fortenberry said. "Nominees must demonstrate capacity for leadership, personal integrity, and rigorous scholarship. I am pleased to nominate several young Nebraskans who meet these qualifications." Following are the 2016 nominees: Jackson Arndt of Lincoln Pius X High School. Jackson is the son of Roderick and Michele Arndt and has been nominated to the United States Military Academy. Lauren Berke of Lincoln Pius X High School. Lauren is the daughter Todd and Christine Berke and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Hannah Compton of Milford High School. Hannah is the daughter of Duane and Lisa Compton and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Montana Cottle of Fort Calhoun High School. Hannah is the daughter of Larry and Nova Cottle and has been nominated to the United States Military Academy. Allan Cramblitt of Yutan High School. Allan is the son of Mike and Andrea Cramblitt and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Gregory Dalton of Lincoln Pius X High School. Gregory is the son of Thomas and Renee Dalton and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Elizabeth Gao of Lincoln Southwest High School. Elizabeth is the daughter of Jinnian Gao and Dana Wang and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Shanna Hoven of Wahoo Bishop Neumann High School. Shanna is the daughter of Art and Linda Hoven and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Joseph Kopetka of Lincoln Pius X High School. Joseph is the son of Jackie Kopetka and the late Joseph Kopetka and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Hailey Kozma of Conestoga High School at Murray. Hailey is the daughter of April Upton and has been nominated to the United States Military Academy. Megan LeClere of Bellevue West High School. Megan is the daughter of Bart and Lisa LeClere and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Kathleen Medill of Lincoln Pius X High School. Kathleen is the daughter of Steve and Colleen Medill and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Zachary Ostrander of Platteview High School. Zachary is the son of Lyle and Michelle Ostrander and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Olivia Pletcher of Lincoln Pius X High School. Olivia is the daughter of Roger and Donna Pletcher and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Natalie Schieuer of Lincoln Pius X High School. Natalie is the daughter of Kevin and Heidi Schieuer and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Ryan Volin of Wahoo High School. Ryan is the son of Ron and Beth Volin and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Thomas Ward of Lincoln Southeast High School. Thomas is the son of Thomas and Mariana Ward and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. ###
01.04.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry yesterday was sworn in to the 115th Congress as Nebraska's First Congressional District Congressman in the U.S. House of Representatives. Fortenberry took the oath of office with his colleagues on the House Floor yesterday afternoon. “I am honored to serve in Nebraska’s delegation in the United States Congress,” Fortenberry said. “Many Americans are looking for new leadership models to offer a compelling, inspirational, and stable vision that can restore the security of our nation. At the start of this new Congress, we can rediscover common sense governance, right-sized economic models, and universal and foundational values. “One of the strengths of the American system can be its capacity for constant replenishment. This time of government transition gives us the chance to reassess and realign. In response to our nation’s many challenges, a stronger America might be glimpsed through four mutually supporting principles: government decentralization, economic inclusion, foreign policy realism, and social conservation. “As I often say, there’s nothing wrong with America that can’t be fixed by what’s right in America. But this will require bold resolve, innovative public policy, and a return to our highest ideals. I remain committed to restoring our national security, our economic security, and our community security, as well as rebuilding a culture that respects the life and dignity of all persons.” Fortenberry will continue his service on the Appropriations Committee with frontline responsibilities for policy and fiscal reform. ###
12.01.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement on the passage of the 21st Century Cures Act: In our Lincoln office, Monday, it was truly inspiring to meet so many young people working to raise awareness and find a cure for juvenile type 1 diabetes (T1D), an autoimmune disease that affects 1.25 Americans. To take just one story, 24-year-old Meg Cooper—currently a student at Creighton University Law School—has lived with T1D for 5,526 days; lost 3,207 hours of sleep; received 33,756 finger pricks and had 19,786 needle injections. Growing up, her parents had to monitor her around-the-clock, making sure she ate when she didn't want to eat, holding her down to give her shots, testing her blood sugar levels throughout the day and night. Their enormous burden is nothing compared to the burden Meg must carry for the rest of her life. Hopefully, we can find a better way. Yesterday in the House, we passed the 21st Century Cures Act. Besides restructuring and streamlining the FDA drug approval process, the Cures Act will provide funds to the National Institute of Health (NIH) to research life-saving treatments for diseases like T1D. As I heard Monday, parents of children with type 1 juvenile diabetes must spend upwards of $50,000 to care for their children with this chronic condition. If we spend a little more now on research and technology, perhaps we can dramatically simplify care for patients and family, while lowering the burdensom costs and complications of diabetes. ###
11.29.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement on the death Fidel Castro: “I have known a number of people who had to flee Castro's Cuba. Welcomed generously to America, they had to start over and rebuild their lives. Some came to recognize Castro as a revolutionary for the poor, yet in his wake he left poverty, despair, and death. Idealistic propaganda can't wish away that grim reality. While I don't celebrate the death of any person, perhaps Castro's passing will create the space between our two countries to build a neighborly, sustainable, and respectful relationship. I pray that the indomitable, creative spirit of the Cuban people will point us to a new type of economic, political, and cultural engagement that rejects oppression and elevates a mutual embrace of higher ideals." ###
11.11.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement on Veteran’s Day: “To our veterans, to those who have selflessly sacrificed, thank you. Veteran’s Day is a time to gather in gratitude, and by doing so, we reflect our common bond, our narrative as a people, and our notion of our nation. Some veterens saw battle. Some never came home. Others served in support. They cooked, cleaned, and computed. They repaired, drove, and maintained the effort. Many returned to civilian life and perhaps never mentioned the details of their military service, except to say: “I did what was expected. I did my duty.” Thank you veterans. ###
10.06.2016	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today made the following statement on a report issued by the United States Postal Service Office of the Inspector General:“Earlier this year I asked the United States Postal Service Office of the Inspector General (OIG) to investigate numerous constituent reports of problems with the mail system in Nebraska. The report was posted on September 28 on the OIG website, and I am reviewing its conclusions. It remains unclear as to whether all mail problems have been resolved. I will continue to engage with Postal officials to address concerns in the report.”Congressman Fortenberry wrote to Inspector General David C. Williams on March 3, 2016. The Office of Inspector General is an independent office of the Postal Service under the general supervision of nine presidentially appointed governors. It is also required to provide semiannual reports to Congress. The most recent report can be viewed here. # # #
10.04.2016	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today made the following statement after Russia suspended a long-standing treaty with the United States to better manage weapons-grade plutonium: “Russia cites new discomfort in its relationship with our country following ongoing conflicts related to Ukraine and Syria. Yet the suspension of a weapons-grade plutonium agreement with the United States should concern not only the Russian people, but also the international community of responsible nations. “In the past, our two countries have strived to strengthen our relationship while working toward mutual nuclear security goals. Although our engagement with Moscow faces new challenges, both nations must reinvigorate those values that bind us toward making nuclear security a first order priority. The risk of more aggressive diplomatic posturing between our nations, especially when related to nuclear issues, is a threat to civilization itself.”Fortenberry is co-chair of the Nuclear Security Working Group and serves on the House Appropriations Committee. # # #
09.23.2016	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today made the following statement after Blue Cross announced it was dropping out of Nebraska’s Affordable Care Act marketplace next year. “Everyone knows the current construct of healthcare is deeply broken. With Nebraska’s largest health insurer pulling out of the federal marketplace, Congress and a new administration must immediately work on the right type of healthcare reform. A better policy would actually reduce costs while improving healthcare outcomes. Bringing true innovation and creativity to the marketplace would protect vulnerable Nebraskans, stop the escalating prices, and provide the proper architecture for healthcare in the 21st century.” Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee. # # #
09.23.2016	Lincoln, NE – Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today made the following statement on H.R. 5931, the Prohibiting Future Ransom Payments to Iran Act, passed by the House of Representatives last night in a vote of 254 - 163. The legislation states that the United States will not pay ransom for the release of prisoners and prohibits the payment of any government’s currency to the government of Iran. “We have now learned that 1.7 billion dollars of currency was transferred to the Iranians. This is the stuff of spy novels. The transfer was completed in secret, and more and more information keeps trickling out. It coincided with the release of American hostages, which was widely perceived as a ransom payment. The Justice Department actually warned the White House about this—and now the Iranians are holding three more Americans. This bill prevents any administration from ever again taking actions of this nature." Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee. # # #
09.21.2016	Lincoln, NE – Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today made the following statement on the passing of Bill Barrett: “Nebraskans can be proud of the legacy of former Congressman Bill Barrett. He was known as a dutiful public servant who earned a reputation in Congress for a steady hand and hard work. During his time in office he continued the Nebraska tradition of bringing understated value to the most pressing problems of our country, with a particular emphasis on agriculture policy. I extend my condolences to his family and friends.” Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
09.20.2016	Lincoln, NE – Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today made the following statement on the passing of Duane Acklie: “Duane Acklie was an extraordinary person, with a profound spirit of generosity and humility. He used his multiple accomplishments in business and politics to be a good steward of the values of our community. He was always so kind to me and my family. He was a true gentleman, a fatherly advisor, and most importantly, my friend. These words do not adequately convey what an incredible man he was. I extend my heartfelt condolences to Phyllis and the family. I will miss him.”
09.09.2016	Lincoln, NE – Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (NE-01) today made the following statement on North Korea’s nuclear test: “An unthinkable system has once again acted in an unthinkable manner. While much of the world slept, North Korea exploded a nuclear weapon for the second time this year. This deplorable provocation, in defiance of the civilized community of nations, has no easy answer or response. While it is clear that North Korea’s closest ally, China, protested the explosion, the key to stopping this nuclear arms race lies with China's willingness to meaningfully challenge such rogue behavior.” North Korea’s fifth nuclear test follows the launch by North Korea of three medium range missiles while China hosted a summit meeting for world leaders, commonly known as the G20 Summit. ###
09.01.2016	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (NE-01) today made the following comment after receiving an update from the United States Postal Service Office of Inspector General: “After receiving numerous complaints from constituents, earlier this year I asked the Inspector General of the United States Postal Service to intervene and analyze the problems with the mail system in Nebraska. It is my understanding that the Office of Inspector General will be releasing a report with recommendations by September 16th. I hope that this report will help resolve problems and restore confidence in postal delivery standards.” Congressman Fortenberry wrote to Inspector General David C. Williams on March 3, 2016. The Office of Inspector General is an independent office of the Postal Service under the general supervision of nine presidentially appointed governors. It is also required to provide semiannual reports to Congress. ###
06.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (NE-01) today made the following comment after the announcement of the Offutt Air Force Base runway repairs: “This is a good decision. I am pleased that our military leaders, after thorough analysis, are committing the necessary resources to protect Offutt as an important part of our national security infrastructure. Offutt will receive the necessary funding to repair the aging runway with minimal disruption to the base and the Bellevue community.” Today’s announcement by the Pentagon estimates the runway repair to cost approximately $50-55 million and put the existing runway offline for five to nine months. The repaired runway is expected to last 20 years. Last year, Fortenberry founded the Offutt Air Force Base Task Force to conduct oversight of the runway replacement process. Governor Pete Ricketts, Congressman Adrian Smith, and Congressman Brad Ashford assisted Fortenberry in leading the task force. Fortenberry is the Vice Chair of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs. ###
05.26.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today helped promote local hiking trails at the launch of the Hiking Trails in America report. Fortenberry previously introduced the National Discovery Trails Act (H.R. 2661) to create a new category of long-distance trails and designate the American Discovery Trail as the first coast-to-coast, multi-use trail. “Trails play an important role in promoting family-oriented recreation, economic growth, and healthier lifestyles, particularly in Nebraska,” Fortenberry said. “The American Discovery Trail would link Lincoln to Omaha as well as other communities across America to tie together existing recreational trails. This trail is just one extraordinary example of our need to support public-private partnerships to grow our national trails system.” Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
05.19.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today commended passage of two amendments he introduced in the National Defense Authorization Act for 2017 (H.R. 4909). Fortenberry’s amendments would further strengthen protections against the horrific ISIS genocide against ethnic and religious minorities in Iraq. “Two months ago, Congress declared that ISIS is committing genocide against Christians, Yezidis, and other minorities.” Fortenberry said. “The House of Representatives has now taken concrete steps to support the victims. “The National Defense Authorization Act that has passed the House contains two new policy goals. First, the United States strategy in Iraq now includes securing ‘safe areas’ so that genocide victims can return to their homelands. Second, a new provision empowers minority groups, including Christian and Yezidi security forces, in the integrated military campaign against ISIS. “Christians, Yezidis, and others should remain an essential part of the Middle East’s once rich tapestry of ethnic and religious diversity. They now have new cause for hope.” Fortenberry’s first amendment expresses the sense of Congress that safe areas should be secured for the resettlement and reintegration of ethnic and religious minorities, including victims of genocide, into their homelands, further affirming that this position is critical to the security strategy in Iraq. The second amendment empowers local security forces in Iraq—including Christian and Yezidi groups—in the military campaign against ISIS. Earlier this year, the United States House of Representatives passed a bipartisan resolution introduced by Fortenberry naming and decrying ISIS atrocities against ethnic and religious minorities as “genocide.” The legislation passed in a vote of 393-0. Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. ###
04.27.2016	Noem, Hoeven, Fortenberry, Clay, Heinrich, and Serrano announce passage of the National Bison Legacy Act Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today announced that the National Bison Legacy Act, which he helped lead, passed the United States House of Representatives this week. The legislation names the bison as the National Mammal of the United States. Similar legislation was approved by the United States Senate in December. The legislation is expected to be sent to the President soon for his signature. “In the midst of such a difficult political environment, it is good to pass legislation that is important to the American narrative. Bison have a storied history in Nebraska and are an important part of our nation's frontier heritage,” Fortenberry said. “By naming bison as our national mammal, we are supporting the ongoing preservation of this majestic species and their essential tie to the American experience.” In addition to naming the bison as the national mammal, the National Bison Legacy Act (H.R. 2908) recognizes the historical, cultural and economic significance of the bison, which is the largest land mammal in America and a symbol of Native American heritage. The legislation was actively supported and led by Senators John Hoeven (R-ND) and Martin Heinrich (D-NM) and Representatives William Lacy Clay (D-MO), Kristi Noem (R-SD), and José Serrano (D-NY). Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
04.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today made the following statement after the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs approved its Fiscal Year 2017 Appropriations bill. “The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs legislation is the first appropriations bill to move forward in Congress this year,” Fortenberry said. “This priority demonstrates our highest level of support ever for veterans and their needs. This bill encourages the option of public-private partnerships in constructing VA facilities, which is significant for the Omaha VA project.” “The bill also continues to promote and provide oversight for the important runway replacement at Offutt Air Force Base. This has been a priority of my Offutt Task Force and I am pleased that runway repairs remain a national security priority.” Fortenberry made requests in the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs report on the following projects with importance to Nebraska: promoting runway repairs and replacement for Offutt Air Force Base; supporting a public-private partnership to build a new Veterans Administration (VA) hospital in Omaha; and encouraging the VA to work closely with the Small Business Administration to further improve entrepreneurial opportunities for veterans. Fortenberry previously introduced the Veterans Entrepreneurial Transition Act (H.R. 3248). Fortenberry serves as Vice Chair of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs. ###
03.23.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) released the following statement after the attacks in Brussels this week: “As we recover from the shock of the horrifying terror attack in Brussels, we must recover two critical principals. First, Europe must fight. Complacency is no longer possible. Second, the security risks of the Middle East migrant crisis must be confronted and resolved to keep the world safe.” Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and co-chair of the Congressional Study Group on Europe. ###
03.17.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) made the following statement after Secretary of State John Kerry designated ISIS action against Christians, Yezidis, and other ethnic and religious minorities in the Middle East as genocide. “I commend Secretary Kerry and the State Department for making this important designation. The genocide against Christians, Yezidis, and others is not only a grave injustice to these ancient faith communities — it is an assault on human dignity and an attack on civilization itself. The United States has now spoken with clarity and moral authority. “I sincerely hope that the genocide designation will raise international consciousness, end the scandal of silence, and create the preconditions for the protection and reintegration of these ancient faith communities into their ancestral homelands. Christians, Yezidis, Shia Muslim minorities, and others, including Sunni Muslim communities who have suffered grievous harm, remain an essential part of the Middle East's rich tapestry of religious and ethnic diversity. They now have new cause for hope.” On Monday, Fortenberry’s bipartisan genocide resolution passed the United States House of Representatives by a vote of 393-0. Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations and is co-chair of the Religious Minorities of the Middle East Caucus. He represents America’s largest Yezidi community. ###
03.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today made the following statement after the United States House of Representatives unanimously passed his genocide resolution with a vote of 393-0. In a sign of overwhelming bipartisan unity, the resolution, H. Con. Res. 75, names and decries the ISIS violence against Christians, Yezidis, and other ethnic and religious minorities as “genocide.” By law, the State Department must make a genocide determination by March 17. “It is my sincere hope that this trans-partisan resolution will further compel the State Department to join the building international consensus in calling the horrific ISIS violence against Christians, Yezidis, and others by its proper name: ‘genocide,’” Fortenberry said. A rapidly expanding international coalition has recognized that ISIS is committing genocide. The European Parliament, the International Association of Genocide Scholars, the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, Pope Francis, and presidential candidates in both parties, among many others, are standing in solidarity to name and decry this genocide. “At a time of deep political division in our nation,” Fortenberry continued, “the House has spoken with one voice to properly recognize and condemn this genocide—a threat to civilization itself. The genocide resolution elevates international consciousness and confronts the scandal of silence and indifference about ISIS’ targeted and systematic destruction of these endangered communities. A bipartisan and ecumenical alliance has formed to confront ISIS’ barbaric onslaught.” Fortenberry along with Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) in September 2015 introduced H. Con. Res. 75 in the House. Following the unanimous vote passing the resolution, he spoke on the floor of the House urging the State Department to include both Christians and Yezidis in a genocide designation. Earlier, Fortenberry made the case for recognizing the genocide in the Middle East during an exchange with Secretary of State John Kerry at a hearing before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. Fortenberry pleaded for a comprehensive genocide designation that encompasses these ethnic and religious communities, which are facing brutal persecution in the region. Fortenberry added: “Christians, Yezidis, and other beleaguered minority groups can find new hope in the leadership of the House. Recognition of the ISIS genocide sets the preconditions for the reintegration of ancient ethnic groups and faith traditions into their ancestral homelands. The rich, religiously diverse tapestry of the Middle East will be restored only if Christians, Yezidis, and others are empowered to once again take their rightful place.” Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. Along with Eshoo, he is co-chair of the Religious Minorities of the Middle East Caucus. He represents America’s largest Yezidi community. ###
03.11.2016	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today made the following statement about his genocide resolution, H. Con. Res. 75, which will be voted on in the full United States House of Representatives on Monday, March 14. The resolution names and decries ISIS violence against Christians, Yezidis, and other ethnic and religious minorities as genocide. “When ISIS systematically targets Christians, Yezidis, and other ethnic and religious minorities for extermination, this is not only a grave injustice—it is a threat to civilization itself. We must call the violence by its proper name: genocide. “A genocide designation will raise international consciousness and compel the international community of responsible nations to act, setting the preconditions for the reintegration of ancient ethnic groups and faith traditions into their ancestral homelands.” Fortenberry in September 2015 introduced H. Con. Res. 75 in the House. In a sign of bipartisan unity, the House Committee on Foreign Affairs last Wednesday passed the resolution by unanimous consent. The resolution has over 200 bipartisan cosponsors and is pending the Monday vote in the full House under suspension of the rules. On February 24, Fortenberry made the case for recognizing ISIS’ genocide against Christians, Yezidis, and other vulnerable minority groups in the Middle East during an exchange with Secretary of State John Kerry at a hearing before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. Fortenberry pleaded for a comprehensive genocide designation that encompasses these ethnic and religious communities, which are facing brutal persecution in the region. By law, the State Department must make its determination by March 17. A rapidly expanding international coalition has recognized that ISIS is committing genocide against Christians, Yezidis, and other ethnic and religious minorities in the Middle East. The European Parliament, the International Association of Genocide Scholars, the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, Pope Francis, and presidential candidates in both parties, among many others, are standing in solidarity to name and decry this genocide. Fortenberry added: “Christians, Yezidis, and other beleaguered minority groups can find new hope in this trans-partisan and ecumenical alliance against ISIS’ barbaric onslaught.” Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. Along with Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA), he is co-chair of the Religious Minorities of the Middle East Caucus and represents America’s largest Yezidi community. ###
02.25.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) made the case for recognizing ISIL’s genocide against Christians, Yezidis, and other vulnerable ethnic and religious minorities in the Middle East during an exchange with Secretary of State John Kerry at a hearing before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. Click here or on the image above to watch the video. “A growing coalition is urging the world to recognize that ISIL is committing genocide against Christians, Yezidis, and other ethnic and religious minorities,” Fortenberry said. “While Secretary of State John Kerry has not yet reached that conclusion, I was grateful for his willingness to openly engage in a thoughtful dialogue on this gravely important matter. I hope the State Department makes a comprehensive and inclusive genocide designation soon.” Following his testimony, Fortenberry raised concerns about the need to issue a comprehensive genocide designation that encompasses all of the communities facing brutal persecution in the region. Fortenberry introduced H. Con. Res. 75 in September 2015. The resolution’s 199 bipartisan cosponsors in the House have joined the European Parliament, Pope Francis, the International Association of Genocide Scholars, the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, and presidential candidates including former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Senator Marco Rubio, among many others, who hope to aid an ecumenical alliance in the face of ISIL’s horrific onslaught. Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. He is co-chair of the Religious Minorities of the Middle East Caucus and represents America’s largest Yezidi community. ###
02.11.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (NE-01) and Governor Pete Ricketts today met with Major General Timothy Green, the Air Force Director of Civil Engineers, about the ongoing Offutt Air Force Base runway replacement process. The discussion was held by the Offutt Air Force Base Task Force, which Fortenberry founded to provide additional oversight of the Defense Department’s effort to design and replace the existing runway. Governor Pete Ricketts as well as Congressmen Adrian Smith (NE-03) and Brad Ashford (NE-02) joined Fortenberry in forming the Task Force. “From all indications,” Fortenberry said, “the Offutt runway replacement is not a matter of ‘if’—it is a matter of ‘when.’ The design process is already underway. In the next year, the Air Force will make additional considerations about the type of runway replacement. The Offutt Air Force Task Force will continue our dialogue with the Pentagon. I greatly appreciate the ongoing engagement of Governor Ricketts, Representative Smith, and Representative Ashford.” “I appreciated the opportunity to convey to Major General Green Nebraska’s commitment to Offutt Air Force Base,” Ricketts said. “Congressman Fortenberry has provided leadership on this issue, and I will continue to partner with him and the members of this task force to ensure a bright future for the base.” “Offutt plays a vital role not only in our district but also defending our nation and I am fully committed to ensuring that we secure the funding necessary to complete the runway project,” Ashford said. “The Nebraska delegation will continue to collaborate with other Members of Congress as well as the DOD to protect the base’s current missions.” Congressman Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military, Construction, and Veterans Affairs. ###
01.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today announced the selection of 15 students from eastern Nebraska to receive nominations to America's top military academies. "A military academy appointment is a tremendous honor and a great responsibility," Fortenberry said. "Nominees must demonstrate capacity for leadership, personal integrity, and rigorous scholarship. I am pleased to nominate several young Nebraskans who meet these qualifications." Following are the 2015 nominees: William Addy of Lincoln Pius X High School. William is the son of John and Julie Addy and has been nominated to the United States Military Academy. Grace Austin of Lincoln Christian High School. Grace is the daughter of Jeffrey and Rachel Austin and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Megan Deprez of Lincoln Southwest High School. Megan is the daughter of James Deprez and Kathleen Derby and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Joshua DeWald of Lincoln Pius X High School. Joshua is the son of Michael and Terese DeWald and has been nominated to the United States Military Academy. Justin Goodwin of Bellevue East High School. Justin is the son of Benjamin and Heidi Goodwin and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Regan Hefner of Bellevue West High School. Regan is the daughter of Ronald and Brooke Hefner and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Nathan Ketner of Seward High School. Nathan is the son of J.B. and Carla Ketner and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. April Kruse of Lincoln Pius X High School. April is the daughter of Dennis and Michelle Kruse and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Celine McNabb of Bellevue West High School. Celine is the daughter of Kevin and Charlotte McNabb and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Karla Mendoza of Macomb High School (Illinois) and her hometown of Madison (Nebraska). Karla is the daughter of Juval Mendoza and Elizabeth Ward and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Jacqueline Parriott of Conestoga High School at Murray. Jacqueline is the daughter of James and Rita Parriott and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Brennan Roberson of Lincoln Southeast High School. Brennan is the son of Timothy and Lisa Roberson and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Dawson Siemonsma of Plattsmouth High School. Dawson is the son of Keith Siemonsma and Jennifer Stander and has been nominated to the United States Military Academy. Megan Wackel of Lincoln Pius X High School. Megan is the daughter of Thomas and Ann Wackel and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Chandler Walsh of Waverly High School. Chandler is the son of Christopher and Jennifer Walsh and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. ###
01.12.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) made the following statement after President Obama’s State of the Union address: “The State of the Union is an essential part of America’s political tradition. I thought the President’s speech was reasonably constructed around four key issues: the use of technology for proper ends, economic security, a balanced foreign policy, and a better type of politics. “Overall, the President attempted to give an uplifting message, which is especially important in our time of turmoil. Technology should be channeled toward proper progress for everyone. The economy should deliver widespread opportunity and security. Our national security strategy should chart a wise course between isolationism and over-intervention. Finally, we should pursue a new type of politics that aims to achieve constructive outcomes. “Certain segments of the speech contained troubling inconsistencies. From where I sat, perhaps the most glaring was the talk of a better political life in full view of the Little Sisters of the Poor, who are forced to sue the Administration to preserve their basic freedoms of conscience and religious liberty. Unfortunately, the President’s discussion of unity glossed over a legacy of division. “It is true that Americans feel their voices don't matter. This is a sad reality. If we want better politics, our nation must demand it.” Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
01.06.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today made the following statement after North Korea’s possible nuclear test: “As the world has focused on ISIL’s death cult, attention has drifted away from another equally grave threat to civilization itself: North Korea’s dynastic and despotic leadership. In a region already roiled by increased Chinese military posturing, this ongoing threat to the international community of responsible nations is very real. This is one of the world’s most dangerous situations. “While North Korea’s claim about testing a hydrogen bomb has not been verified, the international community should not underestimate the country’s young, ego-driven leader. North Korea’s arsenal of nuclear weapons could grow substantially. One key to halting this aggression should be China’s influence.” Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. Fortenberry previously served on the House Foreign Affairs Committee for eight years. ###
12.17.2015	Click below to listen to an audio version of this press release. Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (NE-01) today announced the formation of an Offutt Air Force Base Task Force to provide additional oversight of the Defense Department’s effort to design and replace the existing runway. “As Nebraskans we deeply appreciate our military’s sacrifice and the role that Offutt Air Force Base plays in our national security,” Fortenberry said. “The Offutt Air Force Base Task Force will conduct careful oversight of the ongoing runway replacement process, a critical component of Offutt’s infrastructure needs. We will monitor the Pentagon’s stated commitment to the obligated planning and design money, including a constant review of runway replacement costs. “I have high confidence that the project is on track, and essential communication with the Pentagon about the importance of this initiative is continuing on all fronts. Joining me on the Task Force will be representatives from the offices of Governor Ricketts, Congressman Smith, and Congressman Ashford. I want to commend the many citizen groups in Nebraska that are taking a great interest in ensuring that Offutt remains a viable part of our national security infrastructure and local community life.” Fortenberry is the Vice Chair of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs. ###
12.10.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today welcomed to Washington Mother Provincial Loraine of the Little Sisters of the Poor, a Catholic religious order serving the elderly and the poor throughout the world. The Little Sisters of the Poor are appealing to the United States Supreme Court in their quest for equal treatment under the Affordable Care Act (ACA). A mandate in the ACA uses the strong arm of government to force the sisters to pay for drugs and procedures, including abortion-inducing drugs, which many Americans find to be ethically divisive. The government seeks to impose crushing fines on the Little Sisters if they uphold their deeply held and reasoned beliefs. “I am moved by Mother Loraine’s leadership,” Fortenberry said. “I really feel badly for the Little Sisters. The government exists to protect their rights, not to take them away. Mother Loraine has continued to stand up for the fundamental American principle of the rights of conscience and religious liberty.” “In the face of an unrelenting administration and cultural misunderstandings,” Fortenberry continued, “the Little Sisters of the Poor have inadvertently found themselves in the vanguard of a fight. For many years we have pushed legislation to try to protect conscience rights, the sacred space of the person. However, the example of a nun and a religious order dedicated to charity for the poor is much more powerful than any legislative initiative.” “We want to simply take care of the elderly and the poor as we always have for 175 years,” Mother Provincial Loraine said. “I want to thank Congressman Fortenberry for all he is doing and continues to do for religious liberty, for the right to follow our conscience and serve others.” The Supreme Court has agreed to hear the Little Sisters’ case next year. They are represented by the Beckett Fund, which also successfully represented Hobby Lobby in a similar case. The Little Sisters was founded by Saint Jeanne Jugan, who was recently canonized after the Vatican attributed the miraculous case of a Nebraskan cured from cancer to her intercession. Fortenberry is the co-author of the Health Care Conscience Rights Act. ###
12.07.2015	Click here to listen to an audio version of this press release. Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today announced his support of reforms to the U.S. visa waiver program, joining a bipartisan group of his colleagues in cosponsoring the Visa Waiver Program Improvement & Terrorist Travel Prevention Act of 2015 (H.R. 158). “The visa waiver program is an important tool to invite visitors from trusted countries to America. However, it also has loopholes that could pose national security threats. The recent Paris attackers had passports that could have allowed them into the United States without the necessary vetting. Congress must determine the extent to which the program makes us vulnerable to terrorist threats and take action to reform it. “The Visa Waiver Program Improvement & Terrorist Travel Prevention Act is the first step in the right direction to fix loopholes and strengthen our national security. This legislation is one of a host of immigration reforms that should be undertaken.” The Visa Waiver Program Improvement & Terrorist Travel Prevention Act enhances national security by limiting Visa Waiver Program access for travelers who are nationals of or have recently visited countries with significant terrorist activity, including Iraq and Syria. The legislation increases security screening procedures for persons traveling to the U.S. and takes additional steps to ensure provided background information and travel documents are accurate. Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. ###
11.20.2015	Washington, D.C. – The bipartisan Co-Chairs of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus—Reps. Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) and Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA)—are strongly urging the State Department to include all ethno-religious minority populations as it considers designating ISIS attacks on minority populations in Iraq and Syria as genocide. In a letter dated November 19th to Secretary of State John Kerry, Fortenberry and Eshoo wrote: “We're witnessing the systematic extermination of Iraq and Syria’s entire ethno-religious minority populations and the atrocities perpetrated against each of these vulnerable groups shock the conscience of civilized humanity. “Press reports have indicated, however, that the State Department is considering a less-inclusive designation of the genocide taking place. “As Co-Chairs of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus, we request that as you consider the designation of genocide, you include in your designation every ethno-religious minority group being systematically targeted by ISIS. “The United States must condemn the act of genocide as the most barbaric and criminal act of humankind and must do so for all those who are suffering.” Fortenberry and Eshoo are authors of H. Con. Res. 75, a resolution declaring the atrocities being committed by ISIS in Iraq and Syria against Christians and other ethnic and religious minorities including Yezidis, Turkmen, Sabea-Mandeans, Kaka'e, and Kurds as genocide and crimes against humanity. ###
11.17.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today made the following statement regarding resettling Syrian refugees in the United States: “My first responsibility is to keep America safe. A rapidly expanding Syrian refugee policy could create conditions for domestic tragedy. In the wake of the horrific attacks in Paris, America needs a well ordered asylum process, not one that is rushed and could compromise our nation's safety. ISIL has now put Washington in its crosshairs. We must not allow Paris to be repeated on our shores. “Syrian refugees are fleeing a maelstrom of violence, much of it perpetrated by ISIL. Humanitarian concerns can be met without jeopardizing our security. Any proper asylum process must strengthen robust security screening measures. To this end, I have cosponsored the Refugee Resettlement Oversight and Security Act. This legislation halts the administration's Syrian refugee policy to ensure the rigorous implementation and proper prioritization of immigration oversight measures.” The Refugee Resettlement Oversight and Security Act (H.R. 3573) gives Congress necessary oversight for the U.S. refugee program. It would codify vigorous additional security measures for refugees, and require approval by both the House and Senate of any refugee resettlement program. The measure would give Congress the authority to block any insufficient proposals put forward by the Administration, and seeks to prioritize the resettlement of persecuted religious minorities. Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. ###
10.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) made the following statement after today’s vote to confirm Paul Ryan as Speaker of the House: “Paul Ryan did not seek to be Speaker, the office sought him. He is a well-respected and highly capable leader. I think he will run the House with fairness and respect, while seeking a smarter and more effective government. “I know Paul Ryan. I think America will find in him an empathetic leader that speaks to the heart of people who experience difficult and broken situations. Our nation doesn’t need any more disruption from Washington. “Speaker Ryan will govern dynamically. We have begun the process of reversing the concentration of power in the House. I believe Speaker Ryan will bring more unity to Congress as we confront the many problems facing our country.” Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
10.28.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) made the following statement after today’s vote to pass the Bipartisan Budget Agreement of 2015: “America cannot sustain more disruption from Washington. This new budget agreement, while imperfect, nonetheless adequately funds our military, prevents Medicare problems, and stabilizes the budget. It holds the line on discretionary spending to 2011 levels. “America has enough to worry about without Washington causing even more instability. It is important to get this behind us to reset the way Washington works.” Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
10.08.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today released the following statement after Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy withdrew his bid for Speaker of the House: “Today’s turn of events is quite a surprise for everyone. However, this is an opportunity for the House of Representatives to be more deliberate about one of the most important political decisions facing our country. The real issue is finding the right balance between decentralizing institutional power and a hierarchy of leadership for order, so there can be effective governance.” Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ###
09.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today released the following statement after Speaker John Boehner announced his resignation from Congress: “I thank John Boehner for his many years of dedicated service. As Speaker he had the difficult job of achieving governing coalitions from very diverse perspectives. I believe that the visit of Pope Francis to Congress was particularly meaningful to him personally, and perhaps he considered the visit an appropriate capstone for decades of public service.” Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ###
09.24.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today released the following statement after Pope Francis addressed a joint session of Congress: “Pope Francis immediately began his historic address in a very inviting and engaging way, affirming America's first principles when he said, ‘Land of the free, home of the brave.’ I thought the Pope's deeper message about the need to protect the family, the dignity of work, the problems of unjust structures—social, political, or economic—and the gravity of violence in the world was an appropriate and gentle challenge for those of us given the serious responsibility to govern. “The Pope achieved an important goal: no one can interpret his words to affirm their own political positions. He addressed the deeper need to protect the dignity and rights of all persons, the just structures of a healthy society and economy, and the necessity of vibrant family life—all the while generously upholding the concept of the American dream.” Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ###
09.23.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today released the following statement ahead of Pope Francis’ address to a joint session of Congress: “The upcoming papal visit to Congress is a historic occasion that deserves serious bipartisan political reflection. It is also a cause for celebration, especially for the many marginalized members of American society. They rightly recognize in the Pope a champion for the weak, the vulnerable, and the hopeless. “As the spiritual leader of the world's 1.2 billion Catholics, and as one of the most respected moral leaders on the planet, Pope Francis has spent his papacy challenging all persons to live out a consistent, sustainable, and inspirational vision of what his predecessor, Pope Benedict XVI, called a ‘human ecology,’ where no one is disregarded and the material world is properly protected. “In his recent papal encyclical, Laudato Si, the Pope offers a poetic expression addressing the crises of the present day. Laudato Si, written to all members of the global community, promotes universal human values: the sanctity of all life, with special consideration for the poor, the elderly, and the unborn; the importance of society and the primacy of the family; the dignity of work; the responsibility of people to properly steward their natural resources, all gifts from the Creator who authored life itself; and the interlocking and inseparable principles of subsidiarity and solidarity, which people live out together in local communities to promote the good that is common to us all. “The Pope rightly condemns our ‘throwaway culture,’ whether wanton pollution, avaricious materialism, or disregard or outright violent hostility toward the poor, the elderly, and the unborn. He rightly highlights how physical and social environments are inextricably intertwined. While he speaks in seamless principals, not policy specifics, the Pope’s words provide a holistic message that does not fit political class distinctions. “Against anti-human ideologies, Pope Francis presents a deeply profound account—ever ancient, ever new—of how human persons, living together, can flourish in our common home. “Finally, it is important to remember one more issue of special concern to the Pope. In July, he decried the genocide of Christians in the Middle East and the scandalous silence. I share the Holy Father’s cry against the international indifference and have introduced a resolution in the House of Representatives calling the slaughter of our Christian brethren and other minorities genocide. Christians in the Middle East, and elsewhere, need special protection and our full solidarity. This resolution is an attempt to elevate the world’s consciousness about their plight, providing a gateway for further policy considerations. “Hopefully Congress can consider this measure in proximity to the papal visit.” Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ###
09.10.2015	Washington, D.C. – Representatives Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Juan Vargas (D-CA), Trent Franks (R-AZ), Dan Lipinski (D-IL), and Jeff Denham (R-CA) today announced the introduction of a bipartisan resolution (H. Con. Res. 75) denouncing the genocide being perpetrated against Christians and other ethnic and religious minorities in Iraq and Syria. “Christianity in the Middle East is shattered,” said Fortenberry, co-chair of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus. “The ancient faith tradition lies beaten, broken, and dying. Yet Christians in Iraq and Syria are hanging on in the face of the Islamic State’s barbarous onslaught. This is genocide. The international community must confront the scandalous silence about their plight. Christians, Yezidis, and other religious minorities have every right to remain in their ancestral homelands.” Fortenberry and Eshoo serve as co-chairs of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus. ###
09.09.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (NE-01) today announced weekly office hours in Bellevue. “These regular office hours will better accommodate members of the Bellevue community wishing to interact with my office and discuss issues of federal concern,” Fortenberry said. “It is my hope that this extended outreach will allow my office to better serve you.” Office hours will be held weekly at the time and location below: Bellevue Public Library 1003 Lincoln Rd Bellevue, NE 68005 Every Thursday, 9-12 pm Questions: (402) 438-1598 ###
09.09.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (NE-01) today announced weekly office hours in Columbus. “These regular office hours will better accommodate members of the Columbus community wishing to interact with my office and discuss issues of federal concern,” Fortenberry said. “It is my hope that this extended outreach will allow my office to better serve you.” Office hours will be held weekly at the time and location below: Columbus City Council Chamber 1369 25th Ave Columbus, NE 68601 Every Wednesday, 9:30-11:30 am Questions: (402) 379-2064 ###
08.11.2015	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement on the Iran agreement: “After significant analysis and careful consideration, I cannot in good conscience give the Iranian nuclear agreement my full assent. I will vote no. This is one of the most consequential decisions any Member of Congress will make. “With an agreement this significant, it was important to have adequate space for frank deliberation and public interaction. While the agreement provides a level of constraint on Iran’s nuclear weapons program, it confers legitimacy on their nuclear threshold status, an unprecedented shift for a country with so many entanglements. I was also deeply disturbed by the lifting of the weapons and ballistic missile technology embargoes on Iran, a last minute addition to the agreement. “It is important to note that the agreement is an earnest attempt by the Administration to halt Iran’s nuclear weapons program – but there are significant downside risks. “I am grateful for the significant input and thoughtful commentary I’ve received from the citizens of our state.” Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations and co-chair of the Nuclear Security Working Group. ###
07.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today announced introduction of the Veterans Entrepreneurial Transition (VET) Act which would allow veterans to receive grants to start or buy a new business. Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate by Senator Jerry Moran (R-KS) and S. 1870 passed the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship this morning. "I’m so proud to introduce this bill to help our veterans,” Fortenberry said. “The VET Act will help veterans in the transition from military to civilian life. It will create jobs and more efficiently use existing public resources. With this legislation, qualified veterans will be able to use the skills acquired in the military to start a business to support themselves and their families as well as our communities and economy.” The Veterans Entrepreneurial Transition Act (H.R. 3248) establishes a three year pilot program for up to 250 eligible veterans. This legislation will leverage the benefits of the G.I. Bill to allow veterans to establish and operate a business, maximizing their opportunity for entrepreneurial success. The VET Act is supported by: One Vet at a Time; Small Business Administration; National Guard Association of the United States; American Legion; Iraq Afghanistan Veterans of America; Veterans2Commerce; Military Business Owners Association; The Bunker; Kauffman Foundation; Association of Defense Communities; former Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Bing West; and former Supreme Allied Commander at NATO Admiral James Stavridis. Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs. ###
07.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement condemning Planned Parenthood for trafficking in the remains of aborted babies: “Today, I am joining my colleagues in denouncing the recent actions of Planned Parenthood and calling for a congressional investigation into their trafficking of the remains of aborted babies. Planned Parenthood was founded in racism, profits from the pain of abortion, and remains a façade for terrible actions. The gruesome organ harvesting revelation should finally awaken us to the reality of this taxpayer-funded organization. “The congressional investigation will examine current federal laws and regulations to determine what steps can be taken to ban such unethical and dehumanizing practices. We must challenge assaults on human dignity, especially to protect the most vulnerable members of our society. This respect must also extend to innocent unborn persons.” Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
07.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (NE-01) today made the following statement on the new nuclear agreement with Iran: “Under no circumstances should Iran be allowed to acquire a nuclear weapon. This agreement must demonstrate in a verifiable manner that it will stop and reverse Iran’s march toward the bomb. The deal will be met with much skepticism from Congress, and we should be circumspect about the limits of what we can achieve with—or without—an agreement. It is my job to scrutinize the details of any deal, debate the merits, and examine added options. There are two risks involved: the risk of an agreement, and the risk of no agreement.” Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. ###
07.07.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) delivered a letter to the White House calling on President Obama to press Vietnam to address its troubling human rights record. Fortenberry made the following statement: “The ongoing and unacceptable assault on human rights in Vietnam must be addressed as a priority in our bilateral relationship. I have called upon President Obama to raise concerns about that nation’s troubling record of human rights violations in his meeting today with the Secretary General of the Vietnamese Communist Party. “As the United States considers new trade and security partnerships with Vietnam, the Vietnamese government continues to oppress its citizens, especially those who maintain a commitment to freedom and democracy. Religious and political dissidents, as well as indigenous peoples and ethnic minorities, are unjustly imprisoned. Churches and other religious institutions are oppressed, the growth of civil society is restricted, and human trafficking is an ongoing horror. Hundreds of thousands of forced laborers struggle to survive in appalling conditions. Additional expansion of our trade and security relationship must be based on significant and lasting improvements in Vietnam’s human rights practices.” Fortenberry’s letter was cosigned by colleagues Congressmen Robert Aderholt (R-AL), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Michael Honda (D-CA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Mark Meadows (R-NC), and Joseph Pitts (R-PA). Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
07.07.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today announced that his legislation directing the U.S. Treasury to issue a commemorative coin (H.R. 893) in celebration of the centennial of Boys Town was signed into law by President Obama. Fortenberry today issued the following statement: “I was proud to lead this bipartisan legislation which so appropriately recognizes the contribution of Boys Town to the wellbeing of our country. Boys Town offers a remarkable model of academic and spiritual engagement. Students learn more than math and grammar; their teachers and care givers provide them with solid formation. On December 12, 2017, Boys Town will celebrate 100 years of saving children and helping to heal families.” The Boys Town Centennial Commemorative Coin Act authorizes the U.S. Mint to produce a series of commemorative coins with a design emblematic of Boys Town’s 100-year history. At no cost to the U.S. taxpayer, these coins will be available for purchase by the general public. Companion legislation was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senator Deb Fischer (R-NE). Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
06.26.2015	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (NE-01) released the following statement after the Supreme Court announced its ruling in the Obergefell v. Hodges case: “Like most Americans, I have no interest in seeing any person live in loneliness or fear. The issue of marriage, however, invokes the deepest questions of human intimacy, societal organization, and the rights of children. We must also remember that America is a pluralistic society where differing views should be respected.” Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
06.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (NE-01) released the following statement after the Supreme Court announced its ruling in the King v. Burwell case: “The decision is a bit of a surprise. There was a level of optimism that a different court ruling could pave the way for a more reasoned discussion about the right type of healthcare reform, while also protecting newly insured. Now the country continues to face skyrocketing prices, diminishing choice and healthcare cartels. We need a new healthcare architecture that will reduce costs, improve outcomes, and protect vulnerable persons.” Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
06.23.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) announced that the U.S. House of Representatives today passed his legislation to observe the centennial of the founding of Boys Town by directing the U.S. Treasury to issue a commemorative coin (H.R. 893). Fortenberry spoke before the House of Representatives in support of the legislation earlier today. A video of his remarks can be found below: Video of Fortenberry Supports Boys Town Commemorative Coin Act “Boys Town offers a remarkable model of academic and spiritual engagement. Students learn more than math and grammar; their teachers and care givers provide them with solid formation. Graduates are equipped to succeed not only professionally, but are also given the life skills to stay on the right path. Boys Town is so impactful that about 90 percent of the children integrate successfully back into their communities.… On December 12, 2017, Boys Town will celebrate 100 years of saving children and helping to heal families.” The Boys Town Centennial Commemorative Coin Act authorizes the U.S. Mint to produce a series of commemorative coins with a design emblematic of Boys Town’s 100-year history. These coins will be available for purchase by the general public, and sales will more than offset the cost of minting by the Treasury. There will be no cost to the taxpayer or Treasury. Companion legislation was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senator Deb Fischer (R-NE). Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
06.17.2015	Washington, D.C. – Reps. Jeff Fortenberry (R-Neb.), Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), and Jeff Denham (R-Calif.) issued the following statement after meeting with the White House National Security team to urge assistance to persecuted Christians and other religious minorities in the Middle East. The lawmakers suggested a three-pillar approach that includes humanitarian aid, special refugee status in the U.S. for persecuted individuals and families who wish to leave, and direct military assistance for Christian self-defense forces in the fight against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). “Christianity in the Middle East is shattered. ISIL’s genocidal campaign of religious cleansing has placed horrific pressure on the region’s ancient Christian communities and other faith minorities. Christians have a claim as much as anyone to live in their ancestral homelands. The United States can come to their aid by providing humanitarian assistance, special refugee status for victims, and empowering them to defend themselves. “Victims of religious persecution are in desperate need of humanitarian aid in the face of extremist and violent acts from groups like ISIL. USAID partners have reached only 24 percent of displaced populations residing outside of camps with non-food humanitarian assistance. A countless number of victims are slipping through the cracks, and the United States must bolster this effort. “Persecuted peoples who wish to leave should have access to a priority refugee status process with the State Department. The current multi-year wait period is simply too long for religious minorities under constant threat of death, torture and starvation. “We were also pleased that Deputy National Security Advisor Ben Rhodes and staff for the National Security Council shared a desire for developing a pathway to grant certain local security forces—including Christian groups—a status similar to that of National Guard units, enabling them to provide better protective zones for their communities while supporting a national security mission. “The stability and cultural identity of the Middle East depends in part on its vibrant mosaic of religious minorities. Christians in the region are longstanding pillars of civil society and essential allies in the efforts to promote pluralism and combat extremism. As ISIL works to exterminate the innocent and vulnerable members of this faith tradition, all people of good will should express concern for their protection—a cause that is essential to civilization itself.” Fortenberry, Eshoo and Rep. Juan Vargas (D-Calif.) led passage of a bipartisan resolution (H. Res. 683) last year condemning the severe persecution that Christians and other ethnic and religious minority communities are suffering in Iraq. The resolution also called for an international humanitarian intervention to aid these innocent civilian groups. Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. He was recently appointed Co-Chair of the Caucus for Religious Minorities in the Middle East. ###
06.06.2015	Sainte-Marie-du-Mont, France – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (NE-01) today spoke at the international ceremony to dedicate the new Higgins Memorial on Utah Beach. Fortenberry also participated in the official international ceremony commemorating the 71st anniversary of the D-Day landings at Normandy. Fortenberry made the following remarks this morning on Utah Beach: … Today represents a remarkable effort by the people of Columbus, Nebraska, that small prairie community in America’s heartland, nestled along the Platte River, along the very route where the first Western settlers journeyed to build their new life. The people of Columbus have now built a memorial to life—in honor of the lives of those men who gave their all. In honor of the veterans who are still with us. In honor of the people of America whose spirit of generosity helped liberate Europe. And in honor of the French, whose partnership and friendship we deeply value. Back home, the original monument was the idea of high school kids: students in Mr. Jerry Meyer’s Columbus High School social studies class. I want to thank all those noble, hardworking people of Nebraska who I represent in the United States Congress. I think this effort is worthy of the World War II generation—the Greatest Generation, as we call them today. We reflect fondly and appropriately on that great generation. We admire their courage. We are nostalgic for their values. We want what they had: purpose, determination, and a can-do spirit…. The Utah Beach Higgins Memorial was installed late last month next to the U.S. Naval Memorial in Europe in front of the Utah Beach Museum at in Sainte-Marie-du-Mont, France. The monument is located in the very breach opened by Brigadier General Teddy Roosevelt Jr. on D-Day and where American troops first stormed onto Utah Beach. To make this possible, the French community of Sainte-Marie-du-Mont moved their own national memorial to General Leclerc’s 2nd French Armored Division. A copy of Fortenberry’s full remarks as prepared for delivery can be found here. More photos from today’s ceremonies can be found on Fortenberry’s Facebook page: www.facebook.com/jefffortenberry ###
06.05.2015	Sainte-Marie-du-Mont, France – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (NE-01) today arrived in France to dedicate the new Higgins Memorial on Utah Beach and participate in celebrations surrounding the 71st anniversary of the D-Day landings at Normandy. The Utah Beach Higgins Memorial will be dedicated the morning of Saturday, June 6, 2015, in an official ceremony on Utah Beach. “Tomorrow, I will help the community of Columbus, Nebraska, dedicate a new memorial to Andrew Jackson Higgins,” Fortenberry said. “President Eisenhower once referred to the native son of Columbus as the man who won the war for us. This is an unbelievable gift from the people of America to the people of France—but most importantly, it is a tribute to those who fought and died that on D-Day. I am proud of the efforts of all who have been involved in getting this memorial to France and I am pleased to stand on Utah Beach tomorrow as your Representative of Nebraska’s First District.” The Utah Beach Higgins Memorial was installed late last month next to the U.S. Naval Memorial in Europe in front of the Utah Beach Museum at in Sainte-Marie-du-Mont, France. The monument is located in the very breach opened by Brigadier General Teddy Roosevelt Jr. on D-Day and where American troops first stormed onto Utah Beach. To make this possible, the French community of Sainte-Marie-du-Mont moved their own national memorial to General Leclerc’s 2nd French Armored Division. Fortenberry is joined in France by U.S. Ambassador Jane Hartley and Columbus Mayor Mike Moser. Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations and is the co-chair of the Congressional Study Group on Europe. ###
05.15.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (NE-01) has been awarded the “National Conservation Achievement” award by the National Wildlife Federation for his efforts to ensure the inclusion of conservation compliance measures in the 2014 Farm Bill. “I thank the National Wildlife Federation for their generosity in presenting this award to me,” Congressman Fortenberry said. “I'm also proud to represent Nebraska—a state that strongly believes in good stewardship of our land and natural resources.” Fortenberry was presented the award in Washington by Collin O’Mara, President and CEO at the National Wildlife Federation. ###
05.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (NE-01) has been awarded the “Standing Tall for Zoos and Aquariums” award by the national Association of Zoos and Aquariums for his long-time support of zoos and aquariums, particularly the Lincoln Children’s Zoo. Fortenberry was presented the award in Washington by Jennifer Keaton with the Association of Zoos and Aquariums. Fortenberry serves as co-chair of the Congressional Zoo and Aquarium Caucus. ###
04.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today made the following statement after Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe spoke before a Joint Session of Congress: “It’s important for veterans to know about something important that happened today in Washington. The Prime Minister of Japan spoke before a Joint Session of Congress. His speech was humble and sincere. It elevated universal values and ideals. But most importantly, it offered condolences for the horror of World War II. “As the Prime Minister said, ‘My dear friends, on behalf of Japan and the Japanese people, I offer with profound respect my eternal condolences to the souls of all American people that were lost during World War II.’ “I’m grateful for the strong relationship we have with Japan. I’m grateful for his words. For a nation to be great, it must confront its past. For there to be healing, there must be sorrow. For there to be hope, the harshness of history must be prevented from repeating. I thought our veterans, particularly our World War II veterans, ought to know about the Prime Minister’s speech.” Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. ###
04.29.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) announced that the U.S. House of Representatives passed his legislation directing the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a study on the feasibility of designating the Chief Standing Bear National Historic Trail (H.R. 984). Fortenberry spoke before the House of Representatives in support of the legislation. A video of his remarks can be found below: “Mr. Speaker, the establishment of a Chief Standing Bear National Trail would honor both the courage of this man and the great contribution to the freedom and the civil liberties of our nation that he brought about. This bill is an important first step toward establishing the trail, and I look forward to continuing to work with the committee and the National Park Service to make this a reality.” Congressman Tom Cole (R-OK), who cosponsored the legislation, made the following statement: “Chief Standing Bear’s unwavering fight to secure equal treatment under the law for America’s native people has helped pave the way for many more remarkable achievements by Native Americans across America. Designating a trail in his memory would rightly honor his memory, secure his legacy and inspire generations to come. I am very pleased by Congressman Fortenberry’s commitment to making that a reality in the future.” The legislation now moves to the U.S. Senate for consideration. Fortenberry introduced the legislation last month with Congressman Cole. Fortenberry and Cole both serve on the House Appropriations Committee. ###
04.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today hosted Huskers football coach Mike Riley at the Nebraska Breakfast in Washington. “I appreciate Coach Riley joining us at this morning’s Nebraska Breakfast – the other great Nebraska tradition!” Fortenberry said. “I look forward to the start of the Riley era at Nebraska. Go Big Red!” The Nebraska Breakfast is held in the Dirksen Senate Buffett on Wednesday mornings when both the House of Representatives and the Senate are in session. All Nebraskans visiting Washington are encouraged to attend. This year’s remaining Nebraska Breakfasts are scheduled for April 29; May 13 and 20; June 3, 10, 17, and 24; July 8, 15, 22, and 29; September 9, 16, and 30; and October 7. For more information and to attend, please contact Fortenberry’s Washington, D.C. office at (202) 225-4806 or at http://fortenberry.house.gov. ###
03.27.2015	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today made the following statement regarding state Senator Ernie Chambers’ recent remarks before the Nebraska Legislature: “Senator Chambers’ long history of bullying, bigotry, and hatred has reached a new low. This latest episode of condoning violence against police is reckless and contradicts the sacred duty of a lawmaker to protect society. To refer to the police as ISIL further adds to the indignity. I ask that the Legislature – at a minimum – censure Senator Chambers, particularly in light of his refusal to take back his words.” Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and serves as co-chair of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus. ###
03.26.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) and cosponsor Congressman Tom Cole (R-OK) announced that the Natural Resources Committee approved their legislation directing the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a study on the feasibility of designating the Chief Standing Bear National Historic Trail (H.R. 984). Fortenberry previously spoke before the House of Representatives in support of the legislation. A video of his remarks can be found below: Video of Fortenberry Urges House Passage of Legislation to Designate Chief Standing Bear Trail “The story of the Ponca Chief Standing Bear is a story of strength, grace, and dignity in the protection of the most basic of human rights,” Fortenberry said. “I believe it is a story that needs to be told again and again, understood, and cherished by all Americans of coming generations. The establishment of the Chief Standing Bear National Historic Trail would honor both the courage and legacy of this brave individual and his contribution to the civil liberties of our nation.” “As a member of the Chickasaw Nation, I take great pride in remembering the achievements of brave Native American leaders like Chief Standing Bear,” Cole said. “His unwavering fight to secure equal treatment under the law for America’s native people helped pave the way for many more remarkable achievements that have been and will be made by Indians across America. Designating a trail in his memory would not only honor his legacy but inspire generations to come, and I am very pleased by Congressman Fortenberry’s commitment to making that a reality in the future.” Judi gaiashkibos, Executive Director of the Nebraska Commission on Indian Affairs, said, “We welcome this vote by the House Natural Resources Committee passing with unanimous consent the Chief Standing Bear Trail Feasibility Study bill. This is a significant step forward toward federal recognition of the trail and its importance to United States civil rights history. We want to thank Congressman Fortenberry for his passionate stewardship and his unwavering commitment to bring Chief Standing Bear’s journey for justice to a National Audience.” A similar bill passed the House of Representatives last December. Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. He first introduced legislation to honor Chief Standing Bear in the 110th Congress and the resolution by approved by the House in 2008. Cole is a fifth generation Oklahoman and an enrolled member of the Chickasaw Nation. He serves on the House Appropriations Committee, Budget Committee and Rules Committee. Representing the Fourth District of Oklahoma, Cole is one of only two Native Americans currently serving in Congress, where he is a leader on issues dealing with Native Americans and tribal governments. ###
02.26.2015	Washington, D.C. – Representatives Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE), Diane Black (R-TN), and John Fleming (R-LA) today announced the reintroduction of the Health Care Conscience Rights Act (H.R. 940). This legislation would protect Americans’ freedom of conscience by offering full exemption from the Health and Human Services mandate that creates ethical dilemmas for health care providers and small business owners. The bill ensures protections for individuals and health care entities that refuse to provide, pay for, or refer patients to abortion providers because of their deeply held beliefs. The legislation would also address the unlawful violation of religious freedom in California, where the state Department of Managed Health Care issued a directive requiring that all insurance plans offered on the state exchange include coverage for abortions, including plans provided by churches, religious entities, and others with conscionable objections to such procedures. “The rights of conscience and religious freedom preexist the government,” Fortenberry said. “They are rights grounded by the demands of human dignity and are enshrined in our Constitution. It is a true poverty—that in the name of health care—this most cherished American principle is under assault, violating longstanding legislative agreement and precedent. The Health Care Conscience Rights Act restores this principle for all Americans.” The Health Care Conscience Rights Act currently has 110 bipartisan cosponsors. Fortenberry, Black, and Fleming originally introduced H.R. 940 in the 113th Congress. Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
02.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today joined Congresswoman Marcia Fudge (D-OH) to introduce the Farm to School Act to expand and strengthen the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Farm to School Grant program. Senators Thad Cochran (R-MS) and Patrick Leahy (D-VT) introduced companion legislation in the U.S. Senate. “Schools throughout Nebraska and across the U.S. are eagerly embracing local foods from local farms,” Fortenberry said. “More than 10,000 schools participate in Farm to School programs and we can incentivize this important trend. The Farm to School Act creates a win-win-win for schools, students and area farmers. Schools have more options to purchase fresh food, students receive nutritious meal choices, and farmers and ranchers are given new market opportunities.” The Farm to School Act promotes the use of fresh, locally produced foods in schools. The legislation will expand the existing USDA Farm to School Grant program to include preschools and summer and after school programs. Tribal schools will also see increased access to foods from tribal producers. In the 2008 Farm Bill, Fortenberry sponsored language allowing optional geographic preference in sourcing local foods for school nutrition programs and helped improve USDA’s Farm to School initiative. Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. He is a former chairman of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Department Operations, Oversight, and Credit. ###
02.17.2015	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (NE-01) today made the following statement after United States District Judge Andrew S. Hanen issued a preliminary injunction blocking President Obama's plans for executive amnesty: "The court ruling represents a sigh of relief for a majority of Americans who are rightfully concerned about the President's recent actions. President Obama cannot simply change the substance of the law on his own. The President's actions have derailed serious deliberation over immigration policy, and the court has appropriately taken an initial step to fix the problem." Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
02.11.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement calling on the United States and key allies to increase military assistance to the Kurdish peshmerga—a military force on the front lines of the campaign against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). “The international campaign to defeat ISIL depends in great part on the strength and effectiveness of trusted partners in the Middle East. The Kurdish peshmerga is a moderate and capable force. The Kurds are showing determined courage in fighting ISIL. The Kurds are winning a number of strategic victories. The Kurds are defending the values of tolerance and pluralism, sheltering hundreds of thousands of vulnerable Christians, Yezidis, and Muslims who have fled ISIL’s onslaught. They deserve robust support. “Their foe is a threat to regional stability and to American national security. Driven by a twisted form of Islam, ISIL’s militants are 8th century barbarians wielding 21st century weaponry. The recent videotaped immolation of a caged Jordanian pilot is a horrific reminder of their brutality. The White House yesterday confirmed that they are now responsible for the deaths of four American hostages, including Kayla Mueller, a 26-year-old humanitarian worker who was captured while assisting refugees in Syria. Confronted by such acts, the United States, Sunni Arab nations, and key allies, including Germany, Britain, and France, should enhance military support for the Kurds.” Fortenberry, along with colleagues Juan Vargas (D-CA) and Anna Eshoo (D-CA), led passage of a bipartisan resolution (H. Res. 683) last summer condemning the severe persecution that Christians and other ethnic and religious minority communities are suffering in Iraq. The resolution also called for an international humanitarian intervention to aid these innocent civilian groups. Fortenberry is a Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. He was recently appointed Co-Chair of the Caucus for Religious Minorities in the Middle East. ###
01.20.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today made the following statement after the President’s State of the Union address. “The State of the Union is a great American tradition. The presidential address demonstrates the American ideal of openness and transparency in government even in the midst of deep philosophical division. “Overall, the President’s speech tonight was sincere with a number of inspirational moments. He had a strong emphasis on helping one another and on supporting the ‘family’ of our nation—especially his gratitude for our troops—which was appropriate and moving. Unfortunately, his analysis of our economic recovery excluded exorbitant healthcare costs that are hurting so many families, as well as the regulations that are harming small businesses, limiting the promise of ownership and opportunity for all. Small business is the key to a healthy economy—not more concentration of power in Washington. I did, however, respect the President’s emphasis on a new politics that lifts up young people and gives them a sense of purpose. “We must restore an opportunity economy through responsible government, reclaim our best traditions, and rebuild a culture that respects the life and dignity of all persons. In the months ahead we must repurpose Washington—and turn our country around.” Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
01.15.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today announced his selection by his colleagues to serve on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations in the 114th Congress. “I welcome this opportunity to serve on the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee,” Fortenberry said. “We live in an interconnected world, and Congress has a vital oversight role in the management of foreign policy. The State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee is responsible for important budgeting decisions that affect a wide spectrum of critical government initiatives, including U.S. diplomatic outreach, humanitarian efforts, and international development and trade policy. I remain committed to making fiscally responsible, strategic choices between the agencies and programs under the subcommittee’s jurisdiction.” The State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee administers funding for diplomatic operations, international security assistance, and humanitarian assistance. The subcommittee has jurisdiction over the Department of State, the Agency for International Development, and related international programs. Fortenberry will continue to serve on the Appropriations Subcommittees on Energy and Water and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs. ###
01.13.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today announced the selection of 17 students from eastern Nebraska to receive nominations to America's top military academies. "A military academy appointment is a tremendous honor and a great responsibility," Fortenberry said. "Nominees must demonstrate capacity for leadership, personal integrity, and rigorous scholarship. I am pleased to nominate several young Nebraskans who meet these qualifications." Following are the 2014 nominees: Tyler Copeland of Bellevue West High School. Tyler is the son of Bryan and Tara Copeland and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. James Dalton of Lincoln Pius X High School. James is the son of Thomas and Renee Dalton and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Jonathan Deemer of Lincoln College View Academy High School. Jonathan is the son of Gary and Lisette Deemer and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Jordyn Del Rosario of Bellevue West High School. Jordyn is the daughter of Bienvenido and Tracey Del Rosario and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Abraham Driewer of Lincoln Pius X High School. Abraham is the son of Anne Driewer and Jim Driewer and has been nominated to the United States Military Academy. Isaac Driewer of Lincoln Pius X High School. Isaac is the son of Anne Driewer and Jim Driewer and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy and the Merchant Marine Academy. Robert Goetschkes of Omaha Brownell Talbot High School. Robert is the son of Robert and Kelly Goetschkes and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Derek Greenwald of Lincoln Southwest High School. Derek is the son of Michael and Carol Greenwald and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Sydney Heithoff of Raymond Central High School. Sydney is the daughter of Mark and Leigh Heithoff and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Aaron Jorgensen of Bellevue West High School. Aaron is the son of Bert and Shelly Jorgensen and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Thomas Kelly of Lincoln Pius X High School. Thomas is the son of Joe and Susan Kelly and has been nominated to the United States Military Academy. Hannah Lillard of Norfolk Senior High School. Hannah is the daughter of Timothy and Lori Lillard and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Karla Mendoza of Macomb (Illinois) High School, hometown of Madison (Nebraska). Karla is the daughter of Elizabeth Mendoza and Juval Mendoza and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Sophia Otto of Bellevue West High School. Sophia is the daughter of Jamie and Shelley Otto and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Aric Soukup of Lincoln Pius X High School. Aric is the son of Richard Soukup and Kristen Howard and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Viktor Turner of Lincoln Southeast High School. Viktor is the son of Joseph and Mary Turner and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Austin Van Velson of Seward High School. Austin is the son of Alan and Constance Van Velson and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. ###
01.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry announced today that he will serve as the new Co-Chair of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus with Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Co-Chair and co-founder of the Caucus. Fortenberry succeeds Congressman Frank Wolf (R-VA), who retired at the end of the 113th Congress. “Having worked with Congressman Fortenberry on religious minority issues, I deeply respect his knowledge and commitment,” Eshoo said. “He is a reliable ally and a staunch advocate for religious freedom. As the struggle for religious freedom persists in the Middle East, our utmost vigilance to promote democratic values and protection for persecuted innocents in the region is required. With Congressman Fortenberry as a partner, we can help create lasting change for religious minorities in the Middle East.” “Congresswoman Eshoo is devoted to the most fundamental of human ideals: the right of persons to practice their faith without fear of persecution,” Fortenberry said. “At this hour of their great need, the religious minorities of the Middle East need champions of her experience and dedication. I deeply respect Congresswoman Eshoo’s continued leadership on the grave challenges facing these vibrant communities, as well as her desire to protect vulnerable persons in the region.” “The stability and cultural identity of the Middle East depends in part on its mosaic of religious minorities,” Fortenberry continued. “As Co-Chair of this Caucus, I will continue working so that these great faith traditions can flourish in their ancestral homelands. Congress, as well as the international community, must promote their cause—a cause that is essential to civilization itself.” Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. Background on Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus The Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus was co-founded by Eshoo and Wolf in 2008. The Caucus is a Congressional Member organization that serves as an informational and advocacy entity for besieged religious minorities who are central to a pluralistic, multi-cultural Middle East. ###
01.07.2015	Congressman Fortenberry and family with Speaker of the House John Boehner Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today was sworn in to the 114th Congress as Nebraska's First Congressional District Congressman in the U.S. House of Representatives. Fortenberry took the oath of office with his colleagues on the House Floor this afternoon. “I am honored to serve in Nebraska’s delegation in the United States Congress,” Fortenberry said. “The start of a new Congress is always an exciting time to renew our government and the promise of our nation. In the months ahead we must repurpose Washington—and turn our country around. “We face tremendous challenges. Political dysfunction and partisan gridlock—particularly in Washington—have made smart and effective government difficult. An arthritic economic recovery has dimmed the financial prospects of too many small businesses and families. In our time of social fracture, more and more people are feeling directionless and alone. “As I often say, there’s nothing wrong with America that can’t be fixed by what’s right in America. But this will require bold resolve, innovative public policy, and a return to our highest ideals. I remain committed to restoring our economic vibrancy through responsible government, reclaiming our best traditions, and rebuilding a culture that responds the life and dignity of all persons.” Fortenberry will continue his service on the Appropriations Committee with frontline responsibilities for policy and fiscal reform. ###
12.09.2014	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) announced that the U.S. House of Representatives today passed his legislation directing the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a study on the feasibility of designating the Chief Standing Bear National Historic Trail (H.R. 5806). Fortenberry spoke before the House of Representatives in support of the legislation earlier today. A video of his remarks can be found below: “The story of the Ponca Chief [Standing Bear] is a story of strength, grace, and dignity in the protection of the most basic of human rights. I also believe it is a story that needs to be told again and again, understood, and cherished by all Americans of coming generations. Mr. Speaker, I believe that establishment of the Chief Standing Bear National Historic Trail would honor both the courage and legacy of this brave individual and his contribution to the civil liberties of our nation.” The legislation now moves to the U.S. Senate for consideration. Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
12.03.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today announced that the Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act, which he cosponsored, passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 404-17. The Fortenberry-cosponsored legislation helps disabled persons and their families save money tax-free to pay for education, housing, transportation, and health care. “I'm very proud of this legislation,” Fortenberry said. “The ABLE Act is a truly good bill. The strong bipartisan vote shows that creative policy to empower Americans can still be achieved.” The ABLE Act allows disabled persons and their families to put money in 529A (or ABLE) investment accounts to help pay for disability-related expenses. Like a 529 college savings account, families could save for their disabled child’s long-term expenses. With an ABLE account, disabled persons will be able to supplement benefits already received through private and government insurance programs. Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
11.24.2014	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today made the following statement on Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel’s resignation: “I thank Secretary Chuck Hagel for his dedicated public service. I regret that he will soon be leaving the Pentagon. He was a soldier first and foremost, and was guided by that experience as Secretary of Defense. He was not afraid to address the hard question of 21st century military structure and strategy for the benefit of our nation.” Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
11.20.2014	Lincoln, NE – Representative Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today issued the following statement on President Obama’s expected executive order on immigration: “President Obama’s plan for executive amnesty is divisive and abusive of his power. It is unacceptable, unreasonable, and unnecessary. The President’s Constitutional duty is to ‘faithfully’ execute the law, not recklessly abrogate the law. “The President has said multiple times that he has no authority to take this action. When asked about executive action earlier, he said: ‘I am president, I am not king. I can’t do these things just by myself.’ “The House must now work to keep the government running while shutting down this action of the President. Sadly, the question is now no longer about proper immigration policy and reasoned debate — it’s about the President abusing his authority. This action is grossly unfair to persons seeking to legally enter our country, and it may also create another wave of persons coming over the border. “If this last election was about any one thing, it was about the American people saying we should work together toward constructive solutions. No more divisiveness.” Fortenberry also released a short video with comments on the expected executive order: Audio of Fortenberry's remarks can be found here. Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ###
11.19.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry announced that the House Natural Resources Committee today passed his legislation directing the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a study on the feasibility of designating the Chief Standing Bear National Historic Trail (H.R. 5806). Fortenberry previously testified before the Subcommittee on Public Lands and Environmental Regulation in support of the trail designation. “The story of the great Ponca Chief Standing Bear is one of strength, grace, and dignity in the most basic protection of human rights, and needs to be cherished by Americans of future generations, ” Fortenberry said. “I have long been supportive of establishing the Chief Standing Bear National Historic Trail that would honor his courage and great contribution to the freedom and civil liberties of this nation. I believe this legislation is an important first step toward establishing the trail, and I look forward to consideration before the House.” The legislation now awaits action by the House of Representatives. Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
11.11.2014	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today made the following statement on Veterans Day: “Today, we pause to honor our veterans who have so selflessly served our country. Our veterans answered the call to protect America, and through that commitment, they reflect the higher values of honor and justice. I thank all veterans who have served in war and peace, who have fought valiantly, who have served willingly. America is rightly proud of your lasting contribution for the good of our country.” Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs. ###
10.17.2014	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today made the following statement about the Ebola crisis: “It’s time for the President and Congress to implement stringent travel restrictions to and from countries stricken by Ebola. This is an unprecedented epidemic and the first response needs to build confidence. This is not a political issue, it’s a public safety issue. This policy should allow for the necessary medical equipment and personnel to be moved into place to fight the virus and respond to any other significant humanitarian concerns.” “On another note, I just finished a conversation with Raj Shah, Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, who just returned from Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea. They are on the ground primarily in Liberia fighting Ebola. In a bit of good news, Dr. Shah informs me that the exponential rate of growth of the disease is slowing through isolation and infection control at its source. Basic interventions such as rapid burial of the dead are beginning to contain the growth of the disease.” Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
10.16.2014	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry announced that Brigadier General Donald Bacon has joined his staff upon retirement from the United States Air Force. Bacon will be based in the Bellevue area as an advisor on military issues and constituent outreach. “I am pleased to welcome Brigadier General Bacon to my staff,” Fortenberry said. “Don has an extensive knowledge of military issues and will be an asset to my staff. I know Don and his family are glad to be home in Nebraska.” Bacon served 29 years in the Air Force. He had four assignments in the 55th Wing, headquartered at Offutt Air Force Base, and one assignment to Strategic Air Command, now known as United States Strategic Command. Bacon served as the 55th Wing Commander at Offutt Air Force Base and was most recently assigned to the Headquarters Air Force, Pentagon in the Intelligence Directorate. Congressman Fortenberry has offices in Lincoln, Norfolk, and Fremont. More information on these offices can be found at http://fortenberry.house.gov. ###
09.30.2014	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today called for Congress to return to Washington to debate the circumstances and authority for military action in the Middle East. “The dynamics of the situation in the Middle East continue to shift rapidly,” Fortenberry said. “While I am supportive of the President’s use of airstrikes within the framework of an international coalition, the complexities and possible duration of the effort demand Congressional oversight and possible authorization. Congress needs to be intimately involved on questions of duration and the extent of the action.” “The President is relying on legal justifications for the military action from post-9/11 authority granted by Congress at that time,” Fortenberry continued. “The time elapsed and current circumstances are different enough to warrant a review. Considering the scope of the military action and the serious nature of the ISIL threat, we should not wait until November for a constructive debate on the legal authority and the President’s plan.” “Ultimately, this is about following the constitutionally mandated relationship between the Administration and Congress on serious issues of national security,” Fortenberry said. “Many Nebraskans are understandably concerned.” Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
09.17.2014	Washington, D.C. – Representative Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) issued the following statement after voting for an amendment to arm and train some moderate Syrians in their war against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). The amendment passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 273-156. “Several months ago, I offered an amendment to stop potential American arms from flowing to the Syrian opposition in their war against Assad. Today, with certain reservations, I supported an amendment to arm and train certain vetted Syrians in their war against ISIL. Frankly, this was one of the most difficult judgment calls I’ve made in Congress. "My earlier amendment was introduced at a time when there was no broad strategy for success, only the possibility of ad hoc action that might have made an already terrible situation worse. Today, however, there is a comprehensive strategy developing against ISIL—a grave threat not only to the Middle East, but to American national security. “ISIL is better financed, better armed, commands more territory, and boasts a larger army than al-Qaeda ever has in its dark history. Its twisted religious ideology is eighth century barbarism wielding 21st century weaponry. They behead, they crucify, and they rape. They march under a black banner of death. “This new amendment is narrowly tailored with appropriate benchmarks and aggressive oversight. However, bipartisan concerns about weaponizing supposedly moderate Syrians in a battleground of shifting loyalties are still justified. We are now managing low expectations in Syria when we should be focused on a complete discussion of the overall strategy against ISIL. One thing has to be clear and must continually be made clear: this is the world’s problem, not America’s problem alone. “In the end, faced with ISIL’s ongoing savagery, we must remember that action has risks, but that the consequences of inaction are too grave to ignore. ISIL is a threat to all innocent persons and a threat to civilization itself.” Fortenberry gave a speech before the House of Representatives yesterday on the danger of ISIL, which can be viewed here. Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee and is a member of the House Caucus on Religious Minorities in the Middle East. ###
09.10.2014	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Jeff Fortenberry made the following statement after the President's address to the nation tonight: “ISIS is a threat to all persons in the world and a threat to civilization itself. The current situation in the Middle East demands international intervention. I thought the call for a broad international coalition was the right decision. The United States cannot commit to combat troop operations but we can work with other nations to contain and degrade ISIS." Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ### Washington, D.C. - Congressman Jeff Fortenberry made the following statement after the President's address to the nation tonight: “ISIS is a threat to all persons in the world and a threat to civilization itself. The current situation in the Middle East demands international intervention. I thought the call for an international coalition was the right decision. The United States cannot commit to combat troop operations but we can work with other nations to contain and degrade ISIS." Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
09.09.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today made the following statement about Lieutenant Governor Lavon Heidemann: "I first met Lavon Heidemann at a parade in Auburn many years ago. I have always been impressed by his commitment to hard work and steadfast leadership first as a state Senator and most recently as Lieutenant Governor. I thank Lavon for his many years of public service and wish him well in the future." ###
08.07.2014	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today made the following statement about the ongoing persecution of religious minorities in Iraq: “It was important for President Obama to address the nation about the ongoing genocide against religious minorities in Iraq. Tens of thousands of innocent Iraqis are clinging to rocks on a mountainside to escape the primitive and barbarous assault of The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). “Last week we called upon the President to engage the international community to provide immediate humanitarian relief. The second step of this process must be to acknowledge the sacrifice of the Kurdish government in providing the remaining stability for the area and to further empower their efforts through appropriate international support.” Fortenberry helped lead a bipartisan group that passed a resolution last week condemning the severe persecution that Christians and other ethnic and religious minority communities are suffering in Iraq. A follow-up letter urging swift action in the Ninevah Plain region was also sent to President Obama. A copy of the resolution can be found here and a copy of the letter can be found here. Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee and is a member of the House Caucus on Religious Minorities in the Middle East. ###
08.04.2014	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) along with colleagues Juan Vargas (D-CA) and Anna Eshoo (D-CA) led passage of a bipartisan resolution (H. Res. 683) late last week condemning the severe persecution that Christians and other ethnic and religious minority communities are suffering in Iraq. The resolution also calls for an international humanitarian intervention to aid these innocent civilian groups. “The Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, commonly called ISIS, is waging an ongoing genocide against Christians, Yezidis, and other religious minorities in Iraq,” Fortenberry said. “All Christians have been expelled from Mosul, the second largest city in the country. These crimes against humanity have inspired worldwide outrage and demand a swift international humanitarian response.” “The House of Representatives has united to speak with one voice for Iraq’s desperate refugees and suffering religious communities,” Fortenberry said. “We must stand in solidarity with members of ancient faith traditions that face annihilation in their ancestral homelands.” A follow-up letter urging swift action in the Ninevah Plain region was sent to President Obama by Fortenberry, Eshoo, and Congressman Frank Wolf (R-VA). Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee and is a member of the House Caucus on Religious Minorities in the Middle East. A copy of the resolution can be found here and a copy of the letter can be found here. ###
07.31.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today made the following statement about the bill to secure the border: “It’s irresponsible for Congress to leave Washington before acting on a border bill. Communities are suffering. Children are suffering. Our immigration policy is in disarray. “The President should address the nation on the issue, do all in his power to secure the border, and repatriate children back to their families in a humane way. The bill before the House would help do this in a responsible manner. Either way, the status quo is not acceptable. Action cannot wait any longer.” Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
07.30.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry testified before the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Public Lands and Environmental Regulation in support of designating the Chief Standing Bear National Historic Trail. Fortenberry introduced legislation (H.R. 5806) earlier this month to amend the National Trails System Act to direct the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a study on the feasibility of designating this trail. Fortenberry gave the following testimony before the subcommittee: I appreciate having this opportunity to express my strong support for H.R. 5086 and urge prompt approval of this important measure. Mr. Chairman, I would like to give you some background on Chief Standing Bear. He holds a very special place in Native American as well as in United States history as one of our nation’s first civil rights leaders. Establishing a trail in his name would also be an outstanding way to recognize the contributions that he made to our country. He prevailed in one of the most important court cases for Native Americans in our nation’s history. Chief Standing Bear was a Ponca chief. In the 1800s, the Ponca tribe made its home in the Niobrara River valley in the area of northeast Nebraska. In 1877, the United States Government pressured the Poncas from their homeland, compelling them to move to Indian Territory in Oklahoma. Not wanting to subject his people to any type of confrontation with the government, Standing Bear obliged and led them from their homes to the reservation in Oklahoma. Mr. Chairman, the journey was harsh and the new land inhospitable. Nearly a third of the tribe died from starvation, malaria, and other illnesses, including Standing Bear's little daughter named Prairie Flower, and later, his son Bear Shield also died. It’s interesting to note, Mr. Chairman, that Prairie Flower is buried in a place near Neligh, Nebraska. Fresh flowers still appear on her grave regularly as the community there keeps vigil out of respect for her memory. And before his son Bear Shield died, Standing Bear promised Bear Shield that he would bury him in their native homeland in the Niobrara River Valley. Embarking on that trip north in the winter of 1878, Standing Bear led a group of about 65 Poncas. Upon reaching the Omaha Reservation, north of present day Omaha, Nebraska the United States Army stopped Standing Bear and arrested him for leaving the Oklahoma reservation without permission. He was taken to Fort Omaha and held there to stand trial. In the meantime, Standing Bear's plight attracted the attention of the Omaha Daily Herald, which is the predecessor of the current city’s newspaper the Omaha World-Herald, and this story became well publicized. At the conclusion of the two-day trial, Standing Bear was allowed to speak for himself. Mr. Chairman, Standing Bear raised his hand and had this to say: "That hand is not the color of yours, but if I pierce it, I will feel pain. If you pierce your hand, you will feel pain. The blood that will flow from mine will be the same color as yours. I am a man. God made us both." With these words on that late spring day in 1879, Chief Standing Bear, I believe, expressed the most profound of American sentiments: the belief in the inherent dignity and rights of all persons, no matter their ethnicity, no matter their color. Judge Elmer Dundy ruled that Native Americans are persons within the meaning of the law. Remember, this is 1879. And this is the first court ruling that Native Americans are persons within the meaning of the law. After the trial, Chief Standing Bear spent the next four years in the Eastern United States promoting Native American rights and seeking the return of his Niobrara homeland to the Ponca people. Mr. Chairman, I believe that the story of the great Ponca chief is one of strength, grace, and dignity in the most basic protection of human rights. It is a story that I think needs to be told and told and retold, and cherished by all Americans of coming generations. That is why I am so supportive of the establishment of the Chief Standing Bear National Historic Trail that would both honor his courage and his great contribution to the freedom and civil liberties of this nation. I believe this bill is an important first step toward establishing the trail and I look forward to working with the committee, Mr. Chairman, and the National Park Service as well to make it a reality. Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
07.25.2014	Washington, D.C. – Representatives Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), and Frank Wolf (R-VA) introduced a resolution (H.Con.Res. 110) calling for urgent international intervention on behalf of Iraqi civilians facing a dire humanitarian crisis and severe ethnic and religious persecution in the Nineveh Plain region of Iraq. “Mosul is Iraq’s second largest city. For sixteen hundred years, Mosul has been a center of Christian life,” Fortenberry said. “Today, not a single Christian remains in the city. The Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, commonly called ISIS, is advancing a campaign of ruthless and systematic persecution against ethnic and religious minorities in the territory it now rules. We are witnessing an ongoing crime against humanity.” “This resolution calls for UN Security Council consideration of an urgent international humanitarian intervention to speed assistance to communities facing ferocious ethnic and religious cleansing,” Fortenberry said. “The world cannot simply watch as the region’s refugee crisis worsens every day. We must act for the principles of basic human rights and religious freedom that our international endeavors seek to champion.” The Fortenberry resolution calls for immediate action to facilitate safe access to potable water, health care, fuel, electricity, and basic security for Iraq’s most vulnerable civilian communities. It also calls for the development of transparent, accountable mechanisms to prevent the diversion of humanitarian assistance. Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee and is a member of the House Caucus on Religious Minorities in the Middle East. A copy of the resolution text can be found here. ###
06.30.2014	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry made the following statement after the Supreme Court announced its decision favoring Hobby Lobby’s highly publicized lawsuit, charging that the Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) mandated coverage of controversial drugs and procedures violated the family business’ rights under the First Amendment and the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. “Today, Hobby Lobby can continue to provide generous health care benefits to their employees without violating their deeply-held, reasoned beliefs. The Supreme Court ruling represents one of basic fairness and upholds a fundamental American principle of religious liberty and the rights of conscience. The HHS mandate was of serious concern to many Americans.” Fortenberry attended the March oral arguments on the Hobby Lobby and Conestoga Wood Specialties cases at the invitation of the Supreme Court. “I believe this is one of the most important rulings in modern court history,” Fortenberry said. “It sets some limits on government power and affirms First Amendment rights.” Fortenberry is part of the Congressional team that introduced the Health Care Conscience Rights Act (H.R. 940) to protect Americans’ rights of conscience and religious freedom. The legislation offered a reprieve from the HHS mandate for a variety of health care providers and businesses like Hobby Lobby and Conestoga Wood Specialties. To date, 54 courts nationwide have ruled in favor of plaintiffs challenging the mandate. Fortenberry previously authored the Respect for the Rights of Conscience Act in the 111th Congress ###
06.10.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today introduced an amendment to the Defense Appropriations bill to prevent U.S. weapon deliveries to rebels in Syria, in view of the serious risk of having them fall into the wrong hands. The amendment failed by a close voice vote. “I oppose sending U.S. arms to Syria,” Fortenberry said. “The rebel movement is a battleground of shifting alliances and bloody conflicts between groups that include multinational terrorist organizations. Some of the most violent and successful rebel militias are linked to al-Qaeda. Sending our weapons into Syria’s chaotic warzone could help these extremists – jihadists who would be only too eager to seize American weaponry. I have responsibility for how our government spends the money of the citizens it serves. Accordingly, I introduced an amendment that will prevent armament deliveries to Syria. The potential benefits do not outweigh the severe risks.” “The Syrian people are suffering,” Fortenberry continued. “We should continue our humanitarian aid and diplomatic assistance. Syrians do not deserve to live under Assad’s tyranny. But arming the rebels could make a bad situation worse, further destabilizing the region and causing greater humanitarian catastrophe.” Click here to watch a video of Fortenberry introducing his amendment at today’s Appropriations Committee markup. Last year Fortenberry supported successful legislative efforts to prohibit U.S. military involvement in Syria. Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ### Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today introduced an amendment to the Defense Appropriations bill to prevent U.S. weapon deliveries to rebels in Syria, in view of the serious risk of having them fall into the wrong hands. The amendment failed by a close voice vote. “I oppose sending U.S. arms to Syria,” Fortenberry said. “The rebel movement is a battleground of shifting alliances and bloody conflicts between groups that include multinational terrorist organizations. Some of the most violent and successful rebel militias are linked to al-Qaeda. Sending our weapons into Syria’s chaotic warzone could help these extremists – jihadists who would be only too eager to seize American weaponry. I have responsibility for how our government spends the money of the citizens it serves. Accordingly, I introduced an amendment that will prevent armament deliveries to Syria. The potential benefits do not outweigh the severe risks.” “The Syrian people are suffering,” Fortenberry continued. “We should continue our humanitarian aid and diplomatic assistance. Syrians do not deserve to live under Assad’s tyranny. But arming the rebels could make a bad situation worse, further destabilizing the region and causing greater humanitarian catastrophe.” Below is a video of Fortenberry introducing his amendment at today’s Appropriations Committee markup. Last year Fortenberry supported successful legislative efforts to prohibit U.S. military involvement in Syria. Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
05.21.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today made the following statement after voting for several pieces of anti-trafficking legislation that passed in the House of Representatives this week: “Rarely does legislation pass the House of Representatives with nearly unanimous support. Republicans and Democrats have put aside their political differences in a serious effort to combat the global scourge of human trafficking. The phrase ‘human trafficking’ means modern day slavery. In many cases the victims are vulnerable people, poor and disadvantaged, who are lured by economic arrangements into captivity. Many suffer ruthless sexual abuse. Such violations of basic human dignity must not remain unchallenged, and the House of Representatives is addressing this issue head on.” The following bills were considered and passed by the House of Representatives, and now await consideration in the Senate: Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2013 (H.R. 3530); Stop Exploitation Through Trafficking Act (H.R. 3610); Stop Advertising Victims of Exploitation Act (H.R. 4225); Preventing Sex Trafficking and Improving Opportunities for Youth in Foster Care Act (H.R. 4058); International Megan’s Law to Prevent Demand for Child Sex Trafficking (H.R. 4573); and Condemning the abduction of female students by armed militants from the terrorist group known as Boko Haram in northeastern provinces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (H.Res. 573). ###
04.10.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry made the following statement after today's budget vote: “The budget process is always difficult. Responsible budgeting involves making choices among many programs with the limited resources before us. The overall budget considered by the House of Representatives this week sets our country on a pathway towards much-needed fiscal stability. This budget suggests some reforms and strengthens health security programs for the next generation. As with any complicated document dealing with major policy issues, I don’t agree with all the components. I voted for the legislation today so we can use it as a blueprint for getting our fiscal house in order.” ###
03.27.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today voted in favor of the Ukraine Support Act, which encourages independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity for Ukraine. The House of Representatives passed H.R. 4278 by a vote of 399-19. “I am pleased to stand on the side of the Ukrainian people,” Fortenberry said. “By seizing Crimea, Russia engaged in biggest land grab since World War II. The Ukrainian people want recognition of their autonomy and independence. This legislation provides much needed help to stabilize Ukraine’s economy and strengthen their democratic institutions.” Fortenberry recently wrote a ‘Fort Report’ on Ukraine and what it means for the 21st century. The report can be read here: http://fortenberry.house.gov/fort-report/fort-report-ukraine-why-should-we-care/ Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and co-chair of the Congressional Study Group on Europe. ###
03.25.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry attended today’s Supreme Court proceedings on the Hobby Lobby and Conestoga Wood Specialties cases at the invitation of the court. Hobby Lobby and Conestoga are challenging the government’s mandate to provide insurance coverage that violates their religious convictions. The Supreme Court heard oral arguments for both cases this morning. Fortenberry made the following statement after witnessing the arguments: “I believe this will be one of most important Supreme Court cases in American history. At issue is the free exercise of religion and conscience rights in health care, for explicitly religious employers and others who serve the public through business arrangements. “The HHS mandate is so burdensome that even religious orders like the Little Sisters of the Poor, who serve the vulnerable and elderly, are suing the government to protect their rights. Hobby Lobby faces potentially ruinous fines of $36,500 per employee per year under the Administration’s regulation. Today’s arguments focused on whether or not the government has a compelling reason to impose these restrictions. “No American should be forced to choose between their faith and their livelihood. It is my hope that the Supreme Court will restore to Americans their long-standing rights to free exercise of religion and rights of conscience.” Fortenberry is part of the Congressional team that introduced the Health Care Conscience Rights Act (H.R. 940) to protect Americans’ rights of conscience and religious freedom. The legislation offers a reprieve from the Health and Human Services (HHS) mandate that creates ethical dilemmas for health care providers and businesses like Hobby Lobby and Conestoga Wood Specialties. To date, 54 courts nationwide have ruled in favor of plaintiffs challenging the mandate. Fortenberry previously authored the Respect for the Rights of Conscience Act in the 111th Congress. ###
03.06.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today voted to support sending aid to the embattled country of Ukraine. The House of Representatives passed H.R. 4152 by a vote of 385-23. “I am pleased to stand on the side of the Ukrainian people,” Fortenberry said. “If Russia wants to be treated as part of the responsible community of nations – and have the corresponding benefits – along with it comes the responsibility to cease the aggression. The Ukrainian people are trying to establish a new political system based on their own autonomy and rid themselves of corruption. We need to support them in these efforts.” Fortenberry recently wrote a ‘Fort Report’ on the relationship between Russia and Ukraine, which can be read here: http://fortenberry.house.gov/fort-report/fort-report-russia/ Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and co-chair of the Congressional Study Group on Europe. ###
02.27.2014	Congressman Jeff Fortenberry receives the “Teaming with Wildlife” award from Kristal Stoner and Dan Forster Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry has been awarded the “Teaming with Wildlife” award by the national Teaming with Wildlife Coalition for his long-time support of the State and Tribal Wildlife Grants program administered by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. “Preserving wildlife habitats and conserving natural resources are economically, socially, and culturally significant priorities for our state and nation,” Fortenberry said. “Using resources wisely to meet sound conservation needs will continue to be a priority of mine in Congress. I am honored to receive this recognition from the Teaming with Wildlife Coalition.” On a competitive basis, the State Wildlife Grants Program provides federal grant funds for developing and implementing programs that benefit wildlife and their habitats. Priority is placed on projects that benefit species of greatest conservation need. Fortenberry was presented the award in Washington by Dan Forster, president of the Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies, and Kristal Stoner, wildlife diversity program manager for the Nebraska Game and Parks Commission. ###
02.27.2014	Washington, D.C. – At an Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing exploring the circumstances surrounding the deaths of 30 U.S. service members in Afghanistan in 2011, Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today honored the service of Master at Arms Petty Officer First Class John Douangdara, a native of South Sioux City who was killed in the downed helicopter incident. "John's parents fled Communism in their native Laos, and raised their five children in Nebraska," Fortenberry said. "John committed his life to service of America, enlisting in the Navy after high school. His great skill was recognized early on and he was positioned for elite service. He was killed during his fifth tour of duty in the Middle East.” “There were a number of factual questions surrounding the downing of the Chinook helicopter and the aftermath of the crash,” Fortenberry said. “I hope today’s hearing provides a measure of comfort for the families of John and the 29 U.S. servicemembers who died that day.” Members of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee heard testimony from Department of Defense officials. Testimony provided during the hearing can be found at www.oversight.house.gov/hearings. A clip of Fortenberry’s comments and exchange with Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense Garry Reid can be viewed below: Fortenberry is a past member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee and now serves on the Appropriations Committee. ###
02.11.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today called for Congress to investigate the rapidly increasing price of propane. “Many people in vulnerable circumstances are being hurt by this price shock,” Fortenberry said. “Congress should determine the full causes of the supply and demand shift, and ensure that there is no market manipulation. The same old excuses won’t do – these are captured markets and many persons have no other recourse. Congress should also examine how exports are related to supply shortages and rapid price escalation.” “I recognize many local Nebraska suppliers are equally frustrated and are doing what they can to help people adjust,” Fortenberry said. “In a bit of good news, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has allowed for emergency diversion of additional supply to the hard-hit Midwest and Northeast regions. Hopefully this will result in some price relief soon.” Fortenberry and a dozen of his Midwest colleagues this week sent a letter to the Chairmen of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and Subcommittee on Energy and Power urging them to schedule a hearing to find solutions to the propane problem. Fortenberry also joined dozens of his colleagues in contacting the President and urging him to take immediate action to help improve the propane situation. Fortenberry recently supported a measure that would prohibit the export of natural gas produced on public lands. Fortenberry is a member of the House Committee on Appropriations, and was recently named to the Subcommittee on Energy and Water. ###
01.29.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today commented on the passage of H.R. 2642, the Farm Bill Conference Report. He voted against the measure. “I have worked for years to help develop a responsible Farm Bill that provides certainty to producers, and I voted for the earlier versions. Today’s measure includes some important reforms, such as ending the practice of direct payments, strengthening risk management tools for farmers, requiring sound conservation plans, and providing a long-term solution to help mid-size rural communities address severe housing challenges. “However, this Farm Bill missed a key opportunity for significant reform. Responsible payment limits save taxpayer money, prevent fraud and abuse of the system, and level the playing field for smaller farmers. Payment limits reform passed both the House and Senate with significant bipartisan majorities – but the conference committee plowed it under. I could not support today’s measure in good conscience.” ###
01.28.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry made the following statement after the President’s State of the Union address: “Overall, it was an aspirational, optimistic, and forward-looking speech. The President’s emphasis on new American manufacturing jobs, new American energy independence and increased energy efficiency, and new small business growth hold value as an agenda to increase economic opportunities for all Americans. He rightfully acknowledged that we must again have an economy that honors the dignity of work. I also appreciated his focus on preventing a nuclear Iran. He spoke on the prudent use of diplomatic and military power, and his salute of the American Marine injured during his tenth deployment was a very poignant moment. “That said, Washington is not the answer to all of our problems. The new health care law, while helping some, is hurting many others. This was a serious omission in the speech. American renewal is happening community by community and neighborhood by neighborhood. The President and Congress should focus on getting our finances in order, creating a more fair and equitable tax code, fixing the brokenness of the new health care law, and protecting Americans from very serious existing threats to our national security. The President’s threat of using his own power in spite of Congress unnecessarily diminished the more uplifting portions of the address.” ###
01.20.2014	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry made the following statement in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.: "Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., gave his life for the noblest ideals of America. He boldly proclaimed that an orderly and just society must be built upon mutual respect and the dignity of each person. His sacrifice changed the culture of our country and awoke in our nation's conscience the need for healing from racism, oppression and degradation. Today, we honor Dr. King’s legacy, and renew our commitment to respecting the life and dignity of all persons.” "I have decided to stick with love… Hate is too great a burden to bear." – Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. ###
01.15.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, today made the following statement after voting to support the House Appropriations bill to fund the government through the remainder of the fiscal year. The measure passed the House by a vote of 359-67. “It’s an imperfect budget, but it’s a budget. That’s a good place to start in the effort to control federal spending and reduce the national debt. This bill significantly reduces discretionary spending from last year and marks the fourth consecutive year of reductions, the first time since the Korean War. It provides a platform from which we can continue serious discussions about restoring fiscal order in Washington. “I am pleased the bill also extends a provision that maintains housing development eligibility for all communities that are designated as ‘rural.’ I pressed for this solution during the Appropriations process. It will provide much-needed certainty for mid-sized rural communities like Norfolk and Columbus that are addressing significant housing challenges.” ###
12.20.2013	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today announced that the budget deal signed into law by President Obama includes a provision preserving access to longer-term hospital care for seniors and others with complex conditions. The provision was part of the Fortenberry-authored Long Term Care for Better Health Act (H.R. 3599). “I am pleased that my provision for long-term hospital care was included in the bipartisan budget deal that became law today,” Fortenberry said. “Hospitals providing long-term care for seniors provide a critical service in our communities and we need to ensure they are treated fairly under current law.” This provision grants permanent relief from the Medicare “25 percent rule” to long-term care hospitals in existence prior to 1999, helping hospitals like Madonna Rehabilitation Hospital in Lincoln. The 25 percent rule pays these hospitals with a less generous payment for each patient admitted after a 25 percent threshold from a referring hospital is reached. This lesser reimbursement threatens the closure of approximately 20 percent of the existing 450 long-term care hospitals. “We are very grateful for Congressman Fortenberry’s work in addressing this matter,” said Dr. Paul Dongilli, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Madonna Rehabilitation Hospital. “This legislation provides invaluable help to Madonna and hospitals like ours throughout the state and across the nation.” Fortenberry previously introduced the Long Term Care for Better Health Act to address the challenge of providing access to multi-disciplinary care for the most vulnerable in a way that decreases Medicare spending. Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
12.09.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry urged President Obama to make a quick appointment for the vacant position of Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom. The position has been open since Ambassador Suzan Johnson Cook resigned her position in October. “I urge the President to make a quick appointment and seamless transition following Ambassador Cook’s departure,” Fortenberry said. “We continue to see persecution of religious minorities, especially in fragile regions of the Middle East and Africa. This threatens to undermine policy goals and the principles of justice that our international endeavors seek to champion.” Fortenberry led a bipartisan group of Members of Congress in sending a letter to the President to urge him to swiftly appoint a new Ambassador-at-Large to continue the important work on religious freedom. The letter also urges the President to strengthen the visibility of the International Religious Freedom Office within the Department of State by appointing a career ambassador. Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Committee and is a member of the House Caucus on Religious Minorities in the Middle East. A copy of the letter can be found here. ###
11.21.2013	Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today delivered the keynote address at “Nuclear Weapons in the 21st Century,” a nuclear nonproliferation forum hosted by the Heritage Foundation. As co-founder of the Congressional Nuclear Security Working Group, Fortenberry provided keen insight into the challenges facing the United States and our strategic posture. “Today’s challenge involves more than a determination about the level of weapons necessary for deterrence, as conceived against the Soviet Union,” Fortenberry said. “It involves an examination of the essence of deterrence within the framework of a holistic national security construct that encompasses international development, diplomacy, and a robust conventional and nuclear defense posture built in tandem with these elements.” ###
11.21.2013	Washington, D.C. – As work on the House-Senate farm bill conference continues, Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today urged leaders of the House Agriculture Committee to retain important conservation and land management measures in the finalized Farm Bill. These measures were included in the Senate’s farm legislation, which was approved with bipartisan support earlier this year. “As farm policy shifts and new reforms take shape, it is critical that sound conservation and land management practices remain coupled with the policies that help provide certainty for farmers and manage their risks,” Fortenberry said. “Nearly 30 years ago, Congress included conservation compliance measures in the farm bill that have helped reduce soil erosion, protect the environment, and improve water quality for both rural and urban places. Earlier this year, the Senate included key conservation measures in its farm bill proposal. The House-Senate conference should retain these provisions to ensure that tax dollars supporting agriculture are well spent and help agricultural producers maintain their leading roles in providing environmental stewardship and protection of our natural resources.” The Senate’s conservation compliance amendment simply continues the practice of conservation planning on the most fragile lands to ensure that important land environmental stewardship goals are met. This concept is widely upheld as an important conservation initiative by many in the agricultural and environmental communities. A wide-ranging coalition of organizations has endorsed this approach as an appropriate way to help farmers, protect the environment, and ensure that tax dollars are well-spent. Fortenberry, a former member of the House Agriculture Committee and current member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, is a longtime advocate of policies encouraging conservation practices and agriculture-based renewable energy production. ###
11.01.2013	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today released the following statement regarding the death of former Congressman John Y. McCollister. “Representative McCollister was a dedicated public servant, who served his country admirably in World War II and in the U.S. Congress. I deeply respected his ongoing commitment to civic engagement long after he retired. He was a great Nebraskan.” ###
10.30.2013	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry and Senator Chuck Grassley today encouraged House and Senate farm bill conferees to retain key farm policy reforms regarding payment limitations as they begin work this week on a reconciled farm bill. New farm payment limit requirements were approved earlier this year in both the House and Senate farm bills. “After many years of discussion, farm payment limitations reform finally has a chance to become law,” said Fortenberry, the House sponsor of a payment limits amendment approved with strong bipartisan support. “More robust payment limits help farm supports reach intended recipients and close loopholes. In this time of tight budgets, the need for this type of fair reform is even greater. With the opportunity for new farm policy under negotiation between the House and Senate, payment limits should remain a key piece of the overall package. It is my hope that this important provision will carry forward into the final Farm Bill.” Grassley and Fortenberry authored provisions in the Senate and House bills to establish a farm payment cap of $250,000. The Senate and House bills also tighten loopholes that have allowed some non-farmers to game the system. Grassley and Fortenberry maintain that the farm payment provisions are nearly identical in the two bills, and should not be up for negotiation. “Our reform is common-sense,” Grassley said. “Not only does it end some of the most egregious abuses of the farm program and make sure that the farm program payments are going to those who need them most, but it saves money. It’s a win-win for everybody. When 22 people are getting farm payments for the same farm, and 70 percent of the farm payments go to 10 percent of the biggest farms, we’ve got a problem.” Specifics of the payment limits provisions: • The bills establish a per farm cap of $50,000 on all commodity program benefits, except those associated with the marketing loan program (loan deficiency payments and marketing loan gains), which would be capped at $75,000. Thus the combined limit would be $125,000, or, for married couples, $250,000. The $50,000 cap would apply to whatever type of program is developed as part of the new farm and food bill. • The bills would define clearly the scope of people who are able to qualify as actively engaged by only providing management for the farming operation. The bill will allow one off-farm manager, but only one. Landowners who share rent land to an actively-engaged producer remain exempt from the “actively engaged” rules provided their payments are commensurate to their risk in the crop produced. ###
10.16.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry made the following statement regarding an expected vote tonight in the U.S. House of Representatives to reopen the government. “We have to get the government back to work and pay our bills,” Fortenberry said. “The paralysis of recent weeks has severely damaged the institution of Congress and the Presidency, frustrated the country, and further weakened economic stability.” “The House of Representatives tried in earnest to negotiate with the President on the underlying problems of the health care bill and the drivers of the debt. I did not favor shutting down the government, but the country also deserved a better response from the President as our leader. Nothing about the last few weeks has been optimal. “Now it’s time to govern responsibly, reopen the doors, and keep pushing for constructive solutions. It’s been said that we are one major budget deal away from restoring America’s strength. We should keep this vision alive in the coming weeks with a commitment to vibrant debate - and mutual respect - for the good of the country.” ###
10.07.2013	Washington, D.C. – Young people at least 17 years old have an opportunity each year to apply for service in one of the U.S. Military Service Academies. Applications for nomination to an academy are sought through the offices of congressional representatives. The deadline for submitting an application to Congressman Jeff Fortenberry this year is October 15, 2013. The application period began earlier this year in May. Each applicant for a nomination must meet the following eligibility requirements as of July 1 of the year of admission to an academy: 17 years old but not have passed the 23rd birthday; U.S. citizen; unmarried; reside within the congressional district of the Congressional Member seeking nomination from; and meet the medical, physical, and academic requirements of the Academy. Interested applicants with further questions regarding the nomination process should contact Congressman Fortenberry's office at 402-438-1598. ###
10.06.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry made the following statement after Secretary Hagel's announcement lifting furloughs for most civilian workers at the Department of Defense: "I am pleased with this new development. A House-passed measure that was signed by the President was meant to avoid further uncertainty for our nation's military support personnel. I am glad that this has been resolved to help prevent any disruption in our nation's defense." ###
10.01.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today commented on the federal government shutdown and announced that his Washington D.C. and Nebraska offices remain open with limited staffing. "During the federal government's shutdown, our office remains open to address our constitutional duties and meet urgent constituent requests," Fortenberry said. "We will operate our Washington and Nebraska offices with less than a third of our regular staff. Remaining staff will be on hand to help address pressing constituent needs. Unfortunately, ordinary constituent services will be delayed." "I am thankful that we passed a bill to pay our troops, which the president has signed. Regrettably, I anticipate this government shutdown to continue in the near term. The House has sent four different proposals to the U.S. Senate. Negotiations need to start now. If the whole matter cannot be solved, we should continue to address components of government funding." The federal government shutdown affects federal agencies and operations in different ways. Social Security payments will continue to be delivered. Postal service will continue. Existing veterans benefits and medical services at Veterans Affairs hospitals will not be affected. For more information on the impacts of the shutdown on various federal agencies, please see http://www.usa.gov/shutdown.shtml. ###
08.01.2013	Washington, D.C. ? Representatives Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) and Betty McCollum (D-MN) today introduced the Conservation Reform Act of 2013 to streamline existing U.S. resources for international conservation priorities. Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate earlier this year by Senators Rob Portman (R-OH) and Tom Udall (D-NM). "The Conservation Reform Act puts in place a collaborative, international strategy to better conserve natural resources, increase global stability, and grow economic opportunity," Congressman Fortenberry said. "America benefits from a more stable world. This policy addresses the most serious threats to the world's natural resource and habitat conservation efforts and lays the framework for a comprehensive global resource management strategy. The legislation allows for better coordination in the resource-based international economy without further indebting our nation." "The United States needs to sustain and modernize its global conservation leadership. As threats continue to put critical natural resources at risk around the world, the Conservation Reform Act will position the United States to respond in a coordinated and strategic manner," said Congresswoman McCollum. The Conservation Reform Act aims to expand wildlife habitats worldwide, help reduce global conflict and instability, and create and protect American jobs without authorizing additional spending. The legislation is supported by numerous organizations, including the Nature Conservancy and the International Conservation Caucus Foundation. Fortenberry introduced similar measures in the 111th and 112th Congress. ###
07.25.2013	Lincoln, NE - Congressman Jeff Fortenberry is accompanying a bipartisan delegation of members of the United States House of Representatives visiting the U.S. Strategic Command (USSTRATCOM) this week. The delegation will see firsthand the important role USSTRATCOM has in our national security complex and nuclear security enterprise. "It's important lawmakers understand the importance of the U.S. Strategic Command to our nation's defense," Fortenberry said. "I am pleased to have this opportunity to welcome my colleagues to Nebraska's First Congressional District and see our national security infrastructure." The core mission of USSTRATCOM lies in nuclear security, with an emphasis on systems modernization. USSTRATCOM also has responsibility for responding to new challenges and developments in space, building cyberspace capability and capacity, preparing for uncertainty, and partnering with other combatant commands as necessary. Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and co-founder of the Nuclear Security Working Group. ###
07.03.2013	Lincoln, NE -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today commented on recent developments in Egypt. "The demonstrations and subsequent military intervention reflect President Morsi's inability to implement a just and orderly governing structure in Egypt," Fortenberry said. "Under the guise of democracy, he has consolidated power, disrespected minority rights, and pardoned jihadists while arresting pro-democracy activists. He has violated the responsibilities of just governance. Democracy cannot bring about the values upon which it rests. "The Egyptian military is in best position to stabilize the country and seek a return to a responsible government that is capable of implementing majority rule while protecting minority rights, guaranteeing an honest and fair ballot in the future." Fortenberry is a past member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the bipartisan House Democracy Partnership. He is the co-chair of the Congressional European Study Group and founder of the Congressional Nuclear Security Working Group. ###
06.20.2013	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today expressed his disappointment in the failure of the House of Representatives to pass a Farm Bill. The Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act, which Fortenberry supported, failed on a vote of 195-234. A Fortenberry amendment to place farm payment limits on individual farms was successfully adopted to the bill earlier in the day. "I am shocked by today's outcome," Fortenberry said. "We now face an uncertain future for farm policy." "While this Farm Bill proposal was not perfect, it would have helped write a new chapter in agricultural policy for the good of our farm families and all Americans, rural and urban alike. It included important reforms that trimmed its total costs to taxpayers, provided better risk management tools for farmers, ended the practice of providing direct cash payments across the board, and placed limits on the amount of federal payments any one farm is eligible to receive. While it also included appropriate reforms that achieved significant savings, it ensured strong support for important nutrition programs intended to help those struggling in tough economic times." The Fortenberry payment limits amendment, which passed on a bipartisan vote of 230-194, would have capped farm commodity payments at $250,000 per year for any one farm and closed loopholes in current law to ensure payments reach working farmers. It was the first time in more than 20 years this issue was brought to a vote on the floor of the House of Representatives. "I am pleased my colleagues supported my efforts to limit farm payments. The amendment would help farm supports reach their intended recipients and close loopholes that benefit investors not actively engaged in farming," Fortenberry said. "We need a thoughtful and balanced approach that encourages younger people to take a chance in agriculture and gives them some support when they need it, while leveling the playing field for farm families." Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture. He is a former chairman of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Department Operations, Oversight, and Credit. ###
06.15.2013	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today voted in support of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 315-108. Fortenberry worked with several colleagues to include provisions requiring the Armed Services to provide sexual assault nurse examiners (SANE) aiding in sexual assault investigations. "Recent reports highlight the disturbing frequency of sexual assaults in the military," Fortenberry said. "Last week, a Department of Defense study indicated that such assaults have risen by 35 percent in the last two years. This provision seeks to ensure that military personnel who suffered these assaults have confidence that the reporting will be handled professionally and thoroughly." The provision would require the Department of Defense to train at least one sexual assault nurse examiner for each Army brigade, and for equivalent-sized units in the other branches. The measure allows existing military nurses to undergo the training so no extra personnel would need to be added. The SANE would be available to collect evidence during the critical early stages of any sexual assault investigation. Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs. ###
06.14.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry sponsored a successful measure to modernize the Cooperative Threat Reduction Program. Fortenberry's amendment to the Fiscal Year 2014 National Defense Authorization Act has been adopted by the U.S. House of Representatives. "Nuclear weapons continue to pose a serious threat to our national security and global stability, particularly with the ongoing turmoil in the Middle East," Fortenberry said. "The amendment is an important step forward in broadening our nuclear nonproliferation efforts." The Fortenberry amendment requires the Secretary of Defense to build upon and modernize the Cooperative Threat Reduction Program for application in the Middle East and North Africa. It was initially established by then-Senators Sam Nunn (D-GA) and Dick Lugar (R-IN) to combat the spread of loose nuclear materials in the Soviet Union at the end of the Cold War. Fortenberry previously introduced the Cooperative Threat Reduction Modernization Act (H.R. 2314) as standalone legislation in the House of Representatives. Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and co-founder of the Nuclear Security Working Group. ###
06.13.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, voted today for the Fiscal Year 2014 Agriculture Appropriations bill, which was approved out of committee by unanimous voice vote. The bill included a Fortenberry-introduced amendment to support United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) rural housing programs. The Fortenberry amendment was approved in committee by unanimous voice vote. "For communities across the nation, including some in Nebraska, continued access to important USDA housing support programs can make the difference between economic struggle and revitalization," Fortenberry said. "Today, we provided certainty to communities and those who build rural America by protecting access to important programs." As a result of the 2010 Census data, many communities currently eligible for USDA Rural Development programs could be cut off from what is often their only source of federal housing funding. The measure will allow communities to continue to apply for funding on a competitive basis. The Fortenberry amendment extends a provision included in the Fiscal Year 2013 Agriculture Appropriations measure by maintaining eligibility for all communities that are designated as "rural" until the end of this fiscal year. Fortenberry previously introduced the Rural Housing Preservation Act (H.R. 858), a longer-term fix which would preserve the definition of "rural" under current law until 2020 Census data is available. The Fiscal Year 2014 Agriculture Appropriations bill will now move to be considered by the full U.S. House of Representatives. ###
06.06.2013	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) this week joined Congressman Mike Thompson (D-CA) to introduce H.R. 2260, legislation designed to enhance conservation goals in America. "Our farmers and ranchers are the first stewards of the land," Fortenberry said. "This bill continues the practice of conservation planning for our most fragile lands to ensure we meet important environmental stewardship goals. This concept is widely upheld as an important conservation initiative by many in the agricultural and environmental communities. I look forward to its passage or inclusion in this year's Farm Bill." H.R. 2260 will require farmers and ranchers to develop unique conservation plans when seeking to receive federal crop insurance subsidies on highly erodible lands. "This is a commonsense measure that is consistent with our nation's conservation policies," Fortenberry said. Additionally, H.R. 2260 will: ? Apply to annually-tilled crops grown on highly erodible or fragile lands or any crops in wetlands, as determined by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA); ? Call on farmers in these areas to file a conservation plan with USDA that states how they will reduce and offset impacts in these areas; ? Delay the deadline for producers to come into compliance who are subject to conservation compliance for the first time for five years; ? Allow for all appeal processes to be exhausted before farmers are found to be out of compliance; and ? Provide exemptions for circumstances beyond the farmers control and actions taken in good faith. Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture. He is a former chairman of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Department Operations, Oversight, and Credit. ###
05.23.2013	Washington, D.C. ? Congressman Jeff Fortenberry made the following statement after supporting legislation to approve the Keystone XL Pipeline: "I have said for a long time that we need a strategic energy partnership with the Canadians, but it must respect our environmental concerns. Many good Nebraskans rightly expressed reservations about the initial location of the Keystone XL Pipeline. Some also expressed concern about TransCanada's bullying tactics and indifference to their perspective. Thanks to Nebraskans, the pipeline has been moved to a better, safer route that avoids the environmentally sensitive Sandhills area of our state. "I would have preferred that the President settle the issue in a timely manner without Congressional intervention. Some Nebraskans still object to the pipeline and I respect their view. In a vote before the U.S. House of Representatives last year, I did not support the premature approval of the pipeline. However, the problems initially identified have been reasonably addressed, which is why I supported the legislation today." ###
05.21.2013	Washington, D.C. ? Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, voted today for the Fiscal Year 2014 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill, which was approved out of committee by unanimous voice vote. "Today, members of the Appropriations Committee came together in a bipartisan manner to help ensure we are meeting the infrastructure needs of the Department of Defense and providing the best care for our veterans," Fortenberry said. "This important legislation synchronizes claims between the Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs, ensuring a seamless transition of care when our military men and women leave active service. I am also pleased that the measure continues funding for the ongoing construction of the new headquarters for the U.S. Strategic Command, an important force in protecting our nation from nuclear threats." The legislation coordinates the use of the same electronic health record system between the Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs (VA), which will help ensure a smooth transition for members of the Armed Services when they retire from active duty. This change will also help the VA address its backlog of disability claims. The bill continues existing funding streams for construction needs at the U.S. Strategic Command (USSTRATCOM), located in Nebraska's First Congressional District. The committee recognizes the important role USSTRATCOM plays in deterring and detecting strategic attacks against the U.S. The Fiscal Year 2014 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill will now move to be considered by the full U.S. House of Representatives. ###
05.14.2013	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today cosponsored the Taxpayer Nondiscrimination and Protection Act (H.R. 1950), which will criminalize actions of Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employees who undertake targeted discrimination of certain groups based on their belief systems. "Of all agencies, the IRS must be committed to fairness and impartiality," Fortenberry said. "It is unconscionable that the agency targeted citizens because of their political or religious beliefs. The reported actions seriously undermine the foundation of trust necessary between citizens and their government. This bill puts meaningful penalties in place when that trust is violated." The Taxpayer Nondiscrimination and Protection Act of 2013 will allow the federal government to impose fines and imprisonment on IRS employees who break the law by targeting individuals or groups for audits and investigation for reasons other than a legitimate tax-related purpose. Fortenberry is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. He serves on subcommittees on Agriculture, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs. ###
05.07.2013	Washington, D.C. - On the eve of South Korean President Park Geun-hye's address to a joint session of Congress tomorrow, Representatives Jeff Fortenberry (NE-01) and Ed Markey (MA-05) encouraged President Obama to help stop South Korea from taking steps to develop nuclear weapons. Their letter to the President reads in part: "In recent negotiations, South Korea pushed to have explicit prior consent for the production of nuclear fuel as part of the new nuclear cooperation agreement. Fortunately, this was considered unacceptable to your Administration, and we understand that the current agreement with South Korea will be extended for two years while negotiations continue. In the interests of regional stability and preventing further spread of nuclear weapons, we urge your Administration to remain similarly firm during these new negotiations with South Korea, as well as negotiations with other countries, and not enter into nuclear cooperation agreements that explicitly grant permission to produce nuclear fuel." Please click here to read the letter in its entirety. Fortenberry is a co-founder of the Congressional Nuclear Security Caucus. ###
05.05.2013	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry issued the following statement regarding the death of Bill Orr. "Bill Orr was a great Nebraskan and a good friend. He was a man of principle and approached life with great cheer. He and Governor Orr had a wonderful marriage and together gave of themselves tirelessly to public service. I am grateful for his example and extend my heartfelt condolences to the family." ###
04.25.2013	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today joined Reps. Tim Walz (D-MN), Collin Peterson (D-MN), Ranking Member of the Agriculture Committee, and Chris Gibson (R-NY), to introduce the Beginning Farmer and Rancher Opportunity Act in the U.S. House of Representatives. The bill is designed to help young people and beginning farmers establish careers in agriculture. Companion legislation was introduced in the U.S. Senate today. "Agriculture is essential to our country's wellbeing. Good agricultural policy is critical to America's economic security, energy security, and even national security. Given the average age of the American farmer today is 57 years old, we should work to ensure that the next generation of farmers and ranchers have the opportunity to overcome the financial barriers unique to agricultural operations," said Fortenberry (R-NE). "I'm proud to support this legislation, which provides a variety of support options involving access to farm credit for young producers, cost-saving conservation practices, emerging market opportunities such as locally and organically raised foods within regional foods systems, and increased outreach on agricultural job opportunities for our nation's veterans." The Beginning Farmer and Rancher Opportunity Act seeks to ready a new generation of American ag producers by modifying and improving upon existing farm programs to help reduce the steep financial burdens of setting up an agricultural business. The Beginning Farmer and Rancher Opportunity Act will invest in the next generation of American producers by: Enabling access to land, credit, and crop insurance for new producers. Assisting new producers to launch and strengthen new farm and value-added businesses. Helping new producers become good stewards of the land. Providing training, mentoring, and research that beginning farmers and ranchers need to be successful. Conducting outreach on agricultural job opportunities for military veterans. Fortenberry is a member of the Appropriations Committee's Subcommittee on Agricultural Appropriations. He is a former chairman of the Agriculture Committee's Subcommittee on Department Operations, Oversight, and Credit. ###
03.22.2013	Washington, D.C. – Reforms proposed by Congressman Jeff Fortenberry to reduce fraud and save taxpayer money recently became part of a United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) audit report. Findings of the Inspector General's audit of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) were highlighted yesterday during a House Appropriations subcommittee hearing. "SNAP greatly benefits many American families in need," Fortenberry said. "It's an important program, and we should always be mindful that it runs efficiently, ensuring its integrity. I raised concerns in 2011 about potential areas of abuse. I am pleased the Inspector General's audit has found ways to reform practices that may lead to significant taxpayer savings, and I appreciate the Food and Nutrition Service's cooperation in seeing that the appropriate reforms are implemented." At a hearing in December 2011, Fortenberry, as chairman of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Department Operations, Oversight, and Credit, sought an audit of certain practices within SNAP. This week's Appropriations hearing outlined the key findings of that audit. The audit sampled 10 states across the country, finding that 27,000 people receive SNAP benefits even though they may be ineligible for the program, potentially costing taxpayers $3.7 million each month. Looking at all 50 states, even a small amount of fraud within SNAP ends up costing hundreds of millions of taxpayer dollars each year. The Inspector General's report can be found at http://www.usda.gov/oig/webdocs/27002-0011-13.pdf. ###
03.05.2013	Washington, D.C. - Congressmen Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE), Diane Black (R-TN), and John Fleming, M.D. (R-LA) held a press conference today to announce the introduction of the Health Care Conscience Rights Act (H.R. 940). This legislation would protect Americans' rights of conscience and religious freedom, offering reprieve from the Health and Human Services (HHS) mandate that creates ethical dilemmas for health care providers and small business owners. The legislation would also protect health care workers from having to participate in any abortion procedure in violation of their deeply held beliefs. "We have come together to act to protect Americans' most basic rights - our rights of conscience and religious freedom. The Health Care Conscience Rights Act simply restores the basic rights in health care that were widely accepted before the implementation of the new health care law," said Fortenberry. "As the president said at last year's National Prayer Breakfast, we cannot leave our values at the door. This legislation will protect the time-honored tradition of respecting conscience rights in health care." The Health Care Conscience Rights Act was introduced on Monday with 50 bipartisan cosponsors. Fortenberry introduced similar legislation in the 112th Congress, the Respect for Rights of Conscience Act. ###
03.01.2013	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry this week introduced the Rural Housing Preservation Act (H.R. 858), which helps hundreds of rural communities across the nation address the challenge of affordable housing. "Adequate and affordable housing is often a challenge in our rural communities," Fortenberry said. "This legislation would help keep rural communities eligible to compete for assistance in important housing programs." As a result of the 2010 Census data, many communities currently eligible for United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development programs could be cut off from what is often their only source of federal housing funding. The Rural Housing Preservation Act represents a common-sense solution by preserving the definition of "rural" under current law until 2020 Census data is available. For communities across the nation, including some in Nebraska, this change could mean the difference between continued economic struggle and a stronger recovery. The legislation has no impact on the federal deficit and it only continues eligibility for UDSA Rural Development programs, not funding. The communities must continue to apply for funding on a competitive basis. ###
02.28.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today supported a House bill to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). The measure provides assistance to women who are victims of domestic violence and stiffens penalties for domestic violence crimes. Fortenberry voted "yes" on the House version of the reauthorization, which was not approved. He did not support the Senate version of the bill. "Everyone is familiar with heart-breaking stories of violence against women," Fortenberry said. "Prosecutors and police tell of the shocking regular occurrences of these tragedies. Others can tell of stories themselves. I support continuing the important programs that seek to prevent such violence and help those who have been the victims of domestic violence." S. 47, the Senate version of the reauthorization of the VAWA, was approved this morning in the House and will go to the President for his signature. ###
02.18.2013	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today made the following statement upon Senator Mike Johanns' announcement regarding his service in the U.S. Senate. "Senator Johanns is an extraordinary public servant. I've had the honor of working with him since his time as Lincoln's Mayor. His leadership as Governor, Secretary of Agriculture, and now as U.S. Senator is marked by the honesty, integrity, and hard work he brought to each role. "He has devoted his life's work to the wellbeing of our state and nation. Now, we thank him for a job well done. I look forward to working with him in coming months and wish him and Stephanie all the best in the years ahead." ###
02.13.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry tonight made the following statement after President Obama's State of the Union address: "The President rightly commended our troops at the beginning of his speech and at the end, when he laid down a reasonable and responsible plan for our strategy in Afghanistan. "He also stressed a new focus on manufacturing, reviving the 'made in the USA label,' and expanding upon the important progress we've made in clean energy production and conservation. It is very hard to understand, though, why the President will not lay out a specific course for controlling spending. Taking the debt seriously, and restoring fiscal order, will help ease economic uncertainty and create new opportunities for American families. We must work together to fight against the overspending problem in Washington. It is crushing our economy. We must find an appropriate solution – and the House of Representatives cannot do this alone. "Perhaps the most overlooked line will be that the making of a man is not the ability to conceive a child, but the courage to raise that child. Strong families do make a strong nation." ###
01.27.2013	Congressman Jeff Fortenberry will host a community "open house" meeting at Bellevue University on January 31, 2013, from 4:30 to 6:00 pm. Members of the public are invited to attend, meet the Congressman, and discuss federal issues. Helping host the informal event are Bellevue Mayor Rita Sanders, the Bellevue Chamber of Commerce, and Bellevue University. Bellevue became part of the First Congressional District after congressional redistricting based on the 2010 census. Fortenberry is beginning his fifth term as Representative of the First Congressional District. Open House with Congressman Jeff Fortenberry Thursday, January 31, 2013 4:30 to 6 pm Bellevue University Student Center 1000 Galvin Rd S Bellevue, NE ###
01.25.2013	Congressman Jeff Fortenberry will host a community "open house" meeting at the Columbus Area Chamber of Commerce on Wednesday, January 30, 2013, from 4:30 to 6:00 pm. Members of the public are invited to attend, meet the Congressman, and discuss federal issues. Helping host the open house are Columbus Mayor Mike Moser and the Columbus Area Chamber of Commerce. Columbus, all of Platte County, and Polk County became part of the First Congressional District after congressional redistricting based on the 2010 census. Fortenberry is beginning his fifth term as Representative of the First Congressional District. Open House with Congressman Jeff Fortenberry Wednesday, January 30, 2013 4:30 to 6:00 pm Columbus Area Chamber of Commerce Office 764 33rd Avenue Columbus, NE ###
01.22.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry made the following statement after Nebraska Governor Dave Heineman approved the TransCanada Keystone XL Pipeline route based on a final environmental evaluation. "Like many Nebraskans, I had serious concerns about the pipeline's original route through the Sand Hills. A new route was proposed to address those concerns, and a comprehensive environmental review was completed by the State of Nebraska. Governor Heineman's approval of the new route is another step forward in achieving a strategic energy partnership with Canada that respects our natural resources and protects unique ecosystems." ###
01.03.2013	Congressman Fortenberry and family with Speaker of the House John Boehner Washington D.C. - Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today was sworn in to the 113th Congress as Nebraska's First Congressional District Congressman in the U.S. House of Representatives. Fortenberry took the oath of office with his colleagues on the House Floor this afternoon. "I am honored to be a member of Nebraska's delegation in the United States Congress," Fortenberry said. "Our nation faces tremendous challenges in the next two years, and I remain committed to serving the families and communities of Nebraska with hard work, careful deliberation, and civility, for the good of our country." The 113th Congress marks Fortenberry's fifth term in the U.S. House of Representatives. He first began his service in Congress in January 2005. He was recently selected by his colleagues to serve on the Appropriations Committee. ###
01.02.2013	Washington, D.C. ? Congressman Jeff Fortenberry made the following statement on the fiscal cliff and budget negotiations: "The good news is that tax increases are prevented for the vast majority of hard-working Americans. The Alternative Minimum Tax is permanently fixed from unjustly hitting middle-class families. The Farm Bill is extended for a year, preventing milk prices from skyrocketing. The estate tax issue is settled permanently with no impact on most small business owners and farmers. "The challenge remains to quickly address the substantial overspending problem in Washington. There will be three more fiscal cliffs coming up: the debt ceiling, a continuing resolution to fund the government, and the sequester, which would provide automatic cuts to the government across the board, substantially affecting the nation's defense. These looming cliffs will force the president and Congress to work together to reduce the way our country spends. We also must pass a long-term Farm Bill that will provide security to Nebraska's farmers and ranchers." ###
12.28.2012	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry has selected 13 students from eastern Nebraska to receive nominations to America's top military academies. "A military academy appointment is a tremendous honor and a great responsibility," Fortenberry said. "Nominees must demonstrate capacity for leadership, personal integrity, and rigorous scholarship. I am pleased to nominate several young Nebraskans who meet these qualifications." Following are the 2012 nominees: Eugene Alvey of The Hill School, a private school in Pottstown, PA. Eugene is the son of Bevan Alvey and Sharon Kresse of Lincoln and has been nominated to the United States Military Academy. Elizabeth Avery of Lincoln High School. Elizabeth is the daughter of Gary and Susan Avery and has been nominated to the United States Military Academy. Benjamin Burmester of Pender Public Schools. Benjamin is the son of Steve and Deborah Burmester and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Gabriel Collins of Nebraska City High School. Gabriel is the son of Shawn and Samantha Collins and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Cameron Connelly of Freeman High School at Adams. Cameron is the son of Christopher and Rosanna Connelly and has been nominated to the United States Military Academy. Shannon Costello of Platteview Senior High School at Springfield. Shannon is the daughter of Timothy Costello and Carla Anania and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Asher Cutler of Plattsmouth Capstone Christian Homeschool. Asher is the son of Timothy and Mary Cutler and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Benjamin Heiliger of Lincoln Southwest High School. Benjamin is the son of Brad and Susan Heiliger and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Jacob Pond of Lyons-Decatur High School. Jacob is the son of Katy McLaughlin and Roger Pond and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Benjamin Protzman of Norfolk Senior High School. Benjamin is the son of Roger and Tricia Protzman and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Kyle Rhodes of Gretna High School. Kyle is the son of Rodney and Elizabeth Rhodes and has been nominated to the United States Military Academy. Vaughn Richardson of Freeman Public Schools at Adams. Vaughn is the son of James and Vera Richardson and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. John Thompson of Pius X High School. John is the son of John and Linda Thompson and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. The military academies will now consider each nominee for an appointment. "I expect these individuals will represent Nebraska well in their future endeavors," Fortenberry said. "Please join me in congratulating them for their exceptional achievements." ###
12.19.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry made the following statement on the passing of Judge Robert Bork today in his Arlington, Virginia, home: "I knew Judge Bork. He was a man of principle and deeply held convictions. His time on the bench was marked by an unyielding commitment to upholding our natural rights as Americans as enshrined in the Constitution. He was an inspiration to many young attorneys and jurists. He had the courage to point out that many of America's difficulties transcend politics and result from the degradation of culture." ###
12.19.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry made the following statement after the release of an independent report investigating the September 11, 2012, attack on a U.S. diplomatic post in Benghazi, Libya: "The report confirms what we suspected. The reasons are complex, but essentially, the killing of U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans was the result of lax security at our diplomatic post, and I might add, the Department of State's worldview that minimized the danger. "The initial video narrative explaining the attack was grossly inadequate. This was a coordinated terrorist attack. We can hope in good will, but our world is dangerous. American diplomacy must be backed by strong security measures to keep our citizens safe." An unclassified summary of the Accountability Review Board's report on the Benghazi attacks can be found on the Department of State's website here. Fortenberry is the Vice-Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, and Human Rights and a member of the House Democracy Partnership. ###
12.14.2012	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today released the following statement regarding the mass shooting in Connecticut. "The Connecticut tragedy is beyond words. It's unthinkable that a person would kill innocent little children. My heart is breaking for them. Even though we are far away, I know Nebraskans are grieving for these children and their parents." Flags at the United States Capitol are being flown at half-staff. ###
11.29.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today was selected by his colleagues in the House of Representatives to serve on the Appropriations Committee in the 113th Congress, which starts in January. "I am honored to be entrusted with the important responsibility of this position," Fortenberry said. "To govern is to choose, and to choose is to budget. I hope to work constructively to build a culture of fiscal prudence, strategic foresight, and creative collaboration within the fiscal process. The work is particularly difficult. The Committee is tasked with the hard job of meeting the obligations of the federal government while also reducing the deficit through balanced spending and oversight decisions." The Appropriations Committee writes the policies authorizing all expenditures made by the U.S. Government. It has been 22 years since a Nebraskan served on the House Appropriations Committee. The position was last held by Congresswoman Virginia Smith. ###
11.19.2012	Lincoln, NE - Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today responded to recent reports that terrorist Ali Musa Daqduq has been released from custody by the Iraqi government and is now in Lebanon. Daqduq was a senior operative of Asaib Ahl al-Haq, a Shiite militia that abducted and executed a team of U.S. soldiers in Karbala, Iraq, on January 20, 2007. "This is a direct insult to America and an affront to the families of the American soldiers killed," Fortenberry said. "The Iraqi government's decision to release Daqduq signifies an unwillingness to uphold the basic tenets of justice. After all America suffered and sacrificed for the sake of stability in that country, the mildest show of respect would have prevented Daqduq's release. For the sake of our soldiers' families and for our national security, the U.S. must continue to pursue vigorous efforts to keep Daqduq from doing further harm." Fortenberry is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and its Subcommittee on the Middle East and South Asia. ###
11.15.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry questioned the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2012 killings of U.S. Ambassador to Libya Chris Stevens and three other Americans at a hearing today before the U.S. House Committee on Foreign Affairs. It was the first in an ongoing series of hearings surrounding the killings and attack on the U.S. Mission in Benghazi. Fortenberry's opening statement can be viewed in its entirety here: "We need to know why the Ambassador's expressed security concerns and calls for help were unmet. ... Why the U.S. compounds were left unsecured for so long after these attacks. Why the official video narrative persisted so stubbornly, long after it was clear that the attack that killed Ambassador Stevens was terroristic in nature." Fortenberry is the Vice-Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, and Human Rights and a member of the House Democracy Partnership. ###
10.01.2012	Washington, D.C. – Young people at least 17 years old have an opportunity each year to apply for service in one of the U.S. Military Service Academies. Applications for nomination to an academy are sought through the offices of congressional representatives. The deadline for submitting an application to Congressman Jeff Fortenberry this year is October 15, 2012. The application period began earlier this year in May. Each applicant for a nomination must meet the following eligibility requirements as of July 1 of the year of admission to an academy: 17 years of age but not have passed the 23rd birthday; U.S. citizen; unmarried; reside within the congressional district of the Congressional Member seeking nomination from; and meet the medical, physical, and academic requirements of the Academy. Interested applicants with further questions regarding the nomination process should contact Congressman Fortenberry's office at 402-438-1598 and speak to Mrs. Jeanne Walker. ###
09.28.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, author of the Child Soldiers Prevention Act, made the following statement after President Obama announced full waivers from prohibitions enacted in the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008 for Libya, South Sudan, and Yemen, and a partial waiver for the Democratic Republic of Congo, continuing foreign assistance to these major international violators of the child soldiers prohibition. "The unthinkable practice of the use of children as soldiers continues in the world today," Fortenberry said. "The United States must not be complicit in this practice. The announcement of waivers for countries should only be for carefully discerned prudential reasons to help force countries away from this pernicious practice. The intent of the law is clear - the waiver authority should be used as a mechanism for reform, not as a way of continuing the status quo." Libya is a new addition this year, while Chad was removed from the waiver list. Burma, Somalia, and Sudan are prohibited from receiving foreign military financing and international military training assistance under the law. Fortenberry is the Vice-Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, and Human Rights. ###
09.26.2012	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry made the following statement regarding today's announcement of the upcoming retirement of Tom Osborne as the University of Nebraska's Athletic Director: "I thank Tom for his many years of service to Nebraska, both as Congressman for Nebraska's Third District and his successful tenure at the University of Nebraska. Whether on the football field or in the halls of Congress, Tom Osborne conducted himself with the quiet confidence of a principled, steady leader. He leaves a legacy of excellent public service. I wish him all the best as he retires on January 1, 2013. " Osborne was the head football coach at the University of Nebraska for 25 years from 1973 to 1997. He led the Huskers to three national championships in 1994, 1995, and 1997. Osborne was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives from the Third Congressional District of Nebraska and served three terms from 2000-2006. ###
09.12.2012	Washington, D.C. – This morning Congressman Jeff Fortenberry condemned the killings of the U.S. Ambassador to Libya and three other U.S. diplomats. "Last year, an intense debate was underway in Congress as to how to respond to the turmoil in Libya. The imminent slaughter of the people of Benghazi by former dictator Gaddafi led the United States to sustain a NATO-led coalition to stop the bloodshed. Now our Ambassador to Libya, Chris Stevens, is dead – killed by the very people we went there to save. "Americans can tolerate ingratitude; Americans can tolerate insult; but Americans cannot tolerate the senseless killing of the official representative of our country and three other diplomatic personnel. The governing structures of Libya must respond in the strongest way. They should publicly state their condemnation and their commitment to restoring order. "Democracy is not an election – it is the understanding of the protection of the inherent dignity and rights of each person, supported by the structures that bring about the just rule of law. We honor Ambassador Stevens, Foreign Service Officer Sean Smith, and two others whose name I do not yet have, for their heroic service. May they rest in peace." Fortenberry's speech on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, including commentary on the Egyptian situation, can be viewed in its entirety here. Stevens is the first U.S. ambassador to be killed by hostile forces since 1979, when U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan Adolph Dubs was kidnapped and later killed by gunfire. Fortenberry is the Vice-Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, and Human Rights. ###
09.11.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry made the following statement on the 11th anniversary of September 11, 2001: “Eleven years ago, four senseless acts of terrorism took the lives of nearly 3,000 Americans and drastically altered our nation’s future. Today we remember those who died tragically on that fateful day and the family members who continue to mourn such terrible loss. “This day is now known as Patriot Day. We also honor the brave men and women who dedicate their lives to defending America and bringing hope to others. The work of our military, homeland security forces, police officers, firefighters, and emergency first responders provides protection for that which we hold most dear. Their bravery and sacrifice renew our hope for a more peaceful world.” ###
08.01.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today issued the following statement as the Department of Health and Human Services' (HHS) mandate took effect: "The mandate from President Obama and Secretary Sebelius uses the strong arm of government to force Americans to pay for drugs and procedures, including abortion-inducing drugs, which many Americans find to be ethically divisive. The mandate most perniciously affects faith-based providers who are on the front lines, serving as the main source of compassionate care for our most vulnerable and poor citizens. This day may come and pass for many Americans, but it is significant in that it represents a deep affront to our most honored traditions – that of religious liberty and the rights of conscience. "The HHS mandate represents unprecedented government coercion in health care. No American should be forced to choose between their faith and their job. That's a false choice. That's un-American. It violates the fundamental principle of religious freedom, individual liberty, and the rights of conscience so much a part of the history of this country. I think Federal Judge John Kane in his recent ruling, Hercules v. Sebelius, got it right, that the government's interests 'are countered, and indeed outweighed, by the public interest in the free exercise of religion.'" ###
07.26.2012	For more information on the state of Nebraska's drought management resource guide, please click here.
07.24.2012	LINCOLN, NE — Congressman Jeff Fortenberry will meet with constituents throughout eastern Nebraska during the month of August. He has constituent town hall meetings planned in Lincoln, Norfolk, Fremont, Oakland, Blair, Plattsmouth, and Nebraska City. A policy forum regarding America's role in global nuclear security, co-hosted by Rep. Fortenberry and Rep. Lee Terry, will be held in Omaha. A listing of the Congressman's schedule follows. All events are open to the public. Please call the Fortenberry Lincoln office at 402-438-1598 with any questions. Tuesday, August 7 5:15 pm Lincoln Town Hall Meeting Lincoln Southwest High School 7001 South 14th Street Lincoln Wednesday, August 8 11:30 am Fremont Town Hall Meeting Christensen Field – Main Arena Meeting Room 1710 W 16th Street Fremont 5:15 pm Norfolk Town Hall Meeting Norfolk Area Chamber of Commerce Office 609 Norfolk Avenue Norfolk Thursday, August 9 11:30 am Oakland Town Hall Meeting Oakland City Auditorium – Rosen Room 401 N Oakland Avenue Oakland 5:15 pm Blair Town Hall Meeting Blair City Council Chambers 218 S 16th Street Blair Monday, August 13 11:30 am Plattsmouth Town Hall Meeting Plattsmouth VFW 510 1st Avenue Plattsmouth 5:15 pm Nebraska City Town Hall Meeting UNL Kimmel Education and Research Center (Kimmel Orchard) 5985 G Road Nebraska City ??Tuesday, August 14 1:30 pm Policy Forum - "America's Role in Global Nuclear Security" (featuring keynote address by Gen. C. Robert Kehler, Commander of USSTRATCOM, and remarks by Dr. David Kay, former UN Chief Weapons Inspector) The Salvation Army Kroc Center Joyce Mammel Assembly Hall 2825 Y Street Omaha ###
07.19.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, chairman of the House Agriculture Committee's Operations, Oversight, and Credit Subcommittee, today called on the federal Farm Service Agency to consider making emergency grazing and haying options open to all Nebraska agricultural producers. Currently, producers in some Nebraska counties are authorized for access to Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) acres for purposes of supplementing available livestock feed options. "Drought conditions are affecting our entire state," Fortenberry said. "Consistently high temperatures and little rain are rapidly drying up feed sources for livestock producers. In these extreme conditions, it's important to rapidly consider expanded options." In a letter to Farm Service Agency Administrator Juan Garcia, Fortenberry wrote: "As conditions quickly deteriorate across central and eastern Nebraska, I am hopeful that Nebraska counties not yet eligible for CRP emergency usage will be promptly considered for authorization. It is my understanding that at this time, the environmental impact would be negligible." Several Nebraska counties are currently approved for CRP Emergency Grazing and Haying. Click here to see a statewide map of approved counties. ###
07.12.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, chairman of the House Agriculture Committee's Operations, Oversight, and Credit Subcommittee, voted for the Agriculture Committee's Farm Bill proposal, which was approved on a bipartisan vote of 35-11. "Agriculture is critical to America's economic security, energy security, and national security," Fortenberry said. "A new farm bill is imperative for the future of agriculture and rural America. This proposal charts a new way forward for America's farmers and ranchers while respecting the federal government's severe budgetary constraints. While the bill is not perfect, it provides adequate protection options for farmers, supports young and beginning farmers, and embraces new market opportunities domestically and internationally." Three Fortenberry initiatives were included in the committee's legislation. Fortenberry's Beginning Farmers amendment will modify and build upon existing farm programs to help overcome the steep financial burdens for new farmers as they establish agricultural businesses. Another amendment provides microloans to small, beginning, and veteran farmers seeking farm credit. Currently, the average age of the American farmer is 56 years old. Fortenberry also sponsored an amendment to enhance the Farmers Market and Local Foods Promotion Program, an effort that increases market opportunities for small and mid-sized farms and strengthens local food systems. During the committee markup, Fortenberry also raised the importance of several policy considerations, including farm payment limitations, rural housing programs, and the protection of lands for conservation purposes. "We need to pass a farm bill prior to its expiration at the end of September. I look forward to continuing this robust debate about our country's agricultural future on the House floor in the coming weeks." ###
07.11.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, chairman of the House Agriculture Committee's Operations, Oversight, and Credit Subcommittee, announced that he will cosponsor the sodsaver provision that is anticipated to be brought up in today's Farm Bill markup. "This important agriculture stewardship measure will protect lands that have never been tilled for conservation purposes. Some of the savings from this provision will be put towards helping new farmers and ranchers. I am hopeful this measure will receive strong bipartisan support." The House Agriculture Committee is scheduled to markup the Farm Bill today at 10:00 AM in room 1300 of the Longworth House Office Building. The markup will be broadcast live here. ###
07.10.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, chairman of the House Agriculture Committee's Operations, Oversight, and Credit Subcommittee, released the following statement as the House Ag Committee works this week to finalize its farm bill proposal: "Agriculture is one of the few bright spots in our nation's economy. Farmers today not only provide food security, they enhance economic opportunity in rural America, increase our energy independence, and strengthen national security. "For the good of all Americans, it is critical that sound public policies help create the conditions for continued agricultural prosperity and innovation. While respecting the federal government's severe budgetary constraints, we need a new farm bill that provides adequate protection options for farmers, helps young and beginning farmers, and embraces new market opportunities domestically and internationally." A long-time advocate of agricultural entrepreneurship, Fortenberry will support initiatives that provide new incentives for beginning farmers and farmers markets, and protect lands that have never been tilled for conservation purposes. He will also call for more robust payment limitation considerations. The House Agriculture Committee is scheduled to markup the Farm Bill on Wednesday, July 11, 2012, at 10:00 AM in room 1300 of the Longworth House Office Building. The markup will be broadcast live here. ###
07.10.2012	Congressman Jeff Fortenberry advocates for a better alternative to the 2010 health care law that reduces costs, improves health outcomes, and protects vulnerable persons.
06.29.2012	Washington, D.C. - This week, Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) introduced the Global Conservation Act of 2012 to streamline and better direct U.S. resources devoted to international conservation priorities. Congressman Russ Carnahan (D-MO) lent his support to the bipartisan House legislation, while companion legislation was also introduced today in the Senate by Senators Rob Portman (R-OH) and Tom Udall (D-NM). "The Global Conservation Act puts in place a collaborative, international strategy to better conserve natural resources, increase global stability, and grow economic opportunity," Fortenberry said. America benefits from a more stable world. Laying the framework for a comprehensive resource management strategy among nations, this policy addresses the most serious threats to the world's natural resource and habitat conservation efforts. The legislation allows for better coordination in the resource-based international economy without further indebting our nation during these fiscally challenging times." The Global Conservation Act aims to expand wildlife habitats worldwide, limit global conflict and instability, and create and protect American jobs without authorizing additional spending. The legislation is supported by numerous organizations, including the Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies, the Nature Conservancy, the Wildlife Conservation Society, and the World Wildlife Fund. Fortenberry and Carnahan introduced a similar measure in the 111th Congress. ###
06.28.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today issued the following statement after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled to uphold key parts of the 2010 health care law. "Now that the court has spoken, the debate turns back to the legislature. Do Americans want this law or not? Elections will decide. I think we can do much better than a nearly 3,000 page law that shifts more costs to unsustainable government spending, cuts Medicare, and erodes health care liberties." Fortenberry has long supported patient-centered health care reforms that lower costs, improve health outcomes, and protect vulnerable persons. ###
06.28.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today voted for a resolution to hold Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress for his refusal to turn over subpoenaed documents related to the Fast and Furious "gun-walking" operation. "President Obama said that this was going to be the most transparent administration in history. After several attempts through normal channels, Congress can't get the information it needs to account for the tragedies resulting from Operation Fast and Furious. I had no choice but to vote for this resolution that seeks to hold the Administration accountable." ###
06.21.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, author of the Child Soldiers Prevention Act, commented on yesterday's release of the State Department Trafficking in Persons Report. The 2012 Report is the third to contain the child soldiers reporting requirement, as signed into law in 2008. It lists repeat offenders Burma, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Somalia, Sudan, South Sudan, and Yemen. Libya is included for the first time. Notably, two-time offender Chad has been removed from the list after being sanctioned by Congress under a Fortenberry-authored measure. "I am very pleased to see that the State Department has certified Chad has taken swift and meaningful action to demobilize child soldiers from its ranks," said Fortenberry. "Congress made it clear to Chad last year that the United States would not continue to tolerate its use of child soldiers. We declared then, as in 2008, that children belong on playgrounds, not battlegrounds, and that the U.S. would stop underwriting this pernicious form of modern-day slavery. We now must replicate this success story for the benefit of children in other countries. "The House Foreign Affairs Committee has unanimously passed multiple measures to strengthen child soldiers laws. I look forward to working with the Administration on a comprehensive plan of action across all involved agencies to demobilize child soldiers from the other U.S. aid recipients' ranks." Fortenberry is the Vice-Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, and Human Rights. ###
06.06.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today sponsored successful legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives that rescinds more than $17 million in funding for the production of mixed oxide, or MOX, nuclear fuel, and redirects the money to strengthen nuclear security efforts. Currently, the Department of Energy receives funding to downblend surplus plutonium from nuclear weapons into MOX fuel for use in American nuclear power plants. Thus far, the fuel has failed to find use in practical commercial application. "The MOX fuel program has cost billions in taxpayer dollars with little practical effect," said Fortenberry. "Instead, this funding would be better used strengthening our nuclear security efforts. My amendment redirects funds to the Global Threat Reduction Initiative, which fulfills our government's fundamental purpose of protecting our nation from nuclear security threats. It restores funding for the GTRI to 2012 levels so that its work can continue without delay." By the end of the current fiscal year, the Global Threat Reduction Initiative will have converted or verified as shutdown 81 research reactors, removed over 3,400 kilograms of vulnerable nuclear material, and secured an estimated 1,355 buildings containing high priority nuclear or radiological materials. Fortenberry is a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and is a co-founder of the House Nuclear Security Caucus. ###
05.03.2012	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today called on U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to work to protect Chinese human rights activist Chen Guangcheng, who has sought U.S. support after fleeing house arrest in China. Secretary Clinton and Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner are currently in China for official talks under the framework of the bilateral Security and Economic Dialogue. "Chen Guangcheng has given voice to the poor and vulnerable in Chinese society. For this, his government imprisoned and persecuted him. Today he and his family live under the threat of violence and intimidation. "It is a great tribute to the United States that a Chinese human rights hero is seeking our protection. Persons all over the world in the harshest conditions often know that America is their last best hope. I urge Secretary Clinton to negotiate asylum or some other absolute guarantee for the protection of Chen and his family." Guangcheng is a blind, self-taught lawyer who was sentenced to prison in 2006 after campaigning on behalf of women who had undergone forced sterilizations and abortions. Fortenberry is a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and is Vice Chairman of its Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, and Human Rights. ###
04.13.2012	Lincoln, NE -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, the co-founder and co-chairman of the Congressional Nuclear Security Caucus, today released this statement following North Korea's failed long-range missile launch: "North Korea's long history of broken 'promises' and belligerent action continue under the regime of the new leader Kim Jong-un. Any fledgling hopes that the son of Kim Jong-il would give rise to a more responsible diplomatic relationship have been dashed by North Korea's failed long-range missile launch. Just weeks after assuring the Obama Administration that it would suspend missile tests in return for feeding North Korea's starved masses, the irrational deceptions continue. Fortunately, North Korea has a near perfect failure record in advanced missile technology." "As North Korea continues toward nuclear weapons delivery capability, its gross human rights violations are on display. At least 150,000 North Koreans are imprisoned under unspeakable conditions in hidden gulags. North Korea must choose: isolation and despair, or a new openness toward the responsible community of nations." Fortenberry is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
03.29.2012	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today voted for H. Con. Res. 112, the House of Representatives budget proposal that reduces spending for Fiscal Year 2013 and sets budgetary levels through 2022. This measure passed the House of Representatives this afternoon by a vote of 228-191. "The House of Representatives is this year again taking action to get our nation's fiscal house in order," said Fortenberry, who supported a similar budget proposal in 2011. "Last year, we were able to reduce spending by nearly $250 billion—nowhere near enough, but a beginning accomplishment to be noted. This year, the whole of Congress—that includes the Senate—must act with vigor to rein in spending and right our nation's fiscal trajectory. "This budget plan will reduce debt, strengthen key health security programs for the next generation while protecting seniors, and help facilitate a climate of opportunity for job creation. Many aspects of this budget proposal will and should be debated, but overall, this is a substantive, forward-looking plan that frames a new economic outlook for our nation." Fortenberry added, "It is important to note that the Senate has not passed a budget in more than1,000 days. The work is now in their hands." The House budget passage comes on the heels of a 414-0 vote rejecting the President's budget proposal last night. Fortenberry, a member of the House Agriculture and Foreign Affairs Committees, is a proponent of various budgetary controls, including a balanced budget requirement, the presidential line item veto, and a biennial budgeting process. ###
03.23.2012	Lincoln, NE -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, in conjunction with U.S. Senator Mike Johanns, will host a "U.S Military Day" for high school and college students on Saturday, March 31, 2012, at Lincoln Southwest High School. The "U.S. Military Day" is an opportunity for students and their parents to learn more about military opportunities, particularly the nomination process for U.S. Service Academies. Information regarding National Guard, Reserve, the Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC), and other military enlistment options will also be presented. Representatives from the Army, Air Force, Navy, Merchant Marine, and Coast Guard will be on hand from 9 a.m. to 12 noon to answer questions and provide information. A program presentation featuring service academy and military representatives will begin at 10:30 a.m. U.S. Military Day Saturday, March 31, 2012 Program: 10:30 am to 12 noon (Doors open at 9 am) Lincoln Southwest High School 7001 S 14th Street Lincoln, NE Who Should Attend: Any Nebraska High School or College Students Interested in Military Opportunities Notices of U.S. Military Day have been distributed to all high schools in the First Congressional District. Please contact the Fortenberry Lincoln office at 402-438-1598 or toll free at 1-866-725-5255 with any questions. ###
03.08.2012	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today voted for the bipartisan Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act, legislation that increases small businesses' access to capital and provides new opportunities for entrepreneurs. The bill passed on a vote of 390 to 23. "The strength of our nation's economy depends upon the strength of our small businesses," Fortenberry said. "Small business entrepreneurs create new jobs in their communities and help diversify local economies. The measures in this bill improve the conditions in which small businesses can grow and expand." The JOBS Act consists of a series of measures, including the Small Company Capital Formation Act, the Access to Capital for Job Creators Act, the Entrepreneur Access to Capital Act, the Private Company Flexibility and Growth Act, and the Capital Expansion Act. These policies are designed to allow small business owners greater access to capital for purposes of growth and expansion. ###
03.06.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C.-- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today released the following statement on the news of Congressman Donald Payne's death: "I am very saddened by the news of Congressman Donald Payne's passing. Donald Payne was a good friend. He was passionate about helping the poor and addressing injustice around the world, and I am honored to have worked so closely with him during my time in Congress. The loss of my friend will be felt not only in Congress and his home state of New Jersey, but in the communities he sought to represent from afar." Fortenberry served with Payne on the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, and Human Rights, where they championed numerous legislative measures together. Fortenberry and Payne also co-chaired the Congressional Malaria and Neglected Tropical Diseases Caucus. ###
03.06.2012	Washington, D.C. – Tomorrow's episode of the History Channel's "Only in America with Larry the Cable Guy" will include Lincoln resident Dan Whitney visiting the office of his own congressional representative, Rep. Jeff Fortenberry. The episode features Whitney, more commonly known as "Larry the Cable Guy," going behind the scenes in our nation's capital. He opens and concludes the show interacting with Congressman Fortenberry from his Lincoln office. "I tried to be funny. We'll see how it goes," Fortenberry said. "In all seriousness, working with Dan was a terrific experience. It was a pleasure having him visit the office. He's a very generous person who's done a great deal for those in need in our community. 'Only in America' shines a light on the great diversity and rich character of our nation, and with each episode Larry tells the stories as only he can." "Larry Goes to Washington" will air Wednesday, March 7, at 8 pm central/9 pm eastern on the History Channel. ###
02.21.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry is pleased to announce that 213 Members of Congress, a near-majority of the House of Representatives, have cosponsored his bipartisan HR 1179, the Respect for Rights of Conscience Act. Two of the newest cosponsors include House of Representatives Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy and Fred Upton, Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which has primary jurisdiction over the bill. McCarthy and Upton join the following House of Representatives leadership in cosponsorship of this legislation: Chief Deputy Majority Whip Peter Roskam, Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Secretary of the House Republican Conference John Carter, Republican Policy Committee Chairman Tom Price, Republican Study Committee Chairman Jim Jordan, Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers, Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon, Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan, Education and the Workforce Committee Chairman John Kline, Ethics Committee Chairman Jo Bonner, Homeland Security Committee Chairman Peter King, House Administration Committee Chairman Dan Lungren, Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith, Financial Services Committee Chairman Spencer Bachus, Foreign Affairs Committee Chairwoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Science, Space, and Technology Committee Chairman Ralph Hall, Small Business Committee Chairman Sam Graves, Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman John Mica, Veterans' Affairs Committee Chairman Jeff Miller, and Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Mike Rogers. "I'm pleased that a near-majority of the House of Representatives have joined us in saying it's time to act to protect Americans' most basic rights - our religious freedom and rights of conscience," said Fortenberry. "These leaders stand with more than 220 other House and Senate colleagues of both parties in calling for swift action on this bill." Fortenberry introduced the Respect for Rights of Conscience Act last March to protect the religious liberties and conscience rights of every American. The bill would put into place religious freedom and conscience protections that were effective prior to the 2010 health care law. It has gained considerable support since the Obama Administration's late January rule forcing Americans to pay for drugs and procedures they may find objectionable. "The final rule that was filed last Friday did not make any changes to the HHS mandate," said Democrat Congressman Dan Lipinski, a cosponsor of the bill. "We still need to pass the Respect for Rights of Conscience Act in order to protect the conscience rights of all Americans." Currently, the bill has 213 cosponsors in the House. In the Senate, Senator Roy Blunt is advancing this same legislation, with nearly 40 cosponsors. H.R. 1179 enjoys the endorsements of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, National Right to Life Committee, Americans United for Life, and other organizations. Numerous other organizations, including the Christian Medical Association and Family Research Council, have urged support of the bill. ###
02.20.2012	LINCOLN, NEB -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry released the following comment today celebrating President's Day: "Today we honor America's presidents, who starting with George Washington have guided our young nation through times of peace and prosperity as well as peril and great adversity. We expect much from our Presidents--principled leadership, courage, and wisdom. On this Presidents Day, we take a moment to reflect upon the ideals on which America was founded and our responsibility as citizens."
02.15.2012	Click here to view the video Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) today joined a large group of House and Senate colleagues of both parties to call for swift action on the Respect for Rights of Conscience Act, a bill he introduced last March to protect the religious liberties and conscience rights of every American. The bill would put into place religious freedom and conscience protections that were effective prior to the 2010 health care law. It has gained considerable support since the Obama Administration's late January rule forcing Americans to pay for drugs and procedures they may find objectionable. "We have come together to say it's time to act to protect Americans' most basic rights - our religious freedom and rights of conscience," Fortenberry said. "I am very pleased to stand with House and Senate colleagues of both parties to call for swift action on this bill." "The final rule that was filed last Friday did not make any changes to the HHS mandate," said Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL). "We still need to pass the Respect for Rights of Conscience Act in order to protect the conscience rights of all Americans." "The Obama administration believes its political goals trump religious liberty," said Congressman Jim Jordan (R-OH), Chairman of the Republican Study Committee. "Mr. Fortenberry's bill underscores what Americans know- the First Amendment's protection of religious freedom should not be compromised. I applaud his work." "Plain and simple, President Obama's decision is an assault to the First Amendment," said Congressman Bob Latta (R-OH). "It is an accounting gimmick that ignores the conscience rights of Americans. The Obama administration has gone against 30 years of federal conscience protections with this rule. I am extremely disappointed that this regulation departs from that tradition and the religious liberty that is enshrined in the First Amendment to the Constitution." "We have seen time and time again this Administration's willingness to insert the federal government into a situation where it does not have a role," Congressman Tim Scott (R-SC) said. "Through their 'pass it and see what's in it' approach to health care reform, we now see they have encroached on every American's First Amendment right to the freedom of religion. I was proud to cosponsor Congressman Fortenberry's legislation to prevent this from happening, and thank Jeff for his early leadership on this issue." "Religious freedom is a cornerstone of our great nation," said Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL). "No individual or organization should be forced by the government to pay for services that they have a deep moral objection to. We have a duty as a Congress to protect the religious and conscience rights of all Americans and I am proud to join my colleagues in bipartisan support of the Respect for Rights of Conscience Act." The Respect for Rights of Conscience Act was introduced in March 2011. This measure would repeal the controversial mandate, amending the 2010 health care law to preserve conscience rights for religious institutions, health care providers, and small businesses who pay for health care coverage. Currently, the bill has 190 cosponsors in the House. In the Senate, Senator Roy Blunt is advancing this same legislation, with nearly 40 cosponsors. H.R. 1179 enjoys the endorsements of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, National Right to Life Committee, Americans United for Life, and other organizations. Numerous other organizations, including the Christian Medical Association and Family Research Council, have urged support of the bill. ###
02.10.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today issued the following statement in reaction to the President's decision to "accommodate" American religious institutions with concerns about implementing the new controversial Health and Human Services mandate: "The President still doesn't understand that religious institutions will still be unacceptably entangled--financially and provisionally-- with drugs, procedures, and services to which they may have religious and moral objections, in violation of their long-held rights of conscience. Moreover, this announcement still does not get to the very core of American distress: religious freedom and conscience rights are natural rights as enshrined in the Constitution. The government does not confer them and must not force persons to violate them by paying for things to which they have reasoned religious or moral objections. "Congress should protect the religious liberty and conscience rights of every American who objects to being forced by the strongarm of government to pay for services to which she or he has deeply-held objections. We must do so for the benefit of the millions of Americans who are calling for swift bipartisan action." Fortenberry introduced H.R. 1179, the Respect for Rights of Conscience Act, in March 2011. This measure would repeal the controversial mandate, amending the 2010 health care law to preserve conscience rights for religious institutions, health care providers, and small businesses who pay for health care coverage. Currently, the bill has a bipartisan 180 cosponsors. In the Senate, Senator Roy Blunt is advancing this same legislation, with nearly 40 cosponsors. H.R. 1179 enjoys the endorsements of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, National Right to Life Committee, Americans United for Life, and other organizations. Numerous other organizations, including the Christian Medical Association and Family Research Council, have urged support of the bill. ###
02.08.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, author of H.R. 1179, the Respect for Rights of Conscience Act, which was introduced in March of last year, responded to House Speaker John Boehner's charge today to overturn the controversial Health and Human Services mandate that would require every American to pay for coverage for abortion-producing drugs and other procedures that some consider to be ethically divisive: "I have worked for the last two years to lay the foundation for Congress to protect the religious liberty and conscience rights of every American who objects to being forced by the strong arm of government to pay for services to which they have deeply-held objections. More than just the religious liberty implications of this mandate, every American should have his or her right of conscience protected in health care as well. My colleague, Senator Roy Blunt, and I have worked steadily over the last year, in anticipation of the finalization of this troubling rule, to gather a strong bipartisan commitment from our fellow Members, and strong support from a wide array of leaders and organizations who are directly impacted by this rule. "Congress could take action tomorrow on a sound, well-researched piece of legislation, not crafted in reactionary haste, for the benefit of the millions of American people who are calling for action from their government in a way we have never seen. I accept Speaker Boehner's charge, and intend to see H.R. 1179 through to a swift vote on the House Floor. Congress must take action on the Respect for Rights of Conscience Act, and let our nation's capitol again stand for freedom of conscience. With so many Americans lacking faith in Congress' ability to affect positive change, this is undoubtedly the right thing to do." Fortenberry's H.R. 1179 enjoys the endorsements of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, National Right to Life Committee, Americans United for Life, and others. Numerous organizations, including the Christian Medical Association and Family Research Council, have urged support of the bill. It currently has a bipartisan 160 cosponsors. ###
01.25.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congressman Jeff Fortenberry tonight issued the following statement in reaction to the President's State of the Union Address before a Joint Session of Congress: "The President began and ended his speech with a poignant and appropriate tribute to our military. I thought he strongly addressed reviving American manufacturing and creating a fair trade environment. He then followed with a litany of unsustainable and contradictory policy statements that suggested a concentration of power in Washington—most egregious among them a federal takeover of education. I find this aspect very troublesome. "We need a return to the best of America—the potential of the individual, in concert with community, to create opportunity, solve problems, and build successes. "Responsible individuals, families, and small businesses will renew America." ###
01.24.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congressman Jeff Fortenberry released the following statement in advance of the President's State of the Union speech before a Joint Session of Congress: "Americans are rightfully expecting more than a nice speech of recycled campaign ideas this year. America is in a state of disrepair, and the President should be frank about the challenges and bold about the solutions. He should rise above election-year politics and present a thoughtful analysis of where we are, how we have gotten here, and how we can right our trajectory. "There are three basic points the President needs to make to the American people: government cannot, and should not, solve every problem; the federal government spends too much; and comprehensive tax reform must be undertaken to make the tax code simpler and fairer for all hard-working Americans. Importantly, he should also take the Senate to task for its unwillingness to work to improve the condition of our country; today marks 1,000 days since the Senate has last passed a budget." Fortenberry will sit with members of Nebraska's congressional delegation for the State of the Union. ###
01.23.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Jeff Fortenberry will spoke at the 39th annual March for Life, the largest national gathering of pro-life Americans. Fortenberry has spoken at the March for Life every year he has served in Congress. "Each year I am encouraged by the strength of conviction of the hundreds of thousands of good Americans who gather on the National Mall because they believe women deserve better than abortion," said Fortenberry. Abortion hurts women, and is so often the result of abandonment-- by a cruel family, or an uncaring boyfriend, or other tragic circumstances that could be resolved within in a community of love. I believe that we can be big enough and loving enough as a nation to embrace all mothers and their unborn children and truly care for life. I am hopeful that because of the extraordinary witness of young people at the March for Life, we will one day see innocent unborn children protected under the 14th Amendment to the Constitution." Fortenberry accompanied several groups of Nebraska students to the March, where he is scheduled to address. ###
01.20.2012	LINCOLN, NE -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today commented on the new Department of Health and Human Services rule that would force every American to pay for coverage for abortifacient drugs, sterilizations, and other ethically divisive procedures that have traditionally been considered electives. This mandate affects doctors, nurses, hospitals, insurance carriers, small businesses that provide insurance for their employees, and individuals with health insurance. "President Obama and Secretary Sebelius are using health care for their political and ideological agenda," said Fortenberry. "Americans should not be forced by the strong arm of government to pay for drugs and procedures that are not medical necessities and unrelated to America's health care challenges. This mandate drives up health care costs and is perniciously targeted at religious providers, who selflessly and compassionately serve the poorest and most vulnerable. Under this rule, within the year, religiously-affiliated medical providers would have to fire and refuse to treat persons of other faiths in order to uphold their own deeply-held beliefs—or be forced, by order of Secretary Sebelius, to close their doors rather than violate tenets of their religion. This is forced discrimination. This is wrong. No American should be forced to choose between their faith and their job. "This Administration's conception of religious liberty is so far out of the mainstream that all nine Supreme Court justices ruled against it just days ago. Yet rather than adopt the wisdom of the Court's unanimous decision, the Administration moves to further suppress religious liberties in a politically-calculated decision just days before the nation's largest gathering of pro-life youth in Washington." To help allow health providers to continue to serve their communities, Fortenberry authored the Respect for Rights of Conscience Act. This bipartisan piece of legislation would repeal this mandate, amending the 2010 health care law to preserve conscience rights for health care professionals, their patients, and the institutional health care providers that serve them. ###
01.16.2012	LINCOLN, NEB--Congressman Jeff Fortenberry released the following statement in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.: "Dr. Martin Luther King gave his life for the noblest ideals of America. He boldly proclaimed that an orderly and just society must be built upon mutual respect and the dignity of each person. His sacrifice changed the culture of our country. He stared down the evil of racism and began the healing process from the residue of slavery. We honor his legacy today as a great American who moved us toward a fuller understanding of the founding principles of our country: that all persons are created equal." ###
01.06.2012	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry has selected 12 students from eastern Nebraska to receive nominations to America's top military academies. "A military academy appointment is a tremendous honor and a great responsibility," Fortenberry said. "Nominees must demonstrate capacity for leadership, personal integrity, and rigorous scholarship. I am pleased to nominate several young Nebraskans who meet these qualifications." Following are the 2011 nominees: Blake Bequette of Nebraska City Lourdes Central Catholic High School. Blake is the son of Bryan and Kelly Bequette and has been nominated to the United States Military Academy. Patric Carstens of Lincoln Southwest High School. Patric is the son of Greg and Juanita Carstens and has been nominated to the United States Military Academy. Gabriel Collins of Nebraska City High School. Gabriel is the son of Shawn and Samantha Collins and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Asher Cutler of Plattsmouth Capstone Christian Homeschool. Asher is the son of Timothy and Mary Cutler and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. David Didier of Lincoln East High School. David is the son of Rod and Holly Didier and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Drew Fairchild of Humboldt-Table Rock-Steinauer High School. Drew is the son of Sara Fairchild-Flynn and Mitchell Flynn and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Jesse Mills of Lincoln Christian High School. Jesse is the son of Steve and Danelle Mills and has been nominated to the United States Military Academy. Elise Rempel of Milford Senior High School. Elise is the daughter of Robb and Kimberly Rempel and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Kirk Stiers of Lincoln Southwest High School. Kirk is the son of Kirk and Elisa Stiers and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. DeWayne Taylor of Lincoln Southwest High School. DeWayne is the son of Renise Taylor and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Luke Trenhaile of Wayne High School. Luke is the son of Jason and Phylis Trenhaile and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Dylan Woldt of Lincoln East High School. Dylan is the son of Wayne and Holly Woldt and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. ###
12.28.2011	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today released the following statement regarding reports that U.S. Senator Ben Nelson will retire from the U.S. Senate at the end of his second term. "I respect Senator Nelson's years of dedicated service to Nebraskans as their governor and U.S. Senator, and I wish him all the best. He and his office have assisted many Nebraskans during his time in office. In spite of some national policy differences, we have enjoyed a constructive working relationship." ###
12.16.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today introduced a bill that would exempt detasseling from proposed federal Department of Labor rules limiting youth involvement in certain agricultural work. Congressman Lee Terry is a cosponsor. "We all believe in ensuring the safety of young people," Fortenberry said. "But this proposed rule could go as far as keeping teenagers from detasseling, a rite of passage in Nebraska and other Heartland states. In the process, it would threaten a vital industry and an important economic opportunity for many Nebraskans. This bill would exempt detasseling and related work from the new rules should they go into effect." Fortenberry, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, has also submitted to the Department of Labor his concerns about the proposed rule's potential impact on family farm operations and agricultural education programs such as 4-H and Future Farmers of America. ###
12.08.2011	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, chairman of the Agriculture Subcommittee on Department Operations, Oversight, and Credit, questioned former MF Global Inc. CEO Jon Corzine today regarding MF Global's bankruptcy and missing client investments. Corzine appeared before the House Agriculture Committee. "Agriculture had largely been immune from America's broken trust with the financial industrial complex, but MF Global has put the backbone of our nation—our farm community—at risk," Fortenberry said. "Many farmers and ranchers entrusted their investments to this corporation, hoping to safeguard and grow their families' savings. Now that money is missing, jeopardized by the recklessness of another Wall Street giant. Today's hearing was the first step in seeking to unravel this mess, help ag producers recover their savings, and prevent something like this from happening again." MF Global is one of the largest commodities brokers in the U.S. It filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in late October 2011. The company is being investigated by regulators for money - reportedly $1.2 billion - missing from client accounts. ###
12.07.2011	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, a cosponsor of the Regulations In Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act, voted for the legislation this afternoon in the U.S. House of Representatives. The bill passed the House with a vote of 241-184. "While ordinary regulation is an important extension of law for a well functioning society, excessive regulation drives up costs, hurts small businesses disproportionately, and oppresses entrepreneurial growth," Fortenberry said. "This measure rightly requires the people's elected representatives to determine the merit of regulations proposed by the President that would have a significant economic impact." Under the REINS Act, regulations that would require congressional approval to be implemented would be those having an annual economic impact greater than $100 million. ###
11.30.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today testified before the House Transportation Committee, calling on the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to reassess and reform its Missouri River flood control practices in light of the devastating 2011 Missouri River flooding. "Nebraska and other Missouri River Basin states were hit hard by this year's flooding," Fortenberry said. "Families' lives were turned upside down. Nebraskans lost homes, farms, and businesses, communities suffered significant damage to key infrastructure, and our state's two nuclear power facilities were surrounded by floodwaters. "Mr. Chairman, it was surreal seeing a boat tied to a nuclear plant," Fortenberry added. "It is necessary that we now thoroughly examine how existing river management policies played a role in the flooding and its dramatic impacts while determining new strategies for flood control moving forward." Fortenberry, whose First Congressional District includes 11 Nebraska counties along the Missouri River, has cosponsored legislation, H.R. 2942, to direct the Chief of the Army Corps of Engineers to revise Missouri River management policies to ensure greater storage capacity and prevent serious downstream flooding. In order to assist restoration of flood-damaged infrastructure, Fortenberry has also introduced H.R. 3347, which would exempt any road, highway, or bridge damaged by a natural disaster from duplicative environmental document reviews if the road, highway, or bridge is reconstructed in the same location. Click here to view Fortenberry's hearing testimony. ###
11.30.2011	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today urged the federal Department of Labor to reconsider a proposed rule that could restrict youth involvement in certain agricultural work, including detasseling. "It may be a foreign concept in the Beltway, but detasseling is a rite of passage for many Nebraskans," Fortenberry said. "Thousands of young teenagers earn money each summer working in the fields. In the process, they learn the value of hard work and its rewards. While it is important to ensure worker safety in all circumstances, this uninformed and unnecessary edict from Washington threatens a vital Heartland industry and an important economic opportunity for many Nebraskans." Fortenberry, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, also submitted to the Department of Labor his concerns about the proposed rule's potential impact on family farm operations and agricultural education programs such as 4-H and Future Farmers of America. ###
11.21.2011	Lincoln, NE -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today released the following statement concerning news that the congressional Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction will not reach an agreement by its November 23 deadline: "For the sake of America, the hard decisions of debt reduction must be made. This is yet another disappointing example of Congress' inability to function properly; the institution is apparently intent on lowering its 9 percent approval rating. The automatic reductions were designed to be severe enough to avoid this situation. Now we are going to have to determine how to deal with the consequences." ###
11.10.2011	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today commented on the U.S. State Department's decision to explore alternative routes for the Keystone XL pipeline, which would run through an environmentally delicate area of Nebraska. "Exploring an alternate route is the right decision," Fortenberry said. "The Ogallala Aquifer and the Nebraska Sandhills demand the highest level of environmental protection. Many Nebraskans were rightly concerned regarding the siting of the Keystone XL pipeline. We need a strategic energy partnership with Canada that respects our natural resources and upholds environmental stewardship." Fortenberry has conveyed Nebraskans' concerns to the State Department over the past year. He recently met with TransCanada and Canadian officials to push for support of rerouting. Fortenberry is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
11.03.2011	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry voted for a series of bills in the U.S. House of Representatives that seek to improve small businesses' access to capital for business investment purposes. "Small business entrepreneurs will help revitalize our nation's economy," Fortenberry said. "Most new jobs are created by small businesses, and robust small business activity helps diversify and strengthen local economies. These measures explore creative ways to help improve the conditions in which small businesses can grow and expand." Yesterday the House passed the Small Company Capital Formation Act (HR 1070). This evening the Access to Capital for Job Creators Act (HR 2940) and the Entrepreneur Access to Capital Act (HR 2930) were advanced. The bills would amend existing policies to allow small business owners greater access to capital for purposes of growth and expansion. ###
10.27.2011	Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today voted for HR 674, a bill passed with widespread bipartisan support to repeal the imposition of a 3 percent withholding tax on payments made to businesses providing services to government entities. "This bill will prevent small businesses from facing the uncertainty of an unnecessary withholding tax," Fortenberry said. "Repealing this tax is a sensible way for the government to provide a more healthy business environment for American companies and entrepreneurs who are putting people to work in their communities." Currently, the imposition of the 3 percent withholding tax is set to take effect on January 1, 2013. If this policy were implemented as scheduled, large government entities would be required to withhold 3 percent of payments to businesses providing property or services. Fortenberry is a member of the Agriculture and Foreign Affairs Committees. ###
10.26.2011	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (NE-01) and Congressman Tim Walz (MN-01) are leading a bipartisan initiative to revitalize rural America by encouraging young people to engage in farming operations and agricultural entrepreneurship. They have introduced H.R. 3236, the Beginning Farmer and Rancher Opportunity Act of 2011, in the U.S. House of Representatives. Walz and Fortenberry are both members of the House Agriculture Committee. Companion legislation will be introduced in the U.S. Senate in coming weeks. "As the average age of the American farmer continues to increase, it is critical for the well-being of rural America that young people engage in farming and agricultural entrepreneurship," Fortenberry said. "Exciting new opportunities are emerging in production agriculture export markets, value-added goods and local foods systems, conservation, and energy generation. This legislation provides practical incentives to young farmers and ranchers, helping overcome the initial challenges facing those who wish to establish their careers in agriculture and raise families on the farm." "We have to make sure America's next generation of family farmers have the support they need to continue providing a safe, abundant food supply," said Rep. Walz. "This legislation is a smart, effective way to support our local economies and create local jobs." The average age of the U.S. farmer is 57. The average age in Nebraska is 56, and in Minnesota it is 55. The Beginning Farmer and Rancher Opportunity Act seeks to ready a new generation of American ag producers by modifying and improving upon existing farm programs to help reduce the steep financial burdens of setting up an agricultural business. Fortenberry is chairman of the Agriculture Committee's Subcommittee on Department Operations, Oversight, and Credit. ###
10.20.2011	Lincoln, NE -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement today regarding reports of the death of Libyan dictator Muammar Gaddafi. "Seven months ago, the Libyan ambassador to the United States came to me and said: 'I can no longer serve a government that kills its own people.' Perhaps now Libya can develop a society that respects the rights and dignity of all persons." Fortenberry is Vice Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee's Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, and Human Rights. ###
10.14.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congressman Jeff Fortenberry and Congressman Jim McGovern today commented on the announcement from the White House this morning concerning the Department of Defense's new effort to combat the Lord's Resistance Army in central Africa. "Through over 20 years of civil war, the brutal insurgency has created a humanitarian crisis that has displaced over 1.5 million people in one of the world's most difficult ungoverned spaces," said Fortenberry. "Tens of thousands of children have been abducted, and many forced into child soldiering or sex slavery. The steps being taken by the Department of Defense today may help save innocent lives and begin to bring the LRA to justice for the immense human tragedy that has fallen across central Africa at its hands." "I'm very pleased with today's announcement," said McGovern. "For far too long, innocents have suffered at the hands of the LRA. I also continue to call on the Administration to ensure the non-military assistance called for under the Comprehensive Strategy is provided for civilian protection; assistance for victims and communities of LRA-violence, especially children and women; and recovery and reconstruction aid." Fortenberry and Congressman Jim McGovern led a push to end the LRA's campaign of violence during debate on the FY12 National Defense Authorization Act. They also led a bipartisan effort pressing appropriators for adequate resources to implement the Comprehensive Strategy to help end the atrocities committed by the LRA, protect innocent civilians, and stabilize a region of Africa that is critical to U.S. national security interests. Fortenberry also authored and passed a successful amendment to the FY12 State Department Authorization Act in support of the Comprehensive Strategy, making it official policy of the United States government to urge immediate implementation to reduce the need for expensive emergency humanitarian aid in this volatile region. McGovern was the lead sponsor in the House of H.R. 2478/S.1067, the LRA Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act, mandating the development and implementation of a comprehensive strategy, which passed Congress and was signed into law last year. "I also expect that the Department of Defense will be vigilant in urging the demobilization of child soldiers among military ranks in central Africa," said Fortenberry. "Included among the countries that have been affected by the LRA's campaign of violence are major child soldiers violators South Sudan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. All United States efforts to restore effort to this conflict-plagued region must fully reflect the policy of the United States government: that children belong on playgrounds, not battlegrounds." Fortenberry is the Vice-Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, and Human Rights. McGovern is the Democratic Co-Chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission and a member of the House Rules Committee. ###
10.13.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Jeff Fortenberry has introduced HR 3167, the Veterans Entrepreneurial Transition (VET) Act of 2011. This jobs bill seeks to increase security and economic opportunity to a generation of veterans, including more than 100,000 service members who will soon return home. "The aim of the VET Act is to create jobs, benefit veterans, and more efficiently use existing public resources," Fortenberry said. "The bill allows veterans eligible for assistance under the Montgomery G.I. Bill and Post-9/11 G.I. Bill to elect to use benefits to establish and operate a business, building upon and enhancing a very important benefit program for American veterans." The VET Act allows the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs to implement and manage the program in conjunction with the Small Business Administration. The bill also specifies program eligibility standards, qualifications and requirements for small businesses, survivor benefits, and parameters on how funds will be distributed to ensure that businesses are thoroughly vetted. The VET Act has been coordinated with various veterans and small business groups, including the National Guard Association of the United States, Vietnam Veterans of America, the Federal Allies Institute, and the Veterans Business Institute, who applaud the concept and have provided input in developing specifications to make the law effective. ###
10.13.2011	Washington, D.C. — Congressmen Jeff Fortenberry, chairman of the House Agriculture Committee's subcommittee on Department Operations, Oversight and Credit, today voted to pass new trade agreements with South Korea, Panama, and Columbia. "Agricultural trade is critical for the Heartland economy," Fortenberry said. "In Nebraska, one of the top farm export states in the nation, these agreements are very important to our grain and livestock producers. Enforced fairly and evenly, the agreements will help our farmers gain new markets for American goods, creating opportunities for new income generation and jobs in our communities." Fortenberry is also a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
10.07.2011	Fortenberry and President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, one of the award recipients, share a joke at a recent meeting LINCOLN, NE—Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today released the following statement on this morning's announcement of the Nobel Peace Prize recipients: "I want to extend my sincere congratulations to Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf for her Nobel Peace Prize win today with two other women who have done much to advance the cause of liberty for women in Liberia and Yemen, Leymah Gbowee and Tawakkul Karman. I have had the fortune of speaking with the President both in Liberia and in the United States, and in her role as the first democratically elected female head of state in Africa, she has restored much peace, dignity, and prosperity to a formerly war-ravaged country. This is also due to the efforts of Leymah Gbowee, who mobilized a coalition of Christian and Muslim women to work for justice. And I appreciate the forward-thinking vision in the commendation of Tawakkul Karman, who continues to advocate for women in the human rights violating country of Yemen. Coupled with the role of women in the Arab Spring, their recognition today shows that peace must rest in equality, and these women possess a special fortitude in leading this charge." Fortenberry is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and is the Vice Chairman of its Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, and Human Rights. ###
10.05.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, the author of the 2007 Child Soldiers Protection Act that was signed into law in 2008, today introduced an amendment to the Human Trafficking Victims Protection Act to strengthen U.S. child soldiers policy. The amendment, which was passed unanimously by the House Foreign Affairs Committee, requires the President to report to Congress 15 days before issuing another waiver what credible and verifiable steps are being undertaken in countries cited for child soldiers violations to implement a plan of action to end the recruitment of, and demobilize, child soldiers, and also prohibits the use of peacekeeping operations funds for those countries. "In 2008, Congress did something very courageous: we passed a law saying it was the policy of our nation that children — all children, no matter where they are from -- belong on playgrounds, not battlegrounds," said Fortenberry. "This is the law of the land. We are obligated to stop underwriting this form of human trafficking, child conscription. "The problem now is waivers continue to be given to countries found guilty of this human rights abuse. Waivers must be rare and temporary, and meaningfully intended to stop this pernicious practice. Strengthening our child soldiers policy is essential to combating this practice, and I am pleased that the House Foreign Affairs Committee took action today to help stop the United States' complicity in the militarization of children." Yesterday, the Obama Administration announced it would again this year continue assistance to the following major international violators of the child soldiers prohibition: Chad, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Somalia (peacekeeping operations funds), Sudan (via the new country of South Sudan), and Yemen. The DRC will see its assistance reduced by an estimated $300,000. Fortenberry is the Vice Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, and Human Rights. ###
10.04.2011	Fortenberry Office Receiving Applications through October 15, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Young people at least 17 years old have an opportunity each year to apply for service in one of the U.S. Military Service Academies. Applications for nomination to an academy are sought through the offices of congressional representatives. The deadline for submitting an application to Congressman Jeff Fortenberry this year is October 15, 2011. The application period began earlier this year in May. Each applicant for a nomination must meet the following eligibility requirements as of July 1 of the year of admission to an academy: 17 years old but not have passed the 23rd birthday; U.S. citizen; unmarried; reside within the congressional district of the Congressional Member seeking nomination from; and meet the medical, physical, and academic requirements of the Academy. Interested applicants with further questions regarding the nomination process should contact Congressman Fortenberry's office at 402-438-1598 and speak to Mrs. Jeanne Walker. ###
10.04.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, author of the Child Soldiers Prevention Act that was signed into law in 2008 by President Bush, today commented on the Obama Administration's decision to continue military assistance to five of six countries found guilty of the flagrant human rights abuse against children - conscription of child soldiers. The Obama Administration will again this year continue assistance to the following major international violators of the child soldiers prohibition: Chad, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Somalia (peacekeeping operations funds), Sudan (via the new country of South Sudan), and Yemen. The DRC will see its assistance reduced by an estimated $300,000. "President Obama's decision today to provide taxpayer-funded military assistance to countries that use children as soldiers is an assault on human dignity. Children belong on playgrounds, not battlegrounds. It is unconscionable that the United States of America continues to facilitate the militarization of children, whose innocence is stripped as they are forced to fight and kill—and are subjected to the real likelihood that they will be killed themselves. "Good citizens of this country who do not want to be complicit in this grave human rights abuse must challenge this Administration. We are operating inconsistently, obligated by law and civilization itself to combat this most serious human rights violation, especially prevalent in the world's ungoverned spaces, yet we continue military assistance with apparent inattentiveness to stopping the use of child soldiers. "Our law states that America does not fund the use of child soldiers. Any exceptions must be temporary, and intended to help stop this pernicious practice." Fortenberry is the Vice-Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, and Human Rights. He will offer an amendment tomorrow to the Trafficking Victims Protection Act to lessen US complicity in child soldiering. ###
09.26.2011	Congressman Jeff Fortenberry honored the life of Master-at-Arms Petty Officer First Class John Douangdara at a memorial service September 25, 2011 in South Sioux City, Neb. Below are his remarks: "Today we honor the life and celebrate the memory of an extraordinary young man, Master-at-Arms Petty Officer First Class John Douangdara. We come together as family members, friends, fellow service members, and those who may not have known John personally but are compelled nonetheless to pay respect to his memory and honor his sacrifice on our behalf. I never had the pleasure of meeting John. By all accounts, he was a remarkable person. While his senior classmates at South Sioux City High were readying themselves for college and life beyond high school, John was doing what he needed to do to graduate early so he could enlist in the U.S. Navy. With uncommon drive and commitment to service, he excelled in military life. His skill was noted early and he was positioned for elite service. He loved the work and he served humbly and selflessly, serving five tours of duty in the Middle East. His tragic loss – and the loss of the 37 others with him on the downed Chinook helicopter – is a reminder of the grave seriousness and complexity of our military's work. Every day in corners of the world most of us will never come to see, people like John are going about their jobs, carrying out their efforts in the face of dangers most of us will never know. Our country can only be as strong as these Americans' willingness to serve, only as secure as their commitment to our safety. Two weeks ago, at a ceremonial remembrance on the tenth anniversary of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks against America, I was asked to reflect on what has kept America united over the last decade. I spoke of the great spirit and sacrifice of those Americans, many like John who joined the military in the period following 9-11, who risked their lives for their fellow citizens and gave all – more than 6,200 Americans have died in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other battlefields. With all the challenges and adversaries that confront us still today, it is this spirit of selflessness and duty that continue to sustain us as a nation. To John's family, his parents and siblings, I thank you. You gave him life. You nurtured him. You formed him. And you saw him off as he left to serve his country. John's life of devoted service to his nation is a testament to the love and support you provided. I'm grateful that you chose to make America your new home, in the wake of Communist oppression in Laos. You came here for the chance of a better life. And Your son – a first generation American – died fighting for his country. I also would like to acknowledge the community of South Sioux City for its outpouring of support for the Douangdara family and its efforts to honor John's life. Upon a visit to wounded soldiers at Walter Reed Hospital in Washington, I noticed a sign hanging on one young man's wall. It said: America - the home of the free because of the brave. John was an American. He was a warrior. He was brave. Now he is free. While the sting of his loss remains powerful, his memory will remain close in our hearts. On behalf of a grateful nation, we salute and honor the sacrifice of Master at Arms, Petty Officer First Class John Douangdara. May God grant him eternal rest, and may the perpetual light shine upon him."
09.23.2011	Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today commented on Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas' request for membership to the United Nations General Assembly and Security Council: "We must keep in mind the ultimate goal: two states, Israeli and Palestinian, existing side by side in peace and cooperation, with mutual respect, and without fear. The bond of our common humanity dictates this is a possible peace. But the necessary space for meaningful negotiation cannot be found in the sensational spotlight of the international stage. This week, the negotiation table has been abandoned for the press podium; a rigorous diplomatic process has been sidestepped. This does not further the goal of a just and lasting peace. Fortenberry is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Middle East.
09.15.2011	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today joined Rep. Steve King of Iowa and other House colleagues in introducing bipartisan legislation to require the Army Corps of Engineers to change the way it seeks to control flooding along the Missouri River. "Families and communities along the Missouri River have been devastated by this year's unprecedented flooding," Fortenberry said. "The 2011 flood and its extraordinary impacts necessitate a re-evaluation of river management. This bill requires the Army Corps of Engineers to manage upstream reservoirs for the purpose of preventing catastrophic flooding events that negatively impact all Missouri River users." The House legislation, H.R. 2942, would direct the Chief of the Army Corps of Engineers to revise the Missouri River Mainstem Reservoir System Master Water Control Manual to ensure greater storage capacity to prevent serious downstream flooding. Upstream reservoirs would be required to remain low enough to accommodate high levels of runoff and prevent devastating downstream floods. Fortenberry is a member of the House Missouri River Flood Working Group, which was created to examine the causes of the 2011 floods and prevent future significant flooding. ###
09.08.2011	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry issued the following statement prior to the President's Joint Address to Congress this evening: "Tinkering with the status quo will not restore America's economic strength. We need a new playbook. It's fourth and long — no time to run up the middle. "The President should lead by proposing complete tax reform for economic growth, stopping regulatory excess, and empowering small business entrepreneurs. Strong local economies will rebuild this nation. It's time to return to our basic economic foundations." ###
08.31.2011	Lincoln, NE -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today commended Governor Dave Heineman for calling on Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and President Barack Obama to deny permitting of TransCanada's proposed Keystone XL pipeline, which would run through the Nebraska Sand Hills and over the Ogallala Aquifer. "I thank Governor Heineman for expressing his opposition to the permitting of the Keystone XL pipeline as it is proposed," Fortenberry said. "Many Nebraskans have expressed to their elected officials serious concerns about the pipeline's potential impacts on the Sand Hills and the Ogallala Aquifer. I have shared these concerns with the Secretary of State, urging a comprehensive environmental review. Our state's unique natural resources deserve the highest levels of protection. An alternative route should be considered." Fortenberry has opposed various measures in Congress to cut short the Keystone XL pipeline's environmental review and authorize its permitting. ###
08.30.2011	Lincoln, NE -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry released the following statement regarding former Fremont Mayor Donald "Skip" Edwards, who died earlier today at the age of 72. "My thoughts and prayers are with the Edwards family. It was my pleasure to work with and get to know Skip over the years. He was a good friend and a great man who loved his community and his country. A tireless public servant, he leaves an extraordinary legacy of compassion, integrity, and commitment to the people of Fremont." ###
08.06.2011	Lincoln, NE -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today released the following statement regarding the deaths of 30 American service members, whose transport helicopter was shot down in Afghanistan by the Taliban. Twenty-two of the casualties were members of a Navy SEAL unit. "Like most Americans, my heart breaks for these service members and their families. Fighting a world away, they gave their lives to make a difference--for each of us, for America's security, and for all who believe in stopping the forces of barbarism. We will never forget their heroism; we will forever honor their sacrifice. Their deaths are a solemn reminder of the great danger still faced by America's sons and daughters in Afghanistan." ###
08.02.2011	LINCOLN, NE — Congressman Jeff Fortenberry will meet with constituents throughout eastern Nebraska during the month of August. He has constituent town hall meetings planned in Lincoln, Norfolk, Fremont, Wahoo, Schuyler, Blair, and West Point. A listing of the Congressman’s schedule follows. Members of the media are welcome to attend any of the following events. Monday, August 85:15 pm Lincoln Town Hall Meeting Southeast Community College – Room U102 8800 O Street Lincoln Tuesday, August 912 Noon Wahoo Town Hall Meeting Wahoo Public Library 637 N Maple Street Wahoo 5:15 pm Schuyler Town Hall Meeting Schuyler City Office 1103 B Street Schuyler Wednesday, August 1012 Noon Norfolk Town Hall Meeting Northeast Community College - Lifelong Learning Center 801 E Benjamin Avenue Norfolk 5:15 pm Fremont Town Hall Meeting Fremont City Auditorium 925 North Broad Street Fremont Tuesday, August 1612 Noon Blair Town Hall Meeting Blair City Hall 218 South 16th Street Blair 5:15 pm West Point Town Hall Meeting Nielsen Community Center 200 Anna Stalp Avenue West Point Wednesday, August 1711 am Former U.S. Comptroller General David Walker Address and Discussion Mary Riepma Ross Media Arts Center 313 North 13th Street Lincoln ###
08.01.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry this evening voted for the amended Budget Control Act of 2011, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives. He released the following statement: "Initially, I'd hoped for a larger agreement, but this helps stop the overspending while paying America's bills. "It's a constructive solution, but let's be clear. We're in a very deep hole. These reforms must continue. It is important that consideration of a balanced budget amendment is a part of this bill." ###
07.29.2011	Washington, D.C. -- At the invitation of Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, former U.S. Comptroller General David Walker will appear in Lincoln on August 17, 2011, for a public address on America's debt challenges and fiscal policies. "David Walker is one of the nation's leading voices on budgetary reform," Fortenberry said. "He is a champion of fiscal discipline and accountability to the taxpayer. I am pleased he has agreed to come to Lincoln for a community discussion on our nation's financial future." Walker served as Comptroller General of the United States and director of the Government Accountability Office from 1998 to 2008, serving in the Bill Clinton and George W. Bush administrations. The U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) is an independent, nonpartisan agency that works for Congress. Often called the "congressional watchdog," GAO investigates how the federal government spends taxpayer dollars. Walker left the GAO in 2008 to direct the Peter G. Peterson Foundation, where he helped create I.O.U.S.A., a documentary film focusing on the impact of the national debt. The Walker discussion is open to the public and is scheduled to begin at 11 am on Wednesday, August 17, at the Mary Riepma Ross Media Arts Center, next to the University of Nebraska-Lincoln city campus, at 313 North 13th Street in Lincoln. ###
07.29.2011	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry tonight voted for the Budget Control Act of 2011, legislation proposed by House Speaker John Boehner to address government overspending and the debt limit. "This plan, while imperfect, allows America to pay its bills and meet its obligations while bringing order to the fiscal house of government. It reduces spending and calls for a vote in both houses of Congress on a balanced budget amendment, so we can leverage this moment for long-term structural spending changes in Washington." ###
07.26.2011	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today voted against HR 1938, a bill that would place a November 1 deadline on a final permitting decision for the TransCanada Keystone XL pipeline, which would cut through the Nebraska Sandhills and sit atop the Ogallala Aquifer. He released the following statement: "I have consistently said that the State Department should be allowed the appropriate time to conduct a thorough environmental review. Congress should not impose an artificial deadline. This is too serious. "Additional public meetings are scheduled, giving citizens a chance to be heard. The State Department has indicated a probable decision by year's end. Haste is not necessary and may rob us of important facts. We should permit a complete and effective environmental impact analysis." Last week in the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Fortenberry voted against an amendment that urged the Secretary of State to "promptly authorize" the Keystone XL pipeline. His comments from the committee debate can be viewed here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XEqCT_yaDtE. ###
06.28.2011	LINCOLN, NE — Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, author of the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2007, which was successfully incorporated into the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2008, today commented on the following statement on the newly-released State Department's 2011 Trafficking-in Persons Report. The 2011 State Department Trafficking-in Persons Report is the second to contain the Fortenberry child soldiers reporting requirement. Both the 2010 and 2011 Trafficking-in Persons Report identified the following major international violators of the child soldiers prohibition: Burma, Chad, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Somalia, the Sudan, and Yemen. "Children—all children, no matter where they are from-- belong on playgrounds, not battlegrounds," said Fortenberry. "It is hard for us to envision a 13 year-old child put in military uniform, a gun in their hand, and made to fight—but it happens in the world today. "These six governments were found guilty of using child soldiers in the 2010 Report. As the law we passed provided, four were granted national security interest waivers last year in the hopes they would take serious and aggressive strides toward ending this human rights violation. But where is the progress? "The 2011 report needs to stand as a challenge to President Obama and this Administration. We are operating inconsistently, obligated by law and civilization itself to combat this most serious human rights violation, especially prevalent in the world's ungoverned spaces--but we continue military assistance with inattentiveness to stopping the pernicious use of child soldiers. "William Wilberforce, the British statesman and unyielding abolitionist for whom our anti-human trafficking law is named, said, "You may choose to look the other way but you can never say again that you did not know." President Obama must make it clear to these governments that we know. And we cannot look the other way." Fortenberry's child soldiers measure, as signed into law on December 23, 2008, prohibits funds from being obligated to the government of a country identified by the Department of State as having governmental armed forces or government supported armed groups, including paramilitaries, militias, or civil defense forces, that recruit or use child soldiers, unless a presidential national security interest waiver is issued. President Obama issued waivers in 2010 for the governments of Chad, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Sudan, and Yemen. Fortenberry authored a House-passed amendment to H.R. 1, the FY11 House continuing resolution, to prohibit funding for Chad due to its continued flouting of the law following the withdrawal of its UN mission. Fortenberry is the Vice-Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, and Human Rights. ###
06.24.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today voted to rein in U.S. military engagement in Libya. He issued the following statement: "My sentiments are it is time to pull the United States back from this endeavor. The President has dramatically increased hostilities in Libya far beyond the original intent of preventing the imminent slaughter of the Libyan people and creating space for new civil society to emerge. As the President has been unable to give a compelling explanation to Congress and the American people, he has acted to move the mission beyond the scope of a humanitarian relief and stabilization operation and into a phase of regime change. "Space must develop for the African Union and the Arab League to take increased responsibility. North Africa must ultimately be in the hands of North Africans." Fortenberry is the Vice-Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee with jurisdiction over Africa. ###
06.24.2011	Community CROPS earns National Recognition for its Farmers' Training Program Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry on Monday will review operations at the Community CROPS' Sunset Community Farm in Lincoln. Community CROPS, a non-profit organization devoted to helping strengthen economic opportunities for beginning farmers, recently earned national recognition from The Philanthropic Collaborative for its job creation efforts. Fortenberry, a member of the House Agriculture Committee and proponent of strong local foods systems, will join Ingrid Kirst, director of Community CROPS, and Sarah Peetz, vice president of the Lincoln Community Foundation, to recognize the organization's innovative efforts to create new work opportunities for those growing healthy food. The farm review is open to the public and will begin at 1:30 pm. Media is welcome to attend. Community CROPS' Sunset Community Farm Monday, June 27, 2011 1:30 pm 4000 West F Street Lincoln, NE Directions: Take A Street west to SW 40th Street. Turn right at SW 40th to West F. Turn left and then make an immediate right onto the gravel drive of the farm. In addition to providing technical training to beginning farmers and maintaining Sunset Community Farm as a training site for local food production, Community CROPS manages 15 community gardens around Lincoln that serve more than 170 families. It recently received a $15,000 grant from the Lincoln Community Foundation and was awarded the 2010 Lincoln-Lancaster County Environmental Leadership Award for Agriculture by Mayor Chris Beutler. ###
06.15.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry has successfully amended the House Agriculture Appropriations Act to enhance the Rural Energy for America Program (REAP). REAP promotes renewable energy and energy self-sufficiency developments in rural America by funding a wide range of renewable energy projects that stimulate rural economies, help create jobs, and address environmental concerns. The bipartisan amendment was cosponsored by Rep. Tim Walz of Minnesota. "Rural America can help lead the way to America's independent energy future," Fortenberry said. "This amendment helps rural communities integrate energy efficient technologies with small-scale systems using renewable sources, such as biofuels, biomass, geothermal, solar, and wind. These efforts are increasingly important in light of high fuel prices. They decrease our reliance on foreign oil, conserve natural resources while protecting the environment, and create new economic opportunities for farmers and rural entrepreneurs." Specifically, this amendment transfers $1 million from the U.S. Department of Agriculture Office of the Chief Information Officer to the Rural Energy for America Program. Fortenberry is chairman of the House Agriculture Committee's Department Operations, Oversight, and Credit Subcommittee. ###
06.03.2011	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today supported a resolution calling for President Obama to report to Congress within 14 days on America's ongoing engagement in Libya. "The president has not communicated effectively with Congress, nor has he sought this body's authorization for America's undertaking in Libya," Fortenberry said. "U.S. actions in the allied effort have saved Libyan civilians from imminent slaughter, but our involvement has since moved beyond the scope of a humanitarian relief and stabilization operation. We should not creep toward a third war front in Libya." "Stopping short of requiring abrupt withdrawal of U.S. participation in the Libyan mission, this resolution gives the President a small window of time to make the case for ongoing U.S. involvement. If he cannot, Congress can disapprove and exercise its options." Fortenberry is a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and vice chair of its Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, and Human Rights. ###
05.31.2011	Says Budgetary Controls Must Be in Place Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry will vote today against increasing the debt ceiling. "Simply raising the debt ceiling to allow more spending is not the right public policy," said Fortenberry. "While the government has an obligation to pay its debts, we must address the serious overspending and structural debt problems that have led to the current crisis. Any reasonable approach must be accompanied by budgetary controls to get America's fiscal house in order." Fortenberry supports a variety of budgetary reform controls, including a balanced budget requirement, the presidential line item veto, and a biennial budgeting process. ###
05.25.2011	Congressman Jeff Fortenberry and 2011 First Congressional District Art Competition winner Marie Wathen with her artwork, "Worth Fighting For." Lincoln, NE — Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today announced that Marie Wathen of Lincoln has won the 2011 First Congressional District Art Competition. This nationwide competition began in the U.S. House of Representatives in 1982 and serves as an opportunity for Members of Congress to showcase the artistic talents of high school students within their districts. "I am pleased to name Marie Wathen the winner of the 2011 First Congressional District Art Competition," Fortenberry said. "Her work demonstrated great skill, thoughtfulness, and creativity." Marie received first place honors for her entry titled "Worth Fighting For." The object of her painting is her older brother, who is a member of the U.S. military and is currently serving in Afghanistan. She drew inspiration from reflections on the sacrifices he and other soldiers make and their steadfast commitment to serve the country. Marie is the daughter of Jim and Carol Wathen. She is completing her junior year at Lincoln Pius X High School and plans to continue her study of art beyond high school. In June, Marie will attend a reception in Washington, D.C. for competition winners from across the country. She will also have the opportunity to view her artwork at the U.S. Capitol, where it will remain on display for one year. ###
05.24.2011	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today commented on Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's speech before a Joint Session of Congress: "Prime Minister Netanyahu gave a strong and energetic speech reaffirming America's deep relationship with Israel. He confronted dangerous elements in Iran and Hamas, which pose grave threats to Israel, her neighbors, and the global community. And he emphasized the significant opportunities for new leadership models in the Arab world to promote security rights, human dignity, and peace. "It was also important for him to highlight the long-standing Egyptian and Jordanian peace accords that have served as effective frameworks for peace for those nations and the Israeli people. The bold choice those leaders made has resulted in a model and vision of peace in the region. However delicate and fragile, that peace has held, and it gives hope for the security of Israel and a just and lasting peace with a Palestinian state." Fortenberry authored a 2009 House resolution commemorating the 30th anniversary of the peace treaty between Egypt and Israel. He is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and its Subcommittee on the Middle East and South Asia. ###
05.19.2011	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today released the following remarks regarding President Obama's speech on the Middle East. "President Obama's speech significantly reframed America's disposition toward North Africa and the Middle East. I believe he appropriately stressed that the philosophical underpinnings of just and free societies are respect for human rights and the rule of law, and placed a noteworthy emphasis on religious freedom. "The President alluded to this moment as a historic opportunity to align U.S. values with the dignity of individuals throughout the region struggling for fundamental human rights. As the fledgling vanguard of the Arab Spring, the people of Tunisia and Egypt have an opportunity to develop just governance structures to meet their basic needs, protect all persons, and set an example for the nations of the region. "The speech comes at a time when Israeli-Palestinian negotiations are falling apart, Syria and Libya are unleashing terror against their own people, and Iran continues its march toward nuclear weapons capability. The President leveraged this moment of uncertainty to assert a new American initiative for the region based upon a fuller defining of interests. Starting with a higher vision based upon the universal desires of all persons, he laid a good foundation to address divisions that cross millennia. Absent from the speech were challenges to other superpowers such as China and Russia who are content to exploit our leadership and sacrifice for their own geo-political conniving and mercantilistic expansionism. "At a constituent meeting in Seward, Nebraska, recently, I was asked why the United States must be the world's policeman. This is an important question that resonates with many Americans - especially in difficult economic times at home. The President would be well served to aggressively address America's economic debt burden with equal vigor, while we provide the necessary global leadership for the sake of the future of humanity." Fortenberry is a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Subcommittee on the Middle East and South Asia. ###
05.12.2011	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, chairman of the House Agriculture Committee's Department Operations, Oversight, and Credit Subcommittee, today questioned Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack and U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk regarding the status of agricultural trade. "Agriculture remains one of the few bright spots in the American economy," Fortenberry said. "Many are expecting record yields this year, and we are on course to enjoy a very strong trade surplus in agriculture due to increased exports. The world demand for food produced by American farm families is growing. We must move forward on pending trade agreements that increase market opportunities for American producers while ensuring that affected persons will be treated fairly." During the full Agriculture Committee hearing, Fortenberry urged Representative Kirk and Secretary Vilsack to continue pushing forward for the finalization of pending agreements with Korea, Columbia, and Panama. He also thanked Kirk for his aggressive actions in opening pork markets for American farmers in recent years, and encouraged continued examination of the relationship between economic progress and human rights within trade negotiations. Fortenberry has served on the Agriculture committee for six years. He is also a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
05.02.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry released the following statement regarding the announcement of Osama bin Laden's death. "America and much of the world have waited for the day when Osama bin Laden would be stopped. "Osama bin Laden led Al Qaeda through more than two decades of indiscriminate bloodletting. Nearly 3,000 Americans were left dead in his most extreme act of violence, on September 11, 2001. We all recall where we were on that fateful day, and our drive for justice and for peace for his victims has remained constant. "We rooted out the last vestiges of the Taliban in Afghanistan's government, and searched the world over for those who did us harm. Through nearly ten years, Osama bin Laden eluded capture. His death is not the end of our efforts, though it gives some closure to those who lost loved ones on 9/11, at the bombing of the U.S.S. Cole and two U.S. embassies in East Africa, and in attacks on U.S. forces in Somalia. "We should recognize the brave efforts of those military and security forces personnel who conducted this mission, and all those who serve and have served us in the U.S. military. Their work is not done; it is naive to hope that this will end terrorist threats and violence. But for a moment we can take a breath of relief--for it has been long in coming." ###
04.27.2011	Meets with Leaders of the International Atomic Energy Agency Regarding Nuclear Safety Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry is engaging with nuclear experts and policymakers this week to examine ways to strengthen nuclear security in the United States and around the world. The bipartisan conference of U.S. lawmakers and international leaders in the nuclear field includes dialogue with leadership of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in Vienna, Austria. "The spread of nuclear weapons poses grave and serious threats to U.S. national security and global stability," Fortenberry said. "We must continually examine the broad range of nuclear security concerns, from preventing nuclear weapons proliferation to ensuring the safe use of nuclear power. I am pleased to participate in these discussions, as they help shape the policies that strengthen our national security." Fortenberry, a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a co-founder of the Congressional Nuclear Security Caucus, is among a select group of U.S. lawmakers attending this week's conference on nuclear challenges. Discussions center on topics of managing nuclear power, stopping the spread of nuclear weapons, preventing nuclear terrorism, and exploring the complexities of the U.S.-Russian nuclear relationship. The IAEA is an international organization that works with its Member States and multiple partners to promote safe, secure and peaceful nuclear technologies. Last week, the House Foreign Affairs Committee advanced Fortenberry's bill, the Furthering International Nuclear Safety Act of 2011 (H.R. 1326). The bipartisan legislation would enhance global cooperation on nuclear safety in light of the continuing nuclear reactor crisis in Japan that followed last month's tragic earthquake and tsunami. ###
04.15.2011	Votes for Plan to Make Government Sustainable, Effective, and Efficient Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today voted for H.Con.Res. 34, a budget proposal that calls for reduced federal government spending in coming years. It passed the House of Representatives this afternoon on a vote of 235-193. "We must act to get our nation's fiscal house in order," Fortenberry said. "Nebraskans deserve the facts. The current level of spending cannot be sustained. "The choice is clear: continue along a path of debt and economic uncertainty, or create jobs, reduce debt, and strengthen key health security programs for the next generation while protecting seniors. While many aspects will and should be debated, this is a substantive plan to frame a new pathway for fiscal discipline in America." Fortenberry, a member of the House Agriculture and Foreign Affairs Committees, is a proponent of various budgetary controls, including a balanced budget requirement, the presidential line item veto, and a biennial budgeting process. ###
04.14.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congressman Jeff Fortenberry's Furthering International Nuclear Safety Act of 2011 (H.R. 1326) was advanced today by the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. The bipartisan bill, which now will be sent for a vote by the full U.S. House of Representatives, would enhance global cooperation on nuclear safety in light of the continuing nuclear reactor crisis in Japan that followed last month's tragic earthquake and tsunami. "We can all agree that the world's current fleet of nuclear power reactors should be operated as safely as possible," said Fortenberry. "The United States, and other countries using nuclear power, can learn much from Japan's nuclear crisis and work to ensure that nothing like it happens again. This legislation can help achieve that important goal. Humanity cannot afford the costs of failure." H.R. 1326 directs the State Department to use and strengthen existing mechanisms for the international sharing of nuclear safety information and best practices—mechanisms that were created by the Convention on Nuclear Safety of 1994. The United States joined that international agreement in 1999, and today almost all countries with operating nuclear power plants now belong to it. The U.S. Government Accountability Office issued an April 2010 report that highlighted the importance of the Convention in ongoing efforts to improve nuclear safety globally. In particular, the bill would require the United States Representative to the Convention on Nuclear Safety to strongly encourage countries that have or are considering a civilian nuclear power program to join the Convention, as well as promote the standardization and increased use of performance metrics for countries to assess their own nuclear safety progress. It would also encourage greater public availability of information regarding nuclear safety efforts, standard practices for providing accurate and timely information regarding nuclear accidents and for the cooperative development of emergency response plans, and expanded cooperation on prediction and analysis capability for earthquakes, tsunamis, and on radiation as it is transported away from nuclear sites. Additionally, it would require the Executive Branch to craft a strategic plan for greater international cooperation on nuclear power safety, and to report to the Congress on the implementation of that plan, as well as on the status of achieving the actions set forth in the bill. Fortenberry is a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and a co-founder of the Congressional Nuclear Security Caucus. ###
04.13.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today commented on President Obama's speech on the national debt and deficit reduction: "Getting our nation's fiscal house in order requires bold leadership, creativity, and resolve at every level of government, not just in the House of Representatives. The difficult road of tough decisions and shared sacrifice ahead demands the full attention of the House, Senate, and President—and until now, the President has been largely absent from this debate. "I welcome the President's willingness to now attend to some of the recommendations of his debt commission, and hope that this signals a serious commitment to rein in spending and address our long-term structural deficits. And while I appreciate the President's concerns about the level of reductions necessary to address our burgeoning debt and deficit, I firmly believe that resolving our fiscal crisis does not require diminishing the vibrancy and exceptionalism of our nation. I did not come to Congress to manage such a decline of America. We can fix this situation. It will take time, but most importantly, decisive leadership." Fortenberry has voiced support for a variety of budgetary controls, including a balanced budget requirement, the presidential line item veto, and a biennial budgeting process. ###
04.12.2011	In an Age of Democracy, Report a Reminder of Brutality Across Globe, Among World Powers Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today commented on the release of the U.S. State Department 2010 Human Rights Report, which details to Congress human rights conditions over the past year in 194 countries: "We recognize that responsible governance rests upon two pillars: a respect for human rights and respect for the rule of law. No society can flourish and prosper without these important transcendent principles as they are exercised in the form of religious liberty, freedom of speech, the right of assembly and peaceful protest, and free and fair commerce. "While much attention has been given in recent weeks to the struggle for modernity in North Africa and the Middle East, violent repression continues in China and Russia even as both nations seek a more prominent position on the world stage. As President Hu enjoyed a lavish official state dinner in Washington last year, many Chinese citizens were suffering horrific tortures for attempting to employ basic human rights. Countless others disappeared into a vast network of gulags that no human being should ever have to see or experience. And in Russia, the killing of journalists and activists continued under flagrant dismissal of the rule of law and due process. In Iran, the country's leadership thwarts its people's desire for a more open society, and religious persecution abounds throughout many countries in the Middle East region. All in all, the State Department report provides a stark reminder of the great work ahead in protecting the essential human rights of vulnerable populations across the world." Key countries of concern in the 2010 report include Cote d'Ivoire, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Nigeria, Sudan, Zimbabwe, Burma, Cambodia, China, North Korea, Vietnam, Belarus, Russia, Ukraine, Bahrain, Iran, Iraq, Libya, Syria, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Uzbekistan, Cuba, Nicaragua, and Venezuela. Fortenberry is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. He is the Vice Chairman of the Subcommittee with jurisdiction over international human rights. ###
04.08.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today issued the following statement concerning the ongoing government funding negotiations: "I am hopeful that a reasonable and responsible solution to our current budget situation will be reached soon. I don't believe a government shutdown is in America's best interest. This would be particularly difficult for our military families and soldiers in the field, as well as people who need access to essential government services. We must work to control spending in Washington, and I expect negotiations to continue in earnest." Fortenberry yesterday voted for H.R. 1363, a stopgap bill to ensure military pay and avert a government shutdown. This measure passed the House of Representatives and was sent to the Senate for action. ###
04.07.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today supported H.R. 1363, a bill that would provide funding for American troops and avert a government shutdown at the end of this week. The bill passed the House of Representatives on a vote of 247 to 181. "Those serving our country, particularly military service members in the field and their families at home, should not fear missing a paycheck due to Washington's failure to plan," Fortenberry said. "I am hopeful that a reasonable and responsible solution to our current budget situation will be reached soon so we can move forward on solving the serious challenges of our budget crisis and fix long-term structural deficits. In any event, this bill ensures that our troops will receive their pay in full and on time." H.R. 1363 provides appropriations for the Department of Defense for the fiscal year, ending September 30, 2011. The legislation also provides for a one week (through April 15, 2011) extension of funding for the remaining portions of the government, with $12 billion in reductions from current levels. ###
03.19.2011	LINCOLN, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today announced his intention to introduce the Furthering International Nuclear Safety Act of 2011, a bill that would enhance worldwide cooperation on nuclear safety in light of the recent nuclear reactor crisis in post-earthquake Japan. The legislation would be the bipartisan House companion to a bill introduced yesterday by Senators Daniel Akaka (D-Hawaii) and Thomas Carper (D-Delaware). "As Japan's post-earthquake emergency shows, nuclear facilities remain vulnerable to natural and man-made disasters," said Fortenberry. "Nuclear safety needs to improve globally; humanity cannot afford the costs of failure." "With this legislation, the United States can help lead cooperative efforts through the Convention on Nuclear Safety to share information and plans to ensure the world's current fleet of nuclear reactors are operated as safely as possible," he added. "I look forward to introducing a companion soon in the House." Negotiated in the aftermath of the Chernobyl disaster, the Convention on Nuclear Safety is an international treaty that seeks to improve civilian nuclear power reactor safety throughout the world. Signatory nations are required to submit reports on their implementation of the Convention's nuclear safety provisions and meet regularly to analyze the reports. The United States joined the Convention in 1999. Under the proposed legislation, the United States representative to the Convention of Nuclear Safety would advocate for: the use of performance metrics for countries to assess their own nuclear safety progress; increased public availability of information about nuclear safety efforts; the International Atomic Energy Agency to provide additional support for safety, when possible; and all countries that have or are considering a civilian nuclear power program to join the Convention. The bill would also require the Executive Branch to craft a strategic plan for international cooperation on nuclear power safety. Fortenberry is a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and a cofounder of the Congressional Nuclear Security Caucus. ###
03.17.2011	Lincoln, NE -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, in conjunction with U.S. Senator Mike Johanns, will host a "U.S Military Day" for high school and college students on Saturday, March 26, at Lincoln Southwest High School. The "U.S. Military Day" is an opportunity for students and their parents to learn more about military opportunities, particularly the nomination process for U.S. Service Academies. Information regarding National Guard, Reserve, the Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC), and other military enlistment options will also be presented. Representatives from the Army, Air Force, Navy, Merchant Marine, and Coast Guard will be on hand from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. to answer questions and provide information. A program presentation featuring service academy and military representatives will begin at 11 a.m. U.S. Military DaySaturday, March 26, 2011Doors open 9 am to 2 pmProgram: 11 am to 12:30 pmLincoln Southwest High School7001 S 14th StreetLincoln, NE Who Should Attend:Any Nebraska High School or College Students Interested in Military Opportunities Notices of U.S. Military Day have been distributed to all high schools in the First Congressional District. Please contact the Fortenberry Lincoln office at 402-438-1598 or toll free at 1-866-725-5255 with any questions. ###
03.11.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today released the following statement regarding the federal debt and current budget situation. The U.S. Treasury reported earlier this week that the federal government in February ran a deficit of $223 billion, the largest monthly deficit in U.S. history: "The United States government is borrowing 40 cents on every dollar, and our national debt stands at $14 trillion. That's $45,000 for every American. At all levels of government, there needs to be shared sacrifice to restore fiscal order, help the economy, and create jobs. "However, the House of Representatives cannot run this country by itself. The President is showing no leadership, even as our debt problem spins further and further out of control. He has been absent from serious debate, and has taken virtually no steps toward implementing reforms that his own debt commission recommended. Instead, he seems content to stand in Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid's shadow, deferring decisions to an unwilling Senate. "The House of Representatives is taking meaningful and hard steps forward to stop overspending in the near term, but the process of restoring fiscal responsibility cannot be a one-way street. Together, Americans and all levels of government must dig our way out." Fortenberry has voiced support for a variety of budgetary controls, including a balanced budget requirement, the presidential line item veto, and a biennium budgeting process. ###
03.09.2011	Congressman affirms U.S. support against oppressive force but urges regional primacy of action WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congressman Jeff Fortenberry in an international news interview today urged the Arab League and African Union to lead their region in actions against the Libyan regime's oppressive force. "The United States is constantly being called upon to fix all measures of problems across the world," said Fortenberry. "This is due to the generosity of the American taxpayer, the philosophical ideas that govern us, and our unique position as an exceptional superpower. Yet ultimately, the destiny of North Africa must be in the hands of North Africans." Fortenberry stressed that unilateral action on the no-fly zone option is essentially an act of war. "The response to Gaddafi must be regional, supported by international bodies, such as the Arab League, African Union, and European Union. "The Gaddafi regime should know that the U.S. stands with people across the world who demand their rights against oppressive force. It is important to continue efforts aimed at controlling the supply of arms, freezing Gaddafi's assets, and providing humanitarian relief." Fortenberry is the Vice Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, and Human Rights. ###
03.08.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today spoke at a hearing of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, and Human Rights about the intense plight of women in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). "The intense human tragedy in the Democratic Republic of the Congo continues to weigh heavily upon us, and the testimony today from the U.S. State Department, USAID, the Eastern Congo Initiative, Catholic Relief Services, and the Enough Project is important for the international community's sense of understanding of this plight," said Fortenberry. "It is especially poignant that today is International Women's Day, as we held this hearing for the hundreds of thousands of women in the DRC who have been heinously victimized in recent years, including the many women who must remain silent. Congress broke that silence today. "Sexual violence toward the daughters of the Congo is the worst in the world, in both its pernicious scope and unrelenting brutality. While numerous signs of democratic progress have been seen in recent years, civil strife has reached an unfathomable high in some areas, particularly eastern Congo. The social emergency lies not only with the scourge of gender and sexual based violence in the DRC. As we give attention to the victimized women and girls of the DRC, we must also give special consideration to the plight of girl child soldiers, who are often victims of grotesque sexual slavery and violence as well. These girls, stripped of innocence and dignity, face heartbreaking stigma and unique challenges to reintegration by their families and communities. "One tangible result of today's hearing was the expression of bipartisan support for the appointment of a special envoy to the DRC, and I will work with my colleagues on the subcommittee to press for this important diplomatic outreach." Fortenberry is the Vice Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, and Human Rights. ###
03.03.2011	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today voted for H.R. 4, The Small Business Paperwork Mandate Elimination Act of 2011, which was approved on a vote of 314 to 112. The bill repeals a portion of last year's health care law, referred to as Section 1099, which subjects small businesses to unnecessary tax reporting requirements. "The expansion of the 1099 requirement created a problematic burden for small businesses," said Fortenberry. "I heard from numerous Nebraskans that this mandate is creating unnecessary paperwork and costing jobs." In 2010, under the health care legislation, tax information reporting rules were expanded. These new rules require businesses to issue a Form 1099 for any payments to corporations (rather than just to individuals) and for any payments for property (rather than just for services or investment income) that exceed $600 over the course of a year. Small businesses across the country, including Nebraska, have expressed concern about the employee time required to comply with the form. ###
02.18.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Jeff Fortenberry’s amendment to prohibit U.S. military assistance to the African nation of Chad for its continued use of child soldiers was approved by the House of Representatives early this morning for inclusion with H.R. 1, the FY11 House continuing resolution.“I am pleased that Congress acted this morning to make it clear to Chad that the United States will not continue to tolerate their use of child soldiers,” said Fortenberry. “Chad is a valuable military partner. But using children as soldiers is wrong, and we declared in 2008 that children belong on playgrounds, not battlegrounds. To strengthen a meaningful partnership with Chad, the horrific abuse of children must end.“William Wilberforce, the British statesman and unyielding abolitionist for whom our anti-human trafficking law is named, said, ‘You may choose to look the other way but you can never say again that you did not know.’“We are making it clear to the government of Chad that we now know. And we cannot look the other way.”In 2008, Congress passed the Fortenberry-authored Child Soldiers Prevention Act as part of the William Wilberforce Human Trafficking Victims Protection Act. This bill declared that the US would not provide military assistance to countries found guilty of child conscription. The government of Chad, a military partner to which the U.S. provides assistance, was found guilty of using child soldiers in the 2010 State Department Trafficking-in-Persons Report. However, as the law provided, Chad was granted a national security interest waiver with the hopes that Chad would take serious strides toward ending this human rights violation.With the withdrawal of the UN mission in Chad at the end of 2010, children as young as 13 are being preyed upon as child soldiers. In this past week, the United Nations and a respected international human rights organization both issued reports warning of Chad’s continued flouting of our law. International media outlets have given attention to this issue in recent days.Fortenberry is the Vice Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, and Human Rights. ###
02.17.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congressman Jeff Fortenberry will today offer an amendment to H.R. 1, the FY11 House continuing resolution, to prohibit U.S. military assistance to the African nation of Chad. In 2008, Congress passed the Fortenberry-authored Child Soldiers Prevention Act as part of the William Wilberforce Human Trafficking Victims Protection Act. This bill declared that the US would not provide military assistance to countries found guilty of child conscription. The government of Chad, a military partner to which the U.S. provides assistance, was found guilty of using child soldiers in the 2010 State Department Trafficking-in-Persons Report. However, as the law provided, Chad was granted a national security interest waiver with the hopes that Chad would take concrete strides toward ending this human rights violation. Fortenberry issued the following statement: "It is hard for us to envision a 13 year-old child put in military fatigues, a gun in their hand, and made to fight—but it happens around the world today. With the withdrawal of the UN mission in Chad at the end of 2010, children as young as 13 are being preyed upon as child soldiers. In this past week, the United Nations and a respected international human rights organization both issued reports warning of Chad's continued flouting of our law. International media outlets have given attention to this issue in recent days. "Using children as soldiers is wrong. Congress declared in 2008 that children belong on playgrounds, not battlegrounds, and I offer this amendment as a challenge to our government for a quick resolution. "William Wilberforce, the British statesman and unyielding abolitionist for whom our anti-human trafficking law is named, said, 'You may choose to look the other way but you can never say again that you did not know.' "We must make it clear to the government of Chad that we now know. And we cannot look the other way." Fortenberry is the Vice Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, and Human Rights. ###
02.11.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today issued the following statement concerning Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak's resignation from office: "America stands for the right of the Egyptian people to realize their highest aspirations, and today's news of President Mubarak's resignation marks the most significant moment in Egypt's recent history. "Yesterday, I was stunned by President Mubarak's decision to remain in office, as were the Egyptian people. Today, I think he made the right decision for the future of Egypt, and fortunately, there was no major escalation in violence. I am hopeful that the Egyptian military, now in power, will follow through on recent promises to amend Egypt's constitution, implement democratic changes, investigate the acts of violence that ensued in recent weeks, and advance an orderly and peaceful transition. "The key pillars of democracy are respect for human rights and the rule of law, and it is my hope that institutional processes that undergird these tenets will evolve to maintain peace and consolidate Egypt's historic role as an ongoing moderating force in the Middle East. Former Egyptian President Anwar Sadat laid down his life for this peace, and it is fundamental to the stability of the region. "It is also essential that democratic reforms in Egypt are inclusive of minorities, particularly women and Christians. Although some groups, such as the Muslim Brotherhood, want to restrict their civic engagement, a just and peaceful outcome will respect the rights of democratic participation for all citizens. This is clearly the outcome that protesters are seeking to achieve." Fortenberry, who lived near Tahrir Square in Cairo, is the Vice Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee with jurisdiction over Africa, and a member of the Subcommittee on the Middle East and South Asia. ###
02.10.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today issued the following statement concerning Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak's decision to remain in office: "Frankly, I am surprised by President Mubarak's adamant decision to remain in power. Given the current political realities, I did not think it would have been workable for him to continue as President. I am concerned that President Mubarak's tone does not create the necessary space to diminish the current tensions and for the march toward orderly transition to take place. I also fear this puts the military in a difficult and awkward position. "I am deeply concerned about the stability of Egypt. The key pillars of democracy are respect for human rights and the rule of law, and both the government and Egyptian citizens must firmly embrace these tenets. But there must be mutual support and respect for institutions and institutional processes - rather than individual power - to lay the foundation for holding peace and serving as an ongoing moderating force in North Africa and the Middle East." Fortenberry, who lived near Tahrir Square in Cairo, is the Vice Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee with jurisdiction over Africa, and a member of the Subcommittee on the Middle East and South Asia. ###
01.31.2011	The United States Department of State encourages those seeking information about Americans living in Egypt to direct inquiries to EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov or 1-888-407-4747. You may also wish to visit the following State Department site, http://www.state.gov/p/nea/rls/rm/155594.htm. ###
01.28.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today issued the following statement concerning today’s escalating clashes in Egypt: "This is a highly complex and dangerous situation in the streets of Egypt. "Egypt is the cultural and historic center of the Arab world and has provided a stabilizing influence in the volatile Middle East. This is a critical moment for the future of the country and the region. "People have the right to express their concerns with the government, and there must be space within Egyptian civil society for the highest aspirations of the people. Peaceful and pragmatic dialogue are necessary hallmarks of democratic change. Unfortunately, chaos and violence is the current dynamic. It is important that the outcome addresses the sources of tension and despair while preventing exploitation by violent extremists." Congressman Fortenberry, who has lived near Tahrir Square in Cairo, is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
01.28.2011	Following please find the U.S. State Department's response to Congressman Fortenberry's recent call for a more comprehensive review of the environmental impacts of the proposed Keystone XL Pipeline Project. US_Dept_of_State_Response_1-20-11.pdf
01.27.2011	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry this week introduced the Renewable Fuels for America's Future Act. The bill incentivizes biofuels production over current levels, saves taxpayer money, and builds renewable fuels transportation infrastructure across America. It mirrors a proposal Fortenberry introduced in July 2010. "America continues to spend staggering amounts of money, as much as $1 billion per day, on imported oil. This creates drastic trade imbalances and undermines our economic and national security. Our sustainable energy future must rely heavily on domestic, renewable forms of energy," Fortenberry said. "American biofuels are crucial both to increased energy independence and environmental protection. The Renewable Fuels for America's Future Act redesigns our national renewable fuels strategy, creating incentive for increased biofuels production while saving taxpayer money and developing much-needed biofuels transportation infrastructure. It's a winner for farmers, for the environment, and for the American taxpayer." The Fortenberry bill would extend the ethanol blenders' tax credit (or Volumetric Ethanol Excise Tax Credit) only for ethanol produced beyond required levels. Currently, the Renewable Fuel Standard mandates a certain amount of ethanol that gasoline manufacturers and importers must use in their fuel. Fuel blenders, primarily oil companies, now receive the 45 cent per gallon tax credit on the mandated amount as well as any excess amount. The Fortenberry bill effectively discontinues the credit paid to companies for blending mandated amounts of ethanol, saving an estimated $5.67 billion of taxpayer money in the first year of the bill's enactment. The legislation also extends the current ethanol tariff, the Small Producers Tax Credit, and the Cellulosic Ethanol Production Tax Credit. Similar to provisions in the Harkin-Lugar biofuels bill in the U.S. Senate, the Fortenberry bill would require dual fueled vehicles and create incentives for ethanol fuel blend infrastructure, such as blender pumps and storage tanks. Economists Dr. Ernie Goss of Creighton University and Dr. Bruce Babcock of Iowa State University have conducted analyses of the Fortenberry bill. Dr. Goss has noted the measure would reduce taxpayer outlays and increase incentives for biofuels producers above required levels. Dr. Babcock concluded, "The primary economic impact of this proposal is that taxpayers would no longer pay the blenders credit on mandated volumes. In 2011, this would save taxpayers $5.67 billion, assuming that the $0.45 per gallon tax credit is paid on 12.6 billion gallons of ethanol." Fortenberry, chairman of the Agriculture Committee's Department Operations, Oversight and Credit Subcommittee, is a strong proponent of renewable fuels development and an early supporter of the 2005 energy bill that integrated biofuels into national energy policy. ###
01.26.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congressman Jeff Fortenberry tonight released the following statement after President Obama’s 2011 State of the Union Address to Congress:“The State of the Union is always a very grand occasion and opportunity for the three branches of government to come together and reflect on the well-being of our nation. “The President set an important thematic emphasizing education, innovation, and rebuilding America; however, it took nine pages into the speech to get to the deeply serious fiscal condition of the United States Government. Addressing our deepening debt isn’t the ‘final step’—it should be our first step, and that will lead the way to economic recovery and job creation. “Our government needs a total money makeover. It is important to remember that the size of government grew unsustainably over the last three years. We cannot continue the bailout era’s level of spending. As the American people are having to tighten their belts substantially in these difficult times, so should government. I think it is important to note the President mentioned the centrality of the family for the proper education of the child, and there was an important emphasis on creative energy policy for our national security and economic vitality.” Fortenberry is a member of the House Foreign Affairs and Agriculture Committees. ###
01.25.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congressman Jeff Fortenberry on Friday led a group of Members of Congress in urging President Obama to discuss in the State of the Union Address the recent international wave of violence against religious minorities. In recent months, violent religiously-motivated attacks in Nigeria, Egypt, and Iraq, including the October 31 siege of Our Lady of Salvation Church in Baghdad and the New Year’s Day bombing attack on a church in Alexandria, Egypt, have left hundreds dead. Fortenberry, with Congressmen Robert Aderholt, Gus Bilirakis, Trent Franks, and Frank Wolf, stated the following concerning the violence against religious minority communities in the Middle East, South Asia, and parts of Africa: “As part of the broader ongoing effort to prevent violent attacks on civilians in Iraq, we urge you to call on the community of nations to join the United States to help secure vulnerable minority faith communities and end the climate of impunity that fosters a vicious cycle of violence aimed at innocent civilians. “…We can only begin to imagine what it must be like for families struggling each day to pursue their livelihoods in a climate of unrelenting hostility. As victims of violence are left to fend for themselves, perpetrators celebrate their crimes while sympathetic onlookers retreat behind a veil of fear and intimidation. “We thank you for speaking out for the innocents massacred recently in Egypt by violent jihadists as they were peacefully concluding the celebration of Mass on New Year’s Eve. Now more than ever, both persecuted populations and perpetrators must know that the United States is actively working to reverse this insidious encroachment of ideologically-motivated brutality. “As we continue this new year, already tinged with so many heinous affronts to human dignity, we must give hope to beleaguered communities that fervently desire and rightfully deserve justice and peace.” Fortenberry is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
01.25.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congressman Jeff Fortenberry will be seated with the entire Nebraska congressional delegation at tonight's State of the Union Address. Fortenberry will join House of Representatives colleagues Lee Terry and Adrian Smith, along with Senators Ben Nelson and Mike Johanns, for the bipartisan, bicameral occasion. ###
01.19.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted 245 to 189 in support of repealing the recently-enacted health care reform law: “Strengthening our health care system is very important to every American. The right type of reform will reduce costs, improve health care outcomes, and protect vulnerable persons. “However, the current health care law is a complicated mess that shifts costs to more unsustainable government spending and erodes health care liberties. America deserves better. “I support a repeal of the measure, and the crafting of a new commonsense policy with new insurance models for families, farmers, and small businesses. Any replacement must continue to build upon a culture of health and wellness, allow newly-insured persons to keep their coverage, and also retain protections for pre-existing conditions.” ###
01.08.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry released the following statement regarding the shooting of Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords and others earlier today in Arizona. "I am shocked and saddened by the attack against my colleague Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords and members of her staff. I join with my fellow Representatives, as well as people throughout Arizona and the rest of our nation, in praying for Congresswoman Giffords, her staff, all those injured, and their families. Let us hope for their survival." ###
01.06.2011	Congressman Jeff Fortenberry and family with Speaker of the House John Boehner WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congressman Jeff Fortenberry was today sworn into the 112th Congress. This is his fourth term representing the First District of Nebraska in the U.S. House of Representatives. Fortenberry released the following statement: "I am truly honored today to be part of this historic new Congress. One of the hallmarks of America is that we transfer power peacefully, and the112th Congress presents a new and profound opportunity to work to address the many challenges confronting our nation's well-being. "Despite these challenges, our state and nation possess the strength and resources to build a brighter future for coming generations. We must now have the will. "I am humbled that the citizens of Nebraska's First District have entrusted me with this great responsibility. I look forward to continuing the important work of serving them in our nation's capital." Fortenberry is a member of the House Agriculture and Foreign Affairs Committees. He is the Chairman of the Agriculture Subcommittee on Department Operations, Oversight, and Credit. ###
01.05.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry released the following statement regarding this afternoon’s shooting at Millard South High School: “I am profoundly shocked and sorrowed. My heart goes out to the victims and their families, and the innocent schoolchildren whose first day back in school was shattered by this craven act. The hopeful thoughts and prayers of Nebraskans are with these students and teachers, their families, and all members of the Millard South community today.” ###
01.04.2011	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry's office announced today that the Library of Congress will come to Fremont in mid-January with a special exhibit of America's unique treasures. The exhibition, called "Gateway to Knowledge," will be at Midland University on Friday and Saturday, January 14 and 15 from 10 am to 6 pm. "I am very pleased that the Library of Congress is bringing this exhibition to Fremont," Fortenberry said. "The community's strong educational focus provides an appropriate setting for such an event. Through its extensive resources, the Library of Congress offers many useful tools for educators, students, and scholars of all ages. The 'Gateway to Knowledge' is an excellent opportunity for anyone interested in seeing and learning more about the Library of Congress' unique national treasures." The "Gateway to Knowledge," which plans visits in up to 60 sites in the Midwest and South over the next year, will feature facsimiles of the rough draft of the Declaration of Independence, in Thomas Jefferson's hand with edits by Benjamin Franklin and John Adams; the 1455 Gutenberg Bible; the 1507 Waldseemüller Map (the first document to use the word "America"); the original 1962 drawings for the comic book that introduced Spiderman to the world; the handwritten manuscript to jazz pioneer Jelly Roll Morton's "Frog-i-More Rag"; and Walt Whitman's poem "Leaves of Grass." Free and open to the public, the "Gateway to Knowledge" includes programming especially for teachers and students and provides relevant and engaging learning experiences for lifelong learners. What: The Library of Congress "Gateway to Knowledge" Traveling ExhibitionWhen: Friday, January 14 and Saturday, January 15, 2011: 10 am to 6 pmWhere: Midland University Campus900 North Clarkson, Fremont, NEA Free Event Open to the Public Our nation's oldest cultural institution, the Library of Congress is the largest library in the world and serves as the research arm of Congress. Founded in 1800, the Library of Congress seeks to spark imagination and creativity and to further human understanding and wisdom by providing access to knowledge through its collections, programs and exhibitions. Fortenberry is a member of the Library of Congress Caucus in the U.S. House of Representatives. For more information on the "Gateway to Knowledge," please visit http://www.loc.gov/gateway/. ### Congressman Fortenberry and Dr. James Billington, the Librarian of Congress, discuss Thomas Jefferson’s personal library, on display at the Library of Congress in Washington D.C. A facsimile of Jefferson’s rough draft of the Declaration of Independence will be on hand as the Library of Congress visits Fremont January 14 and 15.
12.28.2010	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry has selected 18 students from eastern Nebraska to receive nominations to America's top military academies. "A military academy appointment is a tremendous honor and a great responsibility," Fortenberry said. "Nominees must demonstrate capacity for leadership, personal integrity, and rigorous scholarship. I am pleased to nominate several young Nebraskans who meet these qualifications." Following are the 2010 nominees: Owen Bond of Syracuse-Dunbar-Avoca High School. Owen is the son of Jerry and Cathrin Bond and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Zachary Cottle of Omaha Skutt Catholic High School. Zachary is the son of Larry and Nova Cottle and has been nominated to the United States Military Academy. Ethan Ebito of Lincoln East High School. Ethan is the son of John and Crystal Ebito and has been nominated to the United States Military Academy. Drew Fairchild of Humboldt-Table Rock-Steinauer High School. Drew is the son of Sara Fairchild-Flynn andMitchell Flynn and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Aaron Frey of Lincoln Pius X High School. Aaron is the son of Keith and Mary Lynn Frey and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Ethan Fritz of Falls City High School. Ethan is the son of Lyle and Noala Fritz and has been nominated to the United States Military Academy. Aleck Gao of Lincoln Southwest High School. Aleck is the son of Duanduan Wang and Jinnian Gao and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Austin Heckman of Milford High School. Austin is the son of Jeffrey and Andrea Heckman and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Britt Jensen of Fremont Senior High School. Britt is the son of Scott and Joy Jensen and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Schyler Kerns of Lincoln Southwest High School. Schyler is the son of Stu and Kelli Kerns and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Daniel Moles of Johnson County Central High School. Daniel is the son of Jack and Shelley Moles and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Jade Perry of Lincoln Northeast High School. Jade is the daughter of Toney Perry and Joyce Moore and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Connor Rise of Omaha Brownell-Talbot High School. Connor is the son of Richard and Carrie Rise and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Austin Safranek of Lincoln Pius X High School. Austin is the son of Tom and Ann Safranek and has been nominated to the United States Military Academy. Jonathan Siefkes of Millard West High School. Jonathan is the son of Karin Siefkes and Chris Siefkes and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Trevor Smith of Lincoln Southeast High School. Trevor is the son of Anthony Smith and Michele Spadt and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Erin Walker of Wahoo Public High School. Erin is the daughter of Drew and Linda Walker and has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Dylan Woldt of Lincoln East High School. Dylan is the son of Wayne and Holly Woldt and has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. The military academies will now consider each nominee for an appointment. "I expect these individuals will represent Nebraska well in their future endeavors," Fortenberry said. "Please join me in congratulating them for their exceptional achievements." ###
12.22.2010	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry will serve as chairman of the House Agriculture Committee’s Subcommittee on Department Operations, Oversight, and Credit in the 112th Congress beginning in January. The subcommittee will have jurisdiction in the oversight of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), one of the federal government’s largest agencies, and responsibilities involving program review and analysis, special investigations, and agricultural credit. “I am honored to accept this leadership role in the new Congress,” Fortenberry said. “Agriculture’s benefits to our nation go far beyond food security; it stabilizes and strengthens our economy, increases our energy independence, and builds new opportunities in rural America. It is critical that our farm policies and programs fairly and efficiently serve America’s farm and ranch families and the Americans who depend on them.” “This new subcommittee role will help us continue important work on promoting new opportunities in specialized food markets and renewable energy, reconnecting rural and urban America, and exploring the challenges of growing concentration in agriculture and the increasing age of the American farmer. I look forward to working with my colleagues on these and other matters as we begin the new Congress in January.” Fortenberry has served on the House Agriculture Committee since 2005. ###
12.21.2010	This is Christmas season, and I am sure you still have much to do in preparation for the holiday, as do I. But as a reminder of an important item of business at the end of the year for Nebraska seniors, there is still time to review and consider Medicare plan options for 2011. Medicare is the nation’s largest health insurance program, providing coverage for people age 65 or older, some disabled people under age 65, and people of all ages with End-Stage Renal Disease (permanent kidney failure treated with dialysis or a transplant). Its “open season” enrollment period is traditionally at the end of the calendar year. This year it is November 15 to December 31. Open season is the time when any Medicare beneficiary who wishes can change his or her Medicare prescription drug plan (Part D) for the upcoming year. Medicare beneficiaries can also change between Original Medicare (Part B) and Medicare Advantage plans (Part C), and switch Medicare Advantage plans. It is a crucial time for those who feel that their current plans cost too much, do not cover new medications that are needed, or are not performing up to their standards. For those seniors wishing to change Part D plans for 2011, they are able to do so now through December 31, 2010. Medicare Part D prescription drugs plans are required by law to notify beneficiaries currently enrolled in their plan of any pending changes. If you are a senior with a Part D plan, you may have received such notices from your prescription drug plan provider informing you of any changes in your plan for 2011. 1. http://www.doi.ne.gov/shiip/. This is the website for the Nebraska Senior Health Insurance Information Program (SHIIP), a free counseling service for Nebraska’ seniors and disabled population. This program can provide information regarding all aspects of Medicare, including prescription drug programs. You may contact SHIIP toll free at 1-800-234-7119. 2. https://www.medicare.gov/find-a-plan/questions/home.aspx. This is the website for the Medicare Plan Finder. This website enables beneficiaries to review the plans available in Nebraska, including Medicare Part D, Medicare Advantage, and Original Medicare, and compare plans by entering personalized information in a secure manner. ###
12.17.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry issued the following statement regarding China’s plans to lift trade restrictions on various U.S. exports: “This series of agreements will help American beef producers and renewable energy entrepreneurs gain access to expansive markets that were previously closed or highly restricted. Moreover, they will help America address its staggering trade imbalance with China. As we move ahead, it is critical that American businesses can be confident that the rules of new trade agreements will be regularly and consistently enforced.” A member of the House Agriculture and Foreign Affairs Committees, Fortenberry has urged U.S. Trade Rep. Ron Kirk to prioritize the reopening of Chinese markets on behalf of Nebraska producers and American agriculture.
12.17.2010	Washington D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry released the following statement tonight after voting “no” on H.R. 4853, the tax legislation projected to add nearly $858 billion to the national debt over ten years. “I don’t want to raise taxes on any hardworking American family. But this 11th hour backroom deal is economic rope-a-dope, hiding from the hard but necessary fight against overspending and debt. "We can’t avoid the debt fight any longer, and we can’t continue to spend and borrow in hopes of prosperity. This deal gives some short-term certainty by extending tax rates, but borrows hundreds of billions while doing nothing to address structural indebtedness - which we must understand is the same as taxation. There is no responsible solution in this bill for lasting economic recovery. We can and must do better for America.”
12.02.2010	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Fortenberry, along with seven other leading Members of Congress, today called on the President to urge the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), to conduct special comprehensive nuclear inspections in Syria. Concern stems from Syria’s clandestine construction of an alleged nuclear reactor intended to produce weapons-usable plutonium near the town of Al-Kibar. According to news reports, this facility, which was likely built with North Korean assistance, was destroyed by an Israeli airstrike in September 2007. “Syria is obligated by international law to engage in nuclear activities that are completely open and transparent,” Fortenberry said. “Given the strong evidence suggesting Syria’s covert attempts to build a nuclear reactor that could further a nuclear weapons program, Syria should immediately allow international inspectors unfettered access to its nuclear program, and allay concerns that it may still be engaging in undeclared nuclear activities.” Fortenberry’s letter to the President comes as the nations that comprise the IAEA’s governing board meet this week in Vienna, Austria. Signatories to the letter include Congressman Edward Markey (D-MA), Senator Jon Kyl (R-AZ), Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Congressman Ed Royce (R-CA), Congressman Brad Sherman (D-CA), Senator John Ensign (R-NV), and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman (ID-CT). High-ranking IAEA officials share international concerns that Syria may be concealing nuclear materials and equipment that could be used to obtain nuclear weapons capability. Under international treaties and agreements, Syria is required to declare nuclear activities so that the IAEA can ensure that these activities are used for exclusively peaceful purposes. The Fortenberry letter also urges the President to use existing legal authorities to impose sanctions on Syrian individuals and entities that received illicit North Korean assistance. The letter notes that the President used these same authorities in August 2010 to sanction North Korean individuals and entities that provided illicit assistance to Syria’s weapons of mass destruction program. Fortenberry, who co-chairs the Congressional Nuclear Security Caucus, is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and the Oversight and Government Reform National Security Subcommittee. ###
12.01.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C .-- After clearing a number of legislative process hurdles, Congressman Jeff Fortenberry’s Help Haitian Adoptees Immediately to Integrate Act of 2010 (H.R. 5283), also known as the Help HAITI Act, was passed by Congress this afternoon. This legislation, which would normalize the adoption process for more than 1,000 Haitian orphans pending adoption by American families, originally passed the House of Representatives on July 20, 2010. It then was amended and passed by the Senate on August 4, 2010. The measure will now be sent to the President to be signed into law. “I am pleased that the House and Senate have finally acted to give vulnerable Haitian orphans and their adoptive American families, who have endured so much heartbreak and tragedy, the comfort of knowing that their children’s legal status is in good order,” said Fortenberry. “This measure will benefit new families from Nebraska and across the United States, and I eagerly await the President’s signature.” The tragic earthquake of January 12, 2010, upended the normal process for international adoptions in Haiti, endangering the futures of more than 1,000 children pending adoption. Though these children were swiftly evacuated to join their adoptive American families, their immigration status remained in limbo, leaving them with fewer legal protections, potentially ineligible for critical resources, and at risk of being returned to Haiti. Working with the Department of Homeland Security’s United States Citizenship and Immigration Service (USCIS), Fortenberry introduced a legislative fix to allow their adoptive U.S. families to apply immediately on their behalves to become legal permanent residents and eventually qualify for citizenship. The Help HAITI Act would also help to minimize the staff, monetary and other resource demands on USCIS. Fortenberry is a Member of the House Democracy Partnership, a bipartisan 20-member commission established by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2005 to support the development of independent democratic legislatures. The House Democracy Partnership and the Haitian Parliament developed a relationship following Haiti’s 2006 elections in helping to strengthen Haiti’s legislative body. Fortenberry had earlier urged the Partnership to include Haiti among the select group of 14 partner countries, and has continued to work with Haitian parliamentarians, particularly on matters of oversight and government reform and agricultural assistance. He joined a congressional election monitoring delegation in Haiti for the November 28 elections. Fortenberry is also a member of the House Foreign Affairs and Oversight and Government Reform Committees. ###
11.18.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today challenged the Transportation Security Administration (TSA)’s new airport passenger screening policies. Last year, Fortenberry joined a broad bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives in voting against the primary use of full-body scanners in airports. TSA recently adopted policies that those passengers refusing full-body scanners would be subjected to physical pat-down searches, which have been objected to by many Americans. “TSA is overly reliant on technology where other countries rely on intelligence,” said Fortenberry. “Many Americans’ sensibilities are violated, and rightfully so, by the recent aggressive move by TSA to subject innocent passengers—including children-- to embarrassing, highly physical, and potentially hazardous searches. There is a delicate balance between ensuring national security and protecting civil liberties, but being forced to check one’s modesty and physical integrity at the airport door is alarming. While our security officials intend to thwart the actions of those who wish to do us harm, their policies should not cause the kind of distress to the general American public that we are seeing.” Fortenberry called for an immediate oversight hearing to examine TSA’s practices. He is a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.
11.17.2010	CQ TODAY ONLINE NEWS:Nov. 17, 2010 – 12:29 p.m.House Leaders Weigh Haiti Bill as Vehicle for Immigration MeasureBy Theo Emery and Joanna Anderson, CQ Staff Democratic House leaders may use a bill aimed at aiding Haitian orphans as a vehicle for an unrelated immigration measure, a proposal that spurred immediate criticism from the Haiti bill’s GOP sponsor. The House leadership has hinted that they would seek passage of the immigration legislation known as the DREAM Act during the lame-duck session, but the bill hasn’t yet been put on the floor calendar and leaders have given few clues as to when it might come up. Jeff Fortenberry, R-Neb., issued a letter late Tuesday saying House leaders want to graft the measure onto his Help HAITI Act, which would grant permanent U.S. residency to up to 1,400 Haitian orphans admitted to the United States after the Jan. 12 earthquake. The bill had been scheduled for floor consideration earlier this week, but was dropped from the agenda. “I’m at a total loss,” Fortenberry said. “This is about helping the children in the wake of the earthquake.” The Haiti bill (HR 5283) would authorize the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to grant permanent resident status to children from Haiti who were admitted to the United States after the earthquake as part of a humanitarian entry policy. It would grant those children adoption eligibility if they obtain permanent resident status prior to turning 18 and are adopted by a U.S. citizen. After the earthquake, DHS implemented a policy to allow orphaned children from Haiti to enter the United States temporarily. The policy permitted the legal entry of children who have been confirmed by Haiti as orphans eligible for intercountry adoption, and children who had been undergoing adoption proceedings in which U.S. citizens were the prospective adoptive parents. Applications for legal entry under this policy were suspended on April 15. “After these families have opened their hearts and homes to some of the world’s most vulnerable children, this security is the least we can give them. The House of Representatives should affirm this by passing the Help HAITI Act, free of unrelated, controversial measures,” Fortenberry wrote. Though the letter didn’t specify which “controversial measures” were at issue, a GOP aide said Fortenberry was referring to legislation known as the DREAM Act, which would extend conditional legal status to some children of illegal immigrants, if they go to college or join the military. As many as 2.1 million young adults fit the bill’s criteria, although only an estimated 825,000 would likely benefit. A Democratic aide confirmed that the Haiti bill was a possible vehicle for the immigration measure, but said that no decision had been made. The immigration legislation is one of several measures that Democratic leaders hope to shoehorn into the lame-duck session, but most Republicans will push back just as hard. In a Senate floor speech on Wednesday morning, Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., laid out a narrow range of priorities that Republicans could work on with Democrats, including job creation, debt reduction, nuclear power, clean-coal technology and maintaining the Bush tax cuts. Immigration was not on the list. “I would be remiss if I didn’t also express some dismay with the priorities that are being put forward from the other side of the aisle,” McConnell said. Latino groups and advocacy organizations are clamoring for Democratic leaders to repay Hispanic voters for their high turnout for Democrats on Nov. 2. The bill’s supporters also know that any legislation seeking to provide a path to legal status for undocumented immigrants will stand almost no chance in the 112th Congress with Republicans in control of the House. President Obama pledged Tuesday to help with the DREAM Act’s passage, telling Hispanic lawmakers at the White House that he would urge members of Congress to vote for the measure.Frances Symes and Doug Clendenin contributed to this story. ### Fox News:Haiti Adoption Complicates DREAM Act Push Meanwhile, the administration will be defending the president’s call to include the DREAM Act in the lame-duck session, presumably tacked on to some piece of emergency legislation. The president came out in support of the bill, which would give amnesty to illegal immigrants who go to college or serve in the armed forces, after meeting with members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. With scant hope for a border fix or a “pathway to citizenship” in the next two years and his own reelection bid looming, Obama needs to show his support for some kind of amnesty program. Republicans, though, are expected to raise a ruckus over the Help Haiti Act, a measure to ease adoptions from the devastated nation. Democrats yanked the bill from the calendar and Rep. Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) has sent a letter expressing concern about rumors that the popular measure will be used to aid the passage of the DREAM Act. One could be amended to the other or both could be added to another bill for a sweet and sour effect. From Fortenberry’s letter to the Democratic leadership: “My office has heard reports that this critical legislative fix, which would clear legal obstacles to U.S. citizenship for as many as 1200 Haitian orphans who were in the process of being adopted before the January 12 earthquake, may be used as a vehicle for a controversial immigration measure. Please know that while these vulnerable orphans’ status remains in limbo, they have fewer legal protections, may not be eligible for critical resources, and risk being forced to return to Haiti.” Read more: http://politics.blogs.foxnews.com/2010/11/17/todays-power-play-bloomberg-bid-would-help-obama#ixzz15Z9j4w6I ###
10.29.2010	LINCOLN, NE--Congressman Jeff Fortenberry commented on President Obama’s decision to permit continued U.S. military assistance to four nations that use child soldiers in violation of U.S. foreign assistance law. Fortenberry is the author of this law, the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2007, which was enacted in 2008 as part of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act. “Four out of six countries found by the U.S. Department of State to use child soldiers will effectively go unsanctioned for their pernicious human rights abuses,” said Fortenberry. “I recognize this was not a cavalier judgment, but it is important the Administration explain its decision. Our continued military assistance to countries that violate our foreign assistance laws presents an affront to our principles. It is true that we must work to help prevent spiraling instability and promote a semblance of just order in the midst of what are often highly volatile security situations. Yet we are obligated by law to combat this most serious human rights violation, especially prevalent in the world’s ungoverned spaces, where children can easily fall victim to coercion and abhorrent abuses. We must have an urgent dialogue about ending this human rights abuse, and that begins with the issue of military assistance to these countries.” The 2010 State Department Trafficking-in Persons Report is the first to contain the Fortenberry child soldiers reporting requirement. The 2010 Trafficking-in Persons Report identified the following major international violators of the child soldiers prohibition: Burma, Chad, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Somalia, Sudan, and Yemen. Fortenberry’s Child Soldiers measure, as signed into law on December 23, 2008, prohibits funds from being obligated to the government of a country identified by the Department of State as having governmental armed forces or government supported armed groups, including paramilitaries, militias, or civil defense forces, that recruit or use child soldiers, unless a presidential national security interest waiver is issued. President Obama today issued waivers for the governments of Chad, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Sudan, and Yemen. Fortenberry is a member of the House Foreign Affairs and Oversight and Government Reform Committees. ###
10.28.2010	Thank you, Major, Governor Heineman, Senator Johanns, General Lyons and distinguished guests: While there is much to say about the mixed emotions of this day marking the beginning of your first deployment as the 623rd - we are all very proud but also sorry to see you leave. What you do for us we will never be able to repay in words. Your sacrifice ensures our security, our capacity to exercise our rights. Your work protects our families and communities, all the while preserving our Republic. In your roles as members of the Nebraska Army National Guard, you are continuing the storied tradition of the American citizen soldier. We recognize the challenge this commitment places on you, your family, and your careers. Your time from us will be sorely missed, but by the grace of God your return home will be swift and safe. As soldiers you are equipped to fight, but you are also ready to build. This is the uniqueness of your mission in Afghanistan: To build out the capacity for increasing security, which is essential to long-term stability and diminishing the threat of terrorism and barbarism. Our first President George Washington said: "When we assumed the Soldier, we did not lay aside the Citizen." America is committed to supporting you, our defenders in the field. We are committed to supporting your families while you are away, and we are committed to supporting you when you return. We honor your sacrifice, and we will support you as you undertake this important and serious mission. America is proud of you. Nebraska is proud of you. I am proud of you. Thank you, soldiers. And thank you, families. I very much look forward to our next meeting, when you safely return. God Bless you.
10.27.2010	LINCOLN, NE — Congressman Jeff Fortenberry will meet with constituents throughout northeast Nebraska Thursday and Friday, October 21 and 22. A listing of the Congressman’s schedule follows. Members of the media are welcome to attend any of the following events. Thursday, October 21 12:30 pmAddress Leadership Dakota County ClassSouth Sioux City, City Offices1615 1st AvenueSouth Sioux City, NE Leadership Dakota County, an organization co-sponsored by the South Sioux City Chamber of Commerce and Northeast Community College, helps to identify and recruit emerging business and community leaders to develop and enhance their leadership skills. 2:30 pmGroundbreaking Ceremony for the “Sustainable Energy Options for Rural Nebraska” ProjectHaskell Agricultural Laboratory, Institute of Agriculture and Natural Resources, UNL57905 866th RoadConcord, NE The Sustainable Energy Options for Rural Nebraska project seeks to establish small-scale renewable energy systems for farmers, small businesses, and families in rural America. The project is funded in part by the U.S. Department of Energy. Friday, October 22 9:00 amReview College of Nursing and Renewable Energy ProgramNortheast Community College801 East Benjamin AvenueNorfolk, NE The J. Paul and Eleanor McIntosh College of Nursing, an educational partnership between Northeast Community College and the University of Nebraska Medical Center, opened this Fall for its first semester of classes. 11:00 amReview Nebraska Public Power District Norfolk Operations CenterNebraska Public Power DistrictNorfolk Operations Center800 E. Omaha AvenueNorfolk, NE The newly constructed operations center houses 93 employees, employs green or sustainable construction practices, and features wind and solar technologies as onsite public education displays. 1:30 pmReview the Norfolk Community Health Care Clinic110 N 16th Street, Suite 16Norfolk, NE 68701 The Norfolk Community Health Care Clinic is one of six federally qualified community health centers in the state of Nebraska. It provides a full range of medical services to residents of Madison County and the surrounding area. ###
09.30.2010	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today voted for HR 2378, the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives on a vote of 348-79. The bill addresses the Chinese government’s purposeful undervaluation of its currency, the renminbi, which keeps prices of its exports artificially low in international markets and prices of imports to China artificially high. “For years Chinese monetary policy has contributed to huge trade imbalances and an unfair competitive environment for American manufacturers,” Fortenberry said. “For too long, the U.S. government has ignored this inequity. This bill is a helpful first step in making trade between the U.S. and China a fairer, two-way street.” The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act would clarify U.S. law to ensure that countervailing duties can be imposed to offset the effects of an undervalued currency. Under the bill, countervailing duties would be available to any U.S. industry that could demonstrate that it has been "materially injured" by imports from the country with the undervalued currency.Fortenberry is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and the Oversight and Government Reform Committee. ###
09.29.2010	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry is calling on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to reconsider any plans it might have to change existing regulations involving farm dust. “Farm dust is not industrial pollution,” Fortenberry said. “Changing the existing dust rules is an overreach that has not been scientifically proven necessary. American farmers welcome the responsibility of being good stewards of our resources, but such a regulatory change would only appear to serve as an unfair and needless burden on those who grow our food and live in rural America.”As required every five years under the Clean Air Act, the EPA is reviewing its airborne pollutant standards for particles of industrial pollution, as well as slightly larger particles called "coarse particulate matter" that include dust. Fortenberry and other House Agriculture Committee members early this week expressed serious concerns on this matter to EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson. Fortenberry and his colleagues stated the following: “While we respect efforts for a clean and healthy environment, scientific studies do not support the need for revising the dust standard. We are hopeful that common sense will prevail and the EPA will refrain from causing extreme hardship to farmers, livestock producers, and other resource-based industries throughout rural America. Whether it is livestock kicking up dust, corn being combined, or a pickup driving down a gravel road, dust is a naturally-occurring event in rural areas. Common sense requires the EPA to acknowledge that the wind blows dust around in these areas, and that is a fact of life.”Fortenberry is a member of the House Agriculture Committee and the Oversight and Government Reform Committee.###
09.02.2010	LINCOLN, NE — Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today voiced his support for the direct Middle East peace talks between Israel and the Palestinian Authority. “It is important that the U.S. and other responsible nations support diplomatic efforts to help secure the Middle East,” Fortenberry said. “The current uncertainty is potentially disastrous. It is time to seize the headlines from those in the region who promote violence, enmity, and chaos.“Although this profoundly complicated situation will not be solved overnight, the administration should be commended for its work in bringing Israel and the Palestinian Authority to the table. It is my hope the direct talks will outline a viable path to establish the two-state solution, providing security for Israel and stability for the Palestinians. These talks present an historic opportunity to diminish terrorist activity and curtail Iranian interference in the region. President Mubarak of Egypt and King Abdullah of Jordan, in particular, have shown courage and leadership in working for reconciliation between Israel and the Palestinians, and it is my hope that the talks will benefit from their support.” President Obama held talks with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas, Egypt’s President Mubarak, and Jordan’s King Abdullah II yesterday in advance of the first formal round of direct talks between President Abbas and Prime Minister Netanyahu today.Fortenberry is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Middle East and South Asia. He is also a member of the House Democracy Partnership, a bipartisan 20-member commission established by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2005 to provide assistance to newly emerging democracies throughout the world, including Lebanon and Afghanistan.###
08.06.2010	LINCOLN, NE — Due to Speaker Pelosi calling the House of Representatives back into session in Washington, D.C., Congressman Jeff Fortenberry will be attending the Tuesday, August 10 town hall meetings in South Sioux City and Norfolk via video-conferencing. While congressional duties prevent Fortenberry from being there to personally meet with constituents, these town hall meetings will continue as planned with Fortenberry dialoguing live via video with constituents as much as the congressional schedule permits.Congressman Fortenberry will return to hold scheduled constituent town hall meetings on Wednesday, August 11, in Fremont, and Lincoln.A listing of the Congressman’s schedule follows. Members of the media are welcome to attend any of the following events. Tuesday, August 10 12 Noon South Sioux City Town Hall Meeting South Sioux City Council Chambers 1615 1st Avenue South Sioux City 5:00 PM Norfolk Town Hall Meeting Northeast Community College Lifelong Learning Center 801 E Benjamin Avenue Norfolk Wednesday, August 1112 Noon Fremont Town Hall Meeting Midland Lutheran College Dining Hall 900 North Clarkson Fremont7:00 PM Lincoln Town Hall Meeting Lincoln Southwest High School 7001 South 14th Street Lincoln###
08.02.2010	LINCOLN, NE—Congressman Jeff Fortenberry will conduct a walk-through of the Kawasaki Motors Manufacturing Corp. facility in Lincoln on Wednesday, August 4. Kawasaki employs approximately 1,300 at its Lincoln site. The Lincoln Kawasaki facility was recently awarded a contract to produce Metro rail cars for the Washington, D.C.-area Metrorail system. All-terrain vehicles, personal watercraft, utility vehicles, recreational utility vehicles, and wheels for ATVs and utility vehicles are also manufactured by Lincoln’s Kawasaki Motors Manufacturing Corp.Rep. Fortenberry to Discuss Manufacturing ExpansionLincoln Kawasaki Motors ManufacturingWednesday, August 4, 20102:00-3:00 PM CSTKawasaki Motors Manufacturing Corp6600 Northwest 27th Street, Lincoln, NE###
07.30.2010	LINCOLN, NE — Congressman Jeff Fortenberry will meet with constituents throughout eastern Nebraska during the month of August. He will hold constituent town hall meetings in South Sioux City, Norfolk, Fremont, and Lincoln.A listing of the Congressman’s schedule follows. Members of the media are welcome to attend any of the following events. Tuesday, August 1012 Noon South Sioux City Town Hall Meeting South Sioux City Council Chambers 1615 1st Avenue South Sioux City5:00 PM Norfolk Town Hall Meeting Northeast Community College Lifelong Learning Center 801 E Benjamin Avenue NorfolkWednesday, August 1112 Noon Fremont Town Hall Meeting Midland Lutheran College Dining Hall 900 North Clarkson Fremont7:00 PM Lincoln Town Hall Meeting Lincoln Southwest High School 7001 South 14th Street Lincoln###
07.28.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today joined House colleagues at a press conference to mark the 100 day anniversary of the BP Deepwater Horizon explosion that caused the oil leak in the Gulf Coast. Fortenberry issued the following statement:“One hundred days since the explosion that began the leak, there are three main priorities: ensuring the leak remains stopped, ensuring the environment is cleaned up, and ensuring a disaster like this doesn’t happen again. Communities within the Gulf Coast are still struggling to contain the damage and prevent further landfall of oil still remaining in the Gulf. Local residents are exhausting themselves, doing all they can to save their land, way of life, and environment. The effects from this spill will not lie within just the Gulf Coast, but will be felt nationwide for years to come. “America needs a bold new sustainable energy future. This needs to be built in multiple chapters, including a strong emphasis on renewable energy, including biofuels, wind, and solar, but we must guarantee our domestic resources are used in an environmentally responsible way. As a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, I am particularly interested in the seemingly cozy relationship BP and other oil companies have had with the regulatory agency overseeing their practices, the Minerals Management Service (MMS). There were clear signs that BP had problems with this particular well. Yet BP’s corporate culture failed to take necessary precautions and questions remain as to whether the oversight agency was negligent.“I am continuing to dialogue with my colleagues in Congress about a way to move forward that both respects the wisdom and wishes of the local community and ensures that protective measures are safe and environmentally sound. We must assure the American people that this will never happen again.”###
07.28.2010	Washington, D.C. -- At the invitation of Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, Dr. Thomas Hoenig, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, will deliver a special presentation in Lincoln on Friday, August 13. This informative event is free and open to the public. “Dr. Hoenig has raised important questions about the “too big to fail” philosophy of finance found on Wall Street and in Washington,” Fortenberry said. “A Midwesterner and devoted public servant, Dr. Hoenig provides an important voice and unique perspective in policy discussions involving our nation’s long-term fiscal stability and economic health. I am pleased to welcome him to Lincoln.” The topic of Dr. Hoenig’s speech is “Too Big to Fail, or Too Big to Succeed? Wall Street, Main Street, and America’s Economic Security.” The event will take place at the Mary Riepma Ross Media Arts Center, next to the UNL City Campus, on Friday, August 13, at 10:30 a.m. The Theatre’s address is 313 N. 13th Street. Presentation by Dr. Thomas Hoenig, President of the Kansas City Federal Reserve Bank Friday, August 13, 2010 10:30 a.m. Mary Riepma Ross Media Arts Center 313 N 13th Street Lincoln Biography of Dr. Thomas Hoenig: Dr. Hoenig took office on October 1, 1991, as the eighth chief executive of the Tenth District Federal Reserve Bank, at Kansas City. He is currently serving a full term that began March 1, 2006. In 2010, he serves as a voting member of the Federal Open Market Committee. Dr. Hoenig was born in September 1946 at Fort Madison, Iowa. He earned a B.A. in economics and mathematics from Benedictine College, Atchison, Kansas, and M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in economics from Iowa State University. Dr. Hoenig joined the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City in 1973 as an economist in the banking supervision area. He was named a vice president in 1981 and senior vice president in 1986. He has served as an instructor of economics at the University of Missouri-Kansas City and lectured on the U.S. banking and regulatory system for the People's Bank of China. Dr. Hoenig is a member of the Board of Trustees of the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation and serves on the boards of directors of Midwest Research Institute and Union Station.###
07.21.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Jeff Fortenberry’s Help Haitian Adoptees Immediately to Integrate Act of 2010 (H.R. 5283), also known as the Help HAITI Act, passed the House of Representatives this evening. This legislation would provide legal certainty to the more than 1,000 Haitian orphans who were evacuated to the United States after the earthquake. It would enable adoptive American families to obtain permanent residency for these children more quickly and efficiently. This legislation is the product of dialogue and outreach to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service. “I am pleased that Congress has today acted to give much-needed security to more than 1,000 Haitian orphans who were in the process of being adopted by American families before the tragic earthquake,” said Fortenberry. “These vulnerable children have endured heartbreaking tragedy to come to this country, and are now united with their adopted families in Nebraska and throughout the United States. The best thing we could do is give these children and their adoptive families the comfort of knowing they are here to stay.”Following the January earthquake, these orphans were evacuated to American soil by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security with the Haitian Government’s permission, before their adoptions could be finalized in Haitian courts. Due to a technicality in the law, however, these Haitian children, upon establishing a legal relationship with their adoptive U.S. parents, would have had to wait two years before they may become legal permanent residents. As long as their status in the United States remained temporary, they would have had fewer legal protections, might not have been eligible for critical resources, and faced the risk of being forced to repatriate to Haiti if something were to happen to their adoptive families.The House-passed Fortenberry Help HAITI Act of 2010 would help to normalize the immigration procedures involving Haitian orphans by allowing adoptive American families to apply immediately to obtain legal permanent residency for their children and enable to them eventually qualify for U.S. citizenship. This legislation would also help reduce the staff, monetary and other resource demands on the Department of Homeland Security’s U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service.Fortenberry is a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.###
07.16.2010	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry this week introduced the Renewable Fuels for America’s Future Act (H.R. 5757). The bill incentivizes biofuels production over current levels, saves taxpayer money, and builds renewable fuels transportation infrastructure across America. “America’s sustainable energy future will rely heavily on clean, renewable forms of energy,” Fortenberry said. “American biofuels are crucial to increased energy independence and environmental protection. The Renewable Fuels for America’s Future Act redesigns our national renewable fuels strategy, creating incentive for increased biofuels production while saving taxpayer money and developing much-needed biofuels transportation infrastructure. It’s a winner for farmers, for the environment, and for the American taxpayer.”The Fortenberry bill would extend for five years the ethanol blenders’ tax credit (or Volumetric Ethanol Excise Tax Credit) for ethanol produced beyond required levels. Currently, the Renewable Fuel Standard mandates a certain amount of ethanol that gasoline manufacturers and importers must use in their fuel. Fuel blenders, primarily oil companies, now receive the 45 cent per gallon tax credit on the mandated amount as well as any excess amount. H.R. 5757 effectively discontinues the credit paid to companies for blending mandated amounts of ethanol, saving an estimated $5.67 billion of taxpayer money in the first year of the bill’s enactment. The legislation also extends the current ethanol tariff, the Small Producers Tax Credit, and the Cellulosic Ethanol Production Tax Credit. Similar to provisions in the Harkin-Lugar biofuels bill in the U.S. Senate, the Fortenberry bill would require dual fueled vehicles and create incentives for ethanol fuel blend infrastructure, such as blender pumps and storage tanks.Economists Dr. Ernie Goss of Creighton University and Dr. Bruce Babcock of Iowa State University have conducted analyses of H.R. 5757. Dr. Goss has noted the measure would reduce taxpayer outlays and increase incentives for biofuels producers above required levels. Dr. Babcock concluded, “The primary economic impact of this proposal is that taxpayers would no longer pay the blenders credit on mandated volumes. In 2011, this would save taxpayers $5.67 billion, assuming that the $0.45 per gallon tax credit is paid on 12.6 billion gallons of ethanol.” Fortenberry, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, is a strong proponent of renewable fuels development and an early supporter of the 2005 energy bill that integrated biofuels into national energy policy.###
07.13.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today renewed his request for a congressional hearing on the spread of terrorist group al-Shabaab and the precarious security situation in the Horn of Africa. Al-Shabaab is a U.S.-designated foreign terrorist organization that now controls most of south-central Somalia and parts of Mogadishu, and has recently spread to northern Kenya and surrounding areas. Believed to have ties to al-Qaeda, it has claimed responsibility for Sunday’s terrorist attacks in Kampala, Uganda, that killed at least 74 people.“Al-Shabaab’s attacks in Kampala are particularly heinous,” said Fortenberry. “It is vitally important to understand the global security implications of al-Shabaab’s massive growth and extension of legitimacy within the Horn and East Africa,” said Fortenberry. “As the tragic Kampala attacks have indicated, al-Shabaab’s reach extends far beyond the boundaries of the Horn of Africa. With threats recently posed against Burundi as well, al-Shabaab is demonstrating an unprecedented change in its scope of operation that deserves closer attention.”On June 17, Fortenberry requested the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa and Global Health convene a hearing with Administration witnesses to have a clear understanding of the current situation and U.S. policy options to help strengthen international efforts to combat Somalia’s rapid devolution into a barbarous and chaotic safe haven for terrorists. Fortenberry is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa and Global Health and the Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on National Security. ###
07.08.2010	Lincoln, NE -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry tomorrow will review impacts of the BP oil spill on Gulf Coast communities and ecosystems. At the invitation of New Orleans Congressman Steve Scalise, Fortenberry will join a bipartisan group of House members in assessing the spill's damage."It is important we fully understand the profound environmental and social impacts of this disaster," Fortenberry said. "I anticipate a comprehensive, and disheartening, assessment of the situation."Fortenberry is a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. He will be available for media comment at the conclusion of the review Friday afternoon. To arrange a phone interview, please contact Josh Moenning at 402-570-2708 or Kerri Price at 202-225-4806.###
06.30.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, author of the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2007, which was successfully incorporated into the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2008, today commented on the State Department’s 2010 Trafficking-in Persons Report.The 2010 State Department Trafficking-in Persons Report is the first to contain the Fortenberry child soldiers reporting requirement. The 2010 Trafficking-in Persons Report identified the following major international violators of the child soldiers prohibition: Burma, Chad, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Somalia, the Sudan, and Yemen.“Now that we are aware of the major perpetrators of child conscription, we must reconcile the harsh dichotomy that presents an affront to our principles and moral sensibilities,” said Fortenberry. “On the one hand, we must work to help prevent spiraling instability and promote a semblance of just order in the midst of what are often highly volatile security situations. And in tandem, we are obligated by law to combat this most serious human rights violation, especially prevalent in the world’s ungoverned spaces, where children can easily fall victim to coercion and abhorrent abuses. We must have an urgent and important dialogue about ending this pernicious human rights abuse.”Fortenberry’s Child Soldiers measure, as signed into law on December 23, 2008, prohibits funds from being obligated to the government of a country identified by the Department of State as having governmental armed forces or government supported armed groups, including paramilitaries, militias, or civil defense forces, that recruit or use child soldiers. Beginning on October 1, 2010, international military education and training assistance, foreign military financing, excess defense articles, section 1206 assistance, and the issuance of licenses for direct commercial sales of military equipment will be withheld. Fortenberry is a member of the House Foreign Affairs and Oversight and Government Reform Committees.
06.25.2010	Lincoln, NE — Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today announced that Emma Morin of Lincoln has won the 2010 First Congressional District Art Competition. This nationwide competition began in the U.S. House of Representative in 1982 and serves as an opportunity for Members of Congress to showcase the artistic talents of high school students within their districts.Emma received first place honors for her acrylic painting on canvas, entitled “Home.” Her artwork now hangs in the U.S. Capitol, where it will remain on display for one year. Emma is the daughter of Dr. Peter and Lori Morin. She recently completed her junior year at Lincoln Pius X High School.Emma recently traveled to Washington, D.C. to attend a reception for competition winners from across the country and view her artwork at the Capitol. ###
06.10.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today presented the merits of his Veterans Entrepreneurial Transition Business Benefit Act, H.R. 114, to the House Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity. Following his testimony, the Paralyzed Veterans of America announced their support of this legislation.“Strengthening economic opportunities available to our nation’s veterans should be of highest legislative priority,” said Fortenberry. “Historically, the GI Bills have provided outstanding educational benefits with the overall goal of transitioning veterans into civilian life. As not all veterans pursue a path of higher education, allowing them to use their earned benefits to help establish and operate a business would augment the diversity of options available to them, and bolster the small business economy. I was pleased to present this initiative directly to members of the House Veterans Affairs Committee.”Fortenberry’s Veterans Entrepreneurial Transition Business Benefit Act would permit veterans eligible for assistance under the Montgomery G.I. Bill to elect to use their benefits to establish and operate a business that they will own as a source of income, while allowing the Secretary operational flexibility in implementing and managing the program. Fortenberry is currently drafting similar legislation that would offer this benefit under the post-9/11 G.I. Bill. Fortenberry is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee as well as the Oversight and Government Reform Committee and its National Security and Foreign Affairs Subcommittee. His testimony can be viewed at http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=keQSPfcfVIU###
06.10.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congressman Jeff Fortenberry is scheduled to testify before the House Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity tomorrow, June 10, at 1:00 p.m. EST. The Subcommittee will be considering legislation he authored in September 2008, the Veterans Entrepreneurial Transition Business Benefit Act.“Strengthening economic opportunities available to our nation’s veterans is a high legislative priority of mine,” said Fortenberry. “This legislation will increase the diversity of opportunities for veterans while bolstering the small business economy, and I look forward to testifying before the Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity tomorrow.”Fortenberry’s Veterans Entrepreneurial Transition Business Benefit Act would permit veterans eligible for assistance under the Montgomery G.I. Bill to elect to use their benefits to establish and operate a business that they will own as a primary source of income, while allowing the Secretary operational flexibility in implementing and managing the program. As there are currently new prospective beneficiaries who would not operate under the Montgomery G.I. Bill, Fortenberry will soon introduce similar legislation that would offer this benefit under the post-9/11 G.I. Bill. The Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity has jurisdiction over education of veterans, employment and training of veterans, vocational rehabilitation, veterans' housing programs, readjustment of servicemembers to civilian life, and servicemembers civil relief.###
05.25.2010	Congressional Nuclear Security Leaders Introduce Resolution to Halt US-Russia Civil Nuclear Cooperation AgreementWashington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE), co-founder of the Congressional Nuclear Security Caucus, and Congressman Edward Markey (D-MA), founder of the House Bipartisan Task Force on Nonproliferation, have taken action to halt a civil nuclear cooperation agreement between the United States and Russia, citing Russia’s ongoing involvement in Iran’s development of nuclear weapons capability and advanced conventional weapons. The two congressional nuclear security leaders introduced H. J. Res. 85, a bipartisan joint resolution of disapproval for the United States-Russia civil nuclear cooperation agreement, which the White House submitted for congressional review on May 10, 2010. Under United States law, a congressional resolution of disapproval passed by both the House of Representatives and Senate would prevent the President from implementing this civil nuclear cooperation agreement. “Russia needs to decide who it will be; a nation that stops the spread of nuclear weapons capabilities or accommodates it,” Fortenberry said. “Any nuclear agreement with Russia, particularly given its willingness to collaborate with the nuclear activities of Iran and Syria, deserves the closest scrutiny and examination. Congress must assert itself.”“Sadly, the reasons for opposition to this agreement have not changed in two years,” added Markey. “Russia continues to train Iranian nuclear physicists, supply to Iran sensitive nuclear technology, and give secret instruction on Russian soil to the Iranian Revolutionary Guard on the use of the advanced S-300 interceptor-missile systems.”Under the last Administration, the United States-Russia civil nuclear cooperation agreement was withdrawn after Russia’s 2008 armed conflict with Georgia. Russian forces continue to remain today in Georgia’s separatist regions.Fortenberry is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and the National Security Subcommittee of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee.See below for the Fortenberry-Markey Dear Colleague, which elaborates on key concerns with the agreement.###Russia Should Not Receive U.S. Civil Nuclear CooperationFrom: The Honorable Jeff FortenberryBill: H.J.Res. 85Date: 5/24/2010Does Russia Want Nuclear Cooperation with the United States OR Iran and Syria?BECAUSE IT SHOULDN'T HAVE BOTH Dear Colleague:Earlier this month, the Administration resubmitted the proposed U.S.-Russian civil nuclear cooperation agreement for congressional review. The last Administration withdrew the agreement from congressional review both after bipartisan objections from the House of Representatives and Senate, and after Russia’s August 2008 armed conflict with Georgia.Under U.S. law, the agreement will automatically enter into force after 90 days of continuous session unless both the House of Representatives and Senate vote to stop it. We oppose this agreement, and have introduced a joint resolution of disapproval (H. J. Res 85) to block its entry into force.It is our contention that Congress should not allow the proposed U.S.-Russian civil nuclear cooperation agreement to enter into force for the following reasons:• Russia continues to assist Iran’s controversial nuclear program. Russia has a $1 billion contract for the construction of Iran’s large nuclear reactor at Bushehr, which is scheduled to become fully operational this year. This effort includes several shipments of nuclear fuel, the training of hundreds of Iranian nuclear scientists, and the continued presence of as many as 2000 Russian nuclear experts on Iranian soil. • Russia has sold Iran advanced conventional weapons and air-defense systems, and assisted Iran’s ballistic missile production program. Russia has delivered as many as 30 Tor M1 advanced anti-aircraft missile systems to Iran, and intends to deliver the sophisticated S-300 anti-aircraft missile system. Iran is using these systems to protect its nuclear facilities. The Director of National Intelligence has publicly assessed that Russian entities “continue to provide assistance to Iran’s ballistic missile program,” and have “helped Iran move toward self-sufficiency in the production of ballistic missiles.”• Russian entities continue to sell WMD-related technologies to Iran and other countries of concern, resulting in U.S. sanctions. In December 2009, the Washington Post reported Iran’s 2007 purchase of a Russian-made, high-speed laboratory camera used to calibrate the explosive shock waves that trigger nuclear detonations. That camera model was developed by a commercial spinoff of the All-Russia Research Institute of Experimental Physics, Russia’s premier nuclear weapons laboratory. Since 2001, the U.S. Government has sanctioned at least ten Russian entities on eleven separate occasions, including the state-designated arms exporter, Rosoboronexport.• Russia still occupies parts of Georgia. The last Administration withdrew the U.S.-Russian civil nuclear cooperation agreement from Congressional review after Russia and Georgia’s tense relations exploded into a sustained armed conflict in August 2008. The current Administration asserts that “the situation in Georgia need no longer be considered an obstacle to proceeding with proceeding with the proposed Agreement.” However, Russian forces remain in Georgia’s separatist regions, Abkhazia and South Ossetia, in violation of a cease-fire agreement. • Russian President Dmitry Medvedev and Syrian President Bashar Assad recently discussed the possibility of Russian-Syrian nuclear cooperation. Despite the fact that Syria is a signatory to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and therefore forbidden from seeking nuclear weapons, Israeli warplanes bombed a site where Syria apparently was building, with aid from North Korea, a nuclear reactor capable of producing weapons-usable nuclear material. While in Syria, President Medvedev also met with exiled Hamas leader Khaled Meshaal. We urge you to co-sponsor H. J. Res 85. For more information or to co-sponsor this Joint Resolution of Disapproval, please contact Dr. Katie Matthews in Congressman Markey’s office at 202-225-2836 or katie.matthews@mail.house.gov, or Robert Zarate in Congressman Fortenberry’s office at 202-225-4806 or robert.zarate@mail.house.gov. Sincerely /s/ /s/ EDWARD MARKEY JEFF FORTENBERRYMember of Congress Member of Congress
05.20.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today joined world-renowned conservationist Jane Goodall and Academy Award-nominated actor Don Cheadle in unveiling the Global Conservation Act. Jane Goodall is a frequent visitor to Nebraska, and Don Cheadle grew up in Lincoln. Fortenberry recently introduced the measure with Congressman Russ Carnahan (MO).“I am proud to join in leading this worthy effort to help protect some of our world's most important and magnificent ecosystems,” said Fortenberry. “Elements of international conservation are of critical import; 500 million persons in developing nations depend on fresh water from areas under threat of degradation, two billion people worldwide depend on rapidly diminishing fish stocks for much of their daily protein, and modern medicine depends upon natural compounds derived from increasingly fragile ecosystems.” The Global Conservation Act is a commonsense measure that would streamline existing U.S. global conservation initiatives to prioritize urgent needs and better leverage valuable U.S. resources to help preserve the world’s biodiversity and prevent the destruction of significant ecosystems. The measure does not authorize any new spending programs.“As a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, I am pleased that this measure will make more efficient use of taxpayer dollars in these challenging economic times,” Fortenberry said. “We owe it to our children and future generations to exercise prudent and responsible stewardship of our natural resources, without further indebting our nation.”Fortenberry is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and International Conservation Caucus. He is also the Ranking Member of the House Agriculture Subcommittee with oversight over U.S. forestry operations.###
05.19.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Jeff Fortenberry last week urged the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee’s leadership to conduct a hearing to examine federal government responsibility, oil spill liability, and prevention regarding the April 20, 2010 Gulf Coast oil spill. On Friday, the committee decided to investigate the role of the Minerals Management Service (MMS), the government regulatory body responsible for oversight of offshore oil drilling, in this disaster. “The harmful effects of this oil spill are likely to persist for years, perhaps decades, and I have stressed that congressional oversight of any regulatory lapses leading to this disaster is critical,” said Fortenberry. “We must ensure that appropriate safeguards are in place by the MMS to prevent any future incidents. Environmental security, the protection of a fragile Gulf Coast ecosystem, and the economic integrity of the seafood and maritime industries are all at stake. This disaster also impacts the goal of strengthening an environmentally sustainable domestic energy system.”The Committee on Oversight and Government Reform is the main investigative committee in the U.S. House of Representatives. It has authority to investigate the subjects within the Committee' legislative jurisdiction (governmental operations) as well as any matter within the jurisdiction of the other standing House Committees. Fortenberry serves on the Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittees on Domestic Policy and National Security and Foreign Affairs.###
05.18.2010	Sioux Falls, SD -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today heard testimony from a number of Midwestern farmers and livestock producers during a House Agriculture Committee field hearing in Sioux Falls.“Economies in the Great Plains have remained stable and relatively healthy during a significant national economic downturn, due largely to agriculture’s influence,” Fortenberry said. “The Heartland is well positioned to lead our economic recovery, with specialized opportunities in food and energy production. I was pleased to hear from farmers and livestock producers today about ways to craft good farm policies that will shape agricultural opportunity for coming generations of American farmers.” Over the last month, the House Agriculture Committee has hosted a series of public hearings on the next Farm Bill. Today’s hearing in Sioux Falls is the last of eight hearings held across the country, with the first held in Des Moines on April 30. Two Nebraskans provided testimony to the committee this morning. Mr. Rod Gangwish is a corn and soybean producer from Shelton. Mr. David Hallberg, of Omaha, is the CEO of Prime BioSolutions and the founder and former president of the Renewable Fuels Association and former director of the Nebraska Ethanol Board. A full list of panelists and their statements can be found at http://agriculture.house.gov/hearings/statements.html.###
05.13.2010	Lincoln, NE -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry announced today that Hope Edwards, a sophomore at Lincoln Southeast High School, has been accepted into the 2010 Summer Congressional Page Program.“I was pleased to recommend Hope as a congressional page,” Fortenberry said. “She is a very mature young person who demonstrates a strong commitment to academic excellence and active engagement in community service.”Hope is the daughter of Brian and Kathy Edwards of Lincoln. In addition to numerous school activities, she serves on the Lincoln Public Schools Youth School Board and the Mayor’s Youth Advisory Board. As a page, she will spend this summer living in Washington, D.C., attending classes and working on Capitol Hill. The page program is a nearly 200 year-old institution in Congress. Pages assist Members of Congress with their legislative duties, deliver correspondence and small packages within the congressional complex, answer phones in the Member cloakrooms, and prepare the House Floor for sessions.###
04.30.2010	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry commented on the United Nations’ (U.N.) decision earlier this week to elect Iran to its Commission on the Status of Women. A U.N. press release on Wednesday announced that Iran had been “elected by acclamation” to the commission.“This irresponsible decision calls into question the U.N.’s commitment to protecting and promoting the rights of women worldwide,” Fortenberry said. “Iran rejects the idea of legal equality for women and has a long record of blatant human rights violations, ranging from legally permitted acts of violence against women to government-sanctioned crackdowns to crush dissent. Iran’s promotion to this commission is an offense to women, and a direct contradiction to the U.N.’s own Universal Declaration of Human Rights.”Iranian law permits the stoning and lashing of women. The U.S. State Department’s Annual Human Rights Report on Iran, released in March, details reports of numerous human rights violations.Fortenberry is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and the Subcommittee on the Middle East.###
04.23.2010	Lincoln, NE -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today commented on a recently announced United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) plan to help schools use more fresh, locally raised food. The plan stems from an amendment Fortenberry helped add to the most recent Farm Bill.“Local foods systems reconnect farmers to families and rural to urban,” Fortenberry said. “I was pleased to help change the way schools can improve nutrition programs by using fresh, locally raised foods. This is increasingly important as we work to address childhood obesity concerns.“Emerging local and regional food economies also present exciting opportunities in agricultural entrepreneurship. They help generate new income for farmers, increase the availability of fresh, nutritious foods for consumers, and promote environmental stewardship by reducing transportation miles.”Fortenberry, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, introduced a successful amendment to the 2008 Farm Bill that allows public institutions to exercise “geographic preference” in sourcing local foods for nutrition programs. In a Federal Register notice earlier this week, USDA announced its plans to implement the “geographic preference” rule for use in schools and other public institutions, such as the Department of Defense Fresh Program. ###
04.13.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today commented on high-level discussions among world leaders at the Global Nuclear Security Summit held in Washington. Fortenberry, co-founder of the Congressional Nuclear Security Caucus, is scheduled to meet with key leaders during the Summit, which brings together 47 nations.“Nuclear terrorism and nuclear weapons proliferation pose horrific dangers to our nation and to global security,” Fortenberry said. “The Summit marks an important step toward collaborative efforts to prevent nuclear materials from falling into the hands of violent extremists and halt the weapons development efforts of volatile regimes. After the Summit ends, nuclear security must remain a top priority for the United States and other nations.”Yesterday, White House counterterrorism chief John Brennan reported on al-Qaeda’s aggressive and ongoing efforts to obtain the ingredients and expertise needed to assemble nuclear weapons. Meanwhile, President Obama and Chinese President Hu Jintao met to discuss Iran’s pursuit of nuclear weapons-making capabilities in defiance of international obligations.“Greater global commitment is needed to halt Iran’s controversial nuclear activities,” Fortenberry said. “I have long called for effective economic sanctions on the Iranian Government, given its unwillingness to join the responsible community of nations. Today I am joining fellow Members of Congress in a bipartisan effort to urge the President to rapidly implement the far-reaching sanctions legislation that Congress intends to pass.”Fortenberry, a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Subcommittee on Middle East and South Asia, co-founded the Congressional Nuclear Security Caucus in 2008. ###
04.05.2010	LINCOLN, NE -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, as a member of the House Democracy Partnership (HDP) delegation, last week concluded a series of meetings with Pakistan’s President Asif Zardari, Prime Minister Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani, and key members of the Pakistani parliament. The United States delegation also reviewed the security situation near the Afghan border.“The House Democracy Partnership has recently strengthened ties with Pakistan's parliament,” Fortenberry said. “The institution is attempting to reassert democratic processes in the country as evidenced by an agreement reached between Pakistan’s political parties, essentially restoring the country’s 1973 constitution and the authority of the prime minister. This agreement realized a long-sought achievement bolstering Pakistan’s democratic institutions. The Pakistanis are eager for a balanced governance model and hopefully the House Democracy Partnership may aid in building the technical capacities of the legislature.”Fortenberry also assessed security operations in the North West Frontier Province, near the Afghan border. This assessment included a meeting at the U.S. Consulate in Peshawar, which today came under attack by militants.“The Pakistani military is continuing significant security operations and showing a will to fight that is critical to regional stability and U.S.-led NATO efforts in Afghanistan,” said Fortenberry. Fortenberry also held official House Democracy Partnership meetings in Georgia and Bangladesh with President Mikheil Saakashvili and Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, respectively. HDP is a bipartisan 20-member commission established by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2005 to support the development of independent democratic legislatures. Fortenberry is also a member of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Middle East and South Asia.###
03.21.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry tonight voted against HR 3590, the Senate version of health care legislation supported by the Administration and Democratic leadership.“America needs the right kind of health care reform that lowers costs, improves health outcomes, and protects vulnerable persons,” Fortenberry said. “This bill, however, substantially shifts costs to more unsustainable government spending, erodes health care liberties, and increases health care expenses for many Americans. I cannot support it.“There is a better way - one that is bipartisan, with no backroom deals, and devoid of the Washington-style elitism that has plagued this debate. If we had taken a more pragmatic approach, we potentially could have reached 80 percent agreement on such critical issues as prevention and wellness, pre-existing conditions, and more affordable insurance options for small businesses, farmers and families. These are winning solutions for real reform and the building blocks of sustainable, patient-centered health care.”Fortenberry, a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, has supported various health care reform initiatives, including promoting health and wellness incentives, enhancing Health Savings Accounts, expanding existing public services such as community health centers and hospice care reimbursement, as well as creating new insurance models for vulnerable persons.###
03.19.2010	
03.19.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today commented on the reopening of Chinese markets to American pork. The trade agreement was announced late yesterday by U.S. Ag Secretary Tom Vilsack and U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk.“Agricultural exports help provide economic stability in rural America,” Fortenberry said. “Chinese pork markets are increasingly important to Nebraska’s hog farmers. After a lengthy delay, I am pleased this area of our trade relationship will soon return to normal.” Prior to H1N1 trade constraints, U.S. pork exports to China were valued at nearly $275 million in 2008 and China was the United States’ seventh largest market. Pork trade will now resume immediately once both sides finalize export documentation.Fortenberry, a member of the House Agriculture Committee, has pressed USDA and the U.S. Trade Representative over the last year to work urgently for normalized trade relationships benefitting American livestock producers. ###
03.17.2010	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today called for a straight “yes or no” vote on the Senate-approved health care legislation now before the House of Representatives. “A policy this costly, complex, and far-reaching deserves a “yes or no” vote,” Fortenberry said. “With one-sixth of America’s economy at stake, bypassing a direct vote undermines the democratic process and dishonors the trust Americans have placed in their elected representatives.”Fortenberry also expressed his concerns with the underlying bill. “We need the right kind of health care reform that lowers costs, improves health outcomes, and protects vulnerable persons. Unfortunately, this bill will significantly shift costs to more unsustainable government spending and erode health care liberties.” Fortenberry, a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, joined many of his colleagues this afternoon in seeking to stop the “Slaughter solution,” a legislative maneuver House leaders are considering to “deem” the Senate bill passed in the House without a direct vote.###
03.12.2010	Lincoln, NE -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, in conjunction with the Nebraska National Guard, will host a “U.S. Military Day” for high school and college students on Saturday, March 27, at the Nebraska Air National Guard Base in Lincoln. The “U.S. Military Day” is an opportunity for students and their parents to learn more about military opportunities, particularly the nomination process for U.S. Service Academies. Information regarding National Guard, Reserve, the Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC), and other military enlistment options will also be presented. Representatives from the Army, Air Force, Navy, Merchant Marine, and Coast Guard will be on hand to answer questions and provide information. Special military equipment and aircraft will also be on display as part of the event. U.S. Military DaySaturday, March 27, 20109 am to 12 noonNebraska Air National Guard Base2420 West Butler AvenueLincoln, NE Who Should Attend:Any Nebraska High School or College Students Interested in Military Opportunities Notices of U.S. Military Day have been distributed to all high schools in the First Congressional District. To register, please contact the Fortenberry Lincoln office at 402-438-1598 or toll free at 1-866-725-5255.
03.11.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today announced his support for a one-year moratorium on congressional earmarks in the FY11 appropriations bills. Earmarks are federal funds designated for projects that are supposed to be for high public purpose.“Americans are highly cynical of the spending process in Congress,” said Fortenberry. "Some approved congressional earmarks have been indefensible, while others have circumvented the rules or have been more appropriately the domain of the private sector or other divisions of government. While I believe lawmakers should have a role in directing funds to institutions serving a high public purpose, it is time for Congress to step back and, for the good of the country, fix this flawed system."Fortenberry has been a leader in earmark reform. Last year, Fortenberry re-introduced legislation, H.R 113, which would require the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct a standardized process for auditing earmarks and include the results of audits conducted on government agencies and organizations in an annual review to Congress. This review would give Americans a better idea of how their tax dollars are being spent in the future. Fortenberry is a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.###
03.10.2010	Washington D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today congratulated the women of the Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASP), who were honored today with the Congressional Gold Medal during a special ceremony in Washington D.C.“These women served America heroically,” Fortenberry said. “I am very pleased that their groundbreaking efforts are recognized today with the Congressional Gold Medal. The Women Airforce Service Pilots received a special call to serve their country during a time of great need, and they responded with extraordinary courage, excellence, and patriotism.”The WASP organization employed female pilots to fly military aircraft under the direction of the United States Army Air Forces during World War II. They became the first women in American history to fly U.S. military aircraft, flying more than 60 million miles of transport and support missions vital to the war effort. Thirty-eight of these brave women were killed while flying missions for their country.At today’s ceremony on Capitol Hill, at least three native Nebraskans posthumously received the Congressional Gold Medal: Dr. Grace “Betty” Clements, Evelyn “Sharpie” Sharp, and Lois Boien Durham. They were represented by members of their families: Mr. Robert Clements of Elmwood (representing his aunt, Clements), Ms. Diane Bartels of Lincoln (representing Sharp), and Mr. Douglas Durham of Omaha (representing his mother, Durham). Pictured Left to Right: Mr. Douglas Durham, Congressman Fortenberry, Ms. Diane Bartels, and Mr. Robert Clements.###
03.03.2010	By Don Walton - Lincoln Journal StarPolitics, rather than violence, is "now the name of the game in Iraq," a ranking U.S. diplomat told law students in Lincoln Monday."The people have chosen the political process," said Michael Corbin, deputy assistant secretary of state for Iraq issues.Once a negative force in the Mideast and Near East, Iraq can turn itself into a positive force in the region if it successfully manages its transition, Corbin said.Critical parliamentary elections will be held in Iraq on Sunday.Corbin spoke at the University of Nebraska College of Law with Rep. Jeff Fortenberry, his Lincoln host, at his side.Fortenberry is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and serves on its subcommittee on the Middle East and South Asia.While in Lincoln at the invitation of the congressman, Corbin met with members of the Iraqi community who live here, including Sunni, Shia and Yazidi groups.Iraq faces enormous challenges as it attempts to reinvent itself following Saddam Hussein's long, autocratic rule, Corbin said."The politics will be messy," he said. "It won't be Jeffersonian democracy."But Iraq potentially can have a bright future, Corbin said. Already, it has moved beyond what appeared to be the likelihood of civil war, he said."The Iraqis clearly have moved away from sectarian violence," Corbin said.Among the challenges ahead are the historic Kurd-Arab divide, official corruption and the need to protect the rights of minorities, he said.Corbin said he believes Iraq will seek a long-term security agreement with the United States in the wake of withdrawal of U.S. troops.The phased withdrawal ordered by President Barack Obama calls for a reduction to 50,000 U.S. troops by Sept. 1 and total withdrawal by the end of 2011.Asked whether the Iraq war has justified its cost in terms of lives lost on both sides and more than $700 billion in U.S. expenditures thus far, Corbin said: "This is something history will have to determine."Fortenberry told students the war has been "tremendously costly and painful."But, he said, the result of democratic change in Iraq could "hopefully lead to new modes of government that would transform the entire region" in a more peaceful fashion.http://journalstar.com/news/local/govt-and-politics/article_1e74a602-258c-11df-8b85-001cc4c002e0.html?print=1
03.03.2010	By Don Walton - Lincoln Journal StarRep. Jeff Fortenberry says federal "government overreach and overspending" is risking U.S. security.It has reached the point of potentially undermining both the nation's economic security and U.S. national security, the 1st District Republican congressman says.That, along with Iran's apparent determination to develop nuclear weapons, tops Fortenberry's concerns in this election year.Fortenberry will be seeking a fourth term in November.The international community needs to "ratchet up pressure" on Iran's ruling elite, the congressman says, by targeting a new round of economic sanctions at the personal assets of the Revolutionary Guard.Iranian development of nuclear weapons and the capacity to deliver them would be "a geopolitical game-changer," Fortenberry says.That would spark a nuclear arms race in the Mideast, he says.With Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad threatening Israel with "statements that are apocalyptic," Fortenberry says, a nuclear Iran would emerge as "a threat to the future of mankind."The "wild card now," Fortenberry says, is the opposition movement in Iran."It's important to clearly understand its depth and potential for continuity (and) focus on these people's call for a more moderate and just form of government."Fortenberry is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.The current level of U.S. domestic spending is unsustainable, the congressman says, and has created "tremendous anxiety and anger" in the country.That, along with "the extraordinary overreach by government," has energized citizens into what is being characterized as the tea party movement, he says.Domestic policy needs to focus on jobs now, Fortenberry says."An entrepreneurial wave is the solution," he says."But we need to start by getting the government's fiscal house in order."http://journalstar.com/news/local/govt-and-politics/article_a3dfb770-2620-11df-9a5e-001cc4c002e0.html?print=1
02.19.2010	Lincoln, NE – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry commented today on the newly-released International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) report on Iran's controversial nuclear program. In the report, the nuclear watchdog concludes that mounting evidence "raises concerns about the possible existence in Iran of past and current undisclosed activities related to the development of a nuclear payload for a missile.""The International Atomic Energy Agency has sounded the alarm on the Iranian regime's drive to nuclear weapons capability in defiance of longstanding international commitments," Fortenberry said. "The Agency's new Director-General, Yukiya Amano, deserves credit for issuing a forthright and honest assessment regarding the scope of Iran's nuclear ambitions.""Unless the international community imposes global pressure on Iran's clerical, political and military elites, Iran will continue to move closer and closer to possessing an ability to make a nuclear bomb on short notice," Fortenberry said. "Congress must now quickly pass pending sanctions legislation that targets the Iranian regime and especially the assets of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps. The international community must also commit."Fortenberry is a Member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. He is also co-founder of the Congressional Nuclear Security Caucus, a bipartisan task force that seeks to reduce nuclear dangers worldwide.###
02.11.2010	Lincoln, NE -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry will host a free summit on opportunities for small businesses to address health care costs on Wednesday, February 17, 2010, in Lincoln. “No one disputes the diagnosis – health care must be strengthened in America,” Fortenberry said. “One of my priorities is shifting the health care paradigm from a system that treats the symptoms of sickness and disease to one that promotes lifelong wellness and prevention. “Wednesday’s summit will feature local employers who are encouraging and incentivizing wellness for their employees and addressing costs in the process. We will also hear from wellness experts who assist companies in building individualized templates based on specific needs.”“Healthy Lifestyles, Healthy Companies:Addressing Rising Health Care Costsfor Nebraska Small Businesses”For individuals and businesses interested in controlling health care costs using health and wellness initiativesWednesday, February 17, 201010:00 a.m. – 12:00 noonMadonna Rehabilitation HospitalSheridan Room5401 South St. Lincoln, NEThis event is open to the public and media is welcome to attend. Please contact the Fortenberry Lincoln office at 402-438-1598 with any questions.###
02.08.2010	Will Address Lincoln Troop This EveningLincoln, NE -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today released the following statement regarding the 100th anniversary of the Boy Scouts of America. “The Boy Scouts are among America’s most cherished institutions. As Troops across the country celebrate 100 years of Scouting, Americans of all walks of life express their appreciation for the Scouts’ extraordinary commitment to promoting personal excellence, respect for outdoor life and nature, and responsible citizenship. These invaluable lessons have helped guide millions of boys and young men into adulthood for generations.” Fortenberry will address Boy Scout Troop 45 this evening in Lincoln at St. Joseph’s Church (1940 South 77th Street) at 7 p.m.###
01.29.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today joined his House Republican colleagues in an open discussion with President Obama about pressing matters before our nation."I appreciate the President's willingness to dialogue with us. He sought to defend his policies on jobs, the economy, and health care."The President seems sincere about the need for bipartisan collaboration for the good of the country. Unfortunately, bipartisanship has not been the hallmark of this Administration nor the leadership of Congress thus far.“There are many areas in which we should work together to address the economic concerns of American families, such as building strong local economies by promoting small business success and manufacturing, as well as taking steps to implement commonsense health care reforms such as addressing pre-existing conditions, allowing for portability of health insurance, and creating association plans for the self-employed and small businesspeople."###
01.27.2010	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today released the following comments on his expectations for President Obama’s State of the Union address this evening: “I hope the President will address the economic and national security concerns of American families. Having spent the better part of the last year on an unnecessarily partisan health care debate, he must now focus sincere attention on the health of our economy and the strength of our homeland security. “Lasting economic recovery must start at home with a renewed focus on hometown small businesses, entrepreneurs, and a revitalized manufacturing base. At the same time, Washington must get its fiscal house in order. Recent news of this year’s $1.35 trillion deficit is staggering. The combination of bailouts for Wall Street, excessive spending, and government overreach has run its course.“We must also strengthen our commitment to national security and global stability. We have committed expansive resources in Iraq and Afghanistan, yet an extremist ideologue exposes our vulnerabilities by successfully getting a bomb on a plane. We must recognize the threats to our security are very real, ranging from such acts of terror to nuclear weapons proliferation, and demand engagement from an international community too often content to benefit from American sacrifice.”###
01.22.2010	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry Monday will participate in a field hearing of the House Agriculture Committee’s Nutrition Subcommittee to review the effectiveness of federal nutrition programs. Fortenberry’s focus will be the programs’ impacts on individual health and wellness and the challenge of growing obesity rates. The hearing will be held in Colton, California, in the district of Subcommittee Chairman Joe Baca (D-CA). “Obesity is a major risk factor that leads to the onset of chronic diseases like diabetes, heart disease, some cancers, and strokes, and chronic diseases are driving 75 percent of every health care dollar,” Fortenberry said. “It is imperative that our public policies involving health care and nutrition promote and incentivize healthy practices and wellness. “Our nation’s foremost nutrition program enables persons in vulnerable circumstances to have access to a wide variety of nutrition selections. As we carefully allocate resources, an important topic of consideration should be the quality and health-promoting choices at the dinner table for families. This principle of healthy food combined with wise stewardship and personal responsibility should guide the goals of this program and other health-related policies.” In August, Fortenberry held a field hearing of the Nutrition Subcommittee in Lincoln. Its focus was “Addressing the ‘Health’ in Health Care: Nutrition, Prevention, and Wellness Practices.” Fortenberry is ranking member of the House Agriculture Committee’s Department Operations, Oversight, Nutrition, and Forestry Subcommittee.###
01.20.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Jeff Fortenberry, a member of the House Democracy Partnership, today commented on efforts the Partnership has made to aid the Haitian government via the successful transfer of the former U.S. Embassy building in Port-au-Prince. The two Haitian parliamentary buildings were destroyed in the January 12 earthquake, but the old U.S. Embassy building, 100 yards away, remains intact. The House Democracy Partnership had been working with the U.S. State Department to transfer the old Embassy to the Parliament since its closure in 2008, and the State Department this weekend announced it would provide the building to Haiti’s fractured government at nominal cost.“My condolences are with the friends and families of all Haitians who perished in the tragic quake, including those Senators and parliamentary staff who were pulled from the wreckage,” said Fortenberry. “While emergency relief aid generously streams into Haiti from across the world, it is imperative to assist the Haitian government in reconvening and taking appropriate legislative action to facilitate recovery. Through the work of the House Democracy Partnership, the U.S. State Department’s gesture of goodwill directly enables the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate to go about the urgent work of repairing the nation.”The House Democracy Partnership is a bipartisan 20-member commission established by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2005 to support the development of independent democratic legislatures. The House Democracy Partnership and the Haitian Parliament developed a relationship following Haiti’s 2006 elections in helping to strengthen Haiti’s legislative body. Fortenberry had earlier urged the Partnership to include Haiti among the select group of 14 partner countries, and has continued to work with Haitian parliamentarians, particularly on matters of oversight and government reform and agricultural assistance.###
01.18.2010	For the latest updates on the situation in Haiti, visit www.state.gov/haitiquake/ For Americans seeking information about U.S. Citizens in Haiti, call 1-888-407-4747Adoptions Info:U.S. citizens with pending adoption cases in Haiti are requested to contact the Department of State at AskCI@state.gov for information about their adoption case. In the inquiry, please include: full name and contact information of parents, full name(s) of child(ren), date(s) of birth of child(ren) [if known], and the name and contact information of orphanage. You can find additional information about adoptions in Haiti at http://adoption.state.gov/news/Haiti.html.Contributions/Donations:The most effective way people can assist relief efforts is by making cash contributions to humanitarian organizations that are conducting relief operations. Information on organizations responding to the humanitarian situation in Haiti may be available at www.reliefweb.int, and at USAID: www.usaid.gov – Keyword: Donations.U.S. citizens who wish to contribute to the relief effort for Haiti after the earthquake, either online or by text message, can visit www.WhiteHouse.gov.The State Department helped set up a short code for those wishing to send immediate monetary assistance. To take advantage of this, people can text "HAITI to "90999" and $10 will be given automatically to the Red Cross, charged to your cell phone bill. Volunteer Opportunities:Additionally, persons who wish to provide assistance or expertise in Haiti are asked to contact the Center for International Disaster Information. The Center, operated under a grant from the United States Agency for International Development's Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance, has established a dedicated page to coordinate Haiti support at: http://www.cidi.org/incident/haiti-10a/, 703-276-1914. Haitian Citizens in the U.S.:Haitian citizens in the U.S. should call the Haitian Embassy in Washington, D.C., 202-332-4090, or the Haitian Consulate in New York City, 305-859-2003.###
01.18.2010	LINCOLN, NE -- Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today released the following statement in observation of the national Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday:“Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s work is a testament to the power of the individual, in concert with community, to truly work for justice and uplift the most vulnerable. Each year this day awakens in our hearts and conscience the efforts we can make to quell the pernicious tides of despair and injustice throughout the world. Reverend King’s life, though abruptly ended in a brutal and tragic act, awoke in our nation's conscience the need for healing from racism, oppression and degradation. Today, we honor his efforts, and renew our commitment to respecting the life and dignity of all persons.”###
01.13.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Jeff Fortenberry today joined a bipartisan effort to force leaders in the House and Senate to make public the ongoing health care reform negotiations.“This sweeping overhaul of America’s health care system, which will affect how every American gets the care he or she needs, must not be finalized in dark backrooms in Washington, D.C.,” said Fortenberry. “House and Senate leadership is now meeting behind closed doors, without the benefit of scrutiny from the American people and their representatives. Congressional leaders and the Administration should take to heart the motto inscribed on Nebraska’s State Capitol, ‘The Salvation of the State is Watchfulness in the Citizen.’” The Fortenberry-supported measure was filed on Wednesday to bring a vote before the House to publicly broadcast the House and Senate health care negotiations on C-SPAN. ###
