12.11.2018	Dear friends, After two decades representing Philadelphia and Delaware County, my time in Congress is coming to an end. My offices in Washington, DC and Chester are now permanently closed, while my offices on S. Broad St., E. Clearfield St., and Memphis St. will remain open until Tuesday, December 18th. However, we will no longer be able to accommodate any new tour requests, casework, or flag requests. Thank you for the opportunity to represent you in Washington. Serving the people of Pennsylvania’s First District has been the honor of a lifetime. Sincerely, Robert A. Brady
11.29.2018	Philadelphia - -- The Overbrook Monarchs football team is on its way to Florida, thanks to a $10,000 check from Congressman Bob Brady. In a brief ceremony today at the Granahan Playground Congressman Brady presented a check to Monarchs Founder and President Robert Ford to ensure that the team will be able to compete next month in the National Championship Tournament hosted by the United Youth Football League (UYFL) in Plant, Florida. The team was fundraising to pay for the trip but Ford said it was a struggle. "Once again Congressman Brady has come through for us. He has been with us from the very beginning." Brady said, "The Monarchs are much more than a football team. This is a year-long athletic program that helps young people avoid negative influences." Ford, who played football at Clarion University of Pennsylvania said, "Our team coaches are mostly professionals who live in the community and are dedicated to not only the team but to their families as well. And, thankfully Bob Brady has our back. He is our number one supporter."
10.19.2018	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) earned a perfect score on the Human Rights Campaign Congressional Scorecard measuring support for LGBTQ equality in the 115th Congress. “The HRC Congressional Scorecard serves as an important tool to understand where Members of Congress stand in LGBTQ equality,” said HRC President Chad Griffin. “As we face one of the most important elections of our lifetime, HRC’s Congressional Scorecard makes clear that it is crucial for fair-minded voters to turn out in force to elect a pro-equality majority to Congress.” Brady said he is proud to be among a group of 184 Members of Congress – all Democrats, 0 Republicans - who earned perfect scores on LGBTQ specific legislation. “It is important that we understand that the LGBTQ community is diverse and includes people of all races, ethnicities, gender, religion and age. I am pleased to stand on the right side of history and to have earned a 100 on the Human Rights Campaign’s Congressional Scorecard.” HRC Scorecard available at www.hrc.org/scorecard
06.27.2018	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Bob Brady (D-PA) released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s 5-4 decision in Janus v. AFSCME: “Today’s Supreme Court decision is the latest conservative attack on working Americans and their families. Public sector unions use fair share fees to bargain for all public service employees, whether or not they are part of the union. If you get the benefits of collective bargaining, you should pay your fair share. By preventing unions from collecting these fees, the Supreme Court is placing the interests of the bosses ahead of our hardworking firefighters, teachers, and police. As a longtime member of the Carpenters’ and Teachers’ unions, I know firsthand the importance of organized labor. Our nation’s middle class was born from workers coming together to demand better wages and working conditions. While today’s decision is a setback, I will never stop working for every American’s right to a fair deal. Lastly, we should never forget that today’s decision is the direct result of a stolen Supreme Court seat. The Senate’s unprecedented refusal to confirm Merrick Garland paved the way for this blatant political ruling.”
06.19.2018	Philadelphia --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) today released the following statement on the Trump Administration’s family separation policy: “I have fought for a humane immigration policy by fighting for sanctuary, opposing deportations, and pressing for changes in our laws. And, as a father, I’m appalled by the disgraceful Trump policy of ripping babies out of their mothers’ arms. How in good conscience can the U.S. allow immigrant children to be torn away from their parents and put in cages? There is no satisfactory rationale for this! What is the trauma that these children and their parents are experiencing in the land of the free and the brave?” We cannot remain silent. We must act.”
06.15.2018	PHILADELPHIA --- Today, Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) Ranking Member of the House Administration Committee, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and 21 other senior Democrats sent a letter calling on President Donald Trump to immediately rescind three Executive Orders targeting federal whistleblowers. “Your Executive Orders are the most direct and systematic attack on whistleblower protections in a generation,” the Members wrote. “They strip federal employees of procedures that were put in place to protect them against retaliation by their superiors—who are often political appointees—and they deny whistleblowers the representation of union members when they are punished for speaking the truth. Your Executive Orders also degrade existing protections against undue partisanship in the federal workforce, allowing political appointees to terminate employees arbitrarily and without the check of meaningful collective bargaining.” The Members who joined the letter are top House Democrats Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Steny Hoyer (D-MD), James Clyburn (D-SC), Joe Crowley (D-NY), Linda Sanchez (D-CA), Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ), Bobby Scott (D-VA), Robert Brady (D-PA), Adam Smith (D-WA), John A. Yarmuth (D-KY), Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Nydia Velázquez (D-NY), Richard Neal (D-MA), Peter A. DeFazio (D-OR), Nita Lowey (D-NY), Timothy Walz (D-MN), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), James McGovern (D-MA), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), and Adam Schiff (D-CA). Brady said, “These hard working and dedicated federal employees deserve protection.” More than twenty years ago, Congress enacted protections for whistleblowers who report waste, fraud, and abuse. Before that, whistleblowers risked discipline, transfer, and termination in retaliation for their acts of patriotism. Collective bargaining and union representation provide the first line of defense to federal whistleblowers, along with established procedures to protect the non-partisan professionals who make up the U.S. civil service. “Your Executive Orders risk turning the federal workplace into a reality show environment in which they can be fired for raising concerns with potentially illegal orders, unsafe work conditions, sexual harassment, or waste, fraud, and abuse,” the Members wrote. “Your new Executive Orders will mark the end to meaningful contract bargaining in the federal government. They will incentivize agency managers and political appointees to impose their will and flout the legal requirement to negotiate mutually agreeable solutions. We believe the harms caused by your Executive Orders constitute an unprecedented attack on good governance and a professional, non-partisan civil service. For all of these reasons, we ask that you rescind them immediately.” The Executive Orders degrade longstanding whistleblower protections by: eliminating the ability of federal whistleblowers to challenge their firing in grievance proceedings before a neutral arbitrator certified by the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service; cutting off whistleblowers from receiving union representation by restricting the use of “official time” by union volunteers; physically expelling unions from the workplace by denying employees the use of office space in federal facilities unless those spaces are also provided to charities or employees pay market-rate rent to the agency for the space; overruling longstanding protections against arbitrary firing and subjecting federal employees to political favoritism; directing agency managers to reopen all collective bargaining agreements for renegotiation as soon as possible; imposing arbitrary deadlines for the collective bargaining process, without regard to the size or complexity of bargaining units; authorizing agency managers to dictate contract terms that will not be subject to independent review; and allowing agency managers to bypass mediation processes in the law, without agreement from the employees. Today’s Democratic letter follows a similar letter sent on June 11, 2018, by 21 House Republicans also calling on President Trump to rescind his executive orders. Their letter warned, “We are concerned that the recent Executive Orders embark upon a path that will undo many of the longstanding principles protected by law which establish checks and balances not only in the federal workplace, but for the American public.”
05.17.2018	PHOTO: Frankford student Danelly Cabrera with photo media teacher Adam Anderson PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) has selected the artwork of Danelly Cabrera, a 10th grade student at Frankford High to represent the First Congressional District in the 2018 Congressional High School Art Competition. Miss Cabrera utilized digital media to create her artwork, entitled “Double Exposure.” It features birds in-flight superimposed on the artist’s digital image. Miss Cabrera says she was using her hair as a metaphor for a nest from which the birds are flying. The work was also selected for The Center for Learning Through the Arts Award by the School District of Philadelphia. Miss Cabrera says she enjoys her classes with photo media teacher Adam Anderson, who also serves as lead technology teacher and art department coordinator at Frankford. But, as she completes her first year in high school she is not looking toward a career as an artist. She hopes to be a psychologist. The Cabrera family, originally from the Dominican Republic, moved to Philadelphia last year from New York. Congressman Brady said, “I was pleased to select the work of this talented high school freshman, new to Philadelphia and the First Congressional District, who is also an immigrant. In these politically confusing and troubled times in our nation it is important that we recognize the talents, aspirations and contributions of those who have come to America for a better life.” The Congressional art exhibition will be on display for ten months in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. “These young artists will have their work seen by hundreds of thousands people from across the country and around the world who visit the House office building and the U.S. Capitol,” Congressman Brady said.
04.09.2018	(Left to right) Congressman Brady, Mayor Jim Kenney, and Council President Darrell L. Clarke at the Project HOME facility opening PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) today joined with Congressmen Dwight Evans and Brendan Boyle and Philadelphia Mayor Kenney along with Philadelphia Council President Darrell Clarke at a newly opened Project HOME facility to highlight the need for federal funding to support critical safety net programs. Brady said Trump's budget makes those who need state, local and federal funding even more vulnerable. The city of Philadelphia receives critical funding from the federal government to help fight poverty and stabilize neighborhoods. However, even with this vital funding many key investments relied upon by our city still face a real threat under the Trump Administration. Highlighting the need for federal funding to support critical safety net programs including: affordable housing, Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), and education programs that are under attack in the Trump budget, Congressman Brady said, “It is deeply saddening that ever since President Trump has been in office, he has continually attacked critical housing programs that millions of Americans depend on nationwide to simply achieve the American dream of owning a home. This is reflected in his FY ‘19 budget outline, which would eliminate the Community Development Block Grant, the HOME Investment Partnerships program, as well as other key housing and community development programs.’’ Congressman Brady added, “Gutting core programs is harmful, short sighted and reckless. I have been a proud supporter of these programs throughout my time in Congress and will continue to fight to ensure they are robustly funded.” The elected officials gathered at Project HOME’s Ruth Williams House at the Gene & Marlene Epstein Building; a new affordable housing development that is home to 88 affordable units for homeless residents and residents who are at risk of becoming homeless in our city. The project received approximately $36 million in federal funds.
02.15.2018	PHILADELPHIA --- As Philadelphia continues to bask in the blazing hot glow of the Philadelphia Eagles victory in Super Bowl LII, Congressman Bob Brady (PA-1) and members of the SE Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Delaware Congressional delegations have introduced a resolution congratulating the Eagles on their historic victory. Brady said, “The Eagles overcame adversity and the naysayers and they prevailed and gave us an unforgettable and exciting victory. The Eagles deserve our collective and bi-partisan thanks for this history making win.” The resolution is co-sponsored by: Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13); Matt Cartwright (PA-17); Ryan A. Costello (PA-06); Charles W. Dent (PA-15); Dwight Evans (PA-02); Brian K. Fitzpatrick (PA-08); Patrick Meehan (PA-07); Lloyd Smucker (PA-16); Frank A. Lobiondo (NJ-02); Thomas MacArthur (NJ-03); Donald Norcross (NJ-01); Bonnie Watson-Coleman (NJ-12); and, Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-AL). The resolution celebrates the tenacity and can-do attitude of the team, coaches and staff while highlighting the love of Eagles’ fans. It states “… the unforgettable Super Bowl LII victory was the culmination of decades of hard work by the Philadelphia Eagles’ organization, exceptional leadership, and unwavering support from Eagles’ fans around the world.” It also underlines the team’s rocky journey to the Super Bowl, including the loss of starting quarterback, Carson Wentz and its underdog status. “The Philadelphia Eagles exemplify the grit and determination of the people of the Philadelphia region. This Super Bowl victory was a win for the fans as well as the City of Philadelphia that continues to successfully showcase itself as a world class destination for all to see, visit and call home,” said Congressman Boyle. “As a life-long Philadelphia Eagles fan, I’m excited to cosponsor this resolution congratulating them on winning the Super Bowl. I commend Coach Doug Pederson and the entire team for all of the hard work they put into this season. It was a thrilling and well-deserved victory,” said Congressman Cartwright. “I bleed green, and have since I was a little toddler. From Dick Vermeil to Buddy Ryan to some others I'd like to forget; from Mike Quick and Randall Cunningham to present day, I can still recite most of the lyrics to ‘Buddy's Watchin' You.’ I remember growing up watching the Eagles with my dad, occasionally going to the Vet to watch a game in the 700 level in winter gear. This was a special season and a special win. I take great pride in Philadelphia sports teams, and center Jason Kelce nailed the spirit of Birds fans with his speech,” said Congressman Costello. “The City of Philadelphia is a City that never gives up. It’s our heart, passion and drive that keeps moving all of the neighborhoods in Philly forward. It was teamwork, commitment and persistence that allowed our Eagles’ to fly high towards a shared goal. That is what the Philadelphia region is all about. As a lifelong Philadelphian I’ve cheered on our Eagles all my life. I am so proud to join with colleagues to celebrate the Eagles’ historic Super Bowl victory. Fly Eagles Fly,” Congressman Evans said. “I’ve been following the Eagles since I played 80 lb. football, and I’ve been rooting for them, even when it was hard to do,” Congressman Dent said. “It’s difficult to put in to words just how much this Super Bowl victory has meant to me, both as a Pennsylvanian and a fan. I’ve always viewed the Eagles by quarterback eras—from Norm Van Brocklin, to Roman Gabriel, to Ron Jaworski, to Randall Cunningham, to Donavan McNabb—but the Carson Wentz and Nick Foles dynamic has been such an impressive feat to witness, both in their ability to unify and rally their teammates and city, as well as their talent that brought a Super Bowl title to the city of Philadelphia. Go Birds!” Sunday, February 4th marked an historic day for the city of Philadelphia and Eagles fans around the country as our beloved Birds lifted the Lombardi trophy for the first time. Super Bowl LII MVP Nick Foles led a stellar Eagles offense, becoming the first ever player to both throw and catch a touchdown pass in a Super Bowl, while our defense battles until the clock hit zero. Of course, none of this would have been possible without the team’s incredible front office and coaching staff led by Doug Pederson,” said Congressman Fitzpatrick. “I have waited my whole life to say this: The Philadelphia Eagles are Super Bowl champions!” Congressman MacArthur said, “The underdog Philadelphia Eagles defeating the New England Patriots was unforgettable and proves that hard work and determination pays off. The head coach of the Eagles, Doug Pederson - a constituent of mine, showed tremendous leadership throughout the season and brought Philadelphia Eagles fans their first Super Bowl victory. South Jersey is proud of this team and their amazing win. Go Birds!” “This Eagles season has been an inspiring story of overcoming adversity, selflessness and a dedication to teamwork that has made this team an example to others both on and off the field. They’ve shown America how to win with grace, humility and good humor,” said Rep. Meehan. “I congratulate Coach Doug Pederson, the entire Eagles organization and Eagles fans across the country on a well-deserved victory.” “As a lifelong Eagles fan, I can safely say that South Jersey bleeds green just like our Philadelphia neighbors,” said Congressman Norcross. “Eagles fans have been flying high on the road to and from Super Bowl LII, it’s an amazing feeling that none of us will ever forget. The underdog story of this Eagles team, and their triumph in the face of adversity, mirrored the toughness and determination of our entire region. Our Eagles represent the spirit that makes our community so great, and now they are World Champions! Go Birds!” Congressman Smucker said,” Facing mounting challenges and adversity, the Philadelphia Eagles embraced their underdog status and never relented. Their Super Bowl victory reverberated throughout our commonwealth, and won the hearts of football fans across the country. I am extraordinarily proud of the players, coaches, and staff, and am thrilled for Eagles fans everywhere.” The resolution also quotes Eagles Head Coach Doug Pederson, “Not only do we have the best fans in the world, we now have the best team in the world.” When passed, the House Resolution will be entered into the Congressional Record, the official record of the proceedings and debates of the United States Congress. ###
02.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Jim Langevin (D-RI), co-chair of the Bipartisan Disabilities Caucus, and Congressman Robert Brady (D-PA) introduced the Air Carrier Access Amendments Act (ACAAA) to enhance air travel protections for people with disabilities. The ACAAA builds upon the accessibility framework established over 30 years ago by the Air Carrier Access Act, which was enacted to prohibit discrimination based on disability in air travel. “Despite three decades of progress, I know firsthand the challenges of airplane travel for someone with a disability,” said Congressman Langevin. “It’s time to update the standard of air travel for people with disabilities, who continue to face barriers when flying. This bill will promote inclusivity by making substantial improvements in ticketing, passenger assistance, and airplane accessibility and accommodation.” “Every American deserves the freedom to travel by air and I am proud to support a bill that will make it easier for Americans with disabilities to fly,” said Congressman Brady. “One of the top areas of complaint from members of Paralyzed Veterans of America is problems in safely accessing air travel,” said Paralyzed Veterans of America National President David Zurfluh. “Although the Air Carrier Access Act prohibits disability-based discrimination in air travel, too many of our members continue to suffer bodily harm in the boarding and deplaning process, and their wheelchairs sustain damage while being stowed and transported. We fully support the Air Carrier Access Amendments Act because it builds upon the ACAA by improving aircraft accessibility, increasing assistance training, and strengthening enforcement of these vital civil rights protections.” Identical legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI). The ACAAA includes numerous improvements to air travel. It requires the U.S. Department of Transportation to ensure disability-related complaints can be filed efficiently, establishes an Airline Passengers with Disabilities Bill of Rights, removes physical and communication barriers, and calls for a study of in-cabin personal wheelchair use. These provisions will reaffirm Congress’s commitment to the original intent of the ACAAA. Click here for a copy of the bill.
01.18.2018	Reforming the Congressional Accountability Act for a Better Congressional Workplace WASHINGTON – Today, a bipartisan group of Members introduced the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 Reform Act (CAA Reform Act). Led by Committee on House Administration Chairman Gregg Harper (MS-3), the CAA Reform Act is co-sponsored by Committee Ranking Member Robert Brady (PA-1), and the Members of the Committee on House Administration, Representatives Rodney Davis (IL-13), Barbara Comstock (VA-10), Mark Walker (NC-6), Adrian Smith (NE-3), Barry Loudermilk (GA-11), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), and Jamie Raskin (MD-8). In addition, the bill is cosponsored by Representatives Bradley Byrne (AL-1), Jackie Speier (CA-14), and Committee on Ethics Chairwoman Susan Brooks (IN-5) and Ranking Member Ted Deutch (FL-22). The Committee has undertaken a comprehensive review of the laws, procedures, and resources relating to sexual harassment in the House. The reforms to the Congressional Accountability Act (CAA), as well as to the House of Representatives, will make for a safer and more productive work environment in the House and across the Legislative Branch. Together, the Members issued the following statement: “From the beginning of this review, we sought to work collectively and in a bipartisan manner to identify the necessary reforms that ensure the initiation, investigation, and adjudication processes, protect the rights of employees, as well as create a safer work environment within the Legislative Branch. The Committee held two hearings with experts on these topics, listening sessions with Members, a roundtable with stakeholders, as well as meeting with victims’ advocates. “The CAA Reform Act brings more transparency, accountability, and stronger protections for employees. It institutes a respectful, more streamlined process for individuals to report claims and reach a resolution. Ultimately, these reforms will strengthen protections for individuals and needed accountability in the workplace. In addition to the reforms made to the CAA, the Committee recommends a number of House administrative reforms that will take immediate effect upon passage of the CAA Reform Act. The reforms will support the CAA Reform Act, including prohibiting Members Representational Allowance (MRA) funds from going to any future sexual harassment settlements. We are appreciative for the bipartisan support in this process. We believe the proposed comprehensive reforms will pave the way for a safer and more productive congressional workplace.” Background: H.R.4822, the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 Reform Act Strengthens the Dispute Resolution Process and Protections of Employee Rights under the Congressional Accountability Act Hold Members Personally Responsible Increases Transparency of Member Conduct, Awards, and Settlements through the Office of Compliance (OOC) Protects employees: o Provides House employees with immediate access to a dedicated advocate who will provide legal consultation, representation, and assistance in proceedings before the OOC and Committee on Ethics; o Provides opportunities for employees to work remotely or request paid leave without fear of retribution; o Ensures confidentiality of processes; o Directs the OOC to conduct climate survey of employees every two years that would include surveying attitudes on sexual harassment in the workplace; and o Ensures every House Office has an anti-discrimination/anti-harassment policy. Streamlines and strengthens the dispute resolution and reporting processes: o Eliminates the mandatory counseling and mediation provisions allowing an employee to proceed to an investigation or to file in federal court; o Directs the OOC General Counsel to make one of three findings: 1) reasonable cause for claim; 2) no reasonable cause for claim; and 3) no findings of reasonable cause can be made before any hearing on the merits can be held; and o Maintains opportunities for the employee to engage in mediation. Members held personally responsible for any sexual harassment award or settlement: o Holds Members personally accountable for their conduct and requires awards or settlements to be repaid by the Member to the Treasury account within 90 days; o Ensures Members who leave office will still be responsible for repaying the Treasury, including garnishing annuities to ensure full repayment; o Requires claims to be automatically referred to the Committee on Ethics when there is a final award or settlement reached against a Member; o Ensures due process by allowing a Member to protect their interest; o Clarifies that Member-on-Member harassment is a violation of the Official Code of Conduct; and o Requires the Member or Employing Office to certify that no Members’ Representational Allowance (MRA) or official House funds are used to pay a settlement in connection with conduct prohibited under the Congressional Accountability Act. Strengthens transparency: o Requires the OOC to report and publish online every six months information on awards and settlements. Reports must include: the employing office; the amount of the award or settlement; the violation claim(s); and, when a claim was issued against a Member, whether the Member has personally repaid the Treasury account.
12.07.2017	Philadelphia--- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) is a co-sponsor of H.R. 4541, a bill that reauthorizes funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), Community Health Centers and other important public health programs while paying for it in a common sense way that does not strip funds from other health care programs. Funding for CHIP expired on September 30, putting health care for nearly nine million American children at risk. The legislation fully extends CHIP for five years, and Community Health Centers (CHCs) and other important public health programs for two years. It also takes important steps to address the critical health care needs of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. “As our Republican colleagues continue to stonewall on reauthorizing CHIP, we have to do all we can to ensure that Congress does its job and funds health care for children in families living on the economic edge, including the nearly 350,000 children enrolled in public health programs in Pennsylvania,” Brady said. “It’s unconscionable for Congress to turn its back on funding health care for children who are living healthier lives because of CHIP, a program that works.” The bill responsibly pays for these programs by shifting the timing of payments to Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D plans, as recommended by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General and the Government Accountability Office. This proposal stands in stark contrast to the House Republican plan that raids the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and Medicare. House Republicans want to strip health coverage from as many as 688,000 people by reducing the time that people have to pay their premiums, cut $6.35 billion from the ACA’s Prevention Fund, and cut $5.8 billion from Medicare by raising premiums and undercutting the program. “For months, Congressional Republicans have refused to agree to any meaningful bipartisan action, and instead have decided to strip health care away from hundreds of thousands of people, sabotage the Affordable Care Act, and undermine Medicare,” Brady said. “H.R. 4541, reauthorizes CHIP, Community Health Centers and other important public health programs while funding them in a reasonable way that doesn’t take health insurance and services away from children and families.”
11.30.2017	The House on Wednesday adopted by voice vote a resolution that would require all House employees - including Members – to be trained annually on workplace harassment and discrimination. As Ranking Democrat on the Committee on House Administration, Congressman Bob Brady shepherded the legislation through the Congressional session. And, Congressman Brady shared his strong support for H.Res. 630, introduced by Congresswoman Jackie Speier (D., CA). The Congressman said, “Make no mistake about it, this is bullying – sexual bullying harassment. I have a wife, daughter, granddaughter and great granddaughter. I have a responsibility to protect them. In the peoples’ House we have mothers, wives, daughters, granddaughters and great granddaughters. We have a responsibility to protect them. I wonder if women would be disrespected and sexually bullied if their husband or father were standing next to them? That’s why I say men who do that are bullies and cowards. Just treat women with the respect and dignity that you would your own mother!” The Office of Compliance will develop and implement the training program. The resolution mandates the training for current Members and employees in the 115th Congress within 180 days of the beginning of the second session in January.
11.29.2017	Congressman Bob Brady with Honor Guard at the HELP USA and Philadelphia Housing Authority groundbreaking ceremony Congressman Bob Brady took part in the HELP USA and Philadelphia Housing Authority groundbreaking ceremony to unveil the transformation of an abandoned school into affordable housing for veterans. Brady said, “I want to build a lot more of these facilities. This is what we’re supposed to be doing in this business. We have men and women who made a lot of sacrifices for us, and these veterans have to come home to something; They deserve a place to stay when they return home. We need to let them know that we care for them and that we have to provide them with a place to live in dignity.”
10.04.2017	How many times are we going to say "Our hearts and prayers are with the families of those killed"? As a nation, as elected officials and as individuals we are obligated to break the logjam against gun reform. How long are we going to let the NRA dictate policy?
09.28.2017	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) has requested that the Department of Defense (DOD) mobilize its airlift capabilities to transport supplies gathered in Pennsylvania to aid Puerto Ricans and citizens in the U.S. Virgin Islands suffering in the aftermath of the ravages of Hurricane Maria. In a letter to Secretary of Defense James Mattis, Congressman Brady requested that the DOD facilitate transport of vitally needed supplies that have been collected by concerned community organizations and medicines and supplies donated by area pharmaceutical companies. Explaining that Philadelphia has the second largest Puerto Rican population in the country, Congressman Brady also suggested to Secretary Mattis the use of the Joint Base MacGuire-Dix-Lakehurst as the departure point for supplies to be transported to the recovery areas. The Congressman is also signed on to a letter by Congressperson Nydia Velazquz (D-NY) and more than 120 members of Congress to President Trump requesting DOD increased support for Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands recovery. That letter states, “Given the impact of the damage and the population of 3.6 million American citizens affected, we are concerned that federal efforts to date have been insufficient to address the severity of the situation.” The letter further offers that. “…a senior general officer must be appointed to work with FEMA to manage a joint response assist with the recovery effort on the ground, and enable local constituencies to have a single point of contact.” The Congressman said he has also asked the U.S. Postal Service to clarify the status of mail service to the islands. In closing, Congressman Brady said, ‘‘Hurricane Maria’s level of destruction and its aftermath demands that government fully engage its most efficient resources to aid the recovery of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. It is definitely an all hands on deck situation.”
09.05.2017	Philadelphia --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) released the following statement in response to President Trump's decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: "The revocation of DACA by our president is just one more indication that all of us who believe in America's highest ideals must push back with all the power we have to pass the DREAM Act. The DREAMers should not be abandoned and thrown back because of the petty and short sighted whims of our president."
08.25.2017	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) says SEPTA should shut down the Norristown High Speed Line (NHSL) while the investigation of the train crash continues. After visiting the 69th Street Transportation Center this morning for a firsthand look at the accident site, Brady said SEPTA should utilize shuttle buses until they determine what caused the Tuesday crash in Upper Darby. “We have no indication what caused this crash and until that can be decided SEPTA needs to err on the side of caution and in the best interests of the riding public.” Brady added, “I’m frustrated because rather than hearing what the problem is all I hear is that this investigation is continuing as well as the investigation of the crash six months ago.” In addition, Brady said he has talked to Upper Darby Mayor Thomas Micozzie who has also expressed his concerns regarding rail safety at the transportation center. In closing, Brady said in spite of his continuing concerns for safety, the response from emergency personnel immediately following the crash was outstanding. “My criticism is not directed at the first responders. The police and fire personnel were on the scene within minutes and were able to give aid and transport the injured passengers and crewmembers. Their actions should not be overlooked.” ###
08.23.2017	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) is calling for an expedited investigation of yesterday’s early morning crash of the Norristown High Speed Line in the Upper Darby 69th Street Transportation Center. Brady says he has expressed his concern in a letter to Robert Sumwalt, the chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board. “We need answers now. It’s been six months since a train on SEPTA’s Market-Frankford Line derailed when it crashed into a stopped train. And, that investigation is still going on,” the Congressmen stressed. “Are we supposed to wait another six months to find out what led to this latest crash? We need answers now so the problems can be corrected and the riding public is safe.”
06.21.2017	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) and 200 Members of Congress have filed a federal lawsuit against President Trump for violating one of the Constitution’s critical anti-corruption provisions: the Foreign Emoluments Clause. The clause prohibits the President from accepting foreign payments without seeking and receiving Congressional authorization. “The Constitution’s Emoluments Clause is a major and vital guard against the corrupting influence of foreign governments.” said Congressman Brady. “The American people should have total confidence that the President is serving in their best interest, not to make him richer. President Trump’s refusal to disclose or seek Congress’s authorization for his extensive foreign business interests is a blatant violation of the Constitution, and a danger to our democratic principles. I am committed to using use every tool available to hold this President accountable to the Constitution and to the American people.” From the beginning of his Administration, President Trump’s embrace of Russia, pandering to Saudi Arabia, and sudden weakness before China have raised more and more questions about his financial conflicts of interest. Since the lawsuit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia last week, the media have revealed that President Trump has received additional foreign benefits – including new trademarks in China – and is brokering business deals in Saudi Arabia and the Persian Gulf while regional tensions escalate. The Emoluments Clause provides that “no Person holding any Office of Profit or Trust under [the United States], shall, without the Consent of the Congress, accept any present, Emolument, Office, or Title, of any kind whatever, from any King, Prince, or foreign State.”
06.01.2017	Philadelphia --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) today released the following statement re President Trump’s announcement of America’s withdrawal from the Paris climate accord: “The announcement today By President Trump is short-sighted and a giant step backwards as he has now linked arms with Syria and Nicaragua and ignored the more than 190 nations who are part of the Paris accord. He has also ignored the views of the Pentagon who see climate change as a major national security issue. In defense of his action the president pulls out of our rapidly warming air false statistics that claim the withdrawal will help the American economy and the business sector. Today’s action was incredibly irresponsible, no matter how many times he states he is putting America first.”
05.23.2017	PHOTO: Blya Ange Krouba holds her winning artwork, “Warning” at Upper Darby High School PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) has selected the artwork of Blya Ange Krouba, a 12th grade student at Upper Darby High School to represent the First Congressional District in the 2017 Congressional High School Art Competition. Miss Krouba, who was born in Ivory Coast, Africa, says her mixed media artwork “Warning” was created after she was told she was too dark to be pretty. She says “Warning” expresses the complications of having a dark complexion but also “…focuses on black people being beautiful, unapologetic, strong, human and educated in our world.” The artwork presents a well-dressed African American man reading a book. “The book in his hand is a symbol of his education. The fence surrounding him symbolizes the negativity that tries to shun his intelligence. The figure is unbothered by the fence and it seems as if he broke right through it,” Miss Krouba explains. The piece will be displayed along with the artwork other young winners from across the nation during the ten-month exhibition in the U.S. Capitol. Miss Krouba will continue her studies at the University of the Pittsburgh in the fall as a biology/pre-med major. In addition to being the First Congressional 2017 District Art Competition winner, she is also the 2017 Delaware County Community College art show award recipient. The art showcase, An Artistic Discovery, provides Members of Congress with the opportunity to present the talents and diversity of creative young artists in their districts for visitors to the Capitol to see. “These young artists will have their work seen by hundreds of thousands people from across the country and around the world who visit the House office building and the U.S. Capitol,” Congressman Brady said. “The Capitol exhibition not only encourages young artists, it also makes the overwhelming case regarding the importance of arts education in our schools.”
05.18.2017	Philadelphia ---- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) released the following statement after former FBI Director Robert Mueller III was appointed as special prosecutor: "Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein made the right decision in appointing a special counsel to oversee the investigation into Russia's interference in our presidential election. While I trust the FBI to handle the investigation in a professional manner, the Trump administration tainted Rosenstein during the firing of Director Comey. I call on former Director Robert Mueller to conduct a thorough investigation on behalf of the American people. However, this appointment does not dismiss the need for an independent commission to investigate Russia’s attack on our electoral process.” Earlier today, Brady joined his Democratic colleagues in signing a discharge petition on the Swalwell-Cummings Protecting Our Democracy Act, which would establish the independent, outside commission. "The special counsel does not remove the need for an outside commission," Brady repeated. "Mueller will be looking at any espionage, collusion or crimes committed during the Russian hack. But, we still need a 911 style commission to look into the hack and to find ways to prevent future foreign intervention in our elections." Brady serves as the top Democrat on the Committee on House Administration, which oversees Federal elections.
05.10.2017	Philadelphia --- Today, Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) issued the following statement in the aftermath of the firing of FBI Director James Comey: “Now that the person handling the main investigation of the Russian attack on last year’s presidential election has been fired, there can be no doubt that we need an independent special prosecutor more than ever.”
05.05.2017	Philadelphia --- Today, Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) issued the following statement re the House passage of Trumpcare: “This afternoon, the House GOP voted to make America sick again. And, I was proud to vote against this bill that takes away the basic right of our people to healthcare. It’s a sad day. My office has been inundated with calls from worried constituents. We heard their concerns loud and clear, but the GOP has turned its back to the very real concerns of these voters. Trumpcare gives states waivers from the requirement to sell plans that cover essential services, including preventive care, prescription drug coverage, and mental health and addiction treatment. It discriminates against older Americans who could end up being charged five times more than other consumers. It puts people with pre-existing conditions at risk and may force them to accept inferior coverage and pay catastrophic fees. The legislation also cuts Medicare and Medicaid by more than $1 trillion. If TrumpCare becomes law, all of America loses. And, the working poor and those with chronic illnesses will be devastated.”
05.01.2017	“I want to congratulate Democratic negotiators who were able to get the best possible deal for the American people in the delayed FY2017 Omnibus Appropriations Act. I am especially pleased that Democrats were able to: · Fight off attempts to legislate cutting Federal funds to so-called ‘sanctuary cities’ similar to the Trump executive order which has been stayed by the courts; · Win inclusion of $295.9 million to alleviate an emergency budget shortfall in Puerto Rico; · Allow the Treasury Department to provide financial planning and other technical assistance to the Puerto Rican government; · Deny President Trump’s request for US funding for a border wall which he claimed would be paid for by Mexico. I supported all of these provisions and I’m glad that our leadership was able to win their inclusion. This is not a perfect bill and we have a lot of work to do on FY2018 spending. But this deal is welcome news.”
04.11.2017	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) joined Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney and veterans for the unveiling of a POW/MIA ceremonial chair located in Philadelphia City Hall. The chair will remain empty and will serve as a permanent reminder of the 91,000 Americans who are missing or have been prisoners of war. Congressman Brady said the chair will remain as a constant reminder that we can never forget the sacrifices of our the brave men and women who have given their all to protect us and our nation. ### (l – r) Jim Kenney, Mayor, City of Phila. Hershel Williams, Congressional Medal Recipient Michael Thornton, Congressional Medal Recipient Ralph Galati, POW, Vietnam Congressman Brady Scott Brown, Director, Phila. Veterans Advisory Commission
04.07.2017	PHILADELPHIA – Today, House Armed Services Committee Member Bob Brady (D-PA) released the following statement about the U.S. strikes against the Syrian government: “After seeing the photos of children killed in the chemical attack, it is hard to disagree with the President’s decision to retaliate and strike the air base in Syria. The base, where U.S. officials say the Syrian military planes that dropped the chemicals took off from. But, the President should have conferred with Congress. He should have reached out and asked for support from our allies. Going it alone does not work in today’s world. And, he must come to Congress for all and any approval in the future.”
04.06.2017	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) says, “Medicaid funding for Puerto Rico must be a top priority and it must be immediate.” In a letter to Speaker Ryan, Brady and 73 House members stress that legislation must be enacted immediately to ensure full fiscal year financing for 2018 to avoid expiration of funding that could result in more than one million Puerto Ricans losing Medicaid coverage. The letter warns, “Congress’ failure to address this funding gap will not only exacerbate Puerto Rico’s already fragile fiscal condition but will deny health coverage to nearly one million residents on the island.” In addition, Brady and his fellow House members say, “Not addressing the ‘cliff’ will result in additional outmigration to the mainland, where the cost of providing Medicaid is much greater than on the island. “We are gravely concerned about the implications of the “cliff” and, for this reason, believe that it must have Congress’ full attention. The risks are too great to wait. Therefore, we urge you to make Medicaid funding for Puerto Rico a top priority and promptly bring legislation to the House floor as soon as possible.” “The residents of Puerto Rico should not have to suffer because of our unwillingness to act,” Congressman Brady said in conclusion.
03.29.2017	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) invites talented student artists attending high schools in the First Congressional District to take part in the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. The annual nationwide art competition provides Members of Congress with the opportunity to showcase the talents of creative young artists in their districts. Students from all high schools in the First Congressional District will be able to participate. Submissions must be uploaded to Congressman Brady’s Facebook page or submitted by email to PA01ArtComp@mail.house.gov by 5 pm, Wednesday, April 25. One winning entry will be selected from the entries in the District – this winning work of art will be taken to Washington, D.C. to hang in the U.S. Capitol for a year. The winning artist will also be invited to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony in Washington, D.C. with the other winners from across the country. Application details for the competition are available on Representative’s Brady website: www.Brady.house.gov/artcomp. “This is a great opportunity for student artists to be recognized and for their talents to be displayed for the thousands of people who visit the House office buildings and the U. S. Capitol, especially in a time when school art funding is diminishing,” said Congressman Brady. The annual competition and celebration is one of the most popular attractions in the U.S. House of Representatives. Downloads » 2018 Rules and Regulations.pdf» 2018 Rules for Students and Teachers.pdf
03.27.2017	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) released the following statement after Speaker Ryan pulled vote for TrumpCare bill: “I am pleased that the Republicans failed in their efforts to snatch back a healthcare system that is working for millions of Americans. I am sorry that Republicans have not had the opportunity to talk to my constituents who before Obamacare did not have healthcare insurance. Sure there are tweaks that can be made to Obamacare and we can do that on hopefully a bipartisan effort on behalf of the American people. And, it is interesting that President Trump and Speaker Ryan tried their best to repeal the bill on the 7th anniversary of the Affordable Care Act. It seems as though they have a vendetta against President Obama and they are willing endanger the health of Americans in that effort.“
03.20.2017	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) in a strongly worded letter urged President Trump to support full funding for the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) and the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) “Defunding the NEA and the NEH would adversely affect communities in which the arts and humanities are not easily accessible and deprive our nation’s youth of the opportunity to learn about our artistic and cultural history.” Services that would be affected by the defunding of these organizations/agencies include: The NEA’s Military Healing Arts Partnership that funds centers across the country that utilize creative arts therapy, such as music therapy and therapeutic writing as a means of treating brain injuries and the psychological health issues for service members; and, NEH’s PRIME TIME Family Reading Time program that provides nearly 60,000 underserved children and their families in 42 states with the opportunity to engage with literature on a weekly basis, in an attempt to combat intergenerational illiteracy in over 1,000 communities across the country. In addition, the Brady letter outlines that the defunding of these arts and cultural initiatives would drastically affect our economy. “The arts and cultural sector generated $704.2 billion, 4.23% of our nation’s GDP, and employed 4.7 million Americans who collectively made over $330 billion in 2013.” In closing, the letter signed by 32 Representatives stresses, “Eliminating these programs would be detrimental to our military, our students and our economy. We strongly urge you to support full and robust funding for the NEA and NEH in the FY2018 budget, as exposure to the arts and humanities benefits all Americans.”
03.03.2017	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Bob Brady, (D - PA) joined 164 of his colleagues, including all Democratic members of the House Ways and Means Committee and two House Republicans in sending a letter to demand the tax returns of President Donald Trump for review by the Senate Committee on Finance and House Committee on Ways and Means. Brady said, “For 40 years our Presidents have released their tax returns in the interest of transparency, but this President has defied what is an important tradition. What is he hiding?” The letter states: “These Committees have broad jurisdiction over a variety of laws that affect the lives of millions of Americans, including the federal tax law. The President and Congressional Republicans have been very vocal regarding their desire to enact comprehensive tax reform this Congress. We believe that it is imperative for the public to know and understand how such tax reform will benefit the President, his 564 financial positions in domestic and foreign companies, and his self-reported net worth of more than $10 billion.” Congressman Brady says he agrees with the premise that these Committees have broad jurisdiction over a variety of laws that affect the lives of millions of Americans, including the federal tax law. The letter further cautions, “If the President does not either release his returns or consent to examination of such returns by this Committee, we urge you, as Chairman of the Committee and pursuant to Section 6103(f)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, to submit a written request to the Secretary of the Treasury by March 1, 2017, for copies of the President’s federal tax returns for the last ten years. These returns and all accompanying return information should then be made available for examination by all Committee Members in a closed executive session. We further request that the Committee then vote in this closed session to submit the President’s federal tax returns to the House of Representatives and Senate —thereby, if successful, making them available to the public.”
02.27.2017	Congressman Bob Brady today made the following statement regarding the vandalizing of a Jewish Cemetery in Philadelphia: “This is an absolute disgrace! And, I strongly condemn the desecration of the Jewish portion of the Mt. Carmel Cemetery. I have talked to the mayor and the police commissioner who have pledged to do all they can to find and bring to justice those responsible. We have to be especially vigilant in these times that we do not allow expressions of hate directed at any group to go unpunished.”
02.23.2017	PHILADELPHIA ---- “We must have immediate action against what seems to be a reign of terror threats directed at Jewish Community Centers across the country,” said Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA). Brady has joined more than 150 Democrats and Republicans to strongly urge the FBI, Homeland Security and the U.S. Attorney General to take swift action to address the number of bomb threats that have been phoned in to Jewish Community centers scattered throughout the country. According to the Jewish Community Centers Association of North America, in the first two months of 2017 there have been 68 incidents targeting 53 Centers in 26 states. In a joint letter, authored by Congresswoman Stephanie Murphy, the bi-partisan group of Representatives urge senior federal officials to, “... advise Congress on the steps that are being taken to deter these threats from being made, to identify and prosecute the perpetrators, and to enable JCCs to enhance security measures such as physical barriers and guards.” Brady added, “People are calling in bomb threats to centers that offer services for Jewish and non-Jewish families where children are being cared for, these threats cannot be ignored.”
02.23.2017	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Bob Brady, (D., PA) has signed an amicus brief challenging the Trump administration’s anti-immigrant and anti-refugee executive order. The brief in the Eastern District of New York case Darweesh, et. al. v. Trump charges that the Muslim and refugee ban is illegal and is un-American. Brady said, “I was at the Philadelphia airport in the midst of mass confusion when the ban first went into effect. Hundreds of people with visas who had endured months and sometimes years of vetting were denied entry and some were detained. Even more were stranded enroute to the U.S. It was absolute chaos.” Brady said, “This order’s religious discrimination is counter to the Fifth Amendment’s guarantee of due process, that as the brief outlines, �?… incorporates principles of equal protection under the Fourteenth Amendment.” Brady, whose Italian and Irish family were immigrants, added, “My Catholic family came to this country in search of the American dream and was welcomed here. But, the Trump order discriminates against those identified as Muslims, following their faith.“
02.16.2017	PHILADELPHIA – Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) has earned an A grade on the National Education Association’s Legislative Report Card for the 114th Congress which assesses votes and other relevant legislative actions from January 2015 through December 2016.. The Report Card tracks individual members of Congress overall support for public education, students and educators, with each member receiving a letter grade of A through F. Brady said he is proud to have earned the A grade, because he believes that quality education is the key to American success. “As a nation of mostly immigrants it’s important to understand that as America opened its arms to struggling, often non-literate and non-English speakers, the availability of public education provided the opportunity for these immigrant families to thrive.” Brady added, “In spite of the political polarization of Congress I will continue to support students, teachers, administrators and all education professionals to ensure that America provides the very best public education for all, regardless of race or class.” Full Scorecard Available at https://edadvocacy.nea.org/reportcard.
02.15.2017	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Bob Brady, (D., PA) has signed on to a letter to Speaker of the House of Representatives Paul Ryan to express concern regarding “efforts to undermine Title X family planning.” The letter signed by 162 House members charges Republicans with starting the 115th Congress , “… with a total assault on women’s choices, access to care and economic security.” The letter stresses, “Now with the most recent effort to weaken the Title X national family planning program through the Congressional Review Act, Republicans have demonstrated that they will stop at nothing to limit women’s access to vital health care. Sadly this includes contraception and family planning that all women need.” Title X is the only federal grant program dedicated solely to providing comprehensive family planning. Brady said, “It’s important to note that family planning, includes a range of services, such as contraception and basic preventative care. And, without the contraceptive services offered at Title X centers, the rates of unintended pregnancies would by 33% higher across the board and 30% higher for teens.” In conclusion the letter states, “Women across the United States, and the men who support them, have had enough. It is unconscionable that this common sense clarification has become a political football for members of Congress who want to limit women’s access to comprehensive reproductive health care. We urge you to stand in support of women and oppose this assault on contraceptive access and care.”
01.30.2017	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressmen Robert Brady, Brendon Boyle and Dwight Evans today decried the return of two Syrian families who were lawfully entering the United States through Philadelphia International Airport. Rep. Brady: “It is outrageous that after they were apparently vetted for years, and finally having been approved for permanent residency in this country these families were held and returned to a third country within hours of deplaning. This action may be a death sentence for them and is another example of how brain dead policy is dangerous and destructive.” Rep. Dwight Evans: “The Trump administration’s ban on immigrants most certainly qualifies as cruel and unusual. Today was a very sad day in the city of Brotherly Love. The Trump administration has turned its back on some of the most vulnerable people in the world. Philadelphia has welcomed immigrants from around the world for generations. President Trump’s Executive Order is Un-American and reprehensible. We must join together and speak out against the devastating effects of policy which is unfair and is causing unnecessary fear and uncertainty.” Rep. Boyle: "As the son of an Irish immigrant, I am proud of my country's proud tradition of accepting refugees who seek safety in the United States, after a long and thorough vetting process. That tradition should continue. President Trump's recent executive orders are cruel and un-American. The fact that he issued these orders on Holocaust Remembrance Day adds a truly bitter irony to this horrible situation. The President's orders turn away people fleeing the evil that we despise. Their application and implementation has caused chaos and confusion and must be reversed immediately." The three Congressmen, who together represent Philadelphia and much of its Delaware and Montgomery County suburbs, have reached out to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection offices in Philadelphia and Washington, but without response.
11.30.2016	PHILADELPHIA --- In a joint letter to House Appropriations Committee Chair Hal Roger (R., KY-5) and Ranking Member Nita Lowery (D., NY-17), Congressmen Bob Brady (D., PA-1) and Dwight Evans (D., PA-2) outlined major poverty issues in their Districts that have a direct impact on children. They stressed, “We hope that in this drastically different new political climate with several competing priorities, that we can still ascertain ways to both alleviate and find permanent solutions to the problems plaguing our Districts the most.” The issues highlighted are: Aging Home and Lead Paint Requesting restoration of Federal funding for lead abatement. Philadelphia has had to cut over 60% of positions used to monitor and enforce lead paint laws and restrictions. Nearly 2,700 children in Philadelphia tested positive for harmful lead levels in 2015. Child Nutrition Need to maintain or increase federally subsidized school meals. H.R. 5003, the Improving Child Nutrition and Education Act of 2016, would severely limit the number of children receiving free and reduced lunches. Education Need for increased funding. The Philadelphia School District ranks lowest in terms of funding per student and has the highest enrollment of low income students. In closing, Brady and Evans stressed bipartisanship. “Though it remains to be seen what direction many of President-elect Trump’s policies will take, we are hopeful that we will be able to find common ground with his Administration on some of the above issues and restore robust funding so the children in Philadelphia and our Districts have a brighter future. We look forward to the coming Congress and finding bipartisan solutions.”
11.29.2016	Philadelphia --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) announced that he stands in full support of the Service Employees International Union (SEIU) Fight for $15 Day of Action that is being held today. “I have and will continue to support family sustaining wages and union rights for hard working Americans. As a nation we cannot afford to have working people still not able to feed their families.” The Congressman, who will be in DC today, said he will tweet his support throughout the Day of Action. “I want to help get the message out that we cannot turn our backs on working families.”
11.16.2016	Philadelphia --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) and 168 Members of the House of Representatives have sent a letter to President-elect Trump demanding that the proposed appointment of Steve Bannon as White House Chief Strategist be rescinded. The letter states, “Immediately following your victory, many Americans were optimistic and hopeful that you would take the steps necessary to unify our country following the divisive and contentious election. In your election night speech you said, ‘Now it’s time for America to bind the wounds of division. It is time for us to come together as one united people.’ Unfortunately, your appointment of Stephen Bannon, whose ties to the White Nationalist movement have been well-documented, directly undermines your ability to unite the country. As elected representatives of millions of Americans from diverse backgrounds, religions, and ethnicities, we strongly urge you to reconsider your decision to appoint Mr. Bannon to White House Chief Strategist.” Congressman Brady said that his constituents are justifiably outraged by this appointment. “While we adjust to a bruising hard fought election campaign it is time to pull together as a nation. But the naming of Steve Bannon, the former executive chairman of Breitbart News, by President-elect Trump as top adviser sends a troubling message to those who understand that our democracy is more important than our ideological differences,” Brady said. “Mr. Trump needs to reassure the nation that his campaign divisiveness will be abandoned as we all move together to heal and celebrate the diversity of our America.”
11.01.2016	Philadelphia --- In the aftermath of a morning crash of two CSX freight trains in Chester, PA., Congressman Bob Brady (PA-1st) has asked for an immediate Department of Transportation investigation of the status of Positive Train Control (PTC) technology. In a letter to the DOT Secretary Anthony Foxx, the Congressman expressed his concern that the PTC system may not have been activated in the area where the collision occurred. Additionally, Congressman Brady stressed that he is extremely concerned about the epidemic of serious train crashes in the First Congressional District. In closing, Congressman Brady emphasized the necessity for the DOT to continue to press for immediate implementation of effective rail safety measures. ###
10.27.2016	PHOTO: Congressman Brady talks with Darby Library Director Susan Borders and staffer PHILADELPHIA--- The Darby Free Library, the nation’s oldest public library, in continuous service since 1743, unveiled its new facelift at a reception Tuesday to thank Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) for his assistance. Responding to a call from Darby Mayor Helen Thomas, the Congressman reached out to the Henderson Group for help with much needed repairs to the Library. That help was on display as the Library, located in the 1st Congressional District, proudly showed off the approximately $25,000 clean-up, fix-up and paint-up renovation project, donated by the Henderson Group, a full-service commercial real estate development company headquartered in suburban Philadelphia. Library Director Susan Borders said the repair and renovation project will greatly benefit the Library’s 2018 celebration of providing library services for 275 years. Brady praised the Henderson Group for being a great community partner that stepped up to aid an important and historic institution. And, as he toured the building Brady noted, “To see the faces of so many young people enjoying reading in a safe and welcoming space is the reward for helping out the Library.” Viewing a case containing rare historic books the Congressman added, “The history of the Darby Library is incredible, and we have to make sure that this important institution survives.” In the 1700’s, in the early days of the Darby Library, books were kept in the homes of the librarians. And, because of the interest of botanist John Bartram, his friend, Peter Collison, a Londoner, shipped to the Library its first collection of books, 43 volumes. “That’s some history!,” the Congressman noted.
06.22.2016	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) tonight introduced a bill that would prevent a state legislature from overturning/superseding ‎a local government's gun control legislation. The bill would apply to major cities with populations of 500 thousand or more. As an example Brady explains that the bill would prevent the Pennsylvania State legislature from passing a law that would prevent a gun ban passed by Philadelphia. The bill would specifically “preempt State laws preventing a major city from regulating firearm-related conduct in the city that occurs in or affects interstate or foreign commerce.” In 2008, Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court threw out Philadelphia ordinances that included limiting gun buys and banned assault weapons. But, Brady says, “In light of the carnage in Orlando, Americans want movement on gun control not just another moment of silence.“ ###
05.04.2016	PHOTO: Furness High School artist Na Lin and her art teacher Meredith McDonald PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) has selected the artwork of Na Lin, a 12th grade student at Furness High School in South Philadelphia to represent the First Congressional District in the 2016 Annual Congressional High School Art Competition. The artwork, a mixed media collage is a self-portrait. It will be displayed with the work other students from across the nation in a ten month exhibition in the U.S. Capitol. The nationwide art showcase provides Members of Congress with the opportunity to showcase the talents of creative young artists in their districts. “Year after year I am impressed by the level of artistic talent there is in the First Congressional District. We have talented young people but we also have talented and dedicated art teachers throughout the District,” Congressman Brady said. “I am proud that the work of Ms. Tan will be on display with the best young artists in the country. These young people will have their work seen by hundreds of thousands people from across the country and around the world who visit the U.S. Capitol. The exhibition not only encourages young artists it also makes the overwhelming case regarding the importance of arts education in our schools.” Ms. Tan, a resident of South Philadelphia, will continue her studies at Temple University in the Fall. ###
04.19.2016	Brady announces final appropriation for the Delaware River Deepening project Philadelphia --- Congressman Bob Brady (D. PA) announced today that the final Federal portion for the $364 project to deepen the Delaware River main channel has been appropriated in the House's Energy and Water Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2017. Brady has fought for the project since he first came to Congress in 1998 in spite of multiple attempts to remove funding from spending bills. And, when the project was revived after over a ten year delay he reached out to Vice President Biden to help ensure that the funding wasn’t redirected to New York. A deeper channel will allow for larger ships to serve the Port of Philadelphia, making the port more competitive and help create thousands of new jobs. According to the Maritime Exchange for the Delaware River and Bay the economic impact of cargo activity on the Delaware River Port Complex equates to: $53 billion contribution to the regional economy; $7.8 billion in wages and salaries; $781 in state and local taxes; and, 135,000 direct, indirect and induced jobs. “The Delaware River ports contribute mightily to the regional economy and the numbers will grow once the river deepening is completed in 2017. This is a great day for the port and our entire region,” Congressman Brady said. ###
04.07.2016	Brady says he is proud to have supported the effort for the support of the $1 million annual funding for the Heinz National Wildlife Refuge. Congressman Brady at the Heinz National Wildlife Refuge as the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service announces the investment of $1 million for the site PHILADELPHIA --- “We are here today to celebrate the result of a collaboration that has resulted in $1 million to be invested annually in the Heinz National Wildlife Refuge,” said U.S. Congressman Robert Brady as the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service made the announcement of the funding. “This investment will help to continue engaging urban communities and youth conservation and outdoor recreation at the refuge and nearby areas such as Cobbs Creek and Bartram’s Gardens. This is hugely important to the City of Philadelphia and the First Congressional District. This investment means that we are connecting urban communities to green spaces and environmental conservation, employment opportunities and recreation activities. This is a win for our environment and our communities.” U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Director Dan Ashe said, “If we want to ensure that conservation is relevant to future generations, we have to put more energy into reaching people where they live, which is becoming more and more in urban centers. We can pay lip service to that reality or we can start putting our money where our mouth is. That’s exactly what we are doing in Philadelphia, where we have a unique opportunity to connect residents of one of the largest metropolitan areas on the East Coast to natural areas like John Heinz National Wildlife Refuge. I have no doubt that with the support and dedication of our partners, the investments we are making today will help make Philadelphia a great model of how to foster urban engagement in conservation and nature.” For Southwest Philadelphia communities, the investment means building relationships with neighbors, providing jobs to youth and community members, providing environmental education to schools and communities, as well as working with partners, community leaders, and city government to address transportation and cultural barriers to the refuge. Another goal is to work with the city, partners and community leaders to make green spaces and programming more accessible, which means improving the benefits of a natural treasure like the refuge to neighborhoods that the Service has not traditionally served. “This federal investment is key to providing new experiences and an appreciation for young people about the natural wildlife and habitat in their own neighborhood,” said Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney. “The City is grateful for these resources that will support a holistic and well-rounded educational experience for youth.” The John Heinz National Wildlife Refuge was established in 1972, and is central to the Philadelphia Urban Wildlife Refuge Partnership, which received federal recognition in October 2015. The partnership works to educate and engage youth about their outdoor environment through science, outdoor exploration and jobs; engage people to promote sustainable environmental and economic communities; and connect residents to natural areas by providing easy and safe access to outdoor spaces. The Service’s urban wildlife conservation program, launched in 2013, provides new opportunities for residents of America’s cities to learn about and take part in wildlife habitat conservation. The Service is committed to serving a growing diverse and urban audience to engage more people in wildlife conservation. The Service has made similar investments at national wildlife refuges in San Diego, CA; Portland-Vancouver in Oregon and Washington and in Albuquerque, NM. ###
04.04.2016	Congressman Brady and State Rep. Savage hold emergency Town Watch meeting to protest removal of traffic signals on Haverford Avenue PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) was joined by State Representative Lynwood Savage at an emergency Town Watch community meeting regarding the Philadelphia Department of Streets removal of three traffic signals along a busy stretch of Haverford Avenue in the Overbrook Park section of the city last week. About 200 people turned out for the meeting. Congressman Brady said the signals were removed from the intersections of Rhoads Street, Malvern Avenue and Sherwood Road where senior citizens and children and their parents have to navigate. “What were they thinking?” Brady said. “This is outrageous somebody is going to get hurt and I’m going to do whatever I can to see why the lights were removed and to get them replaced.” Brady and Representative Savage say they have reached out to the Streets Department and they are waiting for the situation to be corrected. It’s reported that PennDot has indicated that a traffic study determined that the traffic signals in these locations were not necessary. On Friday, it was reported that Richard Montanez, who is the Streets Department’s chief traffic and street lighting, said that engineers are being sent back to the area to redo the study. ###
03.30.2016	For Immediate Release March 30, 2016 Contact: Karen Warrington (215)389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov Congressman Brady invites First Congressional District student artists to take part in 2016 National Congressional Art Competition PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) invites talented student artists attending high schools in the First Congressional District to take part in the 2016 Congressional Art Competition. The annual nationwide art competition provides Members of Congress with the opportunity to showcase the talents of creative young artists in their districts. Application details for the competition will be sent to public, parochial, charter and private high schools in the First Congressional District. The information will also be available on Representative’s Brady website: Brady.house.gov/art competition. All high schools in the First Congressional District: public, charter, parochial and private will be able to participate by uploading their submissions to Congressman Brady’s Facebook page: PA01ArtComp@mail.house.gov. All submissions will be uploaded periodically to Congressman Brady’s Facebook page and all entries must be submitted by 5 pm, Friday, April 22. One winning entry will be selected from the entries in the District – this winning work of art will be taken to Washington, D.C. to hang in the U.S. Capitol for a year. The winning student artist from the First Congressional District will also be invited to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony in Washington, D.C. with the other winners from across the country. “This is a great opportunity for student artists to be recognized and for their talents to be displayed for the thousands of people who visit the House office buildings and the U. S. Capitol,” said Congressman Brady.” The exhibit is a favorite point of interest in the U.S. Capitol. The annual competition and celebration, is one of the most popular events in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
03.05.2016	U.S. Rep. Bob Brady is calling for a thorough evaluation of the Philadelphia’s water system in the wake of the lead poisoning disaster in Flint, Mich. Brady sent a letter this past week to Philadelphia Water Commissioner Debra McCarty, requesting the Water Department evaluate the city’s water system and public schools water system. “As you know, the effects of lead exposure are long-lasting and cannot be reversed,” Brady said in the letter. “As children are the most susceptible to lead poisoning, it is absolutely necessary that we increase lead surveillance programs in many of our American cities, especially older ones such as Philadelphia. “While most would agree that high lead levels in Philadelphia children and other Pennsylvania cities are probably due to exposure to lead paint, there is no harm in making sure our drinking water meets high quality standards.” Brady stressed the water crisis in Flint makes it important to ensure Philadelphia’s water systems are safe. The water department commented Friday on Brady’s request. “We appreciate the congressman’s concerns and would be happy to meet with him at his convenience to explain the testing procedures that PWD has successfully used for years to monitor water safety — procedures approved by the state Department of Environmental Protection,” the department said. “Our mains are lead-free and we work closely with customers who could have older lead service lines to test and mitigate. As Congressman Brady mentioned, the threat of lead poisoning is due to home-based issues, primarily from paint, and the city’s Health Department has a comprehensive testing program in that regard.” Lead poisoning can cause reading and learning disabilities, impaired hearing, IQ deficiencies, hyperactivity and other behavioral problems, all considered to be irreversible. Philadelphia has faced its own problems with lead poisoning throughout the years. The culprit has not been the city’s water supply, but it’s older housing stock — a huge percentage of which was built before 1978, when lawmakers finally banned the use of lead-based paint. By then, the paint was already coating the surfaces of many homes throughout the city, that eventually began to age and deteriorate, leaving the paint to chip and crack, and its dust to contaminate both the inside and outside of homes. The lead in the paint was most poisonous to the developing nervous systems of children under 5 years old. In 2014, a Pennsylvania Department of Health report showed that 10.9 percent of the 35,863 Philadelphia children under the age of seven who tested were found to have at least 5 micrograms per deciliter of lead in the blood — a level that requires medical intervension. Flint’s water problems began when government officials decided in April 2014 to switch the city’s water source temporarily and use water from the Flint River as a cost-cutting measure. Highly corrosive water from the river ate away at iron and lead pipes, causing lead to leach into the water supply. The city switched back to the Lake Huron water supply a year and a half later, however the damage was already done to community residents. By: Ayana Jones, Tribune Staff Writer, The Philadelphia Tribune
02.18.2016	Congressman Brady Urges Constituents to Use IRS Free File for Free Online Tax Prep & E-Filing Taxpayers Making $62,000 or Less Can Visit www.IRS.gov/freefile to Prepare and E-File Federal Tax Returns for Free; Basic E-Filing Services Available to All PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) today encouraged constituents to visit www.IRS.gov/freefile and take advantage of free tax preparation and e-filing services available through the IRS Free File program. Powered by The Free File Alliance, a coalition of 13 industry-leading tax software companies partnered with the IRS, the Free File program provides free access to the industry’s most innovative and secure tax software. Every taxpayer with a 2015 Adjusted Gross Income of $62,000 or less may visit www.IRS.gov/freefile to prepare, complete and e-file their federal tax returns at no cost. Free state return options are also available. In addition, Free File provides basic online e-filing services, called Free File Fillable Forms, to all taxpayers regardless of income. Free File can also be used to e-file an extension for free. Free File also helps taxpayers with the new health care requirements. Using Free File, most taxpayers will simply have to check a box to report health care coverage for the entire year. “The IRS Free File program makes doing your taxes simple, fast and free,” said Congressman Brady. “While there is a Free File option for everyone, I especially encourage taxpayers making $62,000 or less to take advantage of the comprehensive, step-by-step tax help Free File offers.” “The Free File program has provided almost $1.4 billion in free tax software over the last 13 years,” said Tim Hugo, executive director of the Free File Alliance. “Free File is the one place where taxpayers can choose from a variety of the industry’s most innovative and secure tax software. It’s all free, and it’s all online at www.IRS.gov/FreeFile.” Free File Alliance member companies have continually worked with the IRS to strengthen the Free File program, and taxpayers have consistently reported that it is user-friendly and efficient. Responding to a 2009 IRS survey, 96 percent of users said they found Free File easy to use, while 98 percent said they would recommend the program to others. About the Free File Alliance The Free File Alliance, a coalition of 13 industry-leading tax software companies, has partnered with the IRS since 2003 to help low and middle-income Americans prepare, complete and e-file their federal tax returns online. The Free File Alliance is committed to giving 70 percent of taxpayers free access to the industry's top online tax preparation software. More than 46 million returns have been filed through Free File since its inception. For more information, visit www.freefilealliance.org. ###
05.20.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Karen Warrington (215)389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) today led a moment of silence on the House floor in honor of the Amtrak train derailment victims. Before observing the moment of silence Congressman Brady, joined by House members including the Pennsylvania delegation, offered his condolences to the families of the eight people who died in the Amtrak crash and the nearly 200 who were injured. The Congressman also offered high praise for the city’s response to the tragic crash. Saying, “I could not have been more proud of the City of Philadelphia in its response to the accident.” Brady praised the city’s police and fire departments, the city administration as a whole and the hours and hours Mayor Nutter spent on the site. Brady also singled out the area hospitals and their staff persons who he said went above and beyond as they cared for the injured. The Congressman also pointed out that students at Temple University actually rushed to the crash scene, many of them on bikes to see how they could be helpful. In addition to saluting the first responders, in closing, Congressman Brady offered praise for the residents in the area, who brought water and towels for the injured and in some cases opened up their homes to them. ###
05.13.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Karen Warrington (215)389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov PHILADELPHIA --- In the aftermath of the tragic derailment of an Amtrak train in Philadelphia, Congressman Bob Brady has personally called the White House and wrote to President Obama to urge fast and full Federal support for Philadelphia and for Amtrak. He has also called the Chairman of the House Transportation Committee and his friend, Congressman Mike Capuano, senior Democrat on the Rail Subcommittee of the Transportation Committee urging Committee members to travel to his district and investigate the causes and effects of the derailment Additionally, the Congressman has worked with Drexel University at Amtrak’s request to arrange a staging area/family assistance area. Congressman Brady also has offered his deepest condolences to those affected by the Amtrak train derailment, especially the deceased, missing and their loved ones. "My thoughts and prayers are with those injured and for their recovery.' But the Congressman also stressed that his number one priority, at this time, is the well being of the passengers, crew, and their family. "In the coming days, weeks, and months we will learn more about the cause of this tragedy and the steps we can take to ensure it doesn't happen again. I also offer my gratitude to all those who bravely assisted the victims. Our police officers, firefighters, and EMTs demonstrated why they are the bravest and the finest. Our region's hospitals immediately acted to accept the victims. The doctors, nurses, and medical professionals have my admiration. Thank you to SEPTA, Amtrak, and other personnel who acted quickly and bravely to assist. Lastly, thank you to the fellow passengers who risked more injury to help a neighbor. Individuals with questions about their friends and family on the train should call the Amtrak Incident Hotline at 800-523-9101." ###
03.19.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, lead sponsors Rep. John Lewis (GA-5), House Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer (MD-5), Assistant Democratic Leader James Clyburn (SC-6), Rep. John Conyers (MI-13), Rep. Robert Brady (PA-1) and more than 170 Democrats reintroduced the Voter Empowerment Act in the House of Representatives. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand of New York will introduce a companion version in the Senate. The Voter Empowerment Act will help ensure equal access to the ballot for every eligible voter, will modernize our voter registration system to help more Americans participate, and takes steps to eliminate deceptive practices and voter fraud that deter voters from casting their ballots. On March 21, 1965, thousands of protestors left Selma, Alabama and marched all the way to Montgomery to underscore the need for voting rights legislation which assured access to the ballot box for millions of Americans. Sponsors offer the VEA today as a continuation of the on-going effort to ensure that every American has an equal and fair opportunity to make their voices heard through the electoral process. At a time when some states have implemented or are planning to implement new barriers for voters who may be seniors, students, low-income Americans, members of our Armed Services, disabled, or speak English as a second language, Democrats see the need to certify their efforts to protect voting access for all Americans. Click for a section by section description, quotes in support, or full bill text of the Voter Empowerment Act. “As we look to commemorate the 50th Anniversary of the final Selma-to-Montgomery march, begun on March 21, 1965," said Rep. John Lewis, " I am proud to join my colleagues to reintroduce the Voter Empowerment Act. The goal of this bill is to make voting access equal, fair, and simple for every American. Democracy is not a state; it is an act. The vigilant action of every member of Congress and every citizen is necessary to ensure that liberty, equality and justice remain the guiding principles of our democracy. The VEA is just one of the steps we believe must be taken to make sure the vote retains its power as the most transformative, non-violent tool citizens have in our society to make their voices heard." “I’m pleased to be joining Civil Rights Movement hero Rep. John Lewis, Assistant Leader Clyburn, Ranking Member Conyers, and Ranking Member Brady today to reintroduce the Voter Empowerment Act,” saidDemocratic Whip Hoyer. “This legislation aims to make it easier for eligible voters to cast their ballots and have those ballots counted accurately at a time when, unfortunately, some states are making it more difficult for voters to exercise their right to participate in our democracy. Our legislation would modernize the voter registration system to include same-day registration, expand early voting, prohibit deceptive practices, create a national voter protection hotline, and mandate a verifiable paper trail, among other reforms. I hope that Democrats and Republicans in the House can come together in this fiftieth anniversary year of the Selma-to-Montgomery march and the enactment of the Voting Rights Act to pass our bill and empower all Americans to have a voice in their government.” Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn said, “The Voter Empowerment Act is the product of a collaborative effort involving dozens of Members and representatives from scores of advocacy organizations. In the face of recently enacted creative devices that constitute a modern version of the Jim Crow-era practice of voter disenfranchisement, this legislation will improve access to the ballot box, protect the integrity of our elections, and ensure that those who seek to cause mischief are held accountable. I am hopeful the voices of people of good will rise above the din of despair we so often hear about the future of our great country and Congress will act on this needed vehicle toward ‘a more perfect Union.’” “There is no more important right in our society than the right to vote– the foundation of all of our other rights enshrined in the Constitution, " said Rep. John Conyers. "Unfortunately, efforts to scale back the right to vote continue to thrive in our country. Today we call on Congress to once again protect that precious right. Congress did not stand idly by in 1965 when we passed the Voting Rights Act and the many federal protections we passed thereafter. When equal access to the ballot box is impaired by any means, the Constitution obligates our most careful and deliberate attention. And, we, the 114th Congress, must not stand idly now by when American citizens are denied their constitutional right to vote.” “We are fewer than two years away from the next federal election," says Rep. Robert Brady, "and are destined to repeat the same unacceptable mistakes of 2012. Without action, thousands of eligible voters will be turned away from the polls because of preventable problems. We need to modernize voter registration and ensure that state and local election officials are fully equipped with the information and resources necessary to effectively and efficiently administer their elections. This is not a Democratic or Republican issue but a democracy issue.” ###
11.20.2014	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA.) has been re-elected Ranking Member (minority chair) of the Committee on House Administration for the 114th Congress. At a Democratic Caucus meeting at 3:00 pm, November 19, Congressman Brady was nominated by House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and unanimously approved by the Democratic Caucus. Congressman Brady is the first Philadelphian to serve as either chairman or Ranking Member of a full committee since the late Congressman Bill Gray in the 99th and 100th Congress. The Committee oversees nearly $1 billion in Congressional spending, as well as the Capitol Police Department, Capitol Visitors Center, the National Zoo and the Smithsonian Museums.
11.14.2014	Philadelphia --- Spurred by a recent attack in Philadelphia where two men were assaulted and called homophobic slurs for their perceived sexual orientation, Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) today has introduced legislation that would expand the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act. The Brady legislation is designed to provide greater protections in all circumstances, not just those that involve interstate or foreign commerce. "Because Pennsylvania’s hate-crime law does not protect those attacked due to their sexual orientation, the assailants could not be charged with a hate crime. This is a travesty," Brady said. "Since Pennsylvania is one of the 14 states that has no law against hate crimes committed based on sexual orientation, this bill would fill an important gap and protect all Americans from these vicious crimes." Passed in 2009, the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act expanded U.S. federal hate-crime protections to victims targeted because of their actual or perceived gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, or disability. However, as other bias-based violence has decreased in frequency, crimes against the LGBT community have increased. In 2012 alone, the National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs reported 2,016 incidents of violence and 25 homicides committed because of individuals’ LGBT status. These numbers are likely underestimated because most of these crimes are either unreported or unrecognized. In 2014, only 15 states and the District of Columbia have laws that address hate or bias crimes based on both sexual orientation and gender identity. "Federal law must send a stronger message to the states. The time is now to expand Federal hate crime protections for all LGBT Americans" Brady said.
10.03.2014	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) today had high praise for the decision by the U.S. Postal Service to issue a commemorative postage stamp honoring NBA Hall of Famer Wilt Chamberlain’s record setting career. Chamberlain’s career includes 14 years in the NBA playing for Philadelphia/San Francisco Warriors, the Philadelphia 76ers and the Los Angeles Lakers. In 1962, Chamberlain became the only NBA player to score 100 points in a single game. Brady, who introduced a resolution in support of a Chamberlain stamp three years ago said, "I am feeling very good right now to know that Wilt’s career is being honored with this stamp. It was a long time coming, but the wait and the struggle have been worth it." In a 2011 letter urging the Postmaster General to consider naming a stamp after Chamberlain, the Congressman said, "I believe honoring Wilt Chamberlain with a commemorative stamp would be a more than appropriate way to celebrate his legendary career and athletic accomplishments, and I express my sincerest hope that the U.S. Postal Service will recognize Wilt Chamberlain and his historic 100-point game in the 2012 collection." In retrospect, Brady said, "I was shooting for a 2012 Chamberlain stamp, but when the stamp is issued later this year I will be just as pleased to see this outstanding hometown super athlete receive this well-deserved honor." ### CONTACT: Karen Warrington (215)389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
09.22.2014	Philadelphia --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) has announced that he will introduce legislation to amend Title 18 of the U.S. Code to expand Federal hate crimes protections for the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community. Under this new legislation, any hate crime committed based on sexual orientation or gender identity would be prosecutable under federal law, even if the crime did not involve interstate commerce. Nationally, in 2011, the FBI reported 1,553 crimes based on a person’s actual or perceived LGBT status and the National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs documented 25 homicides motivated by an anti-LGBT bias. And, the Congressman has also called on state lawmakers to make changes in the state’s hate crime law, so that prosecutors have the mechanisms necessary to obtain harsh convictions for violent crimes against members of the LGBT community. "The recent gay bashing in downtown Philadelphia, in what I consider to be a hate-crime, has no place in our fine city of brotherly love, and we need to do all we can both on Federal and state level to protect this community from vicious hate violence," Congressman Brady said. "Presently Pennsylvania is one of 15 states that does not include sexual orientation to the standards protected under the its hate-crime law," Congressman Brady said. "In 2008, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability and ancestry were removed from the protection of Pennsylvania’s hate-crime law. Since then, high-profile crimes against specific groups across the state, could not be prosecuted under the state’s hate-crime law. If they had been, those convicted could have received far more severe sentences." Brady said that during his 15 years in Congress he has proudly witnessed how our city has grown to respect and promote diversity. "The LGBT community in our city has worked hard and been very lucky to have some great political leaders to ensure their acceptance and a place at the table. We have come too far to go back to an era of hatred and exclusion," Brady said, in conclusion. ###
07.24.2014	(Washington, D.C.) -- In a letter to Rules Committee Chairman, Pete Sessions, Committee on House Administration Chairman, Candice Miller, waived the Committee's right to hold a hearing on H.Res. 676, a bill to authorize the politically motivated lawsuit against President Obama and his implementation of the Affordable Care Act. As the authorizing Committee for any contracts with outside counsel, waiving this hearing will prevent minority oversight of the lawsuit and hide how much taxpayer money Republicans are willing to waste on this frivolous case. On July 14, Ranking Member Robert A. Brady (D-PA) sent a letter to Speaker Boehner requesting that House Republicans follow regular order in this case. Citing the improper procedures used by Republicans to pay continually higher amounts in DOMA cases, Committee Democrats do not want to permit Republicans "to use taxpayer dollars as a slush fund to award a no-bid contract to high priced, politically connected Republican Lawyers without any transparency or accountability." Chairman Miller responded to this request the next day, ensuring that "the Committee, and Republicans, will be open and transparent about the use of taxpayer money." In order to ensure transparency, Ranking Member Brady has requested a special meeting of the Committee to consider the resolution. "Just because this lawsuit is highly irregular, it does not mean that our procedures should be too," said Brady. "As Ranking Member of this Committee, I want to prevent another instance of secret money, paid to politically connected friends, with no cap on how much will be spent as we saw in DOMA." ###
07.10.2014	(Congressman Brady with Judge Renée Cardwell Hughes and others) Philadelphia --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) visited the site of the deadly Gesner Street fire in Southwest Philadelphia and talked to many members of the families whose children were killed in the fire and whose homes were destroyed. He pledged that his office would work with the city and community agencies to provide necessary supports to the mostly Liberian community. The Congressman also greeted Jeremiah Sulunteh, Liberia’s ambassador to the United States who toured the site. ### Contact: Karen Warrington (215)389-4627 Karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
05.29.2014	PHILADEPHIA ---The following is a statement by Congressman Bob Brady re the death of Maya Angelou: “I mourn the passing of Maya Angelou, but she has left us so much; her poetry, wisdom and her brilliance. She was a national treasure and we as a nation were made better by all she shared with us.” ###
03.07.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Brady released a statement today in response to the continued refusal by Republicans to bring a vote to extend emergency unemployment insurance (UI). The expiration of the federal UI program has now cut off two million men and women looking for work and will kick off 72,000 more each week that an extension is not issued. "It is simply unacceptable that we are still waiting for a vote to extend emergency unemployment insurance for the millions who need it," Congressman Brady stated. "I strongly urge my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to allow us to vote on this important issue, giving countless Americans the lifeline they need to pay their bills and support their families while searching for work." The unemployment insurance program, which expired on December 28th, is not only critical for families and workers but also beneficial to our economy. The Joint Economic Committee Democrats report, "The Economic Case for Continuing Federal Unemployment Insurance," found that UI is one of the most cost-effective tools for improving the economy and creating jobs. The report also shows that approximately 2.5 million people were kept out of poverty in 2013 due to the federal UI program.
02.28.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Brady issued a statement encouraging constituents to take advantage of free tax preparation services available through the Free File program. Taxpayers with a 2013 Adjusted Gross Income of $58,000 or less may visit www.IRS.gov/freefile to prepare, complete, and e-file their federal tax returns at no cost. Free File is made possible through a partnership between the IRS and the Free File Alliance, a coalition of industry-leading tax software companies. Since its founding in 2003, the program has offered 70 percent of taxpayers free access to leading commercial tax preparation software from Free File Alliance member companies. It is estimated that Free File has already saved taxpayers approximately $1.2 billion in filing costs. "I encourage everyone making $58,000 or less to visit www.IRS.gov/freefile and take advantage of the free tax services available from the IRS and Free File Alliance," said Congressman Brady. "This program provides free access to tax preparation software so anyone who qualifies can easily prepare and e-file their federal taxes online at no cost." IRS Free File is available at www.IRS.gov/freefile, which provides a list of Free File Alliance member companies and their free tax software offerings. Users may either choose the company that fits their needs or utilize the "Help me Find Free File Software" tool. After selecting a company, users will be transferred to the company's website to prepare, complete and electronically file their federal income tax returns. The service is also available in Spanish. Free File also offers basic federal e-filing services with no income limitations. This basic e-filing service, called Free File Fillable Forms, allows taxpayers who are familiar with tax law and need no preparation assistance to complete and file their federal income tax electronically. It is also available at www.IRS.gov/freefile. About the Free File Alliance The Free File Alliance, a coalition of 14 industry-leading tax software companies, has partnered with the IRS since 2003 to help low and middle-income Americans prepare, complete and e-file their federal tax returns online. The Free File Alliance is committed to giving 70 percent of Americans free access to the industry’s top online tax preparation software. About 40 million returns have been filed through Free File since its inception. For more information, visit www.freefilealliance.org. ###
12.10.2013	Congressman Brady presents check to Harambee Athletic Director Anthony Medlock. FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Karen Warrington (215)389-4627 Karen.warrington@mail.house.gov Philadelphia --- In spite of today’s harsh weather Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) showed up at the Harambee Charter School to hand over a check for $2,100 to support the school’s boys and girls basketball teams. The check from the Greater Philadelphia Traditions fund will pay for league fees and team uniforms. Presenting the check to Harambee Athletic Director Anthony Medlock, Brady said, “This school is in the First Congressional District and in the heart of neighborhood I grew up in. And, I wanted to make sure that these students would be able to continue their basketball program.�? Medlock said, “Congressman Brady is a man of his word. I talked to him at a community event and asked for his help and he promised he would see to it that these students would be able to play this season. And, here he is today, in spite of the weather.�? ###
12.06.2013	Philadelphia --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA ) today made the following statement re the passing of former South African President Nelson Mandela: “We are honored to have shared world space with President Mandela. His life’s journey - from his stand against apartheid, his 27 years spent as a political prisoner and his tenure as the President of South Africa is template for the highest form of a principled life.” ###
12.05.2013	Philadelphia --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) announced today that Veterans, their families and survivors receiving disability compensation and pension benefits from the Department of Veterans Affairs will receive a 1.5 percent cost-of-living increase in their monthly payments beginning Jan. 1, 2014. “This cost of living increase is good news for veterans, their families and their survivors in these tough economic times,” said Congressman Brady. “The increase is important because it represents a for real expression of our thanks to those who have sacrificed so much, such as our service-disabled and wartime Veterans.” Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric K. Shinseki said for the first time, payments will not be rounded down to the nearest dollar. Until this year, that was required by law. Veterans and survivors will see additional cents included in their monthly compensation benefit payment. For Veterans without dependents, the new compensation rates will range from $130.94 monthly for a disability rated at 10 percent to $2,858.24 monthly for 100 percent. The full rates are available on the Internet at www.benefits.va.gov/compensation/rates-index.asp. The COLA increase also applies to disability and death pension recipients, survivors receiving dependency and indemnity compensation, disabled Veterans receiving automobile and clothing allowances, and other benefits. Under federal law, cost-of-living adjustments for VA’s compensation and pension must match those for Social Security benefits. The last adjustment was in January 2013 when the Social Security benefits rate increased 1.7 percent. In fiscal year 2013, VA provided over $59 billion in compensation benefits to nearly 4 million Veterans and survivors, and over $5 billion in pension benefits to more than 515,000 Veterans and survivors. For Veterans and separating Servicemembers who plan to file an electronic disability claim, VA urges them to use the joint DoD/VA online portal, eBenefits. Registered eBenefits users with a premium account can file a claim online, track the status, and access a variety of other benefits, including pension, education, health care, home loan eligibility, and vocational rehabilitation and employment programs. For more information about VA benefits, visit www.benefits.va.gov, or call 1-800-827-1000. # # #
10.18.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Robert Brady (PA) today announced that he is introducing legislation to make sure that hourly employees who work in federal buildings and are paid by private employers are made whole for the wages they lost due to the recent government shutdown. These workers, like security guards, cafeteria workers and custodial staff, already have a tough time making ends meet. The nearly three week shutdown hit them hard. Many of their employers are small businesses who also lost thousands of dollars during the shutdown. Brady’s legislation would provide tax credits to these businesses allowing them to pay their employees. “After weeks of fear and uncertainty about paying bills and making rent, I’m glad that we were able to end the shutdown and provide relief to the hundreds of thousands of federal government workers who were forced to stay home due to this manufactured crisis. Unfortunately, there are thousands of employees who work in our government buildings who are not getting any such relief. These people are not government employees, but they make working in our federal buildings possible. They keep the buildings clean and serve food to our staff, but they are not getting paid for the time that they were forced to stay home. None of us could do our jobs without these people, but now that the government is open, they are the ones who have to try to make ends meet after weeks of lost wages. That’s why I’m working with Legislative Counsel to draft a bill that would help companies pay their workers that lost wages because of the shutdown. Even though these workers are not government employees, they help our government run just like any civil servant. They didn’t do anything wrong, and they don’t deserve to suffer for the mistakes of an extreme wing of Congress. No one should have been forced to stay home while trying to earn a living. Now that the shutdown is over, we can’t place the burden of this unnecessary and irresponsible shutdown on the backs of any hardworking Americans, especially those who make it so that we can all do our jobs.” Congressman Brady is Ranking Democrat on the House Administration Committee which has oversight of operations of the Congress, Library of Congress, Smithsonian Institution, Capitol Police and other major federal functions. ###
05.13.2013	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) has selected the artwork of M. Bilash Hossain, a senior at Upper Darby High School to represent the First Congressional District in the 31st annual Congressional High School Art Competition. Entitled “New Twilight,�? Hossain’s painting depicts a stream in a densely wooded area defused by the haze of twilight. It will be displayed with the work other students from across the nation in a ten-month exhibition in the U.S. Capitol. The nationwide art showcase, An Artistic Discovery, provides Members of Congress with the opportunity to showcase the talents of creative young artists in their districts. Additionally, Congressman Brady has selected two other pieces of art submitted by students that will hang in his DC office and in a district office. Congressman Brady said, “I decided to make additional selections to encourage our student artists but also to send a message regarding the importance of art education in our schools.�? These selections are: an urban cityscape by Minting Ni, an 11th grade student at the Creative and Performing Arts School (CAPA) in South Philadelphia; and, “Tanked�? a collage and pen and ink by Marta Blemings, a senior at Upper Darby High School. Also, Congressman Brady has informed the administrators at Penn Wood High School, that when student art from the fire damaged school can be recovered he will invite students to exhibit their work in his offices since they were not able to enter the art competition because of the arson at their school. “I was told that the students were devastated that they could not compete because of this destructive and vicious act of arson.�? ###
04.12.2013	Dear Friends, The passing of Battalion Chief Michael Goodwin of the Philadelphia Fire Department was another sobering reminder of the danger that first responders face every day. Less than a year after the tragic deaths of Captain Robert Neary and Lieutenant Daniel Sweeney, it is heartbreaking to lay another member of the Philadelphia Fire Department to rest. One line of duty death is one too many but our district has been all too familiar with this kind of tragedy. While our laws and policies can provide resources and support, they cannot remove the inherent danger that comes with duty. Our first responders know this, accept this, and continue to serve. We truly live among super heroes each and every day. They are humble public servants and they don’t ask for much, just to do what they love, provide for their family, and to be able to come home at the end of the day. Our hearts grieve for the family, friends, and colleagues of those who make the ultimate sacrifice. There is not much we can say in a time of grieving but we can say thank you. Thank you to the firefighters. Thank you to the police officers. Thank you to the paramedics. Thank you for your families who deal with the stresses of your service. Thank you for protecting me, my family, my constituents, my friends, my staff, and each other. Thank you for running in when we run out. Thank you for standing tall when we duck. Thank you for putting the lives of others above your own. Thank you. Sincerely, Robert Brady Member of Congress ***This message appeared in my weekly Brady Brief e-newsletter. To sign up, click here.
04.10.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) today announced that President Obama has included $20 million in his FY2014 budget. “This funding keeps this critical project on pace to completion,” Brady said. “This effort started before I was first elected and I’ve fought for it every year since. I’m proud to say that President Obama and Vice President Biden have been at our side in this fight and they deserve praise for stepping up each time the Philadelphia Region needed them.” Brady noted that “this has been a joint effort for many years with our partners former Congressman Bob Borski, State Rep. Bill Keller, Jim Paylor and Boise Butler of the International Longshoreman’s Association and Charles G. Kopp, Chair of the PRPA to finally bring this to fruition.” Brady said he is pleased with the progress of the Delaware River Channel dredging project designed to deepen the river’s shipping channel from 40 to 45 feet from Philadelphia/Camden to the Atlantic. More than 27 miles of the river have been dredged and according to the Army Corps of Engineers work on the remaining 14-mile stretch will be completed in May. Brady said, “This project has been an uphill battle, but now we are just weeks away from ensuring that the Delaware River ports will be competitive with other east coast ports.” The dredging/deepening project will mean that the Delaware River will be able to accommodate larger and more deeply loaded ships with deeper drafts. “As I have said on many occasions, there is no way to overestimate the importance of this dredging operation. Our ports are responsible for 75,000 jobs and $1billion in wages for our region. If we had not continued this fight those jobs and our regional economy would have taken a serious hit.”
04.09.2013	Washington, D.C.--- As we mark Equal Pay Day on April 9, Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA-1) said that more needs to be done to close the wage gap that still exists between women and men – including enactment of the critical Paycheck Fairness Act. Equal Pay Day symbolizes when, more than three months into the year, women’s wages finally catch up to what men were paid in the previous year. “According to a new report from the American Association of University Women, the women in our congressional district of PA-1 earn 90 cents for every dollar earned by men. While this is better than the men to women 77%wage gap in Pennsylvania, we must do better,” said Congressman Brady. “The nationwide gap is also 77%, which raises the question, Why, as we head to the 50th anniversary of the Equal Pay Act in June, any wage gap remains? Women work just as hard as men and they should be paid at the same rate of pay as men.” Congressman Brady added, “For anyone who thinks equal pay is just a woman’s issue – let me make it clear that it is a women, family and community issue. Today’s families increasingly rely on women’s wages to make ends meet. When women bring home less money each day, it means they have less for the everyday needs of their families – and the family and the community suffers.” Achieving equal pay for women has been one of the top priorities of Democrats. In January 2009, the Democratic-led 111th Congress sent to the President’s desk the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act – and it became the first bill signed into law by President Obama. This Act, a great victory for women, restores the right of women to challenge unfair pay in court – but virtually all House Republicans opposed this critical measure for women. “Although the Lilly Ledbetter Act has been enacted, we need to do more,” Brady said. “The Paycheck Fairness Act is equally important. The Paycheck Fairness Act strengthens and closes loopholes in the nearly 50-year-old Equal Pay Act, including providing effective remedies to women who are not being paid equal wages for doing equal work. But once again, Republicans have continued to stand in the way of progress for women and their families.” Democrats have worked to enact the Paycheck Fairness Act for years. In 2008 and again in 2009, the Democratic-led House succeeded in passing the bill, but in both Congresses, Senate Republicans blocked the measure. Similarly, in 2012, Republicans in both the House and Senate voted to block the bill. In 2013, it’s time for Republicans to finally stand up for America’s women and help pass the critical Paycheck Fairness Act. “On Equal Pay Day 2013, let us all vow that, in order to strengthen the American family and ensure fairness in the workplace, we will work together until we have achieved an America where women are truly paid equal pay for equal work,” Congressman Brady said in conclusion. ###
04.08.2013	Philadelphia --- Today we mark Yom Hashoah, Holocaust Remembrance Day. It is still hard to believe that not long ago, six million Jews, along with countless others, were killed for being simply themselves. This is a day of extreme sadness and thoughtful contemplation. As we reflect, we must continue to remember these individuals as fewer and fewer survivors remain with us. At the same time, we must remember the bravery of those who dared to resist, of those who fought for their freedom when very few else would. “Never again,” is the statement now synonymous with the Holocaust. This statement is as true today as it was over sixty years ago. We are not free from prejudice, hate, or anti-Semitism. We must strive everyday to never forget, to never stop trying, and to never again allow intolerance to overtake a community as it did only a short time ago. ###
03.19.2013	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) is inviting aspiring young artists attending high schools in the First Congressional District to take part in the 32nd anniversary of the Congressional Art Competition. The nationwide art competition, An Artistic Discovery, provides Members of Congress with the opportunity to showcase the talents of creative young artists in their districts. Information about how to apply for the competition will be sent to public, parochial, charter and private high schools in the First Congressional District. One winning entry will be selected at each school and they will be judged against the other entries in the District and one 1st place winner will be chosen – this winning piece will be taken to Washington, D.C. to hang in the U.S. Capitol. This year we will also be selecting a second and third place winner as well. In order to ensure the participation of students in the expanded PA-01 District, charter school students, parochial school students and students outside of Philadelphia but within the boundaries of the First Congressional District will be able to participate by uploading their submissions to Facebook. Students should contact Congressman Brady by e-mail at PA01ArtComp@mail.house.gov and these submissions will be uploaded periodically to Congressman Brady’s Facebook page. All entries must be submitted by Monday, April 22. Philadelphia public school students will be able to take part in the competition via the School District of Philadelphia’s annual student art exhibition at the school district headquarters. The winning student artist from the First Congressional District will be invited to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony with the other winners from across the country in Washington, D.C. The winning artwork will hang in the U.S. Capitol Building for a year. Second place winners' pictures will be on public display in Brady's Washington, DC office and third place winners will hang in his District office. “This is a great opportunity for student artists to be recognized and for their talents to be displayed for the thousands of people who visit the House office buildings and the U. S. Capitol,” said Congressman Brady. The exhibit is a favorite point of interest in the U.S. Capitol. The annual competition and celebration, is one of the most popular events in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
01.16.2013	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) today released the following statement re President Obama’s gun control proposals: “How much more bloodshed are we willing to tolerate? There is no need for assault weapons and high capacity ammunition clips to be a part of the American civilian stockpile. I wholeheartedly support a ban on assault weapons and high capacity ammunition clips and I also support universal background checks for all those lining up to buy weapons of what should be termed weapons of mass destruction.” ###
01.02.2013	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Bob Brady(D., PA) released the following statement on the death of Wendell W. Young III: Wendell was an outstanding union leader whose life was dedicated to the union movement. Serving as the president of the United Food and Commercial Workers Local 1776 for more than 40 years he saved the jobs of thousands of his union members. He was a visionary who never stopped fighting for his membership. He leaves a great legacy and I know that his son Wendell Young IV will be more than able to fill the giant footprint his father has left. ###
11.29.2012	PHILADELPHIA --- House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi announced today the re-election of Congressman Bob Brady as Ranking Member (Democratic Chair) of the Committee on House Administration (CHA) in the 113th Congress. Brady was nominated by Leader Pelosi and elected unanimously by the House Democratic Caucus. He was first elected Chairman of the CHA in May of 2007 and served until the end of the 111th Congress in December 2010. He was elected Ranking Member during the 112th Congress which ends on January 1, 2013. “Middle class families across the country will benefit from the wealth of knowledge Congressman Brady brings to this committee,” Leader Pelosi said. “Congressman Brady is a leader who is committed to working with his Republican chairman to make progress for the American people.” In response Congressman Brady said, “I am honored by Leader Pelosi’s nomination to remain Ranking Member of the CHA and humbled by the trust placed in me by Democratic colleagues.” Brady is the first Philadelphian to chair a full committee since 1988 and he is also the 4th most senior Democrat on the House Armed Services Committee. Brady said, “I’ve been a leader in the House’s effort to fight voter suppression, improve access to polls, and stop the flow of unlimited, unregulated money into our political system and through my leadership, we have made a positive impact in protecting free and fair elections and the right to vote in them. In the 113th Congress, I will continue to use my position as Ranking Member to protect every American’s right to vote.” In the 112th Congress, Brady worked with other Democratic leaders to introduce the first comprehensive piece of voting legislation in a generation, The Voter Empowerment Act. This bill would modernize voter registration, ensure equal access to the ballot box for all Americans, and prohibit deceptive practices and voter fraud that keep people from exercising their constitutional right to vote. In addition to legislation, the Committee fought on numerous fronts to protect the constitutionally guaranteed right to vote. Brady explained, “Where we saw eligible voters purged from the rolls, we engaged the Justice Department and the Attorney general to prevent widespread disenfranchisement. As Ranking Member, I pushed for hearings and consideration of the bill. Despite widespread public support, Republican Leadership refused to listen. In the next Congress, I will continue to push Republicans to listen to their constituents, and address the mess made by unlimited, secret campaign spending.” ###
10.16.2012	PHILADELPHIA - Arlen Specter was my friend for 40 years. He was as smart as he was independent and because he was an accomplished debater he could argue on any side of an issue. He was truly one of a kind. As a Republican member of the Senate Appropriations Committee he worked with the Democratic House members to secure $35 million for the Aker Philadelphia Shipyard. He never wavered in his commitment to support the 45-foot Delaware River dredging project. On one 90-degree day he stood just yards away from a crane working a containership at the Philadelphia Port. And he reminded us that he had also stood in the same spot in 11-degree weather to support the Port because he said, “this is the heart and soul of our region.” His tenacity and fearlessness was never on more display as he fought cancer. He rebounded time after time always ready to get right back in the fray. He leaves an incredible legacy and there is so much we can all learn from his decades in public service. He stood and fought hard for what he believed in. And, he staunchly believed in and championed bi-partisanship as long as it was in the best interests of the people. He was my friend but he was even a better friend to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and our beloved country.
09.19.2012	Philadelphia – Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA), wearing a cast and using a cane because of an Achilles tear, took time to shake hands and join Sunoco workers at the official launch of Philadelphia Energy Solutions (PES) and its partnership with The Carlyle Group and Sunoco. By entering into the joint venture, Carlyle and Sunoco were able to save 850 jobs, create 100 to 200 new permanent jobs as well as thousands of construction jobs. Brady said, “Today’s launch is a perfect example of how labor, business and government can work together to get things done. “ Brady has been credited with being key to the negotiations that led to the forming of the refinery joint venture.
07.20.2012	Philadelphia - Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) released the following statement in response to the tragic shooting of moviegoers in Aurora, Colorado this morning: “What a tragedy; innocent people shot and killed in a movie theater. I extend my condolences and prayers for the victims of another mass shooting of innocent people. But, in the midst of this tragedy, we are again reminded of the importance of our police and first responders and we are gratified by their quick action which probably saved numerous lives.” ###
06.28.2012	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) made the following statement about the Supreme Court decision upholding health care reform: Today the Supreme Court largely made the right decisions for the health of my constituents and Americans in general. By upholding the Affordable Healthcare Act they affirmed that President Obama and Congressional Democrats were right and the Act is constitutional. By upholding the individual mandate, they assured that more Americans will be covered than were before the Act was passed. Moreover, insurance companies can no longer discriminate against patients with pre-existing conditions and seniors will be able to afford the medicines they so desperately need. My only concern is that the Court removed the ability to ensure that states expand Medicaid to hard hit Americans like my constituents. We’ll have to keep working to improve on that provision. Yes, it’s a victory for President Obama and those who supported the legislation but it is really a victory for the American people.
06.25.2012	Philadelphia – Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s decision in Arizona v. the United States: “ I agree with the Supreme Court’s ruling that strikes down the majority of Arizona’s immigration law, but I echo the concerns of President Obama and a number of organizations including the Conference of Mayors and the National League of Cities over the decision to leave in place the ‘show-me-your-papers’ provision and the mandate that police check the papers of anyone they suspect is in the country without legal status. This leaves the door open for court sanctioned racial profiling. Today’s ruling is a clear indication of why the Congress must expedite the passage of comprehensive immigration reform. This is a federal issue that will not be solved state-by-state.” ###
06.21.2012	WASHINGTON, DC --- Geneva Champagne, a 2012 graduate of Penn Wood High School, accompanied by her aunt Florence Champagne, pose near her self-portrait that is now a part of a ten-month exhibition of student art at the U.S. Capitol. Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) selected Miss Champagne’s self portrait entitled, Me, Myself and I, to represent the First Congressional District in the annual high school Congressional art exhibition. Miss Champagne, who lives in Yeadon, will be attending the Moore College of Art in the fall. She will major in Illustration. The opening of the exhibition included a reception and a tour of the Capitol. Miss Champagne said she was very inspired by the reception guest speaker, Jocelyn Rainey. A native of Detroit, Rainey’s work has been exhibited in galleries throughout the nation. Miss Champagne said Rainey stressed that, “art changes lives.” Congressman Brady said year after year he is amazed at the level of artistic ability of young people in his district and the quality of work of America’s young artists. “Our young art students are so talented and we have to make sure we do everything to nurture their incredible talent, “ said Congressman Brady.
06.04.2012	Penn Wood art teacher Alyce Grunt with Geneva Champagne, a senior at Penn Wood High School selected by Congressman Bob Brady to represent the First Congressional District in the annual Congressional High School Art Competition. PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) has selected the artwork of Geneva Champagne a senior at the Penn Wood High School in Lansdowne to represent the First Congressional District in the annual Congressional High School Art Competition. The oil painting entitled, “Me, Myself and I, is a self portrait. Miss Champagne, who lives in Yeadon, will be attending the Moore College of Art as an Illustration major. Her painting will be displayed with the work other students from across the nation in a ten-month exhibition in the U.S. Capitol. The nationwide art showcase, An Artistic Discovery, provides Members of Congress with the opportunity to showcase the talents of creative young artists in their districts. Congressman Brady said he is amazed year after year by the level of artistic ability of students in the First Congressional District. “I am proud that the work of Miss Champagne will be on display with the best young artists in the country. These young artists will have their work seen by the hundreds of thousands people who visit the U.S. Capitol. The exhibition not only encourages young artists it also makes the overwhelming case regarding the importance of arts education in our schools. I am also impressed by art teachers such Alyce Grunt, who is Miss Champagne’s teacher. In these difficult economic times, when funding for art education is at risk it is gratifying to know the level of support these teachers provide to their students.”
04.24.2012	(Philadelphia)— On the second day of the week-long Greater Philadelphia Food Stamp Challenge, sponsored by the Jewish Federation and the Coalition Against Hunger, Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) said he had a dinner of chicken, carrots, lettuce and a cup of tea yesterday. “It wasn’t filling, but I got through the night. And, this morning’s breakfast of bran cereal did not take the place of eggs, hash browns and sausage. Today, election day, is going to be a real challenge.” The Food Stamp Challenge is designed to raise awareness about the importance of food stamps (now called SNAP) and highlight the policy issues that affect Pennsylvanians’ access to the program, specifically the 2012 Farm Bill, the federal legislation that funds the program. The Challenge also takes place the week before the planned asset test for SNAP goes into effect in Pennsylvania, which will disqualify thousands of low-income families from food assistance. Follow Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepBrady for updates on the challenge.
04.23.2012	(Philadelphia)— Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) today joined the Jewish Federation of Greater Philadelphia and the Greater Philadelphia Coalition Against Hunger at the kick-off of the week-long Greater Philadelphia Food Stamp Challenge. Brady and other participants, including Mayor Michael Nutter and State Senator Vincent Hughes, are attempting to live on a $5 a day food limit, the average food stamp benefit. Thanking the Federation and the Coalition for their leadership, Brady said, “The challenge should be taken on the road to Harrisburg and Washington, D.C. to help more lawmakers understand how outrageous cuts in the S.N.A.P. /food stamp program are impacting people’s lives and their long term health. This is going to be a real challenge for me, but I’m only doing it for a week. Poor families have to make do on this budget week and week after week.” On day one of the challenge, Congressman Brady filled his shopping cart at the ShopRite Market in West Philadelphia. He stocked up on chicken cutlets, a loaf of wheat bread, peanut butter, jelly, milk, rice, spaghetti sauce, pasta, fresh carrots, lettuce, bran cereal and store brand decaf tea bags. Paying close attention to prices Brady said, “The cuts to the SNAP program and Pennsylvania’s means test for the poor will require struggling families to make food choices that may affect the health of their children. This is an assault on the poor and it is stupid,” Congressman Brady said. His bill came to $35.21, but with a discount Shoprite card it rounded out to $35.00. The Food Stamp Challenge is designed to raise awareness about the importance of food stamps (now called SNAP) and highlight the policy issues that affect Pennsylvanians’ access to the program, specifically the 2012 Farm Bill, the federal legislation that funds the program. The Challenge also takes place the week before the planned asset test for SNAP goes into effect in Pennsylvania, which will disqualify thousands of low-income families from food assistance. Follow Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepBrady for updates on the challenge.
02.09.2012	February 9, 2012 (Washington, DC) House Administration Committee Ranking Democrat Robert Brady (PA) joined Representative Chris Van Hollen (MD) in introducing the DISCLOSE 2012 Act today. Under the Democratic Majority in 2010, the first DISCLOSE Act was passed in the House of Representatives, but died in the Senate, falling one vote short to end a filibuster. The bill seeks to restore the American people’s trust in our elections process in the aftermath of the US Supreme Court’s Citizens United decision. Since that 2010 Supreme Court ruling, an estimated $135 million in secret money was funneled into congressional campaigns alone. Two years removed from that ruling, we are seeing the emergence of powerful candidate-specific Super PACs. With only a wink and nod to laws requiring no coordination, Super PACs are currently able to spend unlimited sums of money, collected from the deep pockets of secret donors, outside groups, and corporations. Many of these groups have no obligation to disclose their donors. Passing the DISCLOSE 2012 Act would vastly improve the transparency of our elections by requiring campaign funding disclosure by Super PACS, corporations, outside groups, and lobbyists. Corporations would have to disclose their campaign expenditures to their shareholders and all groups would have to stand by their political advertisements. “We knew this was the right thing to do two years ago, and it’s only become more critical since then,” said Brady. “Our system of campaign finance has become so absurd that jokes about our democracy have become a staple of late night television and the American people are left wondering ‘Is this the best we can do?’” “Millions of undisclosed dollars are playing an unprecedented and unwelcome role, dominating the race for the Republican presidential nomination,” said Elections Subcommittee Ranking Member Charles A. Gonzalez (TX). “The forgotten part of the Citizens United decision is that eight Supreme Court justices endorsed strong disclosure requirements to keep campaign finance transparent to defend the integrity of our election system. We need to have immediate hearings on the impact of undisclosed corporate donations and how the DISCLOSE 2012 Act can clean up our politics.” “We have seen an explosion of unlimited and secret contributions to Super PACs since the Citizens United decision,” said former Elections Subcommittee Chair Zoe Lofgren. “If corporations and wealthy individuals are allowed to contribute millions of dollars to unfairly influence elections, the public has a right to know where this money came from and where it is going.” According to recent polling conducted Greenburg Quinlan Rosner Research, a majority of Americans believe secret money plays too big a role in campaigns. The DISCLOSE 2012 Act represents a real chance to restore public trust in our elections. ###
02.07.2012	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) has been named a Defender of Children by the First Focus Campaign for Children (FFCC). First Focus Campaign for Children is a national bipartisan children's advocacy organization based in Washington, DC. The award is part of a campaign to recognize the top 100 Members of Congress who advocate on behalf of children in policy and budget decisions. “I appreciate the honor,” Congressman Brady said. “But, there is so much more work to be done on behalf of our children.” In selecting Defenders, the First Focus Campaign for Children recognized leaders who introduced, co-sponsored, and voted for legislation to meet children's needs. In addition, FFCC considered Members of Congress who demonstrated extraordinary initiative by sponsoring hearings or garnering the support of their colleagues to improve the health, educational outcomes, and well-being of children. Some of the Campaign for Children's top federal priorities for 2012 are: Building a strong and stable future for the Children's Health Insurance Program; Establishing a dedicated "Children's Budget" that gives federal policymakers a clear picture of national investments in children; Setting a national child poverty target; and, Protecting rights for immigrant children. “It is vital to the viability of the nation that we make children and families a priority in federal policy and budget decisions,” Congressman Brady said. ###
02.03.2012	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency, in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration, has awarded a $24,938 Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) to the Chester Township Fire Company, located in the First Congressional District. The grants are awarded directly to fire departments and EMS organizations. The AFG will award approximately $380 million in competitive grants to fire departments and non-affiliated EMS organizations during FY 2011. Since 2001, the AFG has provided approximately $5 billion in grants to first-responder organizations to obtain much needed emergency equipment, firefighting and emergency vehicles, and training. Congressman Brady said, “These grants save lives and they improve the capability of small fire companies such as the Chester Township Fire Company to respond to fires and other emergencies.” Chester Township Fire Chief Jeff Comisiak agrees. He said, “The grant will allow our department to purchase badly needed new radio and thermal imaging equipment to help aid in search and rescue operations. Without the grant such expensive equipment would have been beyond the department’s reach.”
01.26.2012	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) today joined State Sen. Shirley Kitchen and other elected officials and advocates in blasting Pennsylvania’s proposed asset test for recipients of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). “This proposed asset test will force families who are looking at poverty in the face choose between having a few dollars saved as a safety net and being able to feed their families,” the Congressman said. The Congressman said he has written to Gov. Corbett and asked him to reconsider implementation of the asset test. “As most of this in this room understand this asset test will hurt and make life harder for low-income families; increase the work of state case workers who are drowning now in additional paperwork; and, it will hurt business.” The Congressman said it was important that he join Sen. Kitchen to thank her for her leadership. “The fight to end hunger and poverty in one of the richest countries in the world will only be won by federal, state and local governments working side-by-side with community-based advocates.” ###
11.11.2011	Philadelphia --- Veteran’s Day was celebrated by Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) at the dedication of the brand new Robert G. Brady Veterans Center at the HELP Philadelphia Homes, in Southwest Philadelphia. The Robert G. Brady Veterans Center is named after the late father of Congressman Brady, a WWII veteran. The multi-service center building will provide office space for a wide range of supportive services for veterans and their families, community meeting rooms and a patio area. The HELP townhouse development is a 63-unit affordable rental community for families and disabled veterans at risk of homelessness. The housing development opened this summer and is 100 percent occupied. Brady, joined by Maria Cuomo Cole, HELP USA’s Chairman of the Board, said, “The opening of the service center is just a small part of the debt that we owe to our returning veterans and war heroes. And, I am doubly proud that the Center is named for my late father who proudly served in the U.S. Marine Corps in the South Pacific.” HELP USA is one of the country’s largest providers of housing jobs and services to America’s homeless. The opening of the Philadelphia facility was a part of HELP’s national Operation Home initiative for veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan and coincides with the opening of another such facility located on the Walter Reed campus. “The struggles faced by veterans at home are often just as challenging as those they faced while at war,” said Maria Cuomo Cole, HELP USA’s Chairman of the Board. “Congressman Brady has been instrumental in turning the idea of this residential facility into a reality. We are grateful for the role he has played and happy to dedicate the beautiful Brady Center to him. The appealing aesthetics of the homes along with the services provided by HELP USA are essential to empowering homeless and low-income veterans to become self-reliant, and take control of their lives again.”
10.21.2011	Philadelphia --- House Armed Services Committee Member Bob Brady (D., PA) released the following statement in response to the President’s announcement that U.S. combat forces will be redeployed from Iraq by the end of this year: “ I welcome the announcement by President Obama. Our military men and women have served with valor and we all should stand ready to express our appreciation to them and their families for their sacrifice. But, as this chapter in our history closes we must remain committed to work in partnership with those in the region during this time of transition. I applaud President Obama for this decision.” ###
10.14.2011	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) says as the Select Committee on Deficit Reduction meets to consider ways to reduce the federal budget that the bipartisan Committee must protect critically essential programs for low income families - especially the nation’s anti- hunger programs. “Our deficit reduction policies should not increase the risk of increasing hunger or poverty throughout the nation.” In a letter to Congressman James Clyburn, a member of the 12-member debt reduction Committee, Brady joined 124 Congresspersons in asking the Committee, to keep safety net programs like the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and child nutrition programs off the chopping block in debt negotiations. Calling SNAP the most responsive federal safety net program, Brady said its strength is that it’s designed to spend more in tough times, and spend less during economic good times. But, Brady said in spite of the success of federal nutrition programs, House Republicans passed legislation this year that would weaken that safety net by capping SNAP benefits and drastically reducing other programs including the Women, Infants and Children (WIC), The Emergency Food Assistance Program (TEFAP) and the Commodity Supplemental Food Program (CSFP). In December, the Committee developed deficit reduction recommendations that adhered to a guiding principal of not increasing poverty or income inequality. And, Congressman Brady says that principal must be maintained. “In our fragile economy I understand that cutting more than a trillion dollars to reduce the deficit will be difficult but the poor, the working poor and those folks barely holding on economically should not be further harmed by deficit reductions.” ###
10.14.2011	PHILADELPHIA --- This week, Congressman Brady introduced a bill which would permit the U.S. Mint, at no cost to the taxpayer, to design and offer for sale to the public a commemorative coin honoring the Cruiser Olympia. The proceeds from the sales of the coins will be utilized by the Friends of the Cruiser Olympia for dry-docking and preserving the Cruiser Olympia as a ship museum. This legislation is one of many efforts to restore and preserve the Cruiser Olympia. “This is a worthwhile project that will help to ensure that this naval treasure remains afloat,” Congressman Brady said. The Cruiser Olympia is an iconic and national historic treasure berthed at Penn’s Landing, Philadelphia. It is the world’s only ship museum from the early 20th century beginnings of the United States as a world power. The Cruiser Olympia is a National Historic Landmark, a National Historic Engineering Landmark, and is on the National Register of Historic Places. The Cruiser Olympia is perhaps best known in history as the Flagship of Commodore George Dewey in his 1898 victory at the Battle of Manila Bay during the Spanish-American War. In 1921, the Cruiser Olympia was directed by the President to carry an American Unknown Soldier from a French battlefield cemetery honoring American dead in WWI, bringing the first Unknown Soldier to Washington, D.C. The Congressman is urging his colleagues to cosponsor the bill and support its passage, “…so that this national naval treasure can be saved and restored.” ###
09.29.2011	PHILADELPHIA, PA– Congressman Brady was on hand to congratulate Aker shipyard workers at signing ceremony documenting the agreement between Aker Philadelphia Shipyard, Inc. and SeaRiver Maritime Inc., Exxon Mobil Corporation’s U.S. marine affiliate, for the construction of two Aframax oil tankers at the Aker Philadelphia Shipyard. “The construction of these oil tankers means jobs and money for our workers,” said Congressman Brady. “It’s a major boost for the economy of our area and it’s another vote of confidence in our shipyard workers.” Construction of the first tanker is expected to begin by mid-2012 and bothships are scheduled for delivery in 2014. When both vessels are under construction, the workforce at the shipyard is expected to exceed 1,000 people. The project is valued at approximately US $400 million. The 820 foot long, 115,000 deadweight ton tankers are intended to transport Alaskan NorthSlope crude oil from Prince William Sound to the U.S. West Coast. The vessels will be equipped with double hull protection, the latest navigation and communications equipment, and will be energy efficient. ###
09.28.2011	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) announced that the U.S. Department of Labor and the U.S. Department of Education have awarded nearly $500 million in grants to community colleges around the country for targeted job training and workforce development to help economically dislocated workers who are changing careers. Of that amount the 14 community colleges, including Community College of Philadelphia and Delaware County Community College, that comprise the Pennsylvania Consortium of Community Colleges will receive $20 million in Trade Adjustment Assistance Community College and Career Training Grants. “These grants combined with President’s proposals in the American Jobs Act are so important in these hard economic times. They represent the kind of stepping stone that is needed to train and retrain ready workers. This approach meets the needs of industry for a skilled and educated workforce and helps to ensure that laid off workers have a new set of credentials and skills to be competitive in growing industries,” Congressman Brady said. The Community College and Career Training Initiative complements President Obama’s broader agenda for every American to have at least one year of postsecondary education and will help to reach the goal for America to have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world by 2020. ###
09.27.2011	PHILADELPHIA --- Today Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) joined members of the National Postal Mail Handlers Union as they held a rally at his South Philadelphia Congressional office. The union showed up to thank Congressman Brady for being a co-sponsor of H. R. 1351, which would allow the Postal Service to apply billions of dollars in pension overpayments to meet the Postal Services’s financial obligations. Wearing a union shirt and waving to cars on Broad St., Brady said that in addition to supporting the legislation he would do everything in his power to save the postal service. “I do not want to see thousands of post offices closed across the nation and I certainly don’t want to see the massive layoffs of post office employees,” Brady told the crowd. “This may be an uphill fight but I am in this fight with you to make sure we have a modern and efficient postal service. And, that you keep your jobs.” ###
09.16.2011	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Reps. Allyson Schwartz (PA-13), Bob Brady (PA-1) and Chaka Fattah (PA-2) announced today that Philadelphia will receive $6 million in grants to provide underserved communities with fresh, healthy food options. The U.S. Department of Treasury announced this week that Philadelphia will receive two-$3 million grants through the Community Development Financial Institution (CDFI) Program as part of the multi-agency Healthy Food Financing Initiative (HFFI). Reinforcing the CDFI Program’s commitment toward economic development in distressed and low-income communities, 12 grants totaling $25 million were awarded to institutions across the country that are focused on developing solutions for increasing access to affordable, healthy foods. In Philadelphia, the Opportunity Finance Network and the Reinvestment Fund will each receive $3 million in grants to work towards this goal. Brady, Schwartz and Fattah have long been advocates of the HFFI, which works to provide low-income urban, rural and suburban areas with access to affordable, more nutritious food choices. The trio has worked to encourage supermarkets and other fresh food retailers to open new stores or expand their fresh food offerings in these underserved communities. These efforts could lead to a dramatic reduction in the number of Americans living in “food deserts,” as well as stimulate local economic development. “By providing healthier food options in underserved areas, we can give millions of Americans the opportunity to live longer, healthier lives; save billions in health care costs; and create good-paying jobs across the country,” said Schwartz, who spearheaded the effort to create the HFFI in 2009. “With a growing epidemic of obesity and diabetes in America, particularly in children, it is imperative that families across the country have access to more nutritious food.” “This new federal healthy food initiative is the result of my colleagues Representatives Schwartz, Fattah and I working together with the White House to look for fundamental long-term solutions to the multi-layered problem of hunger and poverty,” Brady said. “This is an important and continuing collaboration for a growing and complex issue.” “These significant federal resources for two major nonprofits in our city underscore Philadelphia’s creative leadership in addressing the related challenges of hunger and obesity. These new funds will further expand access to nutritious food options for more families,” Fattah said. “More than just strengthening family health, these grants will also support neighborhood revitalization and address the acute economic challenges facing too many Philadelphia neighborhoods.” In 2009, Schwartz introduced a bipartisan resolution to recognize the need for a national program to provide an effective and economically sustainable solution to the problem of limited access to healthy foods in underserved communities. In November 2010, Schwartz introduced the Healthy Food Financing Initiative, H.R. 6462, with Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (NY) to help grocery operators overcome the hurdles of high start-up costs or limited access to credit, which prevents many grocers from opening new outlets in these areas. Because of these efforts, President Obama included funding for the HFFI in the FY 2011 budget. The HFFI is an interagency initiative involving the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. HFFI represents the federal government's first coordinated step to eliminate “food deserts” by promoting a wide range of interventions that expand the supply of and demand for nutritious foods, including increasing the distribution of agricultural products; developing and equipping grocery stores; and strengthening producer-to-consumer relationships.
09.09.2011	PHILADELPHIA --- At the request of Pennsylvania Governor Tom Corbett, Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) made key phone calls to the White House that resulted in the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) upgrading disaster relief to Pennsylvania. Brady says Governor Corbett contacted him in the aftermath of Hurricane Irene and asked for his help to get FEMA to upgrade the state’s disaster relief funding from partial to maximum relief. And just this afternoon, at the request of Mayor Mike Nutter, Brady again contacted the White House to guarantee Philadelphia would have the help it needs as a result of the latest round of torrential rain, flooding and mudslides. Brady has also joined Congressmen Fattah and Patrick Meehan in urging Congress to not let politics get in the way of ensuring that FEMA has the funding necessary to continue providing the resources needed to respond to back-to-back major storms. In addition Brady is part of a bipartisan call for prompt action on bringing emergency disaster relief funding legislation to the House floor. “The wind, rain and flooding don’t take sides, and we can’t either. We all have to put our shoulders to the task of making sure that residents, businesses and the broad communities in our area and across the state get the assistance they need,” Congressman Brady said. ###
08.12.2011	Washington, DC-Congressman Robert Brady released the following statement today after the release of the latest Food Research and Action Center (FRAC) report, Food Hardship in America—Households with and without Children: “Today the Food Research Action Center issued a grave reminder of the toll hunger is having on our nation’s families. The report puts a glaring spotlight on the hardship felt by the most vulnerable segment of our population, the children. It should go without saying that now IS NOT the time for cuts to America’s social safety net. “I have and will continue to vote for legislation that protects federal nutrition programs, such as SNAP (food stamps) and child nutrition and senior nutrition programs. The safety net is being shredded by reckless legislation. People need jobs so they can feed their families. And it’s important to note that spending for social programs did not create a deficit, and cutting spending for these programs won’t bring us out it. As we consider solutions for addressing the deficit, these programs must be protected.”
08.10.2011	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA)announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has selected the City of Philadelphia Fire Department as the new Sponsoring Agency for Pennsylvania Task Force One (PA-TF1), one of the 28 task forces that comprise the National Urban Search & Rescue (US&R) Response System. The City of Harrisburg, Bureau of Fire (the current Sponsoring Agency for PA-TF1) is relinquishing its role as the Sponsoring Agency and will transition to Participating Agency status. The National US&R Response System is a framework for organizing Federal, state and local partner emergency response teams as integrated Federal search and rescue task forces. The 28 National US&R Task Forces, located throughout the continental United States, can be deployed by FEMA to assist state and local governments in rescuing victims of structural collapse incidents, or to assist in other search and rescue missions. Brady, who wrote to FEMA in support of the selection of Philadelphia, said that the Philadelphia Fire Department has been a Participating Agency of PA-TFI since its inception and was well prepared to take on an enhanced role. “The Department has demonstrated sufficient ability, commitment and the historical record to meet the need of our nation's front lines in this critically important new responsibility.” FEMA convened a National US&R Response System Sponsoring Agency Selection Evaluation Board (SASEB) to appoint a new Sponsoring Agency on August 9, 2011. The board consisted of representatives from FEMA, the Pennsylvania Emergency Management Agency, and National US&R Response System leadership. The SASEB conducted an integrated assessment of the relative strengths, weaknesses, deficiencies, and risks of each applicant, in order to determine which agency offered the best opportunity to manage PA-TF1 as a Sponsoring Agency. Based upon their evaluation, the SASEB made a recommendation on the selection of a new Sponsoring Agency to FEMA Administrator W. Craig Fugate, the designated Sponsoring Agency Selection Authority. In closing, Congressman Brady said that the assistance provided by FEMA through the US&R Taskforce in Pennsylvania saves lives, and provides a vital safety net in spite of disaster threats. “And, it was imperative that the taskforce continued with the experience of one of its most loyal team members, the Philadelphia Fire Department.” ### For more information on the National US&R Response System, visit https://www.fema.gov/emergency/usr/.
07.28.2011	PHILADELPHIA ---Supporters of what they call the sensible alternative to the nation’s debt crisis showed up today at the Philadelphia district office of Congressman Bob Brady (D,., PA). The group said they are in support of the Democratic-backed debt plan. But they emphasized that they do not want lawmakers cutting Social Security, Medicare or Medicaid benefits. Additionally Brady staffers say there has been a steady stream of callers to the four First Congressional District offices expressing their concern about the possibility of a government default. Congressman Brady said, “Voters are nervous and frustrated that circus like politics is getting in the way of a common sense, balanced approach to reducing the federal deficits.”
07.25.2011	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA), a ranking member of the Committee on House Administration (CHA), has sent a letter to CHA Chair Mike Simpson (R., Idaho) and Ranking Member James Moran (D., VA) expressing his concern regarding proposed cuts to the funding of the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History and Culture (NMAAHC), contained in the FY 2012 Interior Appropriations bill. “If approved, the bill would undermine both the mission of the Smithsonian and the creditability of the Congress,” the Congressman said. The bill, in report language, cuts $75 million for constructions costs and Congressman Brady says that it would in effect freeze the overall capital spending for the entire Smithsonian institution. Brady, a CHA Ranking Member and a past committee chair said, “With groundbreaking on the NMAAHC scheduled for the summer of 2012, underfunding it now, at this critical juncture, could generate substantial delays and ultimately cost taxpayers significantly more.” The Congressman also stressed that the cut in funding could also impact the Smithsonian’s ability to continue to raise private funds at the current pace. Saying that the Smithsonian represents “our cultural heritage,” Congressman Brady said that while he understands the difficult financial position the country is in, the cuts will create more problems which must ultimately still be addressed. ###
07.25.2011	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA), making good on a promise, presented a check for $25,800 to the Overbrook Monarchs Football Team on Friday just days before the start of the team’s season. Standing with the team’s leaders and speaking to the young team members and the families and friends at the Granahan Playground, Congressman Brady said, “ I would like to recognize Lincoln Financial Group and its employees for donating a portion of the funds needed to purchase new equipment for the Monarchs.” Last month a Monarchs equipment trailer was broken into at the playground and thieves made away with equipment belonging to the champion youth football team. The robbery threatened the team’s season which is scheduled to begin August 1. “I could not stand by and let the hopes and dreams of the team and their parents be knocked down. I want these kids to know that there are more people in their community that will help rather than hurt them,” the Congressman said.
06.29.2011	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Bob Brady says he will make sure that the Overbrook Monarchs will have all they need when the season begins August 1st. A Monarchs equipment trailer was broken into over the weekend at the Granahan Recreation Center and the thieves stole all of the equipment belonging to the champion youth football team. “When I found out what happened I called the team and told them to tell the kids that I would do whatever I had to do to make sure that they have everything they need when the season starts.” Brady says if he can’t raise the money, “I’ll take it out of my pocket. This organization has worked too hard to let somebody ruin the upcoming season. I played at this playground. This is my neighborhood team and I have always supported them and I will continue to do so.” ###
06.24.2011	PHILADELPHIA --- This week, Congressman Robert Brady introduced a resolution recognizing the contribution of the National Center for the American Revolution for its preservation of the story of the founding of the United States. He also expressed his support for the Center’s plans to build the first national museum that will celebrate the full story of the American Revolution. “I proudly support the Center’s planned museum. It will be an invaluable resource and will be of great historical importance to the nation, Philadelphia, the world and the millions of visitors who will view the museum’s collection each year,” Congressman Brady said. The Museum of the American Revolution will be located just steps from Independence Hall, the Liberty Bell, and Christ Church in Philadelphia. It will display significant artifacts from the American Revolution era and will offer programming, lectures, symposia, and interactive learning for teachers, students, and the general public. The National Center for the American Revolution was established for the purpose of telling the story of the American Revolution and its impact on the struggles for freedom, self-government, and the rule of law throughout the world. It has an impressive collection of artifacts, manuscripts, and artwork from the period of the American Revolution. The collection includes priceless physical reminders of the nation’s struggle for independence. Some of these national treasures are: General George Washington’s marquee, William B. T. Trego’s iconic painting, The March to Valley Forge, and an original 1776 Philadelphia imprint of Thomas Paine’s Common Sense. ###
06.06.2011	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Bob Brady is awarding Certificates of Special Congressional Recognition to top elementary and middle school graduates in the First Congressional District in Philadelphia and Delaware County based on the recommendation of the schools. “As these students in our public, charter, parochial and private schools reach this important academic milestone it is important that they are recognized for their scholastic excellence and good citizenship. They have worked hard and I personally want to acknowledge this important achievement,” Congressman Brady said. To date, 96 of the 222 schools in the district have responded and 202 certificates have been processed to be presented at graduation. It is not too late to request the certificates and the office will process requests until June 20. For more information contact Special Assistant Lillian Visalli at (215)389-4627. ###
06.02.2011	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) has selected the artwork of Juan Delgado, a 10th grade student at the Kensington Business and Finance High School, to represent the First Congressional District in the 30th annual Congressional High School Art Competition. The pastel medium drawing is a portrait of leaders, including Presidents Barack Obama and Abraham Lincoln, who were and are important in the Black struggle for human and civil rights in America. It will be displayed with the work other students from across the nation in a ten month exhibition in the U.S. Capitol. The nationwide art showcase, An Artistic Discovery, provides Members of Congress with the opportunity to showcase the talents of creative young artists in their districts. “The level of artistic talent in the First Congressional District is exceptional,” Congressman Brady said. “I am proud that the work of Mr. Delgado will be on display with the best young artists in the country. These young artists will have their work seen by hundreds of thousands people from across the country and around the world who visit the U.S. Capitol. The exhibition not only encourages young artists it also makes the overwhelming case regarding the importance of arts education in our schools.” Mr. Delgado is a resident of the Fairhill section of North Philadelphia. ###
05.02.2011	Philadelphia -–- Congressman Bob Brady D., PA a member on the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on President Obama’s announcement last night confirming that Osama bin Laden, the mastermind of the 9/11 attacks against the United States, has been killed: "We all remember our horror September 11, 2001 as we watched thousands of Americans civilians being murdered in an attack on our nation. Now we will remember May 1, 2011 when we heard the news that the mastermind of that murderous attack is dead. I applaud President Obama for his leadership and determination to bring Bin Laden down. I also applaud the skill and bravery of America's intelligence and counter terrorism professionals. This is an absolute victory against terrorism. And it is a victory, as President Obama stated, for all who believe in peace and human dignity."
04.28.2011	PHILADELPHIA – Congressman Bob Brady (D. PA) today visited the Fresh Grocer supermarket at historic Progress Plaza, the nation’s first black owned and developed shopping center. While touring the 46,000 square foot supermarket that opened December 2009, the Congressman presented a flag to Fresh Grocer President & CEO Pat Burns. “This north central neighborhood in the First Congressional District was without a supermarket for more than a decade and I was glad to help gain funding for the project. The store not only has healthy and affordable fresh food for residents, it has also created more than 200 jobs. Progress Plaza has always been a beacon of hope and possibilities and this market is a testament to what is possible when we all work together,” Congressman Brady said. ###
04.08.2011	CONGRESSMAN BOB BRADY: Republicans must step back from divisive agenda and keep the government open! Washington, D.C. – Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) said today that Republicans must step back from a divisive and social and political agenda and sit down at the table and work with Democrats to prevent a shutdown. "The American people are sick of the games. They want us to lead and find solutions not create more problems. They elected us to create jobs and strengthen our middle class and struggling classes, not shut down the government, deny public services taxpayers have paid for, and jeopardize our economic recovery," the Congressman said. "I am committed to responsibly reducing the deficit and keeping the government open, but Republicans are pushing an ideological social agenda that is threatening a government shutdown." Numerous independent news reports say Republican negotiators continue to hold up the budget talks by insisting on divisive issues that restrict women’s health services and do not belong in a Continuing Resolution. President Obama and Senate Democrats have demonstrated their clear willingness to do what it takes to avoid a shutdown – meeting House Republicans more than halfway on spending cuts; but GOP leaders have refused to sign onto an agreement. Yesterday, Democrats offered Republicans three different opportunities to vote to keep the government open; again, Republicans said no. And today, we gave them another opportunity that Republicans rejected. "A government shutdown is not in the best interests of our country, our families, and our economy. Democrats are focused America’s number one priority: creating jobs. Republicans should join us in achieving this goal," Congressman Brady said. Shutting down the government has real consequences for America’s workers, businesses, and communities. In addition to the 800,000 federal public servants left without a paycheck to support their families, millions of people would be left without access to critical services, including business owners, farmers, and veterans. Overall, independent analysts have estimated that any shutdown will impact our economy, and one lasting more than a few days could slow our growth over the long term – severely undermining our ability to extend our recovery and put people back to work. In addition, the Center for American Progress issued a report outlining critical services delayed, interrupted, or shut down if the government shuts down, including veterans’ benefits and health services. Americans will lose a number of critical services as Social Security applications go unprocessed, veterans lose access to health and financial services, and troops’ pay is put on hold. Health services, including disease surveillance, disease hotlines, and cleanup work at toxic waste sites, would pause. Passport applications would go unprocessed; national parks and museums would close; and taxpayers could potentially lose hundreds of millions of dollars. With so much at stake, Congress must get back to work creating jobs, strengthening the middle class, and responsibly reducing the deficit. # # #
02.01.2011	Washington, DC(January 24, 2011): Robert A. Brady, Ranking Democrat on the Committee on House Administration issued the following statement in response to today’s House passage of H.R. 359, legislation that terminates the Presidential Election Campaign Fund: “Today’s disregard of the wishes of the nearly 10 million Americans who voluntarily direct $3 of their tax obligation to fund Presidential campaign marks a low point in the History of this House,” said Brady. “Not only did the new Republican majority remove a key safeguard against corruption and the dominance of special interests in our election system, they did it with no regard for public disclosure and transparency. Not one hearing…not one witness…and no opportunity for consideration through the committee process. Under the guise of expedient cost-cutting, the new majority has taken another step towards handing over our election system to the highest bidder. “Between the disastrous Citizens United ruling, the death of the DISCLOSE Bill in the Senate, and today’s action, the forces who wish to turn over our elections to special interest groups are batting 1000.”
01.11.2011	Washington, DC (January 9, 2011): Congressman Robert A. Brady (D, Pennsylvania) announced he will introduce legislation that would make it a federal crime to make criminal threats against Members of Congress or their staff while performing official duties. The legislation would revise Title 18, Section 871 of the U. S. Code which deals with threats against the President. "This national tragedy should serve as much more than a wake-up call for those of us who engage in public service," said Brady. "This is a major alarm with all of the bells going off.” "Unfortunately, we live in a day and age where extreme individuals feel justified in committing heinous acts. If the law says it is a crime to threaten the President it should also be a crime to criminally threaten a representative, senator, federal judge or any of their staff, “ said Brady, the ranking member on the House Administration Committee. "The attempted assassination of Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (D., Arizona) and the killing of six people including a federal judge and a nine year old child, demands that we engage in an exhaustive review of our security procedures," said Brady. "I have strongly encouraged such a review and I look forward to working with my colleagues to advance this legislation."
11.16.2010	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Brady today introduced a resolution that applauds the Einstein Healthcare Network, Southwest Airlines and Philadelphia International Airport for instituting best practices procedures for helping families with autistic children when they are traveling. Understanding that children with autism represent a special population that may require additional training for airline employees, as well as preparation for travel, Einstein Healthcare Network, Southwest Airlines, the Philadelphia International Airport have collaborated with the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), the University of the Sciences, and the Gray Center, in Michigan, to help families better navigate airports. “This teaming up on behalf of families with autistic children certainly deserves to be honored,” Brady said. While a simple outing to a public place may become a highly charged and traumatic experience for an autistic child, travel may also trigger an emotional reaction. So to ensure that there is sensitivity and support for these families, The Autism Accessibility Program at Einstein reached out to Southwest Airlines and enlisted the support of the Philadelphia International Airport to help the airline become more orientated to the needs of autistic children. Training sessions for airport employees are on-going and families now have the opportunity to take part in simulated flights to help them prepare their children for the flight experience. In addition, Einstein has placed preparatory materials for families on their website. The Congressman said many legislators have indicated that they support the resolution. He also said the training model may prove helpful to other community settings, like the Smithsonian, with whom Einstein is also collaborating. “Einstein, Southwest Airlines and the Philadelphia International Airport became aware of the problem and are on a course of collaboration to develop a model that can be helpful for families and other public places,” the Congressman said.
11.09.2010	Philadelphia--- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D-PA) announced today that the Logan Community Development Center (CDC) will receive planning support from the National Park Service (NPS) through its Rivers, Trails and Conservation Assistance (RTCA) Program to come up with a revitalization plan for the 35-acre blighted Logan Triangle. The RTCA, the community assistance arm of the NPS will provide an outdoor recreation planner, who will work with the Logan CDC to devise a development plan for the area. Over a span of about 25 years, nearly 1000 houses have been demolished in the Logan Triangle and most of the occupants were relocated because the properties, built on unstable landfill atop old creek beds, were sinking. “The NPS planner will bring all of the parties to the table to find common ground. We cannot continue to have a 17-square block overgrown wasteland in the heart of this community,” Congressman Brady said. “The Logan area will now have the benefit of an expert who understands land development in relationship to potential government resources—someone who will guide them through past challenges and into a brighter, safer, more secure future.” The task of the NPS planner will be to examine previous site proposals and create strategies to bring the private and public sectors together to discuss issues, find solutions and identify potential resources to jumpstart the revitalization of the Logan community. Initially the planning focus will center on transforming the land into an open green space for outdoor recreation, including walking and biking trails,from which related developments may follow. “The Logan neighborhood will become a thriving community again. The RTCA Program will provide community-based planning to help to ensure that the residents of the Logan area get their community back,” the Congressman said.
09.29.2010	Philadelphia --- Congressman Bob Brady is presented commemorative boxing gloves for his work as a “Democracy Champ” by the Campaign for Fair Elections in front of the Rocky statue at the Philadelphia Art Museum. Last week, Brady’s House Administration Committee approved the Fair Elections Now Act —a historic step forward in putting elections back in the hands of voters. The bill, which would allow candidates to ignore corporations and special interests and run competitive campaigns by relying on small donations from their voters, will now go to the House floor for a vote. The Congressman said, “The bill is designed to ensure that elections are put back in the hands of everyday working Americans, instead of us relying on corporate lobbyists to fund our political campaigns. If we are to have a government that is fair, effective and accountable, we need to have a system in which individual voters are as important as corporate lobbyists.” “With this committee vote, voters won and special interests lost,” says David Donnelly, campaign manager of the Campaign for Fair Elections. “Chairman Robert Brady and his colleagues on the Committee must be commended for their strong leadership on Fair Elections, and for voting to place government back into the hands of the American people.” The Fair Elections Now Act would allow candidates to raise donations of $100 or less from their home state, which would be matched on a four-to-one basis. The system is funded by the sale of broadcast spectrum, with no cost to taxpayers. Learn more about the bill at www.fairelectionsnow.org. ###
09.23.2010	Philadelphia--- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) joined Philadelphia NAACP President Jerry Mondesire and Philadelphia District Attorney Seth Williams at the site of the Liberty Bell in support of the National Criminal Justice Commission Act of 2010. The legislation would establish a National Criminal Justice Commission which would undertake a comprehensive review of the nation’s criminal justice system, including federal, state, local, and tribal criminal justice policies and practices. Recently, the House passed H.R. 5143, the National Criminal Justice Commission Act (H.R. 5143) The bill has already been approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee and now it is up to the full Senate to vote on it. “I voted for H.R. 5143 because the U.S. incarceration rate leads the world and we need to reform the American criminal justice system. In the last 40 years the number of people incarcerated in the nation has increased from about 500,000 to 2.3 million people,” Congressman Brady said. Brady added that he along with Mondesire and DA Williams is urging area senators to vote for the bill because the nation’s reliance on incarceration is ineffective, costly and contributes to the destabilization of communities.
09.23.2010	Washington, D.C.: Today, Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) echoed the President’s announcement that service members whose service was extended under stop loss orders in Iraq and Afghanistan have until October 21, 2010 to apply for retroactive pay. Troops eligible for retroactive pay will receive $500 a month for each month their service was extended. The Defense Department estimates that while 145,400 troops are eligible, only 58,000 claims have been paid out so far. “Our brave men and women have made tremendous sacrifices for our country,” said Brady. “In 2009, we passed legislation to compensate our service members for tours that were involuntarily extended in Iraq and Afghanistan. With the deadline fast approaching, I want to make sure that all eligible troops submit their claims so that they can receive the retroactive pay they earned through their service. Working with our local veterans organizations, I want to make sure that all eligible service members here in Pennsylvania get the benefits they have earned.” In 2009, Congressman Brady voted to pass HR 2346, the War Supplemental Appropriations Act which established retroactive stop loss special pay (RSLSP). This allows troops whose service was involuntarily extended between September 11, 2001 and September 30, 2009 to file claims in order to receive retroactive pay if eligible. The deadline for submissions is October 21, 2010. The average benefit is $3,800. For more information or to submit a claim please visit www.defense.gov/stoploss. ###
07.01.2010	Philadelphia --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) said he applauds today’s launch of HealthCare.gov. “The website is absolutely necessary and it is the most comprehensive resource about health care available.” Mandated by the Health Insurance Reform legislation that was signed into law in March, the website is one of the key features of the legislation to ensure that individuals and small business owner are able to navigate the complicated process of shopping for health insurance. Congressman Brady said one important element about the website is that it is user and consumer friendly. “It is written so people can understand the complicated world of health insurance and it also does not require PhD level skills to navigate the site.” After consumers input a few pieces of background information – such as state, age range, and current insurance status – a site tool, the insurance options finder, will generate a list of both private and public health insurance options. The tool will list details of insurance plans offered in that state, and include contact information for each company so consumers can contact the companies that best fit their needs. Beginning in October, the tool will also include pricing information, further simplifying health insurance shopping. “Now, families and small businesses can easily search for available insurance options and make informed decisions about their health care with thorough, unbiased information,” said Congressman Brady.With the addition of plan price estimates in October, HealthCare.gov will enable consumers to compare both the quality and the cost of their health insurance options so they can choose what plan works best for their needs. “Whether you’re a new college graduate, a family who has recently lost insurance, or someone with a pre-existing condition – this site has a list of insurance options available for you. And, I urge all of my constituents to use this resource and learn how the health reform law can help you,” Congressman Brady said. The insurance options finder has a database of over 2 billion scenarios, with listings from more than 1000 insurance carriers and over 5500 insurance products. The website also hosts over 500 new pages of content, such as a health care reform implementation timeline and state-by-state information for individuals with pre-existing conditions.
06.22.2010	Philadelphia --- Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) is taking part in a House Democrats New Media Competition between Members who are battling to see who can gain the largest following on Twitter, Facebook, and YouTube combined. In the spirit of the competition Brady is inviting constituents to join his social network. “We’re in the midst of a new media revolution that allows for instant access and feedback regarding the challenging issues we are facing. Hopefully this competition will help to get people more engaged with government. And, I believe the First District can rally together so we can win this contest.” Already an active member of Facebook and YouTube, last month Congressman Brady joined the Twitter generation by adding Twitter to his social media repertoire. Congressman Brady says he welcomes new and innovative ways to interact with the people in his district. “I admit my first preference as an old school politician is to pick up the phone, but I am enjoying learning how to navigate the new media and expand how I communicate with voters and how they can communicate with me.” ###
06.02.2010	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady has selected the artwork of Cornelius Hawes, a senior at Creative Arts and Performing Arts High School (CAPA) in South Philadelphia to represent the First Congressional District in the 29th annual Congressional High School Art Competition. Entitled a “Deep Sleep,” the oil painting is a portrait of a young African American woman sleeping on a train. It will be displayed with the work other students from across the nation in a ten month exhibition in the U.S. Capitol. The nationwide art showcase, An Artistic Discovery, provides Members of Congress with the opportunity to showcase the talents of creative young artists in their districts. “The level of artistic talent in the First Congressional District is exceptional,” Congressman Brady said. “I am proud that the work of Mr. Hawes will be on display with the best young artists in the country. These young artists will have their work seen by hundreds of thousands people from across the country and around the world who visit the U.S. Capitol. The exhibition not only encourages young artists it also makes the overwhelming case regarding the importance of arts education in our schools.”
05.27.2010	PHILADELPHIA --- Never one to shy away from a bet in support of the home team, Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) has taken on Congressman Dan Lipinksi (D., ILL). If the Philadelphia Flyers win the Stanley Cup Brady gets to chow down on two Chicago style pizzas and Lipinski will have to sport an orange and black Flyers jersey all day, including on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. But Brady says in the “unlikely” event that the Chicago Blackhawks win, he will wear a Blackhawks jersey and will deliver 10 Philly cheese steaks to his colleague. Brady says he loves pizza and is looking forward to sampling a Chicago pepperoni pizza with extra cheese. “The Flyers are going to go all the way and we will be strutting down Broad Street to celebrate the victory, Philly-style.”
05.26.2010	(Philadelphia, PA – May 14, 2010) - Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) was on hand for the launch and dedication ceremony of the Wills Eye Institute’s, state-of-the-art, mobile diagnostic unit. The bus, a first-of-its-kind in the region with tele-ophthalmology capability, will allow Wills Eye to reach more underserved populations, primarily children and seniors, and to promote good eye health in the greater Philadelphia region. "Lack of access to quality health care is one of the most significant issues facing our country,” said Congressman Robert Brady. The bus will help to ensure that people who often go without critical health services will have access to them, right in their own neighborhoods. Quality eye care, provided by one of the top rated eye hospitals in the nation, and the ability to bring services directly to those who need them most will make such a difference. I applaud Wills Eye for its creative thinking and its commitment to community. This project will not only improve access to care, but also lower health care costs through early diagnosis and treatment." Joseph P. Bilson, executive director, Wills Eye Institute said, “Building upon our rich history of service and charity, we are passionate about making eye care accessible to our community and educating people about the importance of eye health.” A highly trained ophthalmologic team will examine children and seniors in the bus, which is custom-fitted with the latest generation of technologically sophisticated diagnostic equipment. These devices can be deployed to examine patients and transmit their studies for interpretation by ophthalmologists at Wills Eye Institute. The images, encrypted to safeguard patient privacy, will allow doctors to provide real-time evaluation and diagnosis, and make recommendations and referrals as needed. The bus will reach children by visiting schools and day care centers in the Philadelphia region. “Providing a child with the best possible eye care is the first step towards ensuring vision for a lifetime. By identifying problems early, we can prevent future vision loss and reverse potentially blinding conditions. It’s that simple,” said Dr. Julia Haller, ophthalmologist-in-chief, Wills Eye Institute. “Wills sees many children who go to school ‘legally blind’ simply because they do not have glasses. A simple screening can turn their lives around. When children see better, they learn better.” The bus also will target senior populations for eye problems through senior centers, religious groups and other community resources. “By 65, one in three Americans will be diagnosed with some form of age-related eye disease,” said Dr. Haller. “Too often, the warning signs of such diseases as glaucoma and macular degeneration are dismissed as part of getting older. The tele-ophthalmology feature on our bus allows us to screen seniors for these and other conditions that can lead to permanent vision loss.” The eye bus also provides a critical safety net for the large and growing population of diabetics in the greater Philadelphia region who are unaware that they have diabetic retinopathy, the most common and serious complication of diabetes that can result in blindness. Diabetes also increases the risk of developing other eye diseases, such as cataract and glaucoma. In addition to serving children and seniors, the Wills Eye bus will operate as a community-wide education tool, raising awareness about eye disease and encouraging good eye health at popular local events. Funding for the Wills Eye bus was provided in large part by a federal grant from the Telemedicine and Advanced Research Center (TATRC).
04.29.2010	Washington, DC -- House Administration Chairman Robert A. Brady joined today with Congressman Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Congressman Mike Castle (R-DE) and Congressman Walter Jones (R-NC), to announce the introduction of H.R. 5175 - The DISCLOSE Act: Democracy is Strengthened by Casting Light on Spending in Elections Act. The Committee on House Administration is responsible for federal election law and will be the committee of jurisdiction over the proposed legislation. H.R. 5175 is in response to the recent, broadly criticized Supreme Court decision in the Citizens United vs. FEC case. In a 5-4 decision, a divided Supreme Court overturned nearly 100 years of campaign finance law and allows big business to directly fund political messages. The decision puts corporations on an equal level with individuals in exercising Freedom of Speech rights and puts U.S. elections up for sale to the highest bidder. The DISCLOSE Act helps restore some of the balance between the citizen and his or her right to a government that’s accountable only to them. “I have heard from Members on both sides of the aisle - as evidenced by Mr. Castle and Mr. Jones’ presence today – that something must be done to address this attack on American elections,” said Chairman Brady. “ The Committee on House Administration has jurisdiction over federal elections, and therefore the vast majority of this bill. The Committee already held its first hearing on this matter back in February and I am announcing that I will be holding a hearing on this legislation as soon as next Thursday. I am very committed to getting this legislation passed in the House, passed in the Senate and on the President’s desk by the time the midterm elections are in full swing.” The bill includes common sense provisions that restore the individual voter to the position of prominence in the American election system. It requires that CEOs stand by the ads funded through their corporate treasuries, expands disclosure requirements and prohibits foreign countries and companies from exercising influence in the funding of U.S. elections. “Working with my Committee colleagues we will get this bill done, and done soon,” said Chairman Brady. “The American people – not Wall Street or foreign nationals– should decide who wins these next elections. This bill helps accomplish that goal.”
03.11.2010	Washington, DC --- In recognition of Women’s History Month and on the 188th anniversary of the birth of the African American abolitionist Harriet Tubman, Congressman Robert A. Brady, chairman of the Committee on House Administration, hosted a presentation for historian and collector Dr. Charles L. Blockson in honor of the donation of his collection of Harriet Tubman artifacts to the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture (NMAAHC). Chairman Brady was joined by Lonnie G. Bunch, III, Founding Director of the NMAAH, and members of the Tubman family. Bunch and Blockson gave commentary on several items displayed during the ceremony; among them are a silk and linen shawl given to Harriet Tubman by England’s Queen Victoria, historic photographs and a hymnal signed by Tubman. Blockson is founder and curator of the Charles L. Blockson Afro-American Collection of rare texts, slave narratives, art and other historically significant artifacts. On making the donation, Dr. Blockson says he believes the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History and Culture is the most suitable place for “an unparalleled collection to be shared with millions of visitors to the museum.” The National Museum of African American History and Culture was established in 2003 by an Act of Congress, making it the 19th Smithsonian Institution museum. It is the only national museum devoted exclusively to the documentation of African American life, art, history and culture. The Smithsonian Board of Regents, the governing body of the Institution, voted in January 2006 to build the museum on a five-acre site on the National Mall. The Constitution Avenue site is adjacent to the Washington Monument and across the street from the Smithsonian’s National Museum of American History. The museum has collected more than 9,000 artifacts including fine art and items chosen to tell the story of the African American experience in a broad spectrum of areas. The 300,000 square foot museum is scheduled to open in 2015.
02.24.2010	PHILADELPHIA - Congressman Brady attended the unveiling of a $3.1 million Pathways Out of Poverty training program at the Community College of Philadelphia. This program, funded by the U.S. Department of Labor, will provide training to low income residents in the rapidly growing energy efficiency and green manufacturing jobs. “This training grant is a direct result of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, legislation that the Obama administration fought for and I proudly voted for. People in the First Congressional District who are looking for work will get the training they need to move into green manufacturing jobs or construction and weatherization jobs as a result of this funding initiative,” the Congressman said.
01.13.2010	I want to extend my sympathies and my prayers to the people of Haiti and to Pennsylvanians who have friends and loved ones in that beautiful country. All of us recognize that Haitians will have many difficult days ahead of them as they rebuild in the wake of yesterday’s tragic earthquake. The ties between the United States and Haiti are deep and strong. In 1778, volunteer enslaved Haitians fought against the British in the American Revolutionary War. Like us, Haitians overthrew their colonial rulers and became the second independent country in the Americas just 17 years after we ratified our Constitution. Many of Haiti’s sons and daughters have settled and prospered in my Congressional district. I join them in their efforts to promote relief for Haiti. I will be working with our government to make sure that the United States is doing all that it can during this continuing crisis. I fully support President Obama’s immediate and coordinated response to this disaster. Here in Philadelphia, I have reached out to a number of Haitian leaders and church officials. The Haitian leadership has indicated that their major needs will include financial donations and medical supplies. I will continue to talk with these leaders in Philadelphia to help them establish a coordinated relief effort.
12.16.2009	PHILADELPHIA --- With House and Senate passage of the FY10 Omnibus Appropriation Act, $3.7 million in requested funding by Congressman Robert Brady (D., PA) is set to flow into Philadelphia and Delaware Counties. Congressman Brady was successful in winning critically needed funding to improve North Philadelphia’s historic Uptown Theater, job training by the Urban League and transportation improvements for the Philadelphia Art Museum (a joint request with Rep. Chaka Fattah.) Congressman Brady also won nearly $1 million in violence prevention funding. And, on the heels of tensions at South Philadelphia High School, he was able to secure $100,000 for the Main Line Chinese Culture Center for after-school and weekend programs at the Russell Beyer’s Charter School. The funding allocations also include: a Department of Justice Gunshot location system that will place networked sensors at specific coordinates on buildings and telephone poles to accurately detect and locate the origin of weapon fire and an ophthalmic pediatric outreach program at Wills Eye Hospital. The bill now awaits President Obama’s signature. “I remain committed to ensuring that my district receives its fair share of federal dollars to benefit a wide cross section of the First Congressional District,” Congressman Brady said. The total FY10 Omnibus allocations for the First Congressional District are: FY10 Commerce, Justice and Science $500,000 - Department of Justice Community Oriented Policing Services Technology Program - Gunshot Location System $200,000 - Widener University Delaware County Violence Prevention Collaborative $200,000 - St. Joseph’s Institute for Violence Research and Prevention $100,000 - Preparing Philadelphia’s Future Global Leaders Program FY10 Financial Services and General Government $150,000 - Urban League of Philadelphia Entrepreneurship Center FY10 Labor, Health and Human Services $800,000 - Thomas Jefferson University Hospital $150,000 - Wills Eye Health System Opthalmic Pediatric Outreach FY10 Transportation, HUD $750,000 - Philadelphia Museum of Art Transportation Improvement Program $500,000 - PA Turnpike I-95 Interchange $350,000 - Uptown Theater Renovation Project ###
11.13.2009	Philadelphia- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) today joined Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter at the launch of “PhillyCounts!,” Philadelphia’s campaign to raise awareness of and increase participation in the 2010 Census. Brady, a campaign co-chair, said, “A lot of my neighbors ask me why they should take the time to fill out the Census form. Well, if you drive on public roads, you should care about the census. If you have kids or grandkids in public or charter schools, you should care about the census. If you are on Medicaid, or know someone who is, you should care about the census. The areas with the greatest numbers and the greatest need will get the most federal funds. So, we need to help the federal government to get this count right.” Every ten years, as required by the United States Constitution, the country undertakes a complete count of all the people residing in the United States and all its Territories. Population totals taken from the Census are used to determine Congressional representation and inform redistricting decisions. Census data determines how hundreds of millions of dollars in federal funds are distributed to state and local governments each year. The results are also used by businesses and city planners to determine where to open new grocery stores, schools shops, hospitals, and other facilities. ###
11.05.2009	Washington, DC (November 4, 2009): The Committee on House Administration today passed a resolution introduced by Committee Chairman Robert A. Brady that prohibits House employees from text messaging while driving when on official business or using House supplied equipment. The prohibition extends to SMS text messaging, e-mailing, instant messaging and other forms of electronic data communication. “We’ve all heard the recent reports about how distracted driving is more dangerous than drunk driving,” said Brady. “This rule change will reduce the loss of life, injury, property damage and taxpayer liability related to the conduct of official House business.” On October 1st, President Barack Obama issued an Executive Order prohibiting texting while driving when conducting official government business. Chairman Brady’s Committee Resolution parallels the Executive Order, extending the same prohibition to House employees. On October 15th, Brady introduced H.R. 3829, a bill which reduces Federal highway funding to States that do not enact a law prohibiting the use of certain communication devices while operating a motor vehicle. “Too often, we hear of motor vehicle injuries and fatalities that occur because drivers are distracted by texting. These tragic events are preventable and we must take the lead in ensuring that the message is sent – your life and those of your family and others on the road are infinitely more important than sending that text message or answering that email,” said Brady. “I look forward to working with Member Offices and House Officers to ensure that we communicate this new rule change and to develop corresponding enforcement measures.” # # #
10.22.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Robert A. Brady announced that beginning today special payments are available to over 185,000 service members who have had their enlistments involuntarily extended since September 11, 2001, providing $500 for every month they were held under stop-loss orders. Congress established this payment in the 2009 War Supplemental Appropriations Act enacted this summer. “Our veterans served America with honor and they deserve the best our government can possibly offer” said Congressman Brady. “This $500 per month payment will help these service members who have literally served above and beyond the call of duty. This special payment is in recognition of the hardship placed on these troops and their families by being forced to remain on active duty longer than planned.” The Retroactive Stop Loss Special Pay is available to service members who had their enlistment extended or retirement suspended due to Stop Loss between Sept. 11, 2001 and Sept. 30, 2009. Service members from every branch of the military will receive compensation. Service members may begin submitting their claim for Retroactive Stop Loss Special Pay October 21. All applications must be submitted to the respective services no later than Oct. 21, 2010. Service members must provide documented proof they were Stop Lossed with their claim. Family members of deceased service members should contact the appropriate military service for assistance in filing their claim. Army: https://www.stoplosspay.army.mil <https://www.stoplosspay.army.mil/> Navy: send email to – NXAG_N132C@navy.mil Marine Corps: https://www.manpower.usmc.mil/stoploss Air Force: https://www.afpc.randolph.af.mil/stoploss This payment builds on a significant record of accomplishment for veterans and troops over the last two and a half years under the New Direction Congress – including the New GI Bill, progress in improving veterans’ hospitals and facilities, expanding economic opportunities for returning soldiers and improving care for those with PTSD. “This Congress made a promise to leave no veteran behind, and we are continuously working to fulfill that promise,” said Congressman Brady. “These veterans have served with distinction. Now, it’s our turn to honor them for their sacrifice and service to country.” ###
10.15.2009	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., Pa.), said today the most recent arrival of a military cargo ship to the Port of Philadelphia is a clear indication that the Port of Philadelphia is a vital and growing part of the military cargo distribution network between the U.S. and the war theaters in the Iraq and Afghanistan. It the second military ship arrival in the last 45 days. In August, Congressman Brady announced that the Department of Defense would conduct a major military operation through the Port of Philadelphia in the fall. Brady has consistently encouraged DOD officials to increase utilization of the Port of Philadelphia. “The Port of Philadelphia continues to demonstrate that as a Strategic Military Port it has the skilled workforce, modern facilities and the state-of-the-art technology required to move military cargo rapidly and securely,” the Congressman said. The cargo off-loaded in Philadelphia will be transported to the Pennsylvania Army National Guard facilities at Fort Indiantown Gap, PA. It includes equipment and vehicles assigned to the 56th Combat Stryker Brigade of the Pennsylvania Army National Guard returning from its deployment to Iraq. The operation was handled by Delaware River Stevedores, operators of the Tioga Marine Terminal in Port Richmond Philadelphia is one of 16 commercial seaports designated by the U.S. Department of Defense as a Strategic Port utilized for military deployments. It received that designation in 2002. The Philadelphia Port has handled 27 military shipments since its designation, but Congressman Brady said he will continue to urge the DOD for greater utilization of the port. According to John H. Estey, chairman of the Philadelphia Regional Port Authority, the last two deployments have contributed more than $2 million to our regional economy and demonstrate the agility of the port’s two largest terminals. ###
09.29.2009	Washington, D.C. --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) today announced the passage of H. Res. 693 which honors the life and accomplishments of Eagles Coach Jim Johnson, who died July 28 after a long battle with cancer. A veteran of 22 years as a NFL assistant coach, Johnson was regarded as one of the top defensive football masterminds in NFL history. Brady introduced the bill July 29 and it was co-sponsored by Representatives Jim Gerlach, Allyson Schwartz, Rob Andrews, Joe Sestak, Frank LoBiondo, Charles Dent, Tim Holden Chaka Fattah, Mike Castle and Patrick Murphy. Speaking on the House Floor, Congressman Brady called Johnson, “… a great Philadelphian and a great American.” Outlining his 50 years in football including his decades in the NFL, Congressman Brady said Johnson was a man of few words who let his game do the talking for him. Widely praised as the orchestrator of the renowned Eagles defense strategies, Johnson’s aggressive style kept the Philadelphia team in nearly every major defensive category from the time he joined the Eagles’ staff in January1999. “Coach Johnson didn’t invent the zone blitz. But you couldn’t tell that to all the quarterbacks his defenses left lying on the field,” Congressman Brady said. Recounting Johnson’s career with the Eagles, Brady said, “Head Coach Andy Reid hired Jim Johnson when he took over the team in 1999. The Birds forced a league-low 17 turnovers in 1998. But, they led the league with 48 takeaways, including 28 interceptions, during Mr. Johnson's first season as defensive coordinator. By 2001, when the Eagles went to their first of four straight NFC championship games, the defense was ranked among the best in the NFL in almost every category. And they remain an elite unit today. In Coach Johnson’s final season, the team had the NFC's top-ranked defense and earned yet another trip to the NFC title game. The Eagles' defense had 26 Pro Bowl selections during Mr. Johnson's tenure, including seven by safety Brian Dawkins. The team played in five NFC championship games and one Super Bowl, and won five NFC East titles. And, his greatest legacy hasn’t been written yet.” In conclusion, Congressman Brady stressed, “... the greatest thing about Jim Johnson has nothing to do with the football field. He was known by everyone as the picture of honesty and as a man who never sought the spotlight. But, one who gave generously of his time and his talents.” ###
09.22.2009	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA.) joined Congressman Chaka Fattah, and Congresswoman Allyson Schwartz during Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s tour of the Jefferson University Hospital in Philadelphia. Congressman Brady thanked the Speaker for visiting Jefferson, and making it one of her stops as she travels across the country to highlight the need to pass legislation to control health care costs and provide health insurance coverage for the uninsured. Brady said that hospitals across the nation are reeling under the weight of non-reimbursed care costs. “In my district hospitals are facing a $392 million price tag for non compensated care.” ### Contact: Karen Warrington (215)389-4627karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
09.15.2009	PHILADELPHIA --- As a result of a request by Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., Pa.) the Department of Defense will conduct a major military operation through the Port of Philadelphia this fall. Brady said he has consistently encouraged DOD officials to increase utilization of the Port of Philadelphia, which was designated a Strategic Military Port in 2002. It is one of only a few U.S. ports selected to handle the nation’s military cargoes destined for the world’s hotspots. According to a 2005 study funded by the Commonwealth through the Department of Community and Economic Development, Office of PennPORTS, the Port has handled more than 25 military ship operations since its Strategic Port designation and every ship embarking or departing from the Port represents an economic impact of $1.4 million. In letters to top DOD officials in July, Congressman Brady explained, “The Port of Philadelphia has accommodated helicopter moves, supplied support for transportation teams, provided additional ITV visibility of cargo movements and facilitated additional security during operations.” Additionally Congressman Brady said the Philadelphia Port workforce has been trained and is experienced in handling and operating military equipment in addition to increasing the number of staging facilities to aid helicopter flyaway and quick intermodal transfer to rail and highway transportation. Congressman Brady has worked with area elected officials to ensure that the Philadelphia Port’s workforce, facilities and technological capabilities were the best prepared to support the nation’s security distribution challenges. He said he was grateful that there was a speedy response from the DOD and the Port of Philadelphia is ready for the mission. “No other seaport in the nation is better prepared than we are in Philadelphia.” The Congressman also said that DOD is in the process of bringing home the largest quantity of military equipment from a war theater since World War II. DOD has named this effort - Operation RESET. In FY 2007, Congress allocated $17.1 billion for Operation RESET. The funding will provide for the transfer of 117,000 major items – 557 aircraft, 12,815 track and wheeled vehicles, 39,000 small arms, 7,400 generators and many smaller items. The Army estimated that from FY 2008 and beyond Operation RESET will cost a minimum of $13.5 billion annually. Even with an eventual decrease in troop levels, the same level of funding will be needed for at least three years following the end of operations in Southwest Asia. The U.S. Army recently testified before the House Armed Services Committee that from the beginning of combat until the end of 2006 there were more than 200,000 pieces of equipment returned to the U.S. for repair. Congressman Brady stressed that Pennsylvania industries involved in manufacturing, technology, electronics, defense, transportation and other sectors stand to benefit from Operation RESET. It is a major economic opportunity for the Commonwealth. Repair work for tracked vehicles, as well as communications and electronic equipment, is already assigned to Pennsylvania’s Letterkenny and Tobyhanna Army Depots and a variety of state-wide commercial facilities, including operations in Fayette. To date, BAE Land Systems and General Dynamics Land Systems have already been awarded contracts to repair M1A1 Abrams Battle Tanks. Furthermore, hundreds of smaller Pennsylvania companies provide parts and services to support the repair efforts of the Army depots and large Pennsylvania DOD contractors. Congressman Brady said he has continued to urge the DOD to rethink its decision to shift much of its transportation business to seaports and repair facilities in the South Atlantic and Gulf Coast regions. “For me it was a no brainer. By using the Philadelphia Port the time and cost to get damaged equipment back to military units and repair facilities located throughout Pennsylvania and the entire U.S. Northeast and Midwest would be greatly reduced. At a time when we must be ever ready to protect and defend our nation this is unacceptable. War torn equipment must be repaired and returned to use faster than ever before to meet our national military readiness requirements.” In closing, Congressman Brady said he is encouraged that the preparation and upgrading of the Philadelphia Port is being recognized and valued by DOD. “I will continue to promote the utilization of the unique capabilities available here in Philadelphia to support our war fighters by ensuring that the equipment they depend on is transported and distributed in the most timely and efficient way.” ### CONTACT: Karen Warrington 215.389.4627 Karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
08.07.2009	PHILADELPHIA --- On August 1, veterans started receiving college education benefits under the new GI Bill for the 21st Century (the “Post-9/11 GI Bill”). An estimated 2.1 million members of the military who have served on active duty since September 11, 2001, including activated reservists and members of the National Guard, will be eligible for up to four years of education benefits, including stipends for housing and books. Last year, Congress enacted the new GI Bill for the 21st Century (the “Post-9/11 GI Bill”) to restore the promise of a full, four-year college education for Iraq and Afghanistan veterans, making them part of the economic recovery. On May 1, veterans were able to start applying for a certificate of eligibility for the new college benefits at the VA website https://www.gibill.va.gov/. And this year, Congress extended those college benefits to all children of fallen soldiers (with no minimum military service needed to qualify). “We have a responsibility to serve those who bravely served us,” Congressman Bob Brady (D., PA) said. “This full college education benefit for recent veterans will expand job opportunities for them, and strengthen our economy. I’m proud that that Republicans and Democrats were able to come together on this key veterans issue. This year, we were able to extend these benefits to all children of fallen services members after 9/11; who could be more deserving of our support than children whose moms or dads have died in military service to our nation? ” Generally, the measure provides up to four years of education benefits at a college or university for individuals with at least 90 days of active duty service on or after September 11, 2001 who have been honorably discharged from service. The benefits are correlated on a sliding scale to the total months served and to receive full benefits, you must have served on active duty for three years. This program will pay for: • tuition and fees of up to the maximum in-state tuition and fees at a public institution in your state; • a monthly housing allowance at the location of the school, based on the Basic Allowance for Housing for an E-5 with dependents; and • an annual books and supplies stipend of up to $1,000. These benefits are generally payable for up to 15 years following release from active duty. All of the children of service members who have died on active duty since 9-11-01 qualify for the full education benefit, regardless of the length of military service of their parent; these benefits expire 15 years after the 18th birthday of surviving military children. ###
07.30.2009	Philadelphia --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) today introduced a resolution in honor of the life and accomplishments of Eagles Defensive Coordinator Jim Johnson. Saying the City of Philadelphia and the NFL lost one of our greatest treasures, the resolution praised Johnson who died July 28 after a courageous battle with cancer. A 22-year veteran NFL assistant, Johnson was regarded as one of the top defensive football masterminds in the history of the NFL. Widely praised as the orchestrator of the renowned Eagles defense strategies, Johnson’s aggressive style kept the Philadelphia team in nearly every major defensive category from the time he joined the Eagles’ staff in January1999. Congressman Brady said he was deeply and personally saddened by the passing of Coach Johnson. “He was a great guy and a great coach who will be long remembered by football fans not only in Philadelphia, but clear across the nation.” ### CONTACT: Karen Warrington (215)389-4627 (202)531-3541karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
07.27.2009	July 27, 2009- Congressman Robert A. Brady today received the prestigious Above and Beyond Award and Patriotic Employer Award in recognition of his office practices which support National Guard and Reserve deployments. The citations, which were presented by the National Committee for Employer Support, were awarded for Brady’s “Contributing to National Security Employee Participation in America’s National Guard and Reserve Force.” Brady, a senior member of the powerful House Armed Services Committee, employs Mark Flitton, a member of the Army National guard on his Washington Staff. Brady’s office policies encourage national service and protect Reserve and Guard members’ positions and salary. He was successful in passing H.R. 513, the National Heroes Credit Protection Act in the House of Representatives in the 110th Congress.
07.10.2009	PHILADELPHIA --- In a letter to the president of the Valley Swim Club Congressman Robert A. Brady asked the club to apologize to all involved and honor the Creative Steps Day Camp’s membership. Stating that we cannot tolerate this level of blatant bias, the Congressman asked, “What example are we setting for our children? What damage has been done to the children who just wanted to go swimming?” Brady said it is hard to accept that the rescinding of the camp’s membership was about space rather than race, because of the initial comments made by the club’s president. In closing, Brady wrote, “I sincerely hope that the club will have the wisdom to view this situation through the eyes of the children involved, black, white and Hispanic, and appreciate that America must move past racial intolerance for the good of the nation and its children.” Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov ###
06.29.2009	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA.) announced today the award of $300,000 Homeless Veterans’ Reintegration Program (HVRP) grants to the Philadelphia Veterans Multi-Service Center and the Impact Services Corporation, located in the First Congressional District. Congressman Brady said, “Both of these vet programs provide holistic support for homeless veterans, with the ultimate goal of finding meaningful employment for them. This includes job counseling, resume preparation, job development and employment placement. They are outstanding vet service providers that offer on the ground support to meet the needs of our vets in need.” Nationally, HVRP grantees enroll thousands of homeless veterans annually in programs that involve emergency shelter, substance abuse counseling and treatment (including long-term treatment using the Department of Veterans Affairs medical facilities if necessary), job counseling and referrals, employment assistance, transportation, housing and clothing. The HVRP program requires grantees to use all available resources and linkages in the local community as well as maintaining relationships. Successful HVRP programs focus on partnering with HUD, VA, HHS, local faith-based and community organizations, and social service agencies. Through these agencies, supportive services such as clothing, shelter, referrals to medical or substance-abuse treatment and transportation assistance are also provided to meet the needs of this target group. According to the National Survey of Homeless Assistance Providers and Clients, veterans account for 23% of all homeless people in the nation. Approximately 40% of homeless men are veterans, although veterans comprise only 34% of the general adult male population. Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
06.29.2009	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) greets Congressional Art Competition winner, Eric Sizer and his mother Vernell Ross at his D.C. office. The Congressman selected Sizer’s silkscreen self-portrait to represent the First Congressional District in the 10-month national student art exhibition in the U.S. Capitol tunnel. Sizer is a June graduate of William Penn High School and he will attend the University of Pittsburg in the fall. Congressman Brady said that the Capitol exhibition not only encourages young artists but also stresses the importance of school art education. ### Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
06.22.2009	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Brady announced today that students in the First Congressional District will benefit from quality nutrition services because of the allocation of more than $354,000 in new Recovery Grants to purchase food service equipment, including ovens, refrigerators, dishwashers and other apparatus to ensure quality meals are served in schools. Statewide nearly $2.9 million will be distributed to 133 schools in nearly 40 school districts, according to Pennsylvania Education Secretary Gerald L. Zahorchak. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act included nearly $100 million for the purchase of school food service equipment. The U.S. Department of Agriculture allocated nearly $2.9 million of those funds to the Pennsylvania Department of Education, which distributed the funds through a competitive grant process to schools participating in the National School Lunch Program. Priority in awarding the funds was given to schools that have at least half of their student enrollment eligible for free- and reduced-price meals. “This another excellent example of how the Recovery funds are being directed to meet basic and important needs on the city and state level,” Congressman Brady said. “Increasing education standards, especially in our urban areas, are a major concern and students who have access to nutritious school meal programs will be better students with a greater potential to excel academically.” Consistent with the priorities of President Obama and Congress in enacting the recovery bill, Pennsylvania selected applicants for the food service equipment grant program based on their proposals to: Increase student achievement by expanding access to school breakfast and to meals that meet high nutritional standards. Conserve energy and save taxpayer funds by replacing older, inefficient equipment with equipment that is Energy Star-rated. Make equipment purchases by Sept. 30 so stimulus funding is injected into the economy as quickly as possible. The recipients of the food service equipment in the First Congressional District are: School District of Philadelphia Bok H.S. - $81,065 Mastbaum H.S. - $81,065 Folk Arts - Cultural Treasure Charter School - $11,684 Chester-Upland School District, Delaware County Stetser Elementary School- $47,100 Toby Farms Middle School - $47,100 Smedley Middle School - $35,600 Columbus Elementary - $35,600 Village at Chester Upland - $34,600 Main Street Elementary School - $27,600 ### Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
06.11.2009	Washington, DC (June 10, 2009): In a Committee meeting held on Wednesday, June 10th, House Administration Committee Chairman Bob Brady presided over the approval of a concurrent resolution commemorating the role of slave labor in the original construction of the United States Capitol. The resolution, sponsored by Congressman John Lewis of Georgia, directed the Architect of the Capitol to place a permanent marker in the Capitol Visitor Center’s Emancipation Hall, acknowledging the contributions of enslaved African-Americans who provided the labor essential to the construction of the United States Capitol. “While no monument or marker can adequately commemorate the sacrifices and contributions of enslaved African-Americans, I join with Congressman Lewis and my colleagues from both sides of the aisle in calling for this important first step,” said Brady. In 2007, the Slave Labor Task Force, a working group consisting of U.S. House and Senate Members, as well as community leaders, historians and civil rights leaders, submitted a comprehensive list of recommendations for commemorating the role and contributions of slave labor in the development and construction of the U.S. Capitol Complex. As Chair of the Committee which holds operational and administrative oversight for the House of Representatives, Brady has been active and instrumental in ensuring that many of their recommendations were implemented. Recommendations already enacted or in process include: Development of Commemorative plaques and building stone, quarried by slave labor, placed in or near the Capitol Visitors Center (CVC) and/or the U.S. Capitol Educational/informational brochure cards highlighting individual 19th century African Americans in the Capitol (slave laborers, Members of Congress, staff members) Training of the Capitol Guide Service on interpreting the experience of African Americans as slave laborers and Members Online publication of the Task Force’s report on the history of slave laborers at the Capitol Black Americans in Congress, published by the House of Representatives in 2008, provides extensive material on the experience of African Americans in the Capitol, and accompanied by a website and educational materials Designation of the great hall of the Capitol Visitor Center as Emancipation Hall “I am committed to ensuring that future visitors to the U.S. Capitol understand that enslaved African-Americans laid the cornerstone to this great building,” said Brady. “This resolution, and the resulting permanent marker in the Capitol Visitor Center, will serve as a lasting reminder of their sacrifice.” # # # Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
06.10.2009	Philadelphia --- Congressman Robert A. Brady today released the following statement in the aftermath of the deadly shooting at the U. S. Holocaust Museum: The deadly shooting at the U. S. Holocaust Memorial Museum is an act of urban terrorism. This and other hate crimes show that we have to renew the fight against racism and anti-Semitism wherever it’s found. Hatred is a deadly disease. Hopefully all Americans will understand that we have to ensure that such an act of violence, steeped in hatred, never happens again. I offer my deepest sympathy and support to the family of Stephen Tyrone Jones, the security guard who was shot to death at the Museum. Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
06.04.2009	Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) has selected the artwork of Eric Sizer, a 12th grader at William Penn High School to represent the First Congressional District in the 28th annual Congressional High School Art Competition. "I was personally impressed by Mr. Sizer’s self portrait. It is a very compelling composition that for me represents how the students at William Penn, in spite of the announced closing of the school, have displayed confidence and resilience," the Congressman said. The art will be displayed with the artwork of other young winners from across the country in the ten-month exhibition in the Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. The art showcase, An Artistic Discovery, provides Members of Congress with the opportunity to present the talents of creative young artists in their districts for visitors to the Capitol to see. "These young artists will have their work seen by hundreds of thousands people from across the country and around the world who visit the House office building and the U.S. Capitol," Congressman Brady said. "The Capitol exhibition not only encourages young artists it also makes the overwhelming case regarding the importance of arts education in our schools." Sizer’s winning entry was a part of the School District of Philadelphia’s "Art: It’s Academic," annual spring exhibition. Mr. Sizer has been accepted at The University of Pittsburgh. ###
05.19.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Philadelphia area Congressional members met with Tom Vilsack, Secretary of the United States Department of Agriculture, to discuss the decision made by the Bush administration to terminate the Philadelphia Universal Feeding pilot program. During the meeting, U.S. Senators Bob Casey and Arlen Specter and U.S. Representatives Chaka Fattah, Allyson Schwartz, Robert Brady and Joe Sestak urged Secretary Vilsack to reverse the decision to terminate the program which ensures 120,000 school children in the Philadelphia-area have access to nutritious meals. “The Philadelphia area delegation had a substantive meeting with Secretary Vilsack,” said Senator Casey. “Providing school children with nutritious meals must be our number one priority. I will continue to work with Secretary Vilsack, his staff and my colleagues in Philadelphia to ensure that this goal is met.” “Ending the Universal Feeding Program would reverse the good work done to fight hunger and have a devastating impact on the many children in Philadelphia who rely on the school district as a source of nutrition,” Senator Specter said. “I am pleased that Secretary Vilsack was willing to listen to me and my colleagues about the important benefits of the program and it is my hope that the USDA reconsiders the decision.” Congressman Chaka Fattah said, “We are excited that Secretary Vilsack had expressed so much support for innovative solutions to ensure that federal funds are appropriately spent and all eligible children receive the nutrition they so desperately need. We look forward to Philadelphia’s opportunity to share its experience with the School Lunch Pilot program and be a model when the House and Senate take up reauthorization of Child Nutrition.” Congresswoman Schwartz said, "It was a productive meeting with Secretary Vilsack, and I look forward to working with the Secretary and my colleagues to ensure that children in Philadelphia get the nutrition they need to be healthy and to reach their potential in school." Congressman Brady said, “I appreciate that Secretary Vilsack took the time to further discuss this issue and understand the importance of having the USDA reverse its decision. There is no reason to replace an efficient process with an additional level of red tape, increased paperwork and increased cost. We have to all work together to ensure that the most at-risk eligible children in the Philadelphia School District don’t fall through the cracks and are denied essential nutritional services.” “As Dr. Mariana Chilton of Drexel’s School of Public Health pointed out to the School Reform Commission, almost 78,000 children in Philadelphia alone live in households that do not provide them with access to enough food for an active and healthy lifestyle,” said Congressman Sestak. “Today’s meeting was an important opportunity to emphasize the effectiveness of using demographic surveys to offer free lunch to everyone in high-need schools rather than use individual applications that are too often not filled out by poor families. I am drafting legislation to build on the success of this pilot and allow any school in the country with a high level of student eligibility to offer free lunch to everyone. We must ensure that this program is not eliminated, but instead used as a model for future nation-wide initiatives.” In cooperation with the USDA's Food and Nutrition Service, the District began the Universal Feeding Program in 1991. The program created a more streamlined alternative for counting and claiming meals under the National School Breakfast and School lunch program because parents and students weren't required to fill out application forms for free or reduced-price meals. Instead, the eligibility requirements were based on a comprehensive socio-economic study. This method eliminated cumbersome paperwork and administrative layers for parents and for the School District to ensure that every child is able to receive meals at no cost. Currently 120,000 school children get access to nutritious meals through this program – that's 72% of all Philadelphia kids in public schools and 200 of the neediest schools out of the total 280 Philadelphia schools participate in the universal meals program. Philadelphia schools serve more than 50,000 breakfasts and 115,000 lunches every school day and the program is considered to be a model of an effective, straightforward program for getting increased numbers of healthy meals to more kids. ### Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
05.19.2009	PHILADELPHIA ---Congressman Brady today congratulated the National Constitution Center after being notified that the Center has been granted an award to participate in the Museum & Community Collaborations Abroad (MCCA) program. The National Constitution Center will be partnering with the National Museum of Afghanistan in Kabul, Afghanistan during the 2008-2010 MCCA cycles. “This is a much valued award,” the Congressmen said. “Fewer than 10 U.S. museums are selected for the program every year. This is a prestigious achievement for the Center and the City of Philadelphia. I am pleased that a museum in the First Congressional District is in the forefront of advancing cultural diplomacy.” MCCA is designed to link communities in the U.S. and communities abroad to work on innovative project with their local museums acting as facilitators. ### Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
05.08.2009	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) announced today the award of a $286,000 U. S. Department of Transportation grant for the Philadelphia Unemployment Project. The Job Access/Reverse Commute (JARC) grant will fund minivans and drivers to enable the operation of carpool services to provide inner city residents with transportation to suburban jobs. According to a recent Brookings Institute report in the last decade, nearly all major metropolitan areas including Philadelphia have experienced job drain and more and more businesses have moved to the surrounding suburbs. “Sixty-three percent of the jobs in the Philadelphia, Camden and Wilmington are now located more than 10 miles beyond the cities’ center,” Congressman Brady said. “The grant will enable PUP to continue its Commuter Options program which provides a lifeline to want-to-be workers with jobs in the surrounding suburbs. PUP is providing an on the ground solution to a growing problem. They continue to make an important difference for people struggling for a piece of the American dream.” ### Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
04.30.2009	Information will be posted about swine flu as it becomes available. If you have any questions, please refer to the Center for Disease Control swine flu information page. Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
04.29.2009	Washington, DC (April 29, 2009): The Committee on House Administration held a hearing today to review the results of a recent IG report on information technology at the Library of Congress. Chairman Robert A. Brady and Ranking Republican Member Dan Lungren heard testimony from Karl W. Schornagel, Inspector General for the Library of Congress, and Dr. James Billington, Librarian, Library of Congress. They were accompanied by Laura Campbell, Chief Information Officer and Jo Ann Jenkins, Chief Operating Officer. “As we continue to operate in an increasingly digital world, we must learn to adapt to the environment around us,” said Brady. “Information technology must constantly evolve, often at a remarkable pace. The Library of Congress faces particular challenges due to the large amounts of information the Library stores and manages.” During his testimony, Mr. Schornagel provided highlights of his report outlining the current status of LOC’s IT infrastructure. While acknowledging the tremendous progress that the Library continues to make, Schornagel presented recommendations to include more external stakeholders in policy development, increase coordination between IT expenditures and strategic planning and create a more direct reporting relationship between the Librarian and the Chief Information Officer. Additionally, Schornagel outlined opportunities for enhanced customer service and greater emphasis on quality assurance programs. Laura Campbell, Associate Librarian for Strategic Initiatives and Chief Information Officer provided an historical context for the LOC’s current IT infrastructure and addressed some of the Library’s most significant accomplishments over the past decade. These accomplishments included developing strategies to collect and catalog new “digital objects” and utilizing web-based technologies to expand access to Library resources. In response to the testimony, Ranking Republican Member Lungren emphasized the ongoing importance of cyber-security and the manner in which the Library safeguards it’s IT system. “We must ensure that the Library’s IT infrastructure can adapt to the ever-changing security challenges of the 21st Century,” said Lungren. “With each day, information technology occupies a larger role in our work environment,” said Chairman Brady. “Every year, the Library of Congress undertakes ambitious efforts to continue its mission of spreading knowledge…while the ever present tool of technology has allowed the Library to further this mission, we must ensure this tool is used in the most effective way,” Brady added. # # # Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
04.23.2009	Washington, DC (April 22, 2009): House Administration Chairman Robert A. Brady yesterday moved through the House a resolution clearing the way to use the Capitol Visitor Center’s Emancipation Hall for the unveiling of a bust commemorating the life of civil rights pioneer and suffrage leader Sojourner Truth. “Sojourner Truth is one of the lasting icons of the dark days of slavery and an important symbol of the resiliency of the human spirit,” said Brady. “Sojourner Truth’s lasting legacy has now been recognized in the form of this bust commissioned by Congress. Her image will grace Emancipation Hall, serving as a reminder of our capacity to change and our willingness to endure, Brady added.” The bust unveiling is scheduled for April 28 at 11:00 am. Brady also passed through the House H.R. 586, a bill that creates the Civil Rights Oral History Project. The legislation directs the Library of Congress and the Smithsonian Institution -- through the National Museum of African American History and Culture -- to collaborate and establish an oral history project. This joint venture will collect and preserve audio and video recordings by participants in the Civil Rights movement. “A fundamental principle of our American democracy is that individuals stand up for their rights and beliefs, and pursue justice through peaceful action,” said Brady. “Many who participated in the Civil Rights movement did so at great personal sacrifice. Their actions were heroic and tireless, and challenged the practice of racial segregation in the Nation.” “Much of this history has never been written down from the perspective of those who were there. As these pioneers age, it is important that their memories of events are documented so that future generations can witness their testimony regarding the lives and times of that era. This bill will ensure that the record of this important period of our nation’s history is not lost.” Both measures were passed by the House of Representatives. Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
04.22.2009	Congressmen Robert A. Brady and Chaka Fattah (D-PA), who previously partnered on the President’s House commemorative project at Independence National Historical Park, announced today that the Park will receive $5.6 million in stimulus funds to repair the water-damaged Independence Hall clock tower and other park projects. Work on the tower will include replacing damaged wood siding, structural repair, new clock faces and lightning protection. Other projects announced today by the U.S. Department of Interior for Independence Park include repair of cobblestones in the Rose Garden and purchase of 92 meters to track and manage energy usage. “This is well-timed and important funding. Coming on the heels of the recent disclosure that the upper levels of the clock tower were seriously deteriorated this ARRA funding couldn’t come at a better moment. It shows that the stimulus dollars are being well and quickly directed.” Congressman Brady said. Congressman Fattah said, “The clock tower at Independence Hall is the most visible feature of Philadelphia’s historic crown jewel. We can thank the Obama Administration for another win-win stimulus project by putting skilled crafts people to work in our city. We continue the vital work of restoring Independence Park while increasing its relevance for telling America’s story, including the much anticipated Slavery Memorial.” In 2005, Congressmen Brady and Fattah secured $3.5 million dollars in federal funds for the President’s House project which will tell the story of the executive mansion where George Washington enslaved nine Black men and women just one block north of Independence Hall. A joint initiative of the City of Philadelphia and Independence National Historical Park, the project will commemorate the story of how the quest for freedom for a new nation existed side by side with enslavement. Groundbreaking is set for this spring with dedication and completion on July 4, 2010. Superintendent Cynthia MacLeod said, “We are thrilled with the news of the immediate availability of $5.6 million for several projects at Independence National Historical Park from the Recovery Act. Our first priority, rehabilitation of the tower on Independence Hall, is now assured to be funded.” Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
04.20.2009	Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA.) today thanked U.S. Secretary of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood at the announcement of $5 million in federal funds for the Philadelphia International Airport under the recently enacted American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA). "This stimulus funding for the airport equals increased safety, more jobs and it is a clear signal that the Obama administration is making good on its pledge to get badly needed resources to the states and struggling cities,” the Congressman said. “It’s great to have friends in the White House.” ### Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
04.04.2009	Congressman Brady's Washington, DC office will be closed from April 7 through April 14 for office renovations. If you have any questions or need assistance, please contact the District office in Philadelphia: District Office1907-09 S. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19148 Phone: (215) 389-4627 Fax: (215) 389-4636
04.04.2009	Congressman Brady's Washington, DC office will be closed from April 7 through April 14 for office renovations. If you have any questions or need assistance, please contact the District office in Philadelphia: District Office1907-09 S. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19148 Phone: (215) 389-4627 Fax: (215) 389-4636
03.31.2009	Washington, DC (March 31, 2009): House Administration Committee Chairman Robert A. Brady today announced the passage of H. Res 279, which provides funding for 21 House Committees for the 111th Congress. The total funding of $304.5m dollars over a two year period will allow the various committees to execute their oversight roles and responsibilities, while reflecting a greater emphasis on fiscal stewardship in a manner that is consistent with the current economic crisis. “This was an especially difficult funding process and I’m pleased that the Committee on House Administration was able to work in a bipartisan manner to ensure that the committees have the resources they need to conduct their business,” said Brady. “We are always sensitive to the need to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars, but our current economic crisis and the sacrifices being made by the American people call for even greater efforts. The approved funding levels will require committees to tighten their belts and find new ways to maximize their resources.” The funding levels approved for 2009 represent a modest increase of less than 5% over committee funding levels for 2008. The increase for 2010 is slated for less than 4%, reflecting a commitment to continued fiscal responsibility and spending restraint. The approved funding resolution includes a provision that requires committee Chairs and Ranking Members to return to House Administration prior to February of 2010, to report on their committee's use of the funds during the first session of the One Hundred Eleventh Congress. House Administration will also expand its efforts to provide required monthly committee reports online, further expanding the emphasis on transparency and accountability that has become a central focus under the current Democratic majority. # # # Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
03.31.2009	Philadelphia --- Congressman Robert A. Brady announced today that the Department of Transportation has awarded SEPTA a $3 million grant that will be used to purchase six clean fuel (diesel/electric) replacement buses. “The award is important because it is an important step in the greening of our public transportation system by supporting SEPTA’s efforts to reduce engine exhaust emissions and increase fuel economy for its bus fleet.” Hybrid buses are nearly one-third more fuel efficient than standard diesel buses and they reduce carbon monoxide emissions by 80% and carbon dioxide emissions by 38%. They are powered by an advanced parallel hybrid-electric power train using an electric battery system and traditional diesel power. The electrical and diesel systems work together to conserve energy during various functions. By using the conserved energy to recharge the battery hybrid buses use less fuel while reducing fuel emissions. The Congressman said the award also supports SEPTA’s Go Green Go SEPTA campaign to educate the public on the vital role public transportation plays in preserving and protecting the environment. “By one transit rider switching to public transportation the carbon savings is more than home weatherization, cutting back our thermostats, switching out five incandescent bulbs for florescent bulbs and the installation of an energy efficient refrigerator – combined. That’s power going in the right direction.” ### Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
03.30.2009	Philadelphia --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) has introduced a bill that he says will let the men and women who earn the least at financial institutions have some say in the awarding of compensation to top salaried executives. H.R. 1714 would require that the Board of Compensation Committees, mandated for financial institutions receiving assistance under the Troubled Assets Relief Program (TARP), include the representation of the financial institutions’ lowest paid employees. Congressman Brady said he cannot think of any better person to rein in exorbitant executive compensation than an employee who understands the value of a dollar. “The people who are in the bottom 20% salary classification in these major financial institutions know what it is like to put in a year’s worth of hard work without the promise of a seven-figure bonus at the finish line. My hope is that these employees will serve as a stand-in for all of the American taxpayers whose hard-earned tax dollars have gone to stabilize these institutions, and will bring much-needed sense to the compensation of the executives that have accepted TARP funds.” Congressman Brady said the recent AIG bonus scandal has left many in Congress searching for ways to limit the wasteful spending of TARP recipients who are supposed to be investing in the economy. “The Congress and the public were justifiably outraged that $165 million in bonuses was paid to executives using taxpayer funds when so many Americans are struggling every day just to get by. This pay-out was indicative of a systemic problem within the financial industry of rewarding executives for a job not-well done. Perhaps this entire debacle could have been avoided if someone who truly knows the value of $165 million had been able to bring some sense to the table when the decision to award these bonuses was first made.” ### Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
03.25.2009	Philadelphia --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) announced that HUD has granted nearly $3 billion of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 funding to public housing agencies nationally. Of that amount, the Philadelphia Housing Authority will receive $90.5 million to make capital improvements. The Congressman, who supported the Recovery Act said, “The HUD funding is a clear sign that President Obama is fast tracking much needed funding to cities such as Philadelphia in his efforts to get America back on track.” Recovery Act funding provided through HUD’s Public Housing Capital Fund Program is effectively doubling the Department’s annual support of local housing authorities to improve their public housing stock. Allocated through an established formula, this funding will allow local housing agencies to address long-standing improvements to public housing units, create jobs, and increase energy efficiency. HUD will shortly make an additional $1 billion available in capital funding to housing authorities that will be awarded through a competition. HUD’s Capital Fund Program provides annual funding to public housing authorities to develop, finance, and/or modernize the public housing in their communities. This funding can also be used to make large-scale improvements such as new roofs; and for the replacement of plumbing and electrical systems to more energy efficient standards. Congressman Brady said the public housing allocation is critical. “This Recovery Act funding will help PHA get a handle on the backlog of previously underfunded capital improvement projects. PHA is the biggest landlord in Pennsylvania. And for more than a decade PHA has had to do more with less for its 84,000 residents who are the most vulnerable in the city. Federal budget cutting has made it very difficult to serve a population that includes families with children, senior citizens and people with disabilities.” ### Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
03.25.2009	Washington, DC (March 25, 2009): House Administration Committee Chairman Robert A. Brady, today presided over a Committee meeting that approved modest increases in funding for House Committees for the 111th Congress. The increases, totaling less than 5% for 2009, within the DC cost-of-living adjustment, reflect a need to balance expanded oversight responsibilities and requirements with the realities of the current economic downturn. "While we are confident that measures currently being undertaken by President Obama and the US House and Senate will lead to a strong economic recovery, we must remain focused on heightened stewardship of taxpayer dollars,” said Brady. “The increases that we have approved will allow House Committees the resources necessary to execute their roles and responsibilities, while encouraging all of us to consider better, more efficient ways to function,” Brady added. Several House Committees requested smaller increases, which were approved by the Committee. Additionally, four Committees (Financial Services, Energy and Commerce, Small Business and Standards of Official Conduct) received slightly higher increases, reflecting expanding oversight roles or greater workloads because of their role in major policy initiatives being undertaken by the Obama Administration. The Committee also approved a 3.9% increase for 2010, with an amendment that requires Committee Chairs and Ranking Members to return to House Administration by February of 2010, to report on Committee spending. # # # Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
03.24.2009	The President and First Lady will host the annual White House Easter Egg Roll on Monday, April 13, 2009, on the South Lawn of the White House. This year’s theme, "Let’s go play," encourages America’s youth to lead healthy and active lives. Children, along with their families, will be able to enjoy sports, cooking classes, live musical performances, storytelling and the traditional Easter egg roll. Tickets are available on a limited basis and distribution will take place on-line. The tickets are free, but not guaranteed. Visit www.whitehouse.gov/eastereggroll for more information and to receive tickets. Adults are welcome to attend, as long as they are accompanied by at least one child ten years old or under. Tickets are required for every attendee, including small children and infants. Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
03.17.2009	PHILADELPHIA -- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA.) has joined a number of members of Congress in expressing outrage thatJP Morgan Chase Bank plans to outsource tens of thousands of U.S. jobs to India in the aftermath of receiving $25 million in Troubled Assets Relief Program funding. In a letter to Chase President/CEO Jamie Dimon and signed by Brady and 41members of Congress, it was stressed, “We would like to remind you that the taxpayers of the United States of America contributed $25 billion to your company to help stabilize our economy not send jobs overseas.” Brady said that the ranks of unemployed workers are growing everyday. “And, rather than shipping more jobs overseas the banks and major corporations should be retrieving jobs for American workers.” In the letter the Congresspersons stress, “651,000 Americans lost their jobs in February. 3.8 million American lost their jobs in the last 12 months. Every day an average of 21,000 men and women receive a pink slip and with it the fear of an uncertain economic future. How should these American workers, many of them your consumers, be expected to have hope for a better future when the very companies they contributed to through the Troubled Assets Relief Program outsource the jobs they desperately need?” Brady said. “There seems to be a disconnect between some major financial institutions and the suffering of the everyday people who are losing their jobs.” ### Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
03.14.2009	The recently passed American Recovery and Reinvestment Act includes an estimated $2.7 billion in new funding for education in Pennsylvania. These funds will be used for programs in early education, school modernizaton, special education, career and technical education, and many other important areas that have suffered as a result of the economy and deep budget cuts. The Pennsylvania Department of Education has made a commitment to deploy these funds quickly and effectively, and recently released a report detailing the major sources of funds. You can view the report here. For more information on funding for education contained in the recovery package and federal guidelines, you can visit the Department of Education's recovery website. Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
03.09.2009	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) today joined Sen. Robert Casey, Rep. Allyson Schwartz and Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter to announce the award of $13.5 million American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 funding for Philadelphia law enforcement and criminal justice assistance. The total allocation to Pennsylvania is $72.3 million. On Friday, President Barack Obama announced that Attorney General Eric Holder and the Department of Justice were making $2 billion American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 funding allocations for state and local law enforcement and criminal justice assistance, available through the Edward Byrne Assistance Grant (JAG) Program "We’re all concerned about making our city a safer place. I appreciate this important funding that the President is providing under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 that I was proud to support," Congressman Brady said. "This funding is vital to keeping Philadelphia and the surrounding counties safe. The Obama administration is demonstrating its on-the-ground support for cities." JAG Program funds can be used for a variety of efforts such as hiring law enforcement officers, supporting drug and gang task forces, funding crime prevention and domestic violence programs; and, supporting courts, corrections, treatment and justice information sharing initiatives. ### Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
03.04.2009	PHILADELPHIA _-- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) joined Vice President Joe Biden at the first meeting of the White House Task Force on Middle Class Working Families at the University of Pennsylvania. The February 27 meeting focused on green jobs as a path to a strong middle class. Congressmen Brady, an ex-officio member of the task force, said that, as Chairman of the Committee on House Administration, he has learned a great deal about the wide variety of green jobs that can put people to work. He explained that the Greening the Capitol initiative makes the Capitol complex greener by making sure that more of the materials used are recyclable or compostable. In the cafeteria, - all of the utensils, cups, and containers are made out of corn, making them biodegradable and easily compostable. "My hope is that by greening the Capitol, Congress can set an example for others and show how easy and cost-efficient it can be to be green," the Congressman said. Saying that the Task Force is an important step forward for the nation and middle working class families, Congressman Brady applauded the Obama administration and his friend Vice President Joe Biden for the initiative and pledged to work hand in hand with the administration to provide employment for jobless workers while also improving energy efficiency and reducing dependence on oil. ### Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
02.18.2009	The economic crisis we are currently facing is the worst that we have seen since the Great Depression. Since 2007, 3.6 American jobs have been lost, half of which have been lost in just the first 3 months of 2009. It is absolutely imperative that we act immediately to confront this crisis to ensure that it does not get steadily worse. That is why I voted for the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Under the leadership of President Obama, this legislation was developed to stimulate the economy and put this country on a path of lasting recovery. H.R. 1, The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, was passed 244 to 188 in the House of Representatives, and in the Senate 61 to 37. The bill was signed by President Obama on February 17, 2009. You can find the text of the bill here. This much-needed package contains both economic recovery tax cuts and carefully targeted priority spending. It will create an estimated 143,000 jobs for Pennsylvania, including more than 7,000 jobs in the first district alone. It will also provide investments for the development of clean and efficient American energy, vital improvements to our nation’s failing infrastructure, affordable health care, education, broadband deployment, and many other important programs that will enhance the economy and create American jobs. This spending will be accompanied by an unprecedented level of accountability to ensure that tax dollars are being used in the best way possible to stimulate the economy and help Americans through this crisis. President Obama has set up a website at www.recovery.gov, which will track where and how the recovery money is being spent. In addition to these important spending provisions, the bill provides a number of tax cuts that will benefit Pennsylvania. It will provide tax cuts to 95% of the population to help families stay afloat in these rough times, and will increase unemployment benefits to help the millions of people who have lost their jobs. In addition, small businesses, which employ a large portion of Pennsylvania's workers, will also receive tax cuts to help them keep employees on payroll. Many economists predict that without this package, we could be facing double-digit unemployment rates by the end of 2009. I voted for this package to try to stop the bleeding of American jobs, and to ensure that those already suffering get the help that they need. Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
02.13.2009	PHILADELPHIA - Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) today voted for the DTV Delay Act (S. 352) that allows for a one-time delay, through June 12, 2009 for the analog-to-digital television transition. The House vote was 264-158. The bill now goes to President Obama for his signature It was estimated that nationally as many as 6.5 million households could have had their televisions go dark Feb. 17. Additionally, the Commerce Department estimates that more than 2 million households are currently on a waiting list to receive almost 3.7 million coupons to help them buy digital TV converter boxes. Brady, who represents the First Congressional District, said there were 7,789 households in his district on the waiting list for the coupons as of Feb. 2. "Broadcast TV is more than entertainment to people in Philly. Many in the city, especially our senior citizens, rely on free TV to get their news, weather and important emergency alerts," Congressman Brady said. The Digital Television Transition was mandated by law in the 2005 Deficit Reduction Act. It requires that television stations broadcast in digital rather than analog format by February 17, 2009. The Act also created a coupon program to offset the cost of analog-to-digital converter boxes so that households with analog televisions can still receive free over the air television. ### Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
01.24.2009	PHILADELPHIA -- Congressman Robert A. Brady says the February 17 mandated date to switch to digital broadcasting should be reconsidered and extended. "With just a few weeks left before the digital transition, I was shocked to find out that after months of promising Congress that the DTV converter box coupon program was adequately funded, the Bush administration has announced that the program has run out of funds. It is unacceptable that those seeking coupons will now be put on a waiting list that already has over a million names on it. The Congress must act immediately to ensure that millions of Americans are not left in the dark on February 17," Congressman Brady said. As of today, the waiting list has grown to 950,000. The number is projected to rise to as high as five million by Feb. 17. It's estimated that nationally as many as 4.5 million households could have their televisions go dark Feb. 17. In the Philadelphia there could be close to 100,000 households who will lose their television reception. "Broadcast TV is more than entertainment to people in Philly. Many in the city rely on free TV to get their news, weather, important emergency alerts, and of course, updates on our city's sports teams," Congressman Brady said. The Digital Television Transition was mandated by law in the 2005 Deficit Reduction Act. It requires that television stations broadcast in digital rather than analog format by February 17, 2009. The Act also created a coupon program to offset the cost of analog-to-digital converter boxes so that households with analog televisions can still receive free over the air television. The NTIA, which oversees the coupon program, announced in a press release on January 5, 2009 that "...starting Sunday, January 4, consumers requesting coupons from the agency's TV Converter Box Coupon Program will be placed on a waiting list and coupons will be mailed on a first-come-first-served basis, as funds from expired coupons become available." Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
01.23.2009	Says that Congressional souveniers should be made by US companies Washington, D.C. (January 23, 2009): Congressman Bob Brady (D-Pa), Chairman of the U.S. House of Representatives' Committee on House Administration, has issued a statement supporting the exclusive purchase of U.S. made souvenirs and keepsakes for sale in House of Representatives gift shops. Brady's statement is in response to recent reports that foreign made merchandise was purchased for re-sale in the Capitol Visitor Center gift shop. " I feel very strongly that souvenirs sold in House gift shops should be produced by U.S. companies," said Brady. " At a time when our economy is struggling and U.S. companies are being forced to lay off workers, I believe that every effort should be made to support U.S. industry. The idea that the Capitol's main gift shop could be selling a model of our Statue of Freedom that is manufactured in China, does a disservice to the millions of American workers who are losing their jobs and their ability to support their families". " I understand concerns about the funds that have been expended in purchasing some items when the staff did not understand the House's position on this matter, and the Committee is working with the Visitor Center staff to dispose of them in a manner that allows for the recovery of their purchase price," Brady added. " But as our nation celebrates a renewed optimism and talks about the sacrifices that will be made in the days to come, this is an issue of national pride." The Committee on House Administration oversees the operations of the U.S. House of Representatives, including the newly completed Capitol Visitor Center. # # # Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
12.19.2008	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., Pa) today introduced legislation to provide critically needed help to major cities like Philadelphia. The "Save America's Cities Act," would provide immediate relief to cities of the first class experiencing serious budget deficits. "Ninety percent of the U.S. GDP comes from metropolitan areas," Brady said. "The cities are the heart of our economy. And, with the 10 largest cities currently facing budget deficits of over $2.2 billion they are being forced to cut basic and essential services including funding for education, housing and public safety services in municipalities across the country." Congressman Brady said his legislation would provide $7,800,000,000 in funding for police, fire, and sanitation services as well programs that support children and youth in cities with populations of a million or more. "Our cities are not looking for a bailout but they need federal support to maintain the infrastructure and basic services. The cities represent the fabric of the nation and that fabric is fraying badly," the Congressman said. Brady, who worked with Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter and urban development expert Ed Schwartz in drafting the legislation, said that the effort is long overdue. "We need to move as quickly as possible. Our cities need help and they need it now," the Congressman said. "Mayor Nutter has projected a $5 billion deficit over the next five years. Philadelphia and other major cities are suffering." On November 13, Mayor Nutter delivered a letter to Treasury Secretary Paulson signed by him and the mayors of Atlanta, and Phoenix. The mayors requested that the Treasury Department use a portion of the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program to provide loans to city governments to assist with pension costs, provide $50 billion in loans and grants to cities for infrastructure investment, and provide short-term loans for cities to address cash flow needs resulting from an inability to borrow. Brady is Chairman of the House Administration Committee, which oversees the operations of the Congress. He is the first Philadelphian since William Gray to serve as a full or sub committee Chairman. ### Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
11.21.2008	Philadelphia --- Speaker Nancy Pelosi announced today that Congressman Robert A. Brady (D-PA) has been re-elected Chair of the Committee on House Administration (CHA). At a Democratic Caucus meeting Congressman Brady was nominated as Chair by Speaker Nancy Pelosi, and unanimously approved by the Democratic Caucus. Congressman Brady is the first Philadelphian to chair either a full or subcommittee since then-Congressman Bill Gray was Chairman of the Budget Committee in the 99th and 100th Congresses. The position, often referred to as the Mayor of Capitol Hill, includes oversight of the Committee's close to a $1 billion budget including oversight of the newly finished Capitol Visitor Center, and the Smithsonian Institution, including the National Zoo. As CHA Chairman Congressman Brady's accomplishments include President Bush signing into law P.L. 110-437, "The Capitol Visitor Center Act of 2008." Authored by Chairman Brady, the legislation defines the duties, responsibilities and roles for a variety of administrative and executive offices in the Capitol Visitor Center (CVC). It also establishes the Office of Congressional Accessibility Services (OCAS), which will coordinate accessibility services for individuals with disabilities, including Capitol Complex visitors, Members of Congress and House and Senate employees. Chairman Brady said that the bill is the first legislation passed by the House to deal with the internal operations and organization of the CVC. "The Visitor Center Act is a necessary instrument to ensure that the CVC will be able to carry out its main objectives: security, visitor education and comfort," Chairman Brady said. Chairman Brady also was able to secure passage of legislation to facilitate the merger of the U.S. Capitol Police force and the Library of Congress police. P.L. 110-178 - The U.S. Capitol Police and Library of Congress Police Merger Implementation Act of 2007 - will create a coordinated safety and security force to effectively protect Members, staff and the millions of annual visitors to the Capitol. "I am pleased that, after more than four years, we have finally developed a plan that is overwhelmingly supported by the U.S. Capitol Police and the Library of Congress," said Brady. "Since 2003, many people in both agencies have devoted countless hours to this task. For various reasons, four years later the merger has not been implemented. This is unfortunate. Much valuable time has been lost." In September 2008, Chairman Brady unveiled, "Black Americans in Congress, 1870 - 2007", published under the auspices and at the direction of the Committee on House Administration. The 802-page book contains profiles and contextual essays of African-American members of the Congress. The publication highlights important facts, including how many African Americans have served in the U.S. Congress, the role of Reconstruction, the Great Migration, and the post-World War II civil rights movement in shaping the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate. The publication also outlines the origination of the Congressional Black Caucus and its growth into an important legislative entity. The Congressman is also a member of the House Armed Services Committee. And, he also serves as a Senior Majority Whip with the responsibility to strategically plan and shape consensus on legislation. ### Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
11.18.2008	Congressman Brady receives Making an Impact Award from Joseph W. "Chip" Marshall, III, President and CEO of Temple University Health System(l.)and John MacDonald, President of Impact Services. PHILADELPHIA ---Impact Services Corporation and Temple University Health System presented Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) with the 2008 "Making an Impact Award," Nov. 12. The award was given in recognition of his strong legislative support for high-quality trauma and behavioral health programs and his efforts to provide job placement, housing and family service for the Nation's veterans. The award was presented by Joseph W. "Chip" Marshall, III, President and CEO of Temple University Health System, and John MacDonald, President of Impact Services, which provides employment training, housing, community and economic development services to Philadelphians in need. Calling Congressman Brady, "one of the lions of Congress," Marshall said that the ability to provide high quality medical and trauma care throughout the Temple University Healthcare System Hospital would not be possible without Congressman Brady's steadfast support. During the last 15 years, Impact Services Corporation has provided transitional housing for 1,700 formerly homeless vets and placed over 2,500 veterans into full time employment. MacDonald said, "With the support of people like Congressman Brady new vets returning from Iraq and Afghanistan facing multiple traumatic injuries Post traumatic stress disorder and other psychological strain from repeated tours of duty can expect support and care from the community and institutions that exist to serve them." Congressman Brady, the author of The National Heroes Credit Protection Act, which protects the credit ratings of military service members while serving in combat, said he was honored to receive the award and he remains committed to supporting veterans and community accessible healthcare. "I intend to continue to do all I can to support those who have risked life and limb in the defense of our country." ### Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
10.20.2008	Philadelphia --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) has received an A+ on the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America's (IAVA) Action Fund 2008 Congressional Report Card. The report card grades every Senator and Congressman on his or her leadership and voting record on key Iraq and Afghanistan veterans' issues. Based on the legislative priorities outlined in IAVA's legislative agenda, IAVA Action selected 22 key votes on veterans' issues in the 110th Congress. The votes cover the entire range of issues facing new veterans, including veterans' health care, the new GI Bill, mental health, and support for homeless veterans. Brady's efforts in support of veterans have included his early support and leadership role in the creation of the Wounded Warrior Program. Congressman Brady worked with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi in establishing this innovative program which creates fellowships that provide employment opportunities for wounded or disabled veterans within the House of Representatives. Positions may become available in Member, committee and leadership offices in Washington, DC and in district offices nationwide. Congressman Brady said he remains committed to making veterans a priority. "They have valiantly served our nation and we have the obligation to support them." The IAVA Action Fund is the foremost nonprofit, non-partisan advocate for our nation's returning warriors and their families. ### Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
10.19.2008	October 2, 2008 (Washington, DC): House Administration Chairman Robert A. Brady announced that the Committee has approved revisions to rules governing the use of web video on Member websites. The rule revisions largely parallel changes introduced by the Senate and create an environment in which Member offices have expanded options for posting video content on their official websites. "I am happy to report that the Committee has approved revisions to the rules governing the use of web video on Member websites. The new rules reflect a greater recognition of the need to provide flexible solutions to the opportunities and challenges presented by new and emerging technologies. I applaud Speaker Pelosi for being a leader in implementing these new technologies and for establishing that as a priority." The new rules allow Members to place web content on sites outside of the house.gov domain, ending a longstanding restriction that had grown more difficult to comply with as new communications and outreach technologies emerged. "Over the past several years, we have witnessed an incredible pace of technological innovation and development," said Brady. "Today, we have taken an important step in ensuring that we can utilize these and future innovations to the benefit of our constituents." # # # Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
09.29.2008	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D-PA) announced today that Picturing America awards have been granted by the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) to nearly 100 schools within the First Congressional District. Picturing America is a free innovative initiative that helps teach American history and culture by bringing some of the country's great art directly to classrooms and libraries. "Picturing America is a unique program that allows for art to be made available to public and private school students," said Congressman Brady. "By bringing great art into the schools, the program offers an innovative way to experience American history through our nation's art, outside of museum walls." "One of our educational priorities in Philadelphia is that every student has exposure to the arts as an integral part of a well-rounded education," said Sandra Dungee Glenn, Chairwoman of the Philadelphia School Reform Commission. "Picturing America provides an opportunity to do that in a creative way that may cross-cut the curriculum even as it gives teachers and students a very special lens through which to consider American society, institutions, and values." The schools in the First Congressional District in Philadelphia and Delaware County that have been awarded Picturing America join over 26,000 schools and public libraries across the country participating in the program. Picturing America comes with a comprehensive package of materials that includes: Forty large, high-quality color reproductions of the selected masterpieces (24" x 36") A comprehensive teachers resource book providing a wide range of ideas and background information to support educators using the works of art in core subject areas Additional resources and lesson plans available through the Picturing America Web site, PicturingAmerica.neh.gov The NEH is also offering Picturing America to more schools and libraries through an enrollment opportunity that began August 2008. All eligible schools and public libraries in the U.S. and its territories who have not previously received Picturing America may apply for the program through October 31, 2008 at PicturingAmerica.neh.gov. In addition to schools and libraries, through an interagency agreement, NEH and the Administration for Children and Families within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) will work together to make Picturing America available to the 20,000 Head Start Centers around the nation and here in Pennsylvania This partnership will provide for the development of materials to supplement Picturing America and ensure that the program will enhance early childhood development and family literacy. Picturing America is distributed by the NEH in cooperation with the American Library Association (ALA). For information about the ALA, please visit www.ala.org. # # # Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
09.24.2008	PHILADELPHIA --- The American Association of University Women (AAUW) has recognized Congressman Robert A. Brady (D-PA) for his 100 percent voting record in the 110th Congress in support of education and equity legislation for women and girls. Congressman Brady's voting record on issues important to women and families is contained in the AAUW Congressional Voting Record that scores votes on several pieces of legislation that became law, including bills that provided for an increase in the minimum wage; the largest increase in student aid since the G.I. bill; and investment in science, technology, engineering, and math education. In addition, the publication scores legislation that reflects other AAUW priorities such as improving pay discrimination law, expanding hate crimes prevention, and protecting access to reproductive health care. Congressman Brady said, "My legislative priorities include education, economic security, civil rights, and responsible budgets and appropriations, and I am pleased that my legislative record is in sync with the priority issues of the AAUW." ### Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
09.24.2008	PHILADELPHIA ---- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., Pa.) joined Mayor Michael Nutter, Congressman Chaka Fattah and Independence National Historical Park Superintendent Cynthia MacLeod at the kick off of a campaign to raise $1.4 million for the completion of the construction of the President's House commemorative project. From 1790 to 1800, Presidents George Washington and John Adams lived and worked in a mansion - the President's House - that once stood a block north of Independence Hall. The hidden story of the executive mansion is that George Washington enslaved as many as nine Africans in that house. The President's House project, a joint initiative of the City of Philadelphia and Independence National Historical Park, will commemorate the story of how the quest for freedom for a new nation existed side by side with enslavement. In 2005, Congressmen Brady and Fattah secured $3.5 million dollars in federal funds for the project. Congressman Brady said he visited the site with young family members and they were shocked that Blacks were enslaved in this historic location. Congressman Brady said he remains committed to the project. "We have the chance to make history by making sure that the true history of the President's House, right here on this site in my district, the First Congressional District, is told for the world to see." ### Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
09.16.2008	Washington, DC (September 9, 2008): House Administration Committee Chairman Robert A. Brady applauded today's policy reversal by the Department of Veterans Affairs. The newly implemented policy allows state and local election officials and non-partisan groups to access VA facilities to assist officials in registering veteran voters who are receiving care. The newly announced policy revises a prior VA directive that prohibited these groups from providing registration assistance to VA facility residents. "The recent policy change implemented by the VA and Secretary James B. Peake acknowledges the importance of ensuring that every reasonable effort is made to ensure that our veterans have full and unrestricted access to the electoral process," said Brady. "State and local election officials and non-partisan groups play an invaluable role in empowering and enfranchising voters. Prohibiting their access was a terrible misjudgment and I am pleased that it has been corrected." The new policy requires that voter registration information be posted in VA facilities. It also requires that patients receive documentation outlining their voting and registration rights upon their admission. Brady and other Congressional leaders have spearheaded efforts to encourage the revision of the VA's registration policy. In addition, a bi-partisan cross-section of Secretaries of State had expressed strong opposition to the VA prohibition. The House Administration Committee, chaired by Brady, responded to their concerns on July 30 when it passed out of Committee HR 6625, the Veteran Voting Support Act. This Brady-introduced legislation designates VA facilities as voter registration agencies and prohibits the Secretary of Veteran Affairs from restricting non-partisan organizations and state election officials from providing voter information and assistance to veterans at VA facilities. The legislation attracted more than 50 co-sponsors. "At a time when we are calling upon Americans to heed the call of national service, it is unfathomable that the institution charged with serving our veterans would have implemented a policy that, in effect, restricted their access to the electoral process," said Brady. "I am pleased that the virtually universal calls for them to reconsider, were finally acknowledged." "I'd like to thank Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Bob Filner for his early support and participation in our efforts," said Brady. "I'd also like to applaud the work of Representative Diane Watson (D-CA), who has been a tireless advocate on this issue. While this policy revision represents a tangible step in the right direction, the new policy still falls short of ensuring unfettered access to registration for our veterans in VA facilities. Moving forward, we will review the VA action and determine whether it is necessary to proceed with our legislative recourse." The Committee on House Administration, under Brady's direction, maintains oversight of Federal election related issues as well as the Federal Elections Commission (FEC) and the Elections Assistance Commission (EAC). Additionally, Brady serves on the influential House Armed Services Committee. # # # Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
07.22.2008	July 22, 2002, seven- year-old Erica Pratt was abducted and forced into a car in front of her home in West Philadelphia by two men who held her captive in a basement of an abandoned home in Logan. They bound her hands and feet with duct tape and left her. However, this courageous child chewed through the tape, kicked open a basement door and made her way to a window, screaming until children in the neighborhood came to her rescue. Congressman Brady said, "Erica is the bravest child I know. Her will, courage and faith saved her life." Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
07.22.2008	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA), Chairman of the House Administration Committee, announced today the award of a $150,000 Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS) Museums for America grant to the Philadelphia Museum of Art (PMA). PMA will use the grant allocation to support for Educating Through Technology, an initiative designed to expand cross-curricular visual arts learning in schools. The initiative will provide wider access to the PMA's collections through the use of curricular partnerships with school districts in the region; an initiative to reach rural schools throughout Pennsylvania; a range of professional development activities conducted via video conference; and, innovative studio art programs that feature interactions with professional artists. Museums for America is the Institute's largest grant program for museums for the support of projects and ongoing activities that build museums' capacity to serve their communities. Congressman Brady said that the PMA grant will help to strengthen the museum's outreach to school age children by encouraging appreciation for art as well as master artists, both living and dead. "Art appreciation is important in a child's development and it is important that art is within the reach of young people in communities and neighborhoods throughout the area." Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
07.01.2008	June 23 PHILADELPHIA --- "This project will have a profound effect on the Port of Philadelphia and on the entire region," said Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., Pa) as he witnessed the June 23, signing of an agreement between the U. S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Philadelphia Regional Port Authority that officially marks the start of the Delaware River Main Channel Deepening Project. Congressman Brady who joined Pennsylvania Governor Ed Rendell, U.S. Senator Arlen Specter and government and port officials at the signing added that, "This agreement cements he the future viability of the port and ensures that those quality port-related jobs will be here for future generations." The agreement is a culmination of a 15-year effort to deepen the Delaware River. Under the terms of the agreement the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in partnership with the Philadelphia Regional Port Authority will increase the depth of river by five feet from Camden's Beckett St. Terminal to the mouth of the Delaware Bay. Deepening the shipping channel from 40 feet to 45 feet will make the port more competitive. Gov. Rendell said that he considered the dredging project the most important project in the history of the Port of Philadelphia."Today is a milestone for a project that will shape the future of the maritime commerce on the Delaware River." Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
06.19.2008	Feb. 19, 2008 Philadelphia --- The House Administration Committee, chaired by Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA), held a "best practices" security forum, Feb. 19, University of Pennsylvania Police Department headquarters, in Philadelphia. U.S. Capitol Police, the U.S. Office of the Sergeant of Arms outlined security best practices utilized to protect the U. S. Capitol and the millions of visitors to the Capitol campus. Presenters included the U. S. Capitol Police Chief Phillip Morse, House of Representatives Sgt. at Arms Wilson "Bill" Livingood. Other speakers will include Philadelphia Police Commissioner Charles Ramsey, Pentagon Official Steve Calvary, Dr. Stephen Gale, Co-Chairman of the Center on Terrorism, Counter-Terrorism and Homeland Security at the Foreign Policy Research Institute and Dr. Ed Jasper, Director of the Center for Bioterrorism and Disaster Preparedness at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital. Reprerentatives of the FBI, the Department of Homeland Security and the Transportation Security Administration are also invited. Local representation will also include state and county law enforcement officials. SEPTA, AMTRAK and area university police departments have also been invited. The Congressman said the forum was important because of the threat of terrorist attack. "The forum will give our local law enforcement agencies the opportunity to discuss face-to-face inter-agency procedures and coordination necessary to save lives in the event of a multi-city terror attack." Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
06.19.2008	June 16, 2008 PHILADELPHIA --- Are the medical needs of wounded veterans being met? That question was the focus of a meeting convened today by Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) at Wills Eye Institute. Those invited to the meeting included representatives of area hospitals, the Departments of Military and Veterans' Affairs, Health Net (which manages TRICARE the health care program which serves active duty members, National Guard and reserve members) and members of a number of veterans organizations, including Ed Lowery, the executive Director of the Philadelphia Veterans' Multi- Service & Education Center and Edgar Howard, director of the Philadelphia Veterans Advisory Commission. Brady, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee (HASC), says the meeting was necessary because in spite of his efforts to secure certification to allow area hospitals to treat wounded veterans returning from service in Iraq and Afghanistan military red tape seems to be a barrier to them receiving treatment at the hospitals. When reports surfaced about the conditions some Iraq veterans were experiencing at Walter Reed Army Hospital, Congressman Brady requested that the HASC explore the feasibility of allowing injured veterans to be treated at area hospitals and rehabilitation centers. As a result, last year the Department of Defense designated Magee Rehabilitation Center, the Einstein Healthcare Network and Wills Eye Institute eligible to provide treatment to returning Active Duty and Guard and Reserve Service Members. "I thought it was a no-brainer that these injured heroes would come home and receive the highest level of treatment at our hospitals, which are some of the best in the nation," Brady said. "However, I am dismayed to learn that even with the capacity and resources available, still none of the hospitals report treating any of our returning wounded." Brady says he is considering introducing legislation that would get rid of the red tape returning veterans in need of medical care are facing. Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
06.03.2008	June 3, 2008 PHILADELPHIA --- Nearly 200 public, charter and parochial school elementary and middle school graduates in the First Congressional District received Certificates of Special Congressional Recognition from Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA). The certificates were presented to two students in each participating school throughout the First Congressional District in recognition of academic achievement or good citizenship. "Hopefully the certificates will serve as both an acknowledgement of the students' hard work but also as an encouragement for them to continue their push for excellence," said the Congressman. Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
05.29.2008	May 29, 2008 PHILADELPHIA ---- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., Pa.), chairman of the Committee on House Administration (CHA), announced today that Pennsylvania is one of five states that will be awarded $2 million grants to improve the collection of precinct-level data in the November 2008 election. The Congressman noted that this marks the first time the Federal government will issue grants to states to improve federal elections data. CHA has oversight of Federal elections and the day-to-day functions of the House of Representatives. The Committee's jurisdiction over Federal elections requires it to consider proposals to amend federal election law and to monitor Congressional elections across the United States. The winning states- Pennsylvania, Illinois, Minnesota, Ohio, and Wisconsin-will use the funds to develop methods and procedures for collecting data that other states and jurisdictions can replicate. The EAC will include this data in its biennial Election Day Survey, a comprehensive report on how Americans vote in federal elections. The EAC's 2004 and 2006 Election Day Surveys <https://www.congressweb.com/t/l/?QGGSLNNOLARITOG> include statistics on key election issues such as voter turnout and registration, over votes and under votes, poll workers, and voting equipment and machines, among other topics. Congressman Brady, who also serves as chair of the Philadelphia Democratic Party, said, "The grant will help to ensure the development of a best practices model that will help to ensure effective, non-discriminatory and fiscally sound voting throughout the nation." Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
04.01.2008	April 1, 2008 PHILADELPHIA --- Senior citizens can apply for SEPTA Senior Transit Identifications cards at Congressman Robert A. Brady's (D., Pa.) district office, located at 1907 S. Broad St. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. "I am pleased that my South Philadelphia office has been designated by SEPTA as a location where senior citizens can apply for the Senior Transit ID cards. The office is accessible and my staff is courteous and friendly," Congressman Brady said. "This is an important community service." Applicants 65 years or older must provide a social security number, a proof of age document and a photo to the office as a part of the application process. Seniors 65 years of age or older with a valid Medicare Card, Railroad Retirement Card or Transit ID Card can travel for free on SEPTA buses, trolleys and subway-elevated lines 24-hours-a-day every day of the year. In addition, seniors are charged only $1.00 to travel on SEPTA regional rail lines within Pennsylvania (fare waved for PACE, PACENET or Medical Assistance/Access card holders). Travel to stations outside the state (such as Trenton or West Trenton) to or from Center City cost $4.00 for tickets purchased prior to boarding and $4.50 for tickets purchased on-board. Currently, seniors travel at discounted fares during weekday off-peak hours (with regular fares charged from 7 a.m. to 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m.) and all day on weekends and holidays. Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
01.24.2008	January 24, 2008 Philadelphia --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) today commended President Bush for signing into law new legislation that will improve national security by examining problems raised by using private contractors to guard nuclear weapons-related sites. A member of the House Armed Services Committee, Congressman Brady called the legislation an important step in bringing the nuclear complex in line with the security needs of today. "The 2008 Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 4986) renews support for our troops and their families while improving military readiness in many important ways," said Congressman Brady. "In addition, it begins the long-overdue process of determining the most effective way to guard the sensitive sites where nuclear weapons are assembled. We cannot afford the shoddy practices demonstrated by some private security contractors who currently guard these vital facilities." The act signed by President Bush requires the Government Accounting Office (GAO) to examine the security systems at the multiple sites that make up the nuclear weapons complex, and report its findings to Congress in six months. It also directs the Department of Energy, which runs the facilities, to determine the most cost-effective and secure manner to guard them. Private security contracts cost hundreds of millions annually, with $300 million going to a single company, Wackenhut. The studies will determine whether this money might be spent more wisely on government-run security. "The fact is that protecting our nuclear arsenal is the government's business, not a handout for private contractors," said Congressman Brady. "We need to ensure that all of those who have a stake in providing our security are working in sync with each other, to ensure our nation's safety. This can only be done by the federal government." Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
06.20.2007	I want to thank my dear friend, Asia Coney for inviting me to greet you today. Asia is one of the greatest organizers in the country. Her Million Woman march brought more than two million people to our city of Philadelphia for one of the greatest demonstrations in history. I also want to thank Nelly Reynolds and all of my other friends and constituents from Philadelphia and from Chester who are here today. We are here today because across this country, people are being priced out of the housing market. We have to do everything we can to make sure that rising prices don't put our neighbors out on the street. Public housing is home to millions of Americans. 43% are families with children and 19% are elderly. Every one of those families deserves clean, safe and affordable housing. And that's why I'm proud to announce today that I am forming a Public Housing Caucus in the House of Representatives to end thirteen years of cuts to the most vulnerable Americans. There's just one job we have to get done here in Washington. We have to make sure that, every American wakes up every day, takes their kids to a good school, goes to work in a family sustaining job and comes home to a decent home. That's not too much to ask. We can do it if we all keep working together. Thank you. Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
05.10.2007	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA), Interim Chair of the House Administration Committee, today led the committee in moving H.R. 811, the Voter Confidence and Increased Accessibility Act of 2007 to the Floor. Congressman Brady is the Committee's acting chair as a result of the death of Rep. Juanita Millender -McDonald. The bill, sponsored by Congressman Rush Holt (D., NJ), requires that all voting equipment produce a paper ballot that can be verified by the voter and also serves as the official ballot in any recount or audit. As a federal requirement, it mandates that each state set up special audit boards separate from existing voting administration systems and requires that they carry out an audit of each federal election by sampling select precincts for discrepancies between electronic vote counts and hand counts of paper ballots. "This bill will instill integrity in the voting process. It is important to our democracy that every vote must count," said Congressman Brady. Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
05.05.2007	May 5, 2007 PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) has selected the artwork of Anna Zhilkova, a senior at Central High School to represent the First Congressional District in the 26th annual Congressional High School Art Competition. The work, a black and white photo triptych composition featuring City Hall will be displayed with other winners from across the nation in a ten month exhibition in the U.S. Capitol. Zhilkova's winning entry was a part of the School District of Philadelphia's "Art: It's Academic," annual spring exhibition. The nationwide art showcase, An Artistic Discovery, provides Members of Congress with the opportunity to showcase the talents of creative young artists in their districts. "These young artists will have their work seen by hundreds of thousands people from across the country and around the world who visit the Capitol," Congressman Brady said. The Congressman also said that the Capitol exhibition not only encourages young artists it also makes the overwhelming case regarding the importance of arts education in our schools. Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
03.25.2007	At a Democratic Caucus meeting this morning, Congressman Brady was nominated as Chair by the Speaker and approved by the Democratic Caucus. Congressman Brady has served as interim Chair of the Committee since the death of Chairwoman Millender-McDonald. He is also Chair of the House Administration's new Subcommittee on Capitol Security and Chair of the Joint Committee on Printing. Speaker Pelosi said "Congressman Brady's experience as a leading member of the House Administration Committee for three years and his in-depth knowledge of the internal functions of the House will make him a powerful voice as Chairman," Speaker Pelosi said. "I know Congressman Brady will expand upon the efforts of Chairwoman Millender-McDonald to promote equality and diversity on Capitol Hill." "I appreciate Speaker Pelosi's support and will continue the legacy of Congresswoman Millender McDonald to correct oversights from the past," said Congressman Brady. "One of my priorities will be to make every effort to keep the Capitol Complex as secure as possible while remaining accessible for the millions of visitors every year." Congressman Brady said his added priorities as CHA Chairman will include increased oversight of the Committee's close to a $1 billion budget and the several critical problems inherited by Democrats when they assumed the majority in January 2007. Those problems include cost overruns and construction delays on the $548 million Capitol Visitor Center project, scandals at the Smithsonian Institute and the National Zoo, and the lack of contracts for union employees at the Government Printing Office. He also emphasized that in order to provide increased security for the public who visit the Capitol campus completion of the merger of the U.S. Capitol Police and the Library of Congress Police will be a major priority. "These are all fundamental issues that require the Committee's urgent attention," said the Congressman. Congressman Brady is the first Philadelphian to chair either a full or subcommittee since then-Congressman Bill Gray was Chairman of the Budget Committee in the 99th and 100th Congresses. Earlier this month, Congressman Brady chaired the CHA's first substantive markup, preparing HR 811, the Voter Confidence and Increased Accessibility Act of 2007, for floor action. The bill, sponsored by Congressman Rush Holt (D., NJ) requires that all voting equipment produce a paper ballot that can be verified by the voter and also serves as the official ballot in any recount or audit. As a federal requirement, it mandates that each state set up special audit boards separate from existing voting administration systems and requires that they carry out an audit of each federal election by sampling select precincts for discrepancies between electronic vote counts and hand counts of paper ballots. The bill was passed by the CHA. The Congressman is also a member of the House Armed Services Committee. He also serves as a Senior Majority Whip with the responsibility to strategically plan and shape consensus on legislation. Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
03.23.2007	March 23, 2007 PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) released the following statement today after the House approved the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act - The FY 2007 Supplemental Appropriation bill. "We are now in the fifth year of this war and it is time that Congress puts brakes on an open ended commitment to a strategy that is failing. Too many have died for us to continue in this direction. "The U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act fully funds our military in Iraq and provides that they have the proper training and equipment. Brady said. "It also sets a timeline for a make sense redeployment of U.S. troops out of Iraq. "The Supplemental also includes a total appropriation of $2.8 billion for Defense Health Care, which is $1.7 billion more than the President's request. This legislation will address the critical health care needs of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans as well as the backlog in the maintenance of VA health care facilities. This is a pro U.S. and pro troops bill." ### Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
02.27.2007	Feb. 27, 2007 PHILADELPHIA ---- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., Pa.) is an original co-sponsor of legislation, H. RES. 194, which apologizes to African Americans on behalf of the American people for slavery and Jim Crow segregation. The resolution, introduced by Congressman Steve Cohen (D., Tenn.), outlines the long history of racism and the brutal treatment of African-Americans that was engendered by the system of slavery and prolonged by Jim Crow. It further acknowledges the continuing legacy of these wrongs long after they were officially abolished. Congressman Brady said that he understands that an apology alone may not be enough and previous efforts by Congress to issue an official apology for these wrongs have not happened. But, he said, "This is long overdue. And, it is an important first step towards racial healing and reconciliation for all Americans." Last month Virginia state legislators unanimously passed a resolution that expressed "profound regret" for Virginia's role in slavery and the Jim Crow era. ### Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
02.26.2007	February 26, 2007 PHILADELPHIA --- Saying that the recent Wachovia Bank branch closings in Philadelphia point to the need for reform, Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., Pa.) announced today that he is a co-sponsor of the soon to be introduced Community Reinvestment Modernization Act of 2007. The legislation would require public comment and a hearing before bank branch closings. Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) legislation requires banks and thrifts to serve low and moderate income neighborhoods. Since 1977 it has made it possible for millions of Americans to obtain mortgages, and small business and other loans. "The community was not informed of the bank's intention to close neighborhood branches," the Congressman said. "And, as we know the exodus of banks from economically challenged neighborhoods increases the opportunity for increased higher cost sub prime loans for minorities, women and low- and moderate income borrowers." The Congressman noted that City Council and Mayor John Street have taken action on the local level. Feb. 22, Mayor Street signed legislation introduced by Councilman Wilson Goode, Jr. adopting a bank branch closing ordinance. The ordinance requires prior notice to the City of Philadelphia and City Council before implementing branch closings. The CRA Modernization Act would also extend CRA to mortgage companies, insurance companies and security firms. Additionally, the bill would reduce pricing disparities in loans based on race, income and gender that threaten an increase in affordable homeownership opportunities. The Congressman said he applauds Wachovia's continuing negotiations with the Borinquen Federal Credit Union to transfer the closed Front and Allegheny Wachovia branch to the community-based credit union. But, he also urged Wachovia to make the good faith and community sustaining effort to enter into a written CRA agreement with neighborhood based advocacy organizations. ### Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
02.23.2007	February 23, 2007 PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) today presented the inaugural Robert A. Brady Cancer Lecture Series Award to distinguished medical research scientist, Arthur Pardee, Ph.D. The award was presented at the close of a day-long Breast Cancer Symposium sponsored by the Kimmel Cancer Center and the Jefferson Cancer Network. The Robert A. Brady Cancer Lecture Series Award was established in 2006 to recognize the efforts of renowned individuals with an award of excellence for their work in breast cancer research, treatment or advocacy. Congressman Brady has brought over $50 million in federal funding for health care and medical research to the First Congressional District, including funding for the Jefferson Breast Cancer Center. The Congressman has also co-sponsored more than 37 bills related to the treatment, research and eradication of breast cancer. Dr. Pardee is an American biochemist who biographers refer to as a titan in science. He received his Ph.D. from the California Institute of Technology and he is a faculty member at the University of California at Berkeley, Princeton and Harvard. The Congressman said he was proud to be able to present the important award to a great scientist whose groundbreaking research will help to save lives for years to come. Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
02.16.2007	Feb. 16, 2007 PHILADELPHIA ---- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) spoke on the House floor today, in support of a bipartisan resolution expressing support for our troops and disapproving of the President's escalation plan in Iraq. Below are the Congressman's remarks: "I rise in support of this resolution, and I am in complete opposition to the President's plan to send an additional 21,000 Americans into Iraq. This ill conceived plan will only make a war that never should have started much, much worse. The generals don't want this surge. Our allies oppose it. Sixty percent of the American people think it is a terrible idea and, the enemy is using it to boost recruitment. There is no conceivable reason for this surge. Yet, President Bush is pushing ahead with it. I opposed the original Iraq war resolution because I didn't see the connection between Al -Qaeda and Saddam Hussein, the evidence of an immediate threat from Iraqi weapons of mass destruction, or even compelling evidence of the existence of WMD. But, we went in anyway. We rushed off, unprepared, into a needless war that has killed thousands and scarred 10's of thousands of Americans and hundreds of thousands of innocent Iraqis. Now, here we go again. It is time for this administration to end its policy of ready, fire, aim. It is time to begin a policy of ready, aim, fire. I urge all of my colleagues to listen to the American public, to our troops and to our friends around the world. Vote yes on this resolution." ### Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
02.16.2007	Feb. 16, 2007 PHILADELPHIA ---- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., Pa.) said today the announcement by the Temple Health System to cut 500 jobs is the direct result of the strangling of the health care delivery system by the Bush administration. "Our local hospitals are hemorrhaging as a result of cutback after cutback in funding for Medicare and Medicaid. The Temple Health System is on the front line. It is the leading ‘safety net' provider in the city, and the health care safety net for the poor and working class is being shredded," Congressman Brady said. Earlier this month, Congressman Brady convened a meeting of health care administrators in the city and as a result he instituted a Joint Hospital Health Care Taskforce in order to work collectively with hospital administrators to defeat the challenges facing hospitals and healthcare networks in the Greater Philadelphia area. "I am fully committed to ensuring that that the people of the great City of Philadelphia get the care that they deserve," the Congressman said. ### Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
01.31.2007	Jan 31, 2007 Philadelphia --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) says the FY07 continuing Resolution contains he will support a joint funding resolution for FY07 which increases funding for police, veteran's health care, Pell Grants and public housing. But, the Congressman cautioned, "While there are moderate increases in the resolution it falls far short of where we need to be. This is an attempt to clean up the mess the Republicans created. While I don't believe the resolution is the perfect solution, it offers the best option for moving forward based upon the reality of the Congress' last session," the Congressman said. Brady added that last year the budget and appropriations process presented the then-Republican-controlled Congress with a choice: pass a fiscally sound budget and 11 appropriations bills that reflect the priorities of the American people or duck the issue. "Unfortunately, the Republicans chose to pass a budget that was unrealistic at best and fiscally reckless at worst, Congressman Brady said. "Nine of the eleven appropriations bills for FY07, which is now four months old, have yet to be enacted into law. As a result of their inability to govern honestly and effectively, the federal government is now facing the most significant budget mess since the Republicans took over the government and then shut it down in 1996." In conclusion, Congressman Brady explained, "Federal departments and agencies, and state and local governments cannot plan properly for the future, so Congress must act now to resolve these funding issues. If we waited any longer, the 110th Congress would lose valuable time needed to work on the President's war supplemental and the Fiscal Year 2008 budget submission in a manner equal to their importance to the American public." Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
01.21.2007	(Jan 31, 2007) Philadelphia --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) today released the following statement on the appointment of Lorraine C. Miller to Clerk of the House for the 110th Congress. "The historic and well deserved appointment of Ms. Miller as the first African American Clerk of the House, and only the third woman Clerk in more than 200 years is an important step in the history of the nation. "More and more the highest ranks of government are starting reflect the diversity that is America. Ms. Miller is well respected for her remarkable career in public service both in the House of Representatives and also in the Executive Branch. "As we prepare to celebrate Black History Month, it is an important milestone that another racial and gender barrier has been breached. "I extend heartfelt congratulation to Ms. Miller and thanks to Speaker Pelosi for reaching out for the best." Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
12.11.2006	The Congressman said the closing of these branches located at 101 E. Allegheny Ave. and 2627 Germantown Ave. represents a hardship for low income and elderly residents of these communities. "Shuttered banks opens the door to predatory lending, increased foreclosures and blight." said Congressman Brady. In a letter to Wachovia executive Vice president Hugh Long, Brady urged the bank to enter into a Community Reinvestment Agreement with community organizations who charge there was no prior notice of closing and that the decision represents a "broken trust" between the bank and the community. Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
12.06.2006	Philadelphia --- A bill introduced by Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., PA) to honor the contributions and life of Ed Bradley, a veteran award winning CBS reporter who died Nov. 9, unanimously passed in the House Dec. 6. The measure had 58 co-sponsors. The resolution (H. Res. 1084) recognizes and honors Mr. Bradley's 40-year trailblazing career that was launched at a Philadelphia radio station in the mid sixties where he worked for free. Because of his groundbreaking reporting on Philadelphia riots from a phone booth his career took off and he was hired by WCBS in New York, making him the first African American broadcaster to be hired by the station. "I was a fan of Ed Bradley throughout his career from his-on-the ground reports from Vietnam and Cambodia to his laid back Bradley style conversations with star performers and jazz greats Lena Horne and Wynton Marsalis on ‘60 Minutes.' He had the ability to tell complex and sometimes unsettling stories almost effortlessly. His reports were both fireside chats and teaching moments," Congressman Brady said. "Ed Bradley both informed and enriched our lives and he deserves the recognition of Congress." Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
05.26.2006	PHILADELPHIA --- NETWORK - a Catholic leader in the global movement for justice and peace, today commended U.S. Rep. Robert Brady (D., PA) for a consistently strong voting record on behalf of social and economic justice. Rep. Brady was one of just 4 of the 21-member (19 House and 2 Senate) Pennsylvania delegation of the U.S. House of Representatives who voted 100% in accordance with NETWORK's socially responsible agenda for the first session of the 109th Congress. Sister Simone Campbell, SSS, NETWORK National Coordinator, stated, "NETWORK congratulates Rep. Brady for maintaining a principled commitment to just government policies and programs that care for the least among us. By supporting efforts for affordable housing, adequate nutrition, fair and just tax policy, and ethical trade agreements, Rep. Brady has earned the appreciation and respect of the faith-based social justice community." Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
05.21.2006	PHILADELPHIA --- Raheem Harrington's artwork has been selected as the winning entry to represent Congressman Brady's 1st Congressional District of Pennsylvania in the 25th Anniversary of the Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery. Congressman Brady is proud to be a part of this nationwide art competition which provides Members of Congress the opportunity to showcase the talents of their creative high school constituents and acknowledge our nations's gifted young artists. Raheemis a 10th grade student at Kensington CAPA (Creative and Performing Arts) Charter School. His piece is in the "mixed media"category (the use of more than two mediums, such as pencil, ink, etc.) and istitled "Passion For The Blues". His art teacher is Ms. Andrea Lyons, who is, understandably, extremely proud of Raheem. Raheem's artworkwill hang in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol Building for the entire year of the exhibition. He will be receiving an invitation (along with other winning students from all over the country) to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony in Washington, D.C., on June 28, 2006. He is to be congratulated. Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
11.29.2005	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., Pa.) will host, Navigating Medicare Part D: A Guide to the New Prescription Drug Benefit, Sat., Dec. 10 from 9:30 A.M. to 2 P.M. at the Center for Business and Industry, Community College of Philadelphia, 18th and Callowhill Sts. The informational event will include a panel discussion by representatives of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), the Social Security Administration (SSA) and the Action Alliance of Senior Citizens of Greater Philadelphia. On-site enrollment assistance will also be available. "This event is necessary because the Medicare drug plan is so complicated. My constituents say this new law is confusing and they are very frustrated because of the numbers of different plans and benefit options, said Congressman Brady "I voted against the Medicare Modernization Act but I still have to do whatever I can to make help seniors and people with disabilities figure out which plan covers their prescriptions at the best price and at the right pharmacy." According to a Kaiser Family Foundation poll taken last month, 61 percent of seniors still do not understand the Medicare drug program and only 20 percent plan to enroll. Congressman Brady said he supports the Medicare Informed Choice Act, that would give seniors and people with disabilities a full year to chose a Medicare drug plan. But in the meantime Brady says, "It's important that eligible Medicare beneficiaries get all the information that they can." Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
05.23.2005	PHILADELPHIA --- As the result of a request by Congressman Robert A. Brady, a Purple Heart will be awarded posthumously to a Southwest Philadelphia Vietnam veteran who was killed in action 37 years ago. A member of the 503rd Infantry, Private First Class John M. Olszewski was killed February 20, 1968 just four months after he was shipped to Vietnam. He was 20. The combat decoration will be accepted by his mother, Mrs. Bernice A. Olszewski. For more than 30 years she had tried to get the award for her only child. She says the Army repeatedly told her that there was no record of her son being killed in action. Last year, Mrs. Olszewski contacted Congressman's Brady's office. "Her call was very disturbing and I vowed to do all I could to get the honor this young man and his family deserved," the Congressman said. As a result of the diligent work of George Perez, a special assistant to the Congressman, PFC Olszewski's records were updated by the National Personnel Records Center. The award will be presented to the family during a Memorial Day ceremony sponsored by the Philadelphia Vietnam Veterans Memorial Advisory Fund, Inc., at noon on Mon. May 30, 2005 at the Philadelphia Vietnam Veterans Memorial, Columbus Blvd. and Spruce St. "This decoration is long overdue. This young man gave his life in the service of his country and the least we can do is to reward his sacrifice with the America's oldest military decoration, the Purple Heart," Congressman Brady said. Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
01.10.2005	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady, joined by Pennsylvania State Representative Bill Keller, touring the site of the spill of crude oil into the Delaware River by the ATHOS I on Nov. 26. The spill, one of the worst in the Delaware River's history, temporarily stopped shipping traffic and impacted approximately 107 miles of shoreline. Congressman Brady said he was pleased with the clean-up efforts by the Coast Guard, state, local agencies and contracted environmental agencies. But he stressed, "the clean-up continues." To report an oiled area, call 267-765-3446; to report injured wildlife, call 215-365-1558; and, file a spill-related claim call 866-401-0353. For more information visit: U.S. Coast Guard Atlantic Area 5th District Public Information Site Congressman Brady is joined by Pennsylvania State Representative Bill Keller, touring the site of the spill of crude oil into the Delaware River by the ATHOS I on Nov. 26 2004. Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
12.01.2004	PHILADELPHIA --- In a bi-partisan effort, Congressman Robert Brady (D., Pa.), Sen. Arlen Specter, and Congressman Chaka Fattah announced that a $1 million federal appropriation will provide housing and mortgage assistance for sinking home residents in the 400 block of North Daggett St, in the Overbrook section of the city. Earlier this year, Congressman Brady asked Senator Specter for his help to secure funding for a buyout of Daggett St. residents whose homes were found to be sinking. "I thank the Senator for securing the $1 million earmark to provide housing and mortgage assistance, as part of an initiative to stabilize this neighborhood," Congressman Brady said. In April 2001, Philadelphia city officials evacuated 18 houses on Daggett Street because the properties were sinking. Approximately 7 other homes are also at risk because they are on the edge of the sinking area. Calling the assistance effort a collective one, Congressman Brady noted, "When Congressman Fattah represented this area we talked about what could be done to help the Daggett St. residents. As a result, Rep. Fattah secured a $250,000 earmark in the FY2002 VA/HUD Appropriations bill and that funding was released in July of this year." The Daggett St. problem dates back to the early 1900's when houses were constructed on the site of an abandoned stone quarry that was filled with ash and debris fill. In the 1980's the City of Philadelphia struggled with the problems of blocks and blocks of sinking homes in Logan. Those properties were also built on ash and fill over stream beds in the 1900's. Congressman Brady said he is appreciative of the support. "This is how elected officials should cooperate, even though we know it does not always work out this way. While more funding is needed for this project, we have made good progress because key political players came together." Congressman Brady stressed that the issue of sinking homes is not confined to one section of the city. However, the Congressman said, "With this kind of cooperation I am confident we will be able to continue to respond to the sinking home problem as it presents itself. Homes in the 400 block of Daggett St. in the Overbrook section of Philadelphia declared "imminently dangerous." The properties remain standing, but the residents have been displaced since April 2001. Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
11.09.2004	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., Pa.) recently took part in the Marine Corps League of Pennsylvania rededication ceremony at the newly relocated Beirut Memorial Statue. The annual ceremony is held in commemoration of nine Philadelphia Marines killed in the bombing of the U.S. Marine Corps barracks Oct. 23, 1983, in Beirut, Lebanon. In response to a request to move the statue from Penn's Landing to Foglietta Plaza where the Philadelphia Korean and Vietnam Memorials are located, the Congressman spearheaded an effort that netted $15,000 in in-kind services to fund the relocation of the statue. Last year former Marine Wayne Niblock, who is a member of Rolling Thunder, a POW/MIA advocacy organization, asked the Congressman for his support to help the League relocate the bronze statue which bears the names of the area Marines killed in the Beirut attack. He said the statue, which was first dedicated October 20, 1985, was poorly maintained and lacked visibility. "I responded to the request because during these times when we are asking so much of our men and women in the armed services it is especially important that we properly honor those who died in the service of their country," said Congressman Brady. "They paid the ultimate price and we can never forget their sacrifice." Charles Chamberlain, the Commandant of the All Divisions Detachment of the Marine Corps League of Pennsylvania said he is gratified that the memorial now has a home befitting the sacrifice made by the Marines and their families. Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
08.24.2004	PHILADELPHIA --- Congressman Robert A. Brady (D., Pa.) says there needs to be long term planning to protect residents and businesses in the Darby Creek floodplain. "We are talking about predictable recurring flooding," said the Congressman who visited flooded homes in the Darby and Eastwick areas of the First Congressional District. Brady said as the result of the federal and state disaster declarations families and small businesses devastated by the recent flooding are receiving assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). However, the Congressman emphasized that there is more to do. "We cannot continue to lurch from one disaster to another. There are people who have been hit with severe flooding three times in the last five years." The Congressman also said he is frustrated by the delay in the buyout process for residents in Eastwick whose home were substantially damaged by Hurricane Floyd in 1999. The Congressman was largely responsible for securing FEMA funds for a buyout of homeowners in Eastwick whose properties were damaged by Hurricane Floyd. However, the Congressman said, "Here we are five years later and the buyout process is only limping along and many of the same residents have been hit again in the Augmost recent flooding." The City of Philadelphia has responsibility for the application for the federal buyout. In June, the City asked for a year's extension to complete the process. Brady said he has written Mayor John Street to ask for a more intense follow-up so the buyout process can be completed and the affected residents can move on with their lives. In the meantime, Congressman Brady urges all residents who suffered damage during the most recent storm to contact FEMA at 800-621-FEMA. Residents can also visit the FEMA Disaster Recovery Center, 6904 Market St., Upper Darby, for information regarding housing assistance, business loans, rental resources and Small Business Administration loan applications. Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
06.02.2004	WASHINGTON --- Congressman Robert A. Brady has introduced a bill that would prosecute those who lure children into sexually explicit or otherwise harmful Internet websites. The bill, H.R. 4305, The OnLine Child Safety Act, would amend an existing law passed last year. "We all agree that parents have the primary responsibility of filtering the material that reaches children. However, children are often lured onto websites containing obscene material through the devious manipulation of search engines. In order to cultivate hits on websites, web proprietors often go to extremes to lure internet users through search engines. My legislation goes the next step to offer increased protection to children searching the web." The bill would amend Chapter 110 of Title18, United States Code, Section 2252B and Section 2252C, Misleading Domain Names on the Internet. The legislation would insert "or meta tags" after "domain names." The Congressman explained, ‘The current law targets those who use misleading domain names with the intent to deceive a minor into viewing harmful Internet material. But, I believe web proprietors who use misleading meta tags to target children via search engines should be held to the same standard under the law." Meta tags are words placed in the metafile of a website, by the creator, to help attract web users to search engines. Typically, an individual or business will use meta tags as a way to better advertise what their web site is about. It also makes it easier for the web user to quickly find information during a web search. Congressman Brady said that his intention is not to limit the rights of adults to pursue whatever form of entertainment they wish. "I simply wish to crack down on those who place childhood themes or misleading terms into the metafile of a harmful website with the intent to lure children," he stressed. Contact: Karen Warrington 215-389-4627 karen.warrington@mail.house.gov
